-- 
Goldman’s Shumway Stake Shows Peril of Hedge Funds

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-02-15T16:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/shumway-returning-money-shows-perils-of-investing-in-hedge-fund-managers.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . last year
bought stakes in Shumway Capital Partners LLC and Level Global
Investors LP, as a way for its clients to share in the fees of
the two multibillion-dollar hedge funds.  This month, both firms decided to kick out fee-paying
investors, rendering the investments Goldman Sachs made through
a private-equity fund potentially worthless.  The liquidations highlight the risks asset managers, buyout
funds and banks face as they seek to buy minority holdings in
hedge funds to broaden their offerings for investors or share in
the funds’ fee income. Last year there were 13 hedge-fund deals
in the U.S. valued at $1.4 billion, the greatest number of
transactions since at least 2006, according to New York-based
consultant Cambridge International Partners Inc. More deals may
end up failing, said  Adam Sussman , director of research at Tabb
Group LLC in New York, a consulting firm to the financial
services industry.  “Stakes in hedge funds are generally not good
investments,” said Sussman. “They are particularly high-risk
given the many moving parts, such as employee turnover, a
decline in assets under management and decaying returns.”  Morgan Stanley, which five years ago spent $400 million on
FrontPoint Partners LLC, has marked down the investment to $30
million and is unloading the firm.  Claren Road  The number of such deals is picking up because incentives
are rising for both buyers and sellers. Private-equity firms are
diversifying their revenue by adding hedge-fund strategies after
the financial crisis eroded demand for leveraged buyouts.    Carlyle Group  in December purchased 55 percent of Claren
Road Asset Management, a $4.5 billion hedge fund, to help the
Washington-based buyout firm produce a steadier income stream.  A previous effort by Carlyle to add hedge funds failed in
2008 when the firm liquidated a pool hurt by investments in
mortgage securities.  Apollo Global Management LLC, the buyout firm run by  Leon
Black , the same month agreed to make a $75 million convertible
note investment in HFA Holdings Ltd., the parent company of
Lighthouse Investment Partners LLC, a manager of funds of hedge
funds with $4.5 billion under management. Through the alliance,
Apollo will add hedge-fund and managed-account products to its
offerings for investors.  Banks and mutual fund companies say taking stakes in hedge
funds allows them to offer their investors strategies that can
beat markets and protect them from declines. Hedge-fund assets
also earn higher fees than assets in traditional mutual funds.  ‘Superior’    Credit Suisse Group AG  in September agreed to buy 30
percent of New York-based York Capital Management for at least
$425 million to give its clients access to a hedge  fund manager .
That transaction was the largest of 2010.  “Our clients will have access to a top-tier suite of
products, independently managed by York, and benefit from using
York’s proven approach that has delivered superior returns to
investors across market cycles,” Rob Shafir, chief executive
officer of the bank’s asset-management division, said when the
deal was announced.  For York’s founder Jamie Dinan, 51, the sale reduced his
ownership in the firm and introduced an institutional holder,
which he deemed important for the long-term future of the firm
after his eventual retirement. Dinan said he and his partners
signed retention agreements, and will invest the majority of the
after-tax proceeds of the sale into the funds.  Raising Money  For smaller hedge funds, securing an institutional backer
with a large distribution network helps attract new clients such
as wealthy individuals or pension funds. Boston-based Pelagos in
November sold a 20 percent stake to  Franklin Resources Inc .,
owner of the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds. The
commodities fund managed $377 million at the time of the sale.  “There’s a fundamental belief in the hedge fund industry
that only ‘institutionalized’ firms will be able to raise money
from large investors -- and that means having more than $1
billion under management,” said Ron Geffner, a partner at Sadis
& Goldberg LLP in New York. “That’s why the smaller firms are
selling.”  In addition to strategic purchasers, there are financial
buyers like Goldman’s $1 billion Petershill Fund, which started
in 2007 to make minority investments in about 15 hedge funds.
Goldman plans to eventually sell the fund to the public. So far,
Petershill, run by London-based Jonathan Sorrell, has bought
stakes of between 8 percent and 20 percent in nine hedge funds.  Home Runs  Two of the funds have been home runs. In October 2007, it
bought a 10 percent stake in the then $10 billion Winton Capital
Management, a London-based fund that trades based on computer
models. The firm now manages about $16 billion. The next year,
it bought a fifth of London-based Capula Investment Management
LLP. Capula’s assets have more than doubled to $7 billion.  Petershill, which bought a minority stake in Claren Road in
2008, made money when it sold its holding, according to two
people familiar with the matter. Overall, Petershill’s
investments are profitable, they said.  Yet the experience with Shumway and Level Global
illustrates the perils of buying passive, minority holdings of a
business. Shumway was hit by redemptions after its founder Chris
Shumway named a new chief investment officer and said he would
focus on finding a few, large money-making ideas. When he
decided to throw out the rest of his fee-paying clients, Goldman
Sachs was left with no fee revenue in which to share.  Shumway, 45, may end up buying back his stake back from the
Goldman fund, according to a person familiar with the Greenwich-
based hedge fund. Officials for Goldman and Shumway declined to
comment.  Insider Probe  Goldman’s Level Global stake is now worthless. The firm,
founded by David Ganek and Anthony Chiasson in 2003, was among
hedge funds raided by the FBI in November as part of a federal
insider-trading probe. Ganek, 47, told clients last week he will
close the fund and return investor money. Level Global isn’t a
target of the investigation and hasn’t been alleged to have
engaged in any misconduct, the firm told clients.  The insider-trading probe also hit FrontPoint, which
liquidated its $1.5 billion health-care fund after its portfolio
manager allegedly received inside information about the result
of Human Genome Science Inc. trials for the drug Albuferon. The
Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm got another $1.5 billion in
redemption requests after the news was reported. Neither
FrontPoint nor its fund manager have been accused of wrongdoing.  “The track record of M&A in hedge funds and asset
management in general is poor,” said Daniel Celeghin, a partner
at Casey, Quirk & Associates LLC, a financial consulting firm
based in Darien,  Connecticut . “Most deals haven’t been very
successful in terms of value creation because those involved
were not on the same page.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  