-- 
Singapore Exchange Recasts ASX Bid to Fight Lawmaker Opposition

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-15T08:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/singapore-exchange-gives-asx-more-board-seats-in-push-to-win-bid-approval.html
  Singapore Exchange Ltd ., pursuing a
A$7.78 billion ($7.78 billion) takeover of  ASX Ltd ., offered to
give more board seats to Australians as the companies battle to
overcome opposition to the deal from lawmakers in Canberra.  The ASX-SGX Ltd. board will include five Australian and
five Singaporean citizens in its 13 members, ASX said in a
statement today. That compares with just four Australians on a
board of 15 proposed when Singapore Exchange launched its bid in
October. The three international directors will be drawn from 
Singapore Exchange's current board, including Chief Executive
Officer  Magnus Bocker .  Giving more board seats to Australians may reduce
resistance from Canberra lawmakers who oppose the merger on
national interest grounds. The concession comes as a proposed
tie-up between  Deutsche Boerse AG  and NYSE Euronext, plus  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s acquisition of Canada’s  TMX Group
Inc ., increase pressure on rival exchanges to expand. ASX shares
rose and Singapore Exchange fell after the statement.  “It’s a step in the right direction that addresses some of
the main issues and concerns and it certainly improves their
chances” of getting the deal through, said  Paul Xiradis , who
manages about $12 billion as chief executive officer of Ausbil
Dexia Ltd. in Sydney. “I’m not sure it’s going to pacify or
sway everyone.”  Singapore Exchange offered further concessions, including a
pledge to keep key staff in Australia and to invest in services
-- including an Australian dollar interest-rate-swaps clearing
facility -- in the country, according to ASX’s statement on the
restructure.  More Hurdles  The bid, which won approval from Australia’s competition
regulator on Dec. 15, still requires the support of Treasurer  Wayne Swan , the Foreign Investment Review Board, the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia, the Australian Securities & Investments
Commission, and parliamentarians, several of whom have opposed
the sale.  Chew Choon Seng, current chairman of  Singapore Exchange ,
will be chairman of the combined group and David Gonski, now ASX
chairman, will be the merged company’s deputy chairman. Bocker,
who will be managing director and CEO, said today the latest
proposal was “a merger of equals.”  “It doesn’t feel like that,” said  Chris Hall , who helps
manage $4 billion at Argo Investment Ltd. in Adelaide, Australia,
which owns ASX shares. “They are trying to appease regulators
and the government.”  Share Reaction  ASX shares climbed 1.7 percent to A$39 in Sydney today
after a trading halt was lifted. That was the highest level
since the merger was announced on Oct. 25. Singapore Exchange
shares fell as much as 1.6 percent to S$8.22 when they resumed
trading today.  Singapore Exchange, which runs the city’s securities and
derivatives market, offered to buy ASX in October in a cash and
share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion. It would be the first
merger between two exchange companies in the Asia-Pacific region.  The announced value of the merger represented a 42 percent
premium to ASX’s share price. That’s five times the premium
being offered by LSE for TMX.  Singapore Exchange’s bid values ASX at 19.5 times earnings
before interest and taxes, almost twice as much as the 10.4
times involved in LSE’s bid for TMX Group. That also compares
with the 22.8 times earnings before interest and taxes NYSE
Group Inc. paid for Euronext NV in 2007 and the 21.4 times EBIT
that CME Group Inc. valued Nymex Holdings Inc. at a year later,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Merger Deals  The Deutsche Boerse and LSE deals announced on Feb. 10
represented the biggest day ever for mergers of securities
exchanges. The boards of  Deutsche Boerse  and  NYSE Euronext  plan
to vote today on whether to combine the companies.    CBOE Holdings Inc . and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . shares rallied
in the U.S. yesterday amid speculation they may be the next
exchange operators to be purchased.  “Recent developments in global exchange mergers affirm the
judgment of the ASX board that ASX must participate in regional
and global consolidation,” ASX’s Chairman Gonski said in
today’s statement.  Bocker said today Singapore Exchange will submit its
revised application to Australia’s Foreign Exchange Review Board
in “the next few weeks.”  There will be no change to the price of the proposed merger
with ASX, Bocker said today in a conference call after the
announcement. The deal was worth A$7.78 billion at yesterday’s
close of trading.  ‘Modest Change’  “It’s a modest change,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages
about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty in Sydney and
owns ASX shares. “I can only imagine they would have bothered
to make the change if the move from four to five directors was
viewed as material to regulators.”  Even if Singapore Exchange’s takeover wins all regulatory
approvals in  Australia , laws amending the Corporations Act will
need to be passed in both houses of parliament. The minority
Labor government led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs the
support of four independent or Greens lawmakers to pass a bill
to raise ASX’s foreign ownership cap to make way for the
takeover.  Queensland independent Bob Katter and Greens leader Bob Brown are among those opposed to the ASX sale. Independent
members of parliament  Rob Oakeshott  and Tony Windsor plus West
Australian National Tony Crook said they hadn’t made up their
minds on the merger and want to hold further talks with the
government.  In an e-mailed statement from his office today, Katter said
that ASX needs to “remain entirely in Australian hands.”  Oakeshott was more open to the latest proposal. “If we
need more Australians on the board and a rule to keep the
company’s head office here to swing public opinion behind it,
that’s an argument we have to have,” he said in a telephone
interview. “The government can’t afford to delay this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net . 