-- 
Slovak Economic Growth Slowed to 3.5 Percent in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-02-15T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/slovak-economic-growth-slowed-to-3-5-percent-in-fourth-quarter.html
Slovakia’s economic growth slowed in
the fourth quarter as rising demand in western  Europe  failed to
offset the impact of depressed household spending.  Gross domestic product advanced a preliminary annual 3.5
percent, compared with 3.8 percent in the previous three months,
the Slovak Statistical Office said on its  web site  today. The
economy expanded an annual 4 percent for the whole of 2010 and a
quarterly 0.9 percent from the previous three months.  “Industrial output accelerated at the end of the year, but
household demand remained weak,” Lubomir Korsnak, an analyst at
Unicredit Bank in Bratislava, Slovakia, said before the release.  Slovakia, which adopted the euro two years ago, is relying
on a revival in foreign demand for its products, including TV
sets produced by Samsung Electronics and cars made by Volkswagen
AG’s local units, to drive economic growth. Even as industrial
output growth accelerated to an annual 21.5 percent in December,
household spending continues to suffer from unemployment.  Retail sales posted annual declines in all three months of
the quarter as the export-led recovery failed to push down the  unemployment rate . The number of jobs in the 5.4 million country
rose 0.5 percent from the fourth quarter of 2009.  The statistics office didn’t publish a breakdown of the GDP
data. It will release detailed figures on March 3.  The full-year growth compares with the government’s
estimate of 4.1 percent and a 2009 contraction of 4.8 percent.
The expansion is set to slow to 3.4 percent this year because of
the government’s austerity measures, the  Finance Ministry  has
forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 