-- 
S. Korea’s Unemployment Rate Rises to Four-Month High

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-02-15T23:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/south-korea-s-unemployment-rate-increases-to-3-6-second-monthly-advance.html
South  Korea ’s  unemployment rate  rose
to a four-month high in January as the number of workers in
agricultural, fishery and forestry industries declined.  The jobless rate rose to 3.6 percent from a revised 3.5
percent in December, Statistics Korea said today in Gwacheon,
south of Seoul. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of eight economists was for a rate of 3.7 percent.    South Korea ’s economic recovery may limit further job
losses while also stoking price pressures, with  Bank of Korea 
Governor Kim Choong Soo signaling a pause in interest-rate
increases last week may be temporary. Growth has spurred hiring
at firms including Seoul-based LG Electronics Inc., the world’s
third-largest maker of mobile phones.  “It’s not unusual to see the jobless rate going up during
a recovery, as many people sitting idle decide to find a job,”
Jun Min Kyoo, an economist at Korea Investment & Securities Co.
in  Seoul , said before the release. “Given economic growth is
solid and that inflation pressures are mounting, the central
bank will likely raise rates next month.”  The won rose 0.3 percent to close at 1,119.25 per dollar in
Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Kospi stock index dropped 0.2 percent.  Private Sector Hiring  The Bank of Korea kept borrowing costs at 2.75 percent on
Feb. 11, refraining from a second straight monthly increase this
year even after inflation breached its 4 percent ceiling. “We
will move ahead with normalizing  interest rates  at a pace that’s
not too slow, nor too fast,” Kim said the same day. The central
bank raised its benchmark by half a percentage point last year.  Private sector hiring has led an improvement in the jobs
market, the central bank said after last week’s decision. It
forecasts economic growth of 4.5 percent this year, slowing from
a 6.1 percent pace in 2010, and predicts inflation will
accelerate to 3.5 percent from 2.9 percent.  The seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was 3.8 percent in
January, compared with 3.5 percent in December, today’s report
showed. The number of employed people increased by 331,000 to
23.196 million last month from a year earlier.  Employment in manufacturing climbed 5.7 percent from a year
earlier, while the number of people self-employed or working in
the public-service sector rose 3.4 percent.  The number employed in construction increased 0.9 percent,
while jobs in the agricultural, fishery and forestry industries
fell 9.3 percent.  The  finance ministry  projected in December that the annual
average unemployment rate will probably fall to 3.5 percent in
2011 from 3.7 percent last year, as the nation adds 280,000 jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  