-- 
Southern Sudan Fighting in Jonglei State Killed 197

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-02-15T13:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/southern-sudan-fighting-in-jonglei-state-killed-197-update1-.html
Fighting between  Southern Sudan ’s
army and a rebel militia in Jonglei state last week killed 197
people, said  Pagan Amum , the secretary-general of the region’s
ruling party.  The clashes took place between Southern  Sudan ’s army and a
militia loyal to renegade general George Athor, Amum told
reporters today in Juba, the region’s capital. The fighting
ended Feb. 10.  The government of oil-rich  Southern Sudan , which is due to
become independent in July, signed a cease-fire agreement with
Athor’s forces on Jan. 5. Fighters loyal to Athor captured the
town of Fangak in Jonglei on Feb. 9 and attacked an SPLA base,
the army said last week. Almost 99 percent of Southern Sudanese
voters chose independence last month in a referendum that was
the centerpiece of a peace agreement ending a civil war with the
north.  “We are a society that is traumatized, with a very high
predominance of a culture of violence,” Amum said.  Athor, a former chief of staff in Southern Sudan’s army,
took up arms against the government after losing a state
election in April. Southern Sudan President  Salva Kiir  offered
amnesty to Athor and his forces in October.  Almost 60 people were killed this month when some southern
soldiers in the northern army in neighboring Upper Nile state
mutinied after refusing orders to move to northern Sudan.  Southern Sudan accounts for about three quarters of Sudan’s
490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP Statistical
Review of World Energy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 