-- 
South Africa Finds White-Corn Buyers in South Korea

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-02-15T14:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/south-africa-finds-white-corn-buyers-in-south-korea-in-bid-to-curb-surplus.html
South Africa, the continent’s
largest corn producer, exported white corn to  South Korea  last
week as it seeks to eliminate a surplus that has reduced prices.  The 86,679-metric-ton shipment was probably South Africa’s
first to South Korea, Anna Enslin, general manager of the  South
African Grain Information Service , said by phone from  Pretoria .
White and yellow corn exports totaled 121,816 tons, probably the
highest weekly volume in at least five years, she said today.  Favorable weather and wider use of genetically modified
seed have resulted in bumper harvests, boosting South Africa’s
crop to 12.8 million tons in the 2009-10 season, according to
the country’s Crop Estimates Committee. That’s the highest in
almost 30 years, generating a surplus that’s depressed prices
and eroded farmers’ profits.  South Africa  mainly produces white
corn, used to make a meal that’s the nation’s staple diet.  “If we can get rid of some of our white-corn surplus then
it’s good,” Theo Venter, an analyst at Senwes Ltd., said by
phone from Klerksdorp today. South Africa could export about 1.8
million tons of white and yellow corn combined in the season
ending April 30, he said.  South African corn stockpiles in the marketing year through
April will be “slightly” more than 3 million tons, the  United
Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization  said Jan. 5. Generic
white-corn futures fell 22 percent to 1,312 rand ($180) a ton on
the South African Futures Exchange in Johannesburg last year.  The country’s traditional African markets for its corn have
imported less after their own crops increased. South Africa’s
white-corn exports to South Korea will be used for  animal feed ,
Venter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  