-- 
Stockpiles at U.S. Companies Increased 0.8% in December

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-02-15T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/stockpiles-at-u-s-companies-increased-0-8-in-december.html
Inventories in the U.S. rose in
December as companies tried to keep up with increasing sales.  The 0.8 percent gain in stockpiles exceeded the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, and followed a
0.4 percent increase in November that was larger than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . Sales climbed 1.1 percent, reaching the highest level
since September 2008.  Businesses are likely to keep restocking shelves, helping
manufacturing remain a driver of the recovery in coming months.  Coach Inc . and  Jones Group Inc . are among companies readying
stockpiles in anticipation of a pickup in consumer demand, which
is bolstering the expansion.  “Businesses feel the need to increase stocks based on a
stronger outlook for sales,”  David Semmens , an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York, said before the report.
“This will continue to lift manufacturing. The steep inventory
run off in the fourth quarter will allow more scope for
rebuilding, providing a possible boost to growth.”  Economists forecast inventories would rise 0.7 percent,
according to the median of 51 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from gains of 0.2 percent to 1 percent.  Another Commerce Department report today showed sales at
retailers rose less than forecast in January, depressed by a drop
in demand at building material stores and restaurants that may
reflect the influence of harsh winter weather.  Retail Sales  Purchases increased 0.3 percent, the smallest gain since a
drop in June and followed a 0.5 percent December gain that was
less than previously estimated. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.5 percent rise.  Other reports showed manufacturing in the  New York  region
sped up in February, and the cost of imported goods climbed last
month.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s stockpile
report not previously released, increased 0.4 percent in December
as sales climbed 0.6 percent.  The report on inventories showed that at the current sales
pace, businesses had enough goods on hand to last 1.25 months in
December, matching November’s seven-month low.  Factory inventories, which make up about 38 percent of all
business stockpiles, climbed 1.1 percent in December while
wholesale inventories, which account for 30 percent of the total,
gained 1 percent.  Replenishing Stockpiles  Inventory rebuilding, a major driver of the early stages of
the economic recovery, slowed in the fourth quarter as sales
jumped, detracting 3.7 percentage points from gross domestic
product, according to Commerce Department data.  Companies gearing up to meet a pickup in sales include
Coach, a luxury leather goods producer and marketer based in New
York.  Current inventories “support the strong underlying business
trends, and will allow us to maximize sales this spring,”
Michael Devine, chief financial officer, said on a conference
call on Jan. 25.  “We’ve been right sizing our inventories this
year, bringing them up to more appropriate levels to support our
growing businesses.”  New York-based Jones, which makes and sells brand-name
clothing and shoes, this month reported an increase in fourth
quarter sales, citing signs of improving demand.  “The resulting stock levels at retail, as well as our own
inventories , were generally in good shape as we entered 2011,”
Chief Executive Officer Wesley Card said on a conference call on
Feb. 9. “There are continuing positive signs of gathering
strength in the  U.S. economy , which is translating to higher  consumer confidence  and which should also help to support  consumer spending  as we move through 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  