-- 
Sucker Avoidance May Be Step to Presidency: Michael Waldman

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 
2011-02-15T00:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/sucker-avoidance-may-be-step-to-presidency-commentary-by-michael-waldman.html
This month the U.S. Census Bureau
will deliver reams of data, and states will begin to redraw
legislative district lines. Brace yourself for a bacchanalia of
self-dealing and partisan knife-fighting, much of it conducted
behind closed doors in state capitals.  Should past practice prevail, the result will be
legislative maps that protect incumbents, sometimes squeezing
minority voters in the process. Politics might grow even more
polarized.  Citizens can try to pry open an often-secret process. And
they can look for help not only from judges, but also from
unlikely suspects -- governors.  Gerrymandering is as old as the republic. In the very first
election, none other than Patrick Henry drew district lines to
try to keep James Madison from going to Congress. The term comes
from an early Massachusetts governor, Elbridge Gerry, who drew a
district shaped like a salamander. An editorial cartoon of the
day dubbed the ungainly creature a “ Gerrymander .”  In the early 1980s, legendary Democratic Congressman Phil
Burton drew  California ’s plan sitting at Frank Fat’s Chinese
restaurant in  Sacramento . According to Juliet Eilperin’s 2006
book, “Fight Club Politics,” Burton used crude measures. Lots
of Volvo registrations meant a yuppie Democratic district; lots
of Buicks, a Republican one. In all, Democrats gained five
seats. Burton wryly called the map “my contribution to modern
art.”  But as with so much else, the process has grown more
sophisticated, soulless and corroding. These days, party leaders
and their fleets of consultants use computers and sophisticated
software. They are able to slice districts with the precision of
a sushi chef.  Squeezed Out  Usually, Democrats and Republicans crush each other if they
can, squeezing out seats for their side. In 2003, Republican Tom DeLay, then the House majority leader, orchestrated a mid-decade
gerrymander to help the Texas GOP. He is now prison-bound,
having been found guilty of funding the move in part with
illegal corporate funds. Nonetheless, it produced six new
Republican congressmen.  Frequently, incumbents of both parties winkingly protect
each other.  New York University ’s Samuel Issacharoff calls it a
“political cartel.” In 2002, after that year’s redistricting,
not a single California incumbent lost. Nationally more than 80
districts were essentially uncontested.  This time, the political field will likely tilt toward
Republicans, because control shifted sharply in last fall’s
election. Now 20 statehouses are controlled entirely (governor
and legislature) by the GOP. Democrats control eleven. Many
extra GOP seats may be baked into the Congress for a decade.  Elusive Compromise  All this worsens hyper-partisanship. Political scientists
note that when there is little competition between parties,
challenges come from within parties. Like magnets, primary
voters pull officials to the extremes. Compromise becomes ever
more elusive.  Courts will play a limited role. Judges will enforce the
 Voting Rights Act , the 1965 landmark law designed to assure that
minority citizens get full representation in legislatures.
(Before that, racist legislators gave white rural districts
extra seats.) Lawmakers must carefully make sure not to dilute
minority rights. Skilled litigators like the NAACP Legal Defense
Fund or Mexican American Legal Defense Fund stand ready to sue
if they don’t.  Even in this highly charged environment, litigation won’t
likely produce a more reasonable outcome. Judges generally are
reluctant to strike down plans just because they are flagrantly
partisan or unfair. DeLay’s  Texas  grab went before the U.S.
Supreme Court, which agreed that the plan was designed just to
benefit one party. But that wasn’t enough for the justices to
find that it violated “one person, one vote” or the  14th
Amendment ’s due process clause.  Taking Power  If we don’t want the 2011 redistricting to make American
politics even less responsive to actual communities, what can we
do?  One answer is to take the power out of the hands of the
elected politicians who stand to gain from the way the lines are
drawn. Already,  Alaska ,  Arizona ,  Idaho  and  Montana  give the pen
to independent commissions. These can yield better balance.
Because of citizen referendums pressed by former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , California now will use a panel as well. But it
is too late for other states to go this way this time.  Citizens and journalists can play a role, too. Columbia
University law professor Nathaniel Persily has enlisted his
classes of students to draw proposed maps, using widely
available software. Journalists can use state freedom of
information laws to pry open doors of secrecy. Recognizable
communities should insist on representation.  Governors’ Reach  But ultimately, elected officials have most power. Let me
suggest one group that just might have more in mind than grubby
partisan advantage. Governors must reach across party lines to
achieve their policy goals. To govern, they must be seen as
working above politics. And many, many of them look in the
mirror and see a  president  when brushing their teeth.  Nobody wants to act nobly if it means helping the other
side. But if governors of both parties say, together, “We won’t
sign egregious gerrymanders,” nobody will feel the sucker.
Governors can insist on reforms as the price for a signature. A
national blue-ribbon panel, suggested by hedge fund manager
Jonathan Soros, might help chief executives of both parties give
a thumbs up or down on their plans.  So Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo  of  New York , say howdy
to Republican  Rick Perry  of Texas. Pat Quinn of  Illinois , shake
hands with Ohio Governor John Kasich. If you do, our politics
might get a little less partisan, a little less dysfunctional,
and a little more democratic. And the good deed would last a
decade.    Michael Waldman , former head speechwriter for President  Bill Clinton , is executive director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at  New York University School of Law  and the author of
“My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman.comments@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  