-- 
Sunderland Soccer Team Loss Widens on Increased Spending on Playing Squad

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-15T16:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/sunderland-soccer-team-loss-widens-on-increased-spending-on-playing-squad.html
Premier League soccer team
Sunderland’s annual loss widened on increased spending on its
playing squad, according to its latest financial statement.  The northeast England team’s loss was 27.9 million pounds
($45 million) for the year ending July 31, compared with 26.5
million pounds a year earlier, the club said in a filing
published today by  Companies House .  The directors consider the major risk to the business would
be a “significant period of absence” from the  Premier League ,
holding company Sunderland Ltd. said in the statement.  “Ongoing investment in the playing squad aims to reduce
this risk,” it added. The team is seventh in the 20-team league
after 27 games, with the bottom three clubs demoted to the
Championship at the end of the season.  Total revenue rose to 65.4 million pounds from 64.6 million
pounds thanks to higher television income, while matchday,
sponsorship and retail sales dipped. Net debt increased 44
percent to 66 million pounds, which includes an interest-free
22.4 million-pound loan from parent company Drumaville Ltd.,
controlled by  American businessman Ellis Short. Drumaville
loaned a further 6 million pounds interest-free to the team
since the accounts were filed, the club said.  “The company is deemed to be a going concern due to the
ongoing support of the immediate parent company,” Steve Walton,
chief executive officer of Sunderland Ltd., said in the report.  Sunderland finished 13th in the league last season after
spending about 25 million pounds on players including  Darren Bent , Lee Cattermole and Fraizer Campbell. Bent left to join  Aston Villa  for a club-record 24 million pounds last month after
making a transfer request.  Sunderland manager  Steve Bruce  spent part of the Bent fee
on midfielder Stephane Sessegnon from Paris Saint-Germain and on
a loan deal for Inter Milan’s Sulley Muntari. Ghana’s  Asamoah
Gyan  became Sunderland’s most expensive recruit when he signed
from Rennes for 13 million pounds in the offseason.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 