-- 
How BP’s Browne Created Culture of Risk, Incompetence

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-02-15T18:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/swashbuckling-bp-was-ruthless-operator-even-before-the-blowup-interview.html
On April 20, 2010, BP’s Deepwater
Horizon rig exploded, killing 11 men and injuring 17. During the
next three months, 200 million gallons of oil gushed
uncontrollably into the  Gulf of Mexico , leading to the worst
ecological disaster in U.S. history.  Former BP Chief Executive John Browne was forced to resign
after a sex scandal in 2007, but the risk-taking, cost-cutting
culture he created during his 12-year tenure may have
contributed to the disaster.  “ In Too Deep: BP and the Drilling Race That Took It Down ”
by Bloomberg journalists Stanley Reed and Alison Fitzgerald
takes a close look at how things went so terribly wrong. I spoke
with Fitzgerald on the telephone.  Lundborg: When you were digging into this story, what
surprised you the most?  Fitzgerald: There is a widespread sense in the industry and
in government that BP was a worse operator, a more dangerous
operator, than other  oil companies , even before the spill
happened.  Lundborg: In the book you describe BP as “swashbuckling.”
How does that play out?  Bad Guys  Fitzgerald: The whole culture at BP glorified the people
who worked in difficult places -- the geologists and the
scientists and the explorers.  It was a culture created by John Browne, who loved deal-
making with the bad guys. He really relished going to  Russia  and
meeting with Putin and cutting a deal, or meeting in the middle
of the desert with Qaddafi.  Lundborg: You point out that he was a closeted gay man, who
preferred Hockney and cooking classes to macho Texas swagger.
How did Browne flourish in this macho industry?  Fitzgerald: He was very good at what he did. He made big
deals, taking BP from being a mid-size player into being one of
the largest. That can get you through a lot of doors.  Lundborg: He was also a ruthless cost-cutter. Wasn’t that
part of the problem?  Fitzgerald: That’s a key issue. Browne cut things to the
bone at the company, and it was across the board. Every unit had
to be profitable. Every person, every executive, was measured by
the performance of his own unit.  Safety wasn’t protected from the cuts. It’s not that  John
Browne  said, “Oh, screw safety.” He ordered the cuts blind:
“We need to cut the costs by 25 percent, and you deal with
it.”  Nobody was willing to say, “You know what, Browne, this is
not possible. We can’t operate this way properly.”  Ignoring Risk  Lundborg: A BP company report said that the culture evolved
to “ignore risk, tolerate noncompliance, and accept
incompetence,” but even after it’s spelled out, nothing
happens?  Fitzgerald: There’s a stack of previous reports that were
done by BP internally, by government agencies, by outside
groups, about what was wrong. The conclusions were almost always
the same, and for some reason it never changed.  Lundborg: So Halliburton knew there were problems with the
cement?  Fitzgerald: Halliburton did know there were problems with
the cement.  Lundborg: And Transocean knew that there had been no
maintenance on the blowout preventer?  Fitzgerald: Right.  Lundborg: In fact, all the systems on the blowout preventer
failed?  Fitzgerald: Exactly. Everyone had bits of info and nobody
put it all together since the communication was so horrible.  Lundborg: Ultimately, a few bad decisions on this rig
almost took down one of the world’s largest companies. What was
the worst?  Test Misread  Fitzgerald: The key decision that was probably most closely
linked to the actual blowout was when the rig managers decided
to pump heavy drilling mud out of the Macondo well and replace
it with seawater.  They misread a test that suggested that this well was
stable, and they misread it badly. And there were no strict
guidelines on how to perform the test, number one, nor how to
read the test results, nor what to do if the results conflict.  Lundborg: BP’s recovery plan was, as you point out, a
“bald-faced lie?”  Fitzgerald: Just to give them a small bit of benefit of the
doubt, it was the exact same recovery plan for every  oil company 
in the Gulf.  It was completely unrealistic. And what was revealed in
this disaster was they also had absolutely no idea -- and not
just BP, nobody -- what to do if the blowout happened at the
bottom of the ocean.  Worst PR Mistake  Lundborg: After the disaster, what was BP’s worst PR
mistake?  Fitzgerald: The moment when CEO  Tony Hayward  said, “I’d
like to get my life back.”  Lundborg: How’s the new guy,  Robert Dudley , doing?  Fitzgerald: He’s said all the right things, and he’s
starting to do a lot of the right things. He’s actually made
some really good deals recently.  But he’s been at BP for more than a decade, and he is a
John Browne acolyte. Whether or not he will be substantively
different, only time will tell.  Lundborg: Why is the company’s dependence on deep-water
drilling only going to accelerate?  Fitzgerald: Partly, that’s what they’re good at. Plus, in
order to raise $20 billion, they sold  oil fields , and a lot of
what they sold were the more shallow-water fields. They kept the
leases on places they hadn’t yet developed.  “In Too Deep” is published by Bloomberg Press, an imprint
of John Wiley & Sons. To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 