-- 
Swaziland to Slash Spending, State Jobs in Budget, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 
2011-02-15T14:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/swaziland-to-slash-spending-state-jobs-in-budget-finance-minister-says.html
Swaziland,  Africa ’s last absolute
monarchy, will slash spending and fire thousands of state
employees as it tries to ease a fiscal crisis, Finance Minister
Majozi Sithole said.  In a budget to be announced on Feb. 18, the government will
introduce a value added tax and slash recurrent spending, such
as salaries, by about 20 percent, Sithole said in an interview
yesterday in Mbabane, the southern African nation’s capital. It
will also cut support for state-owned companies by 10 percent in
the fiscal year through March 2012.  Budget cuts “have to be very large,” Sithole said. “For
us credibility is very important. We would not want to have a
budget, but not have the physical cash to support it.”  Swaziland, which borders  South Africa  and whose 1.2 million
people are ruled by King Mswati III, released an International
Monetary Fund-backed plan last year to counter reduced income
from the  Southern Africa Customs Union . Lower imports because of
recession in neighboring South Africa during the global
financial crisis cut funding from what accounted for about 60
percent of state revenue. SACU pools customs payments from South
Africa,  Lesotho , Botswana,  Namibia  and Swaziland.  Swaziland’s budget deficit will probably widen to about 16
percent of gross domestic product in the 2011-12 fiscal year,
the IMF said on Jan. 24.  Customs union money tumbled about 62 percent last year,
Sithole said.  “For the financial year 2010-11 we were seriously affected
by our SACU receipts,” Sithole said. “We have over the years
relied heavily on the revenue received from SACU.”  Salary Freeze  The government plans to freeze state salaries and cut 7,000
civil servant jobs, about 20 percent of the total, to bring down
a “huge” wage bill, he said. Budget spending was 10.1 billion
emalengeni ($1.39 billion) for the year to March 2011.  The move will add to unemployment which stands at about 43
percent, according to the government.  The government plans to raise taxes and has applied for a
$100 million loan from the  African Development Bank  as it
struggles to raise cash. The central bank sold one-fifth of the
750 million emalengeni ($103 million) of seven-year bonds it
offered on Jan. 26. The AfDB loan depends on an endorsement from
the IMF of the country’s plans to cut spending, Sithole said.
IMF officials will visit the country this week., he said  Economic growth will probably be unchanged at 2 percent
this year, while inflation is estimated to accelerate to 6
percent in 2011 from last year’s 4.5 percent as  oil prices  and
other imports costs rise, Sithole said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlathswayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  