-- 
Sweden’s Banks Should Frontload Basel Capital Ratios, Borg Says

-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-02-15T15:10:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/sweden-s-banks-should-frontload-basel-capital-ratios-borg-says.html
Sweden should consider forcing its
banks to adopt stricter capital standards faster than is set out
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said.  This would give the country’s banks a “competitive
advantage,” Borg said in an interview in Brussels today, after
a meeting with European Union finance ministers.  “Given that we have a large bank sector that is quite
exposed to the Baltic area and we are experiencing quite strong
growth in the housing sector, for us it would be appropriate to
consider whether we need to frontload when it comes to  capital
requirements ,” Borg said.  The government wants lenders to build up bigger buffers
against losses after Swedish banks including  Swedbank AB  and SEB
AB lost money on the 2009 property-market collapse in Latvia,
Lithuania and Estonia.  Nordea Bank AB  Chief Executive Officer
Christian Clausen said earlier this month demands for stricter
Swedish rules are “strange” and “not realistic.”  The Group of 20 nations in November endorsed Basel III,
which will more than triple the highest-quality capital, such as  shareholders’ equity , that banks must hold as a cushion against
losses. The rules are scheduled for full implementation by 2019.  Borg’s comments echo remarks by Swedish Riksbank Governor
Stefan Ingves, who on Feb. 1 said banks should mull imposing
tighter standards than those set out by the Basel Committee and
enforce the rules faster.  ‘Should Be Happy’  “Bank owners should be happy to see stronger capital
because that would reduce the risk that we’d have to take them
over,” Borg said. “It’s quite obvious that if Swedish banks
are perceived as more prudent, more well-capitalized, that would
be seen as a competitive advantage.”  Nordea, the Nordic region’s biggest lender, says such a
proposal will impede the competitiveness of Swedish banks.  “We don’t need to make ridiculous capital requirement
amounts on banking,” Clausen said on Feb. 2. It will ”distort
Europeans’ possibility of having real economic growth going
forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Tweed in Tokyo at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net  