-- 
Krona Reaches 10-Year High as Riksbank Signals Rate Increases

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-02-15T17:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/sweden-s-krona-advances-as-riksbank-boosts-rate-signals-faster-increases.html
Sweden’s krona reached its strongest
level in 10 years versus the euro as the central bank signaled
it will pick up the pace of interest-rate increases and boosted
its benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point.  The krona strengthened as much as 0.6 percent against the
dollar before paring its advance. The Riksbank said it now
expects the key repo rate to average 2.5 percent in the first
quarter of next year, compared with 2.2 percent previously. It
raised the rate by 25 basis points to 1.5 percent today, as
predicted by economists. Norway’s krone rose.  “The Riksbank statement was quite hawkish and quite
bullish for the krona,” said David Deddouche, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “People
are trying to be more exposed to the developed markets so
they’re happy to find economies that are growing well and where
the central banks are raising rates.”  The krona was little changed at 8.7502 per euro as of 4:30
p.m. in  London , after reaching 8.7208, the strongest level since
December 2000. It was 0.2 percent stronger at 6.4743 per dollar
and rose 0.1 percent against a basket of nine developed-market
peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes.  Norway’s krone rose 13 of its 16 of its most traded peers,
increasing 0.3 percent versus the dollar to 5.8152.  ‘Regional Effect’  The Norwegian currency is benefiting from a “regional
effect,” Deddouche said.  Swedish Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said he’s not
worried that continued low  interest rates  in  Europe  and the U.S.
will limit the scope for tightening, even after the krona
touched a 10-year high against the euro.  “The whole point of a flexible  exchange rate  is to have
the option, through monetary policy, to set rates” according to
Swedish conditions, Ingves said in an interview today.  Sweden’s krona has advanced against the euro in all but one
of the past 10 months amid speculation the nation’s economy will
outpace its peers and encourage further rate increases.  No major currency has performed better than the krona over
the past one-, three- and six-month periods, rising as much as 9
percent against a basket of nine developed-nation peers, the
correlation-weighted indexes show. Even after the gains, UBS AG
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted their forecasts for the
krona last week.  The krona weakened earlier today as two Swedish policy
makers “entered a reservation” against boosting the rate, the
fifth increase since July.  “It seems at least some in the market might have expected
that they’d be even more hawkish,” saidJohn Hydeskov, chief
analyst in London at Danske Bank A/S. With policy makers voting
4-2 in favor of the decisions, “it feels like we’re balancing
on a knife-edge every time, and I don’t think the markets like
that,” he said.  The krona will probably continue to appreciate, Ingves said
at a press conference in  Stockholm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  