-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance to Near 10-Month High; Lonza Shares Rally

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-02-15T16:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/swiss-stocks-rise-lonza-credit-suisse-shares-gain-in-zurich.html
Swiss stocks rose as China posted
slower-than-forecast inflation and a report showed that German
investor confidence improved for a fourth month.    Lonza Group AG , the industrial chemical maker that supplies
drug companies, jumped 3.9 percent after Jefferies Group Inc.
recommended buying the shares.  Credit Suisse Group AG  climbed
for a second day.  Kudelski SA , the world’s largest maker of
security cards for  pay television , dropped 4.2 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies increased 0.4 percent to 6,690.90 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich, the highest level since April. The gauge
has risen 4 percent this year as investors speculated that the
recovery in the global economy is strengthening. The broader
Swiss Performance Index gained 0.3 percent today.  “Quickening inflation and tighter monetary policy, as seen
in  China , may hold back equity markets but some energy or
industrial stocks may act as an imperfect hedge against
inflation,” said Christian Gattiker-Ericsson, head of research
at Julius Baer Group Ltd. in Zurich.  China, which raised  interest rates  last week, reported that
consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in January, exceeding the
government’s 2011 target for a fourth month. Even so, the rate
was slower than economists had estimated.  “I think we’ll see  reserve requirements  boosted again over
the next few weeks” in China, said Nick Lardy, senior fellow
for the Peterson Institute for International Economics, speaking
to Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television.  Investor Confidence  German investor confidence increased for a fourth straight
month in February as  Europe ’s largest economy gathered strength
and stocks rose to a three-year high.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, increased to 15.7
in February from 15.4 in January. That missed the median
forecast for a reading of 20 by 38 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Manufacturing in the New York region sped up in February, a
sign factories continue to drive the economic expansion. The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index rose
to 15.4 from 11.9 in January. Economists projected an increase
to 15, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Shares pared earlier gains as sales at U.S. retailers rose
less than forecast in January, depressed by a drop in custom at
building-material stores and restaurants that the influence of
harsh winter weather may have caused.  Lonza, Credit Suisse  Lonza surged 3.9 percent to 81.55 Swiss francs as Jefferies
raised its rating on the Basel-based company to “buy” from
“hold.”  “Improving order book visibility, higher capacity
utilization, broader product pipelines and cost restructurings
are all on track,” Peter Welford, an analyst at Jefferies,
wrote in a note to clients today.  Credit Suisse increased 0.9 percent to 42.76 francs as
Switzerland’s second-largest bank continued to reverse last
week’s losses.    LEM Holding SA  rose 2.4 percent to 590 francs after the
maker of measuring devices used in the Shinkansen bullet train
said net income in the nine months to December increased to 27.3
million francs ($28.1 million) from 5.5 million francs a year
earlier.    Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA , the Bresso, Italy-based
biotechnology company, soared 8.3 percent to 7.30 francs after
the company said it will receive 3.7 million euros ($5 million)
from the Italian government to support its research.  Kudelski sank 4.2 percent to 21.90 francs. The “display
card” product made by Kudelski, Mastercard Inc. and Symantec
Corp. is “a high-volume, low-margin business” Reto Amstalden,
an analyst at Helvea AG, wrote in a note to clients today. The
three companies yesterday announced that the product will go on
sale in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 