-- 
Swiss Exchange ‘Not Available’ for Takeover, CEO Says

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-02-15T12:28:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/swiss-exchange-not-available-for-takeover-ceo-says-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of  Deutsche Boerse  in fourth paragraph.)  The operator of the Swiss stock
exchange isn’t for sale and won’t join the latest wave of
mergers in the industry, SIX Group Chief Executive Officer Urs Rueegsegger said.  “We are not available at the moment,” Rueegsegger said in
an interview yesterday in Zurich. “There will be no hostile
takeover. We still believe in independence and ownership by our
clients.”    Deutsche Boerse AG , which co-owns the Eurex derivatives
exchange with SIX, said Feb. 9 it’s in talks to buy NYSE
Euronext to create the world’s largest owner of equities and
derivatives markets. The same day,  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc  agreed to buy Canada’s TMX Group Inc. for about $3.1
billion. The potential deals follow Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s
October bid for ASX Ltd., which runs the Australian market.  The Swiss exchange, home to Nestle SA and UBS AG, rebuffed
a takeover bid in 2004 from Deutsche Boerse. Rueegsegger
declined to comment on what will happen to SIX’s 50 percent
Eurex stake should Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext combine.  SIX, along with Deutsche Boerse and LSE, lost European
equity market share to new rivals such as Chi-X Europe Ltd.,
which offered faster trading and lower fees. Chi-X Europe,  Europe ’s largest alternative trading system, and  Bats Global
Markets  are also in takeover talks.  “If all these transactions are completed then certainly we
will re-assess,” Rueegsegger said. “Our strategic review in
2011 will not be a routine one because the landscape has
changed.”  Privately Held  The Swiss bourse is the largest of Europe’s exchanges to
remain closely held. SIX, owned by about 150 brokers and banks
that are also users, was formed in a  three-way merger  at the
start of 2008. It offers securities trading, post-trade
services, financial information and data and payment
transactions. The exchange needs approval from at least 80
percent of shareholders to agree to any sale, Rueegsegger said.  Swiss cantonal banks own about 13.9 percent of the SIX
group, regional banks hold 6.1 percent, and commercial banks and
asset managers about 15 percent. Foreign banks own 22.7 percent
and UBS and Credit Suisse Group AG, the two biggest Swiss banks,
another 30 percent.  Remain Independent  The boards of Deutsche Boerse and  NYSE Euronext  plan to
vote today on whether to combine, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter. Deutsche Boerse chief executive
Reto Francioni, who would be chairman of the new company, was
formerly chairman of the Swiss exchange.  SIX conducted a yearlong strategic review and discussed
options including a merger before deciding to remain independent
during the last round of industry mergers. Deutsche Boerse,
Euronext NV, LSE and Borsa Italiana SpA all joined a $62 billion
wave of attempted consolidation among exchanges that started in
2004.  While potential takeover targets among exchange operators
are “not very attractive,” the company may want to buy
companies in the payment industry, Rueegsegger said. He cited
more than 800 million Swiss francs ($1 billion) in “liquid
funds” that the company held at the end of 2009 that could be
used for a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in Zurich at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 