-- 
Swiss Re Considers Buybacks, Dividends After Repaying Buffett

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-02-15T23:05:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/swiss-re-considers-buybacks-dividends-after-repaying-buffett-s-life-line.html
Swiss Reinsurance Co., which posted
record losses in 2008, is considering share buybacks and
dividend payouts after agreeing to repay a lifeline extended by  Warren Buffett .  Swiss Re may return $1 billion to shareholders in 2011,
according to the mean estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company had $1.5 billion to $3.5 billion “for
share buybacks, dividends and other business opportunities,”
Chief Financial Officer  George Quinn  said Sept. 13.  Under Chief Executive Officer Stefan Lippe, Swiss Re has
focused on underwriting after predecessor Jacques Aigrain’s
strategy of trading securities led to more than $8 billion of
writedowns and losses. While Swiss Re agreed to repay Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., the presence of credit default swaps and other
risky assets in its investment portfolio makes the world’s
second-biggest reinsurer riskier than larger rival Munich Re,
according to Lutz Roehmeyer at Landesbank Berlin Investments.  “The market perceives Munich Re as having the better risk
model and had a better overview over risk exposures,” said
Roehmeyer, who helps manage about 12 billion euros ($16.5
billion), including Swiss Re and  Munich Re  shares. “It is
considered to be a safer stock than Swiss Re.”  Swiss Re has dropped 18 percent in Zurich trading since the
failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. compared with a 16
percent gain by Munich Re over the same period. The Zurich-based
company has climbed 10 percent this year against the 8.1 percent
increase of its German rival.  Measuring Risk  While the cost of insuring Swiss Re bonds against default
has declined to 114 basis points from a peak of 850 basis points
in March 2009, that’s still twice as expensive as Munich Re.  Credit-default swaps are used to protect debt against
default and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . An
increase in a spread suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  Munich Re’s large home market in  Germany  gives it an
advantage over Swiss Re, which has been forced into riskier
overseas ventures with  currency risk , according to Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst with  Vontobel Holding AG .  “In the long run, Swiss Re is the riskier bet in
comparison to Munich Re,” said Schuermann. “They had to build
more ventures outside  Switzerland , which implies more risk.”  Swiss Re wrote 39 percent of its total premiums in the U.S.
in 2009, compared with 17 percent at Munich Re.  Swiss Re is bidding to regain its AA-  credit rating , which  Standard & Poor’s  cut in February 2009 after losses forced the
company to raise 3 billion Swiss francs ($3.18 billion) of
capital from Buffett.  CDS Losses  Swiss Re was plagued by losses on credit default swaps,
contracts sold to protect clients against declines in fixed-
income securities, as the worst U.S. housing market since the
Great Depression sparked a global credit crunch.  Former CEO Aigrain ramped up Swiss Re’s sales and trading
of securities in 2006 and 2007, when the reinsurance business
was coping with stagnant premiums. While the strategy boosted
profit in 2006, the credit crunch and rising bond defaults
forced record writedowns in 2008.  Swiss Re said it will post a charge of $1 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2010 after agreeing to repay Buffett. That
will result in a net loss of $134 million in the three months to
Dec. 31, after a profit of $394 million a year earlier,
according to the mean estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company plans to release results on Feb. 17.  Swiss Re may more than double its 2010 dividend to 2.5
francs after paying 1 franc for 2009, the analysts said.  Positive Outlook  S&P revised Swiss Re’s rating outlook to positive in
October, saying that may lead to an upgrade should the
reinsurer’s “financial profile” improve. Swiss Re’s de-risking
strategy should result in more stable earnings, S&P said.  “We see positive signs that they will return to a level of
stability in performance that we would expect at the rating
level of AA-,” said Mark Coleman, a London-based primary credit
analyst with S&P. “To some extent they have gone back to
basics, but they are never going to have the more traditional
business model of some of their peers.”  Swiss Re moved risky securities into its  Legacy Portfolio 
in February 2009 and planned to close it by the end of last
year. That portfolio contained $5.7 billion of assets at the end
of  September , including about $300 million in credit default
swaps. There was also $2.7 billion of securitized products
including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities.  Investment Portfolio  Swiss Re held $17 billion in securitized products at the
end of the third quarter, down from its  peak of $42.1 billion  at
the end of 2007.  Swiss Re must improve the “quality” of its $156.6 billion
investment portfolio, 14 percent of which is corporate bonds,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report last month. About 39
percent of those  bonds  were sold by financial companies,
including banks, according to a presentation on the reinsurer’s
website.  S&P also sees potential volatility from Swiss Re’s variable
annuity business, which ties payouts from life insurance
retirement contracts to the performance of an investment
portfolio. Six of the 10 largest listed variable annuities
issuers in the U.S. lost about 90 percent of their market value
during the financial crisis and earnings slumped, according to a
 report  last year by McKinsey & Co.  Swiss Re still had $16.8 billion in variable annuities at
the end of September, after pledging to exit the business in
2009.  Still, with excess capital of about $10 billion before
repaying Buffett, Swiss Re is now in better shape, according to
Tim Dawson, a Geneva-based analyst with Helvea.  “It is now two years since the dark days of early 2009
when Swiss Re was forced to seek support from Berkshire
Hathaway,” he said. “Swiss Re now has the much more attractive
problem of looking for growth opportunities or contemplating  capital management .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  