-- 
Traders, Steel, Green Groups Oppose U.K. Carbon Tax

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-02-15T16:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/u-k-s-plans-for-carbon-tax-opposed-by-traders-steel-makers-green-groups.html
     Feb. 15 (Bloomberg) --Emissions traders, steel makers and
environmental groups are opposing the carbon tax that the U.K.
proposed to pay for new power sources and cut greenhouse gases.  Britain, seeking private financing for nuclear stations and
other forms of low-carbon generation, proposed last year a CO2
charge when the price of European Union permits falls below a
set level. The environmental groups WWF and Greenpeace said the
plan may result in a “windfall” of as much as 3.4 billion
pounds ($5.5 billion) for existing nuclear power stations, most
of them owned by  EDF SA  and  Centrica Plc .  The International Emissions Trading Association, a Geneva-
based trading lobby, said the CO2 floor proposal showed a
“serious lack of trust” in the EU’s emissions program. A
carbon tax would be less effective than the EU’s cap-and-trade
system in encouraging companies to reduce emissions, according
to a risk manager at Summit Energy Inc. in Waregem,  Belgium .  “With a fluctuating carbon market price, a company needs
to take the best hedging to achieve its objective and manage its
carbon exposure,” Summit’s Sebastien Terryn said today in an e-
mail. “The current system creates the best incentive to reduce
carbon emission on a global level.”  Europe’s emissions trading system limits  greenhouse gases 
from more than 11,000 factories and power stations and allows
them to trade permits to comply with the restrictions. EU
permits for delivery in December fell 0.3 percent to 14.84 euros
a metric ton as of 4:20 p.m. on London’s ICE Future’s  Europe 
exchange. The contracts have gained 4 percent from the end of
last year.  ‘Costly Tax’  The U.K. “failed completely” to recognize the harm that
more CO2 fees would do to energy-intensive industries, according
to the London-based association for steel makers.  “The imposition of yet another new and costly tax will
make it increasingly difficult for U.K. steel makers to
compete,” Ian Rodgers, director of  U.K. Steel , said by e-mail
today. “We are as keen as the government to green the economy,
as these new technologies will require large amounts of steel.”  The U.K. outlined three scenarios starting in 2013 that
would effectively set the floor price of carbon at 20 pounds to
40 pounds a metric ton. A carbon price of 40 pounds by 2020
would “result in windfall profits of 3.43 billion pounds
between 2013-2026,” according to a joint statement from WWF and
Greenpeace sent by e-mail yesterday.  ‘Seems Crazy’  “At a time of fiscal austerity and rising energy bills, it
seems crazy to be introducing a policy that gives huge windfall
profits to the existing nuclear generators, especially when this
sector has been bailed out by the taxpayer on several
occasions,” Nick Molho, head of  energy policy  at WWF’s U.K.
unit, said in the statement.  The fee would be a consumer levy that would raise costs for
generating electricity from coal and natural gas. The U.K. would
implement this by shifting taxes to high-emitting generators to
give long-term incentives for low-carbon alternatives. The
increased cost for carbon would likely be passed along into
electricity bills. The tax shift will be part of legislation
later this year.  The plan was outlined last May by the Conservative-Liberal
Democrat coalition. Lawmakers support the idea because it will
provide revenue for the government in addition to reducing
emissions, according to  Tim Yeo , chairman of Parliament’s Energy
and Climate Change Committee.  No New Taxes  “I think there is still support for a carbon floor.” Yeo,
a member of the  Conservative party , said in an interview today
at Westminster. “A carbon floor gives some of the benefits a
carbon tax would give. I don’t think there’s much appetite for a
new tax right now either here or elsewhere, but a carbon floor
does help to address that.”  The region’s carbon market was valued at 80 billion euros
($108 billion) last year, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The U.K. policy may “undermine market confidence and
will impact on supply and demand balances” in the EU system,
according to IETA.  “The government should find ways to prevent these windfall
profits, and use the revenue to help householders reduce their
energy needs,” Molho said. The environmental groups suggested
the money be channeled into the government’s Green Investment
Bank. The windfall figure is based on an average number of
operational hours for existing atomic stations and takes into
account when stations are due to close, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in  London  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  