-- 
U.K. Inflation Probably Quickened, Forcing King Letter

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-15T08:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/u-k-inflation-probably-accelerated-forcing-fifth-king-letter.html
U.K. inflation probably accelerated
to a two-year high last month, forcing  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  to publish a letter in the first of two public
defenses this week of the bank’s record-low interest rates.  Annual consumer-price growth probably accelerated to 4
percent in January, the fastest since November 2008 and double
the central bank’s target, according to the median forecast of
30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That will force King
to write to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and
explain the bank’s policy, a day before he presents his new
quarterly economic forecasts in London.  King’s argument that the current bout of inflation is
temporary has been challenged by two members of the bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee, who are pushing for higher interest
rates. The combination of tighter monetary policy at a time of
government spending cuts is “potentially very difficult,”
Business Secretary Vince Cable said in a Bloomberg Television
interview broadcast this week.  “My guess is that King will continue to chant the mantra
that the factors driving inflation right now are beyond the
bank’s control,”  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
London, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “That is
correct, but it doesn’t necessarily mean that they can afford to
sit on the sidelines forever.”  The pound slipped 0.2 percent against the dollar today and
traded at $1.6014 as of 7:58 a.m. in London. It’s gained 2.6
percent this year.  ‘Temporary’  The  Office for National Statistics  in London will publish
the data at 9:30 a.m. The central bank may release King’s fifth
consecutive inflation letter an hour later as well as any
written response from Osborne.  The governor must write to the chancellor every three
months when the inflation rate strays more than a percentage
point from the 2 percent target in either direction. In the
first of the current series of  letters  a year ago, King said
that quickening inflation was expected by policy makers “to be
a temporary deviation” from the goal.  With price gains showing little sign of abating since then,
partly due to the government’s sales-tax increase, the central
bank held its key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent
this month. Former policy maker DeAnne Julius said last week the
bank faces a “credibility problem.”  Shock Story  “I think King will put the same case across that he has
done pretty consistently for the last year or two, the story of
one-off shocks,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “That’s not necessarily going to
be effective at satisfying his critics, but that is the state of
the communications challenge faced by the bank.”  The combination of persistent inflation and the fiscal
squeeze has widened the debate among policy makers about when to
withdraw stimulus. While  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale  voted
in January for a 25-basis-point increase in the key rate to tame
price gains, according to the minutes of that meeting,  Adam Posen  maintained his call for an expansion of the bank’s 200
billion-pound ($320 billion) bond-purchase plan. The minutes of
this month’s meeting will be published Feb. 23.  U.K. inflation has accelerated even after the economy
shrank 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter as food, oil and other
commodity costs rose and the government increased value-added
tax as part of measures to rein in the  budget deficit .  Investors have increased bets on a rate increase, with the
yield on short-sterling futures expiring in June rising 24 basis
points to 1.14 percent this year.  Inflation Pressures    Marks & Spencer Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer, said last month that trading conditions may become
more challenging on increased commodity prices and as consumers’
incomes are pressured by higher taxes and spending cuts.  In a sign of building inflation pressures, input prices at
factories rose an annual 13.4 percent in January, the most in
more than two years. At the same time, Britons’ expectations for
inflation for the next year rose to 3.6 percent last month,
their highest level since 2008, Citigroup Inc. said on Jan. 28.  King will get a second opportunity to put forward his view
at a press conference at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow when he publishes
the bank’s new inflation outlook.  “I’m sure he is looking forward to this week,” said
Commerzbank’s Dixon. “He’s a combative individual. This is the
kind of cut and thrust which he relishes. I’m sure he’ll be very
happy to give a very strong message this week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  