-- 
U.S.-German Romances Often End With Broken Hearts: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-02-15T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/u-s-german-romances-often-end-in-heartbreak-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
People nurse crushes, but so do
countries. This Valentine’s week the collective economic heart
of the U.S. burns for Germany. And Germany sure seems to be
enjoying the attention.  The  Deutsche Boerse  is marrying the New York Stock
Exchange? Swell. Americans are enthused. Germans are busting
their buttons that  Frankfurt ’s exchange is viewed as level with
the hallowed NYSE.  The European Central Bank needs a new head? U.S. pundits
find it an awful shame that  Axel Weber , German to his toes, may
be turning down the job. Nothing like a German to keep a central
bank on the straight and narrow. The ECB is a model the U.S.
would do well to follow. Unemployment? January data put German
unemployment at 7.4 percent, or 1.6 percentage points below that
of the U.S.  But this infatuation is more desperation than love. The
February crush says more about the economic troubles of both
nations than of their charms.  Consider, to start with, the possible Deutsche Boerse  NYSE
Euronext  merger. Globalization is supposed to be a net good
these days, and many people like the idea of the U.S.
globalizing with Germany. Two powerhouses have to be better than
one.  It’s true that the NYSE is doomed if it doesn’t keep
expanding globally. But the exchange’s fragility comes only in
part from its its functional limits, or the need for synergy of
having one trading platform instead of the current two, Deutsche
Boerse’s Eurex or NYSE’s Liffe derivatives market.  Euronext Purchase  Those touting a merger as an argument that it will save the
NYSE forget that in June 2007 NYSE acquired a European exchange,
Euronext. The combined company’s share of the total volume of
NYSE stocks and exchange traded funds that were executed
internally dropped to 33.9 percent last month from about 64
percent at the time of the merger, according to its website.  Other, non-German, factors are more likely to revive NYSE
or U.S. markets. These include undoing some of the regulation
brought by Sarbanes-Oxley, the 2002 law that did so much to
decrease U.S. competitiveness. Mergers are no substitute for
repeal of Dodd-Frank, the latest reform. Without these
legislative changes we’re merely in for a long fight about
whether Germans are subject to anti-competitive American rules.  Germans long for the pride of saying that their exchange is
based in the world’s financial capital. The phrase, “Deutsche
Boerse in  New York ,” feels as smooth on their tongue as a
valentine truffle. But even if Deutsche Boerse is included
prominently in the combined company’s name, it isn’t likely to
get much prominence post merger.  Top Billing  And other big German-U.S. deals have left broken hearts. An
example would be the romantic expectations Daimler Benz had when
it acquired Chrysler, a deal Daimler Chairman Juergen Schrempp
called “a wedding made in heaven,” according to the New York
Times. Then too, there was a name victory -- the merged company
became Daimler Chrysler, and not the other way. Schrempp came to
rue that marriage to  Detroit ’s also-ran.  IKB Deutsche Industriebank came to the U.S. to make money
in the subprime mortgage market. The deal that the Dusseldorf,
Germany-based lender struck at Goldman Sachs to buy
collateralized debt obligations was preset to explode on them.  But what about the second infatuation, the one with the  European Central Bank ? Almost a century ago Germany experienced
hyperinflation that destroyed the potential for stability of the
Weimar Republic. Americans assume that because it preceded  Adolf Hitler , that hyperinflation became part of German genetic
memory, and that Germans will always assure the ECB is German in
spirit.  Faith in Germans  There’s a kind of wistful faith that someone German, if not
the inflation-hawk Weber then Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and her
pick to head the ECB, will keep inflation low in  Europe .  But admirers in the U.S. overlook the reality, the same
reason for which Weber is likely turning down the job. It is
that, memory or no, the German-inspired ECB already blinked with
its accommodating response to the Greek financial crisis. As
thrifty as she sometimes can be, Merkel and her fellow leaders
believe that in the long run Europe will move fiscal authority
up to the European level from national capitals.  In the name of preventing short-term monetary crises,
Europe’s leaders will buy time with long-term spending that
leads to great debt, and therefore, eventually, inflation. Weber
does not want to preside over this. Sure, there is concern in  Germany  over the possible appointment of a non-German to the
post.   Mamma Mia , Please Not This Italian” howled the Bild
newspaper at word that the eminent  Mario Draghi  might be a
candidate.  German Unemployment  But this time, canonizing an inflation hawk doesn’t
represent evidence that German hyperinflation will never be
forgotten. Instead, it represents evidence of deflection from
the fact that it already has been forgotten.  Even the enviable German  unemployment rate  isn’t quite
real. German apprenticeship hides some youth unemployment;
Germany’s now storied job-sharing is better than unemployment
but not better than the true creation of new jobs. And for that,
the German state is unattractively pudgy.  A couple years ago it was fashionable to make Germany out
to be an economic dog. The critics exaggerated. To make her out
now as a dreamboat or prophet is likewise to distort. Companies
and countries that appraise what they can do for each other more
soberly have a better chance of building a love that lasts until
the next valentine season comes around.    Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the  Council on Foreign Relations , is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 