-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline Amid Retail Sales Data, Exxon Mobil’s Slump

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-02-15T21:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/u-s-stock-futures-decline-after-retail-sales-advance-less-than-forecasts.html
U.S. stocks retreated, pulling the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from a 32-month high, after a
report showed retail sales increased less than forecast and  Exxon Mobil Corp . led a decline in energy producers.  Exxon Mobil, the world’s largest company, slid 2.3 percent
for its biggest drop since August as investors analyzed data on
its proved reserves.  Monsanto Co . sank 4.8 percent as
billionaire investor  George Soros ’s hedge fund cut its stake in
the world’s largest seed company.  JDS Uniphase Corp ., the
biggest U.S. network-analysis company, fell 10 percent after
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. reduced its rating.  The S&P 500 retreated 0.3 percent to 1,328.01 at 4 p.m. in
New York, snapping a three-day rally. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  declined 41.55 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,226.64.
Commerce Department figures showed that January sales at U.S.
retailers increased less than estimated by economists and may
reflect the influence of harsh winter weather.  “It’s quite simple -- people are trying to discern between
weather conditions and economic momentum,” said  Alan Gayle ,
senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in
Richmond, Virginia, which oversees $52.5 billion. “There’s been
some confusion about the impact of the weather on the overall
figures, as we saw with retail sales today. That adds up to some
nervousness following a strong advance for stocks.”  Highest Since June  The S&P 500 gained 97 percent from a 12-year low in March
2009 through yesterday amid government stimulus measures and
higher-than-estimated corporate profits. The advance pushed the
index to 15.9 times the reported operating earnings of its
companies, the highest valuation since June. Earnings-per-share
have topped analysts’ estimates at about 73 percent of the 359
companies in the  S&P 500  that reported results since Jan. 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock-index futures fell before the open of exchanges as
Commerce Department figures showed that retail purchases rose
0.3 percent, the smallest gain since a drop in June. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
0.5 percent rise.  The Labor Department said the cost of goods imported into
the U.S. rose more than forecast in January, boosted by higher
prices for commodities such as fuels and food. The 1.5 percent
month-over-month rise in the import-price index followed a
revised 1.2 percent gain in December. Economists projected a 0.8
percent increase for January, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey. Excluding food and fuel, import
prices climbed 0.6 percent.  ‘Goldilocks’  “Surging inflation expectations show we are no longer in a
Goldilocks environment and a meaningful tactical correction in
risk assets could be caused by a jump in  interest rates  or
weaker U.S. growth,”  Gary Baker  and Michael Hartnett, equity
strategists at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a report today.  Money managers are more bullish on global stocks this month
than at any time in the past decade, a BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research survey showed. A net 67 percent of respondents, who
together manage $569 billion, had an “overweight” position on
global equities, the highest level since the survey first asked
the question in April 2001. That compares with 55 percent in
January and 40 percent in December.  Energy and raw-materials producers had the biggest declines
among 10 S&P 500 groups, falling about 1.1 percent collectively.  Exxon Mobil fell the most in the Dow average, declining 2.3
percent to $82.97. The company said engineers found larger-than-
expected amounts of oil and natural gas in fields that came with
its acquisition of XTO Energy Inc. Revised field estimates and
discoveries at the end of 2010 added the equivalent of 3.5
billion barrels of crude to Exxon’s proved reserves, enough to
replace 209 percent of last year’s production.  ‘Poor Ratio’  Excluding the acquisition, the reserve replacement ratio
“would have only been 45 percent,” Paul Cheng, an analyst at
Barclays Plc, wrote in a note today. The “poor organic
replacement ratio” could reignite concern over whether Exxon
acquired XTO only for reserves and production growth, he wrote.  Monsanto sank 4.8 percent to $71.54. The $27 billion  Soros
Fund Management  cut its stake in the agricultural company to
3.29 million shares from 6.52 million in the previous quarter,
according to the regulatory filing.  JDS Uniphase slumped 10 percent to $25.05 after its stock
rating was cut to “market perform” from “outperform” at
Sanford C Bernstein.    Netflix Inc . declined 2.7 percent to $240.79. The DVD-
rental and streaming company was cut to “equal-weight” from
“overweight” at Morgan Stanley.  Exchanges Slump  Shares of exchanges slumped. Deutsche Boerse AG’s $9.53
billion all-stock purchase of New York Stock Exchange parent  NYSE Euronext  creates the world’s largest owner of equities and
derivatives markets. The deal, which gives Deutsche Boerse 60
percent of the combined entity, forms an organization with
market share in futures that’s similar to Chicago-based CME
Group Inc. It would also top  CBOE Holdings Inc . of Chicago in
U.S. options.  Deutsche Boerse’s plan follows  Singapore Exchange Ltd .’s
October bid for  ASX Ltd ., which runs the Australian stock
market, and  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s agreement last
week to buy Canada’s  TMX Group Inc .  NYSE declined 3.4 percent to $38.12.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc .
slumped 4.6 percent to $28.28. CBOE fell 5.9 percent to $26.21.    Wyndham Worldwide Corp . rose the most in the S&P 500,
jumping 6.9 percent to $31.74. The franchiser of Days Inn hotels
and Super 8 motels may be under pressure to spin off its
timeshare business after Marriott International Inc. announced a
similar plan, Gabelli & Co. said in a note. Marriott gained 1.1
percent to $41.46.  Roubini Predicts Rally  U.S. Steel Corp. rallied 3.3 percent to $62.31. The
country’s largest producer of the metal by volume was raised to
“buy” from “neutral” at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., citing
higher steel prices and demand.  Nouriel Roubini, the economist who predicted the 2009
financial crisis, said U.S. stocks may gain in the next few
months as company earnings remain resilient.  “I think tactically for the next few months equities could
rise because corporate profits are still strong,” Roubini, who
is chairman and co-founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said
in an interview on CNBC today, when asked for his outlook for
the S&P 500. “But the question is whether the economic recovery
is going to be sustained and whether some of the risks we’re
seeing down the line on the financial markets are going to
materialize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Rita Nazareth} in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  