-- 
U.S. February Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-02-15T13:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/u-s-february-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index from the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York .  The Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that conditions
for New York manufacturers continued to improve in February. The
general business conditions index rose 3.5 points to 15.4. The new
orders index edged down just slightly, to 11.8. The shipments
index retreated 14 points, reversing much of January’s 18-point
surge, but remained positive at 11.3. The inventories index
continued to climb from its December low, reaching its highest
level since April. The index for number of employees fell, but the
average workweek measure moved up. The prices paid index climbed
to a two and-a half-year high in February, but the measure for
prices received was little changed, suggesting some pressure on
profit margins. The forward-looking indexes continued to signal
widespread optimism, though to a somewhat lesser degree than in
January. Indexes for expected prices, both paid and received,
declined moderately, after reaching multiyear highs last month.  In a series of supplementary questions, respondents were asked
about their capital spending plans for 2011 relative to their
actual spending in 2010. Respondents, on balance, reported that
they planned to spend more this year than last on new equipment--
particularly non-computer-related equipment. The median respondent
planned to spend $450,000 overall, up from $292,500 in 2010--a 54
percent increase. When manufacturers were asked what factors
contributed the most to their plans to boost  capital spending  in
2011, the most frequent response was a need for labor-saving
equipment, followed closely by favorable trends in sales of, and
demand for, firms’ products. A substantial proportion of
respondents also mentioned long-term investment schedules and a
need for energy-saving equipment.  Business Activity Continues to Expand
In February, the general business conditions index rose 3.5 points
to 15.4--its third consecutive positive reading and its highest
level since June. Thirty-six percent of respondents reported that
conditions had improved over the month, while 21 percent reported
that conditions had worsened. The new orders index dipped 0.6
points to 11.8, and the shipments index, after soaring 18 points
in January, declined 14.1 points to 11.3. The delivery time index
climbed 6.3 points to zero. The inventories index rose nearly 5½
points in February, to 9.6, its highest level since April.  Input Prices Accelerate  Respondents reported increasingly widespread hikes in input prices,
but more subdued increases in selling prices. The prices paid
measure surged 10 points--its third consecutive monthly gain--to
reach 45.8, its highest level since August 2008. Nearly half of
those surveyed reported price increases, while just 2 percent
reported declines. The index for prices received, by contrast,
moved up only slightly, to 16.9, with 24 percent of manufacturers
citing higher prices and 7 percent noting lower prices. Employment
indexes were mixed in February: the index for number of employees
fell 4.8 points to 3.6, reversing part of January’s 12-point gain;
however, the average workweek index rose nearly 4 points to 6.0--
roughly the level it held at the end of last summer.  Ongoing Optimism about the Near-Term Outlook  Although most of the forward - looking indexes retreated somewhat
in February, they remained at relatively high levels, suggesting
that manufacturers continued to be broadly optimistic about the
six-month outlook. The expected general business conditions index
slipped 9.6 points to 49.4, reversing virtually all of January’s
10-point gain; 60 percent of respondents expected conditions to be
better in six months. Similarly, the future new orders and
shipments indexes dropped 9 and 8 points, respectively, but
remained at high levels. The measure for expected inventories
edged down from a record high, dipping roughly 1½ points to 13.3.
Future price indexes declined, after rising to their highest
levels in more than two years in January. A third of respondents
indicated plans to raise prices in the next six months, while
considerably more than half reported that they expected input
prices to rise. Future employment measures, little changed this
month, suggested that respondents intended to hire, on net, in the
months ahead. The capital expenditures index retreated by 7 points
to 27.7 in February, but it remained somewhat above the levels
seen throughout the second half of 2010. The technology spending
index fell by 4 points, to 18.1. 