-- 
Huawei Rejects U.S. Recommendation to Sell Assets, Waits for Obama Ruling

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-15T04:33:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/huawei-told-by-u-s-panel-to-drop-3leaf-purchase-to-await-obama-decision.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest phone networks maker, rejected calls by a U.S. panel to
divest technology assets bought from 3Leaf Systems and will wait
for President Barack Obama’s decision on the issue.  The interagency  Committee on Foreign Investment  in the  United States  had recommended last week that the Shenzhen,
China-based company sell the assets after some U.S. lawmakers
said the deal threatened national security. Huawei’s decision
now leaves Obama with 15 days to take a stand on the panel’s
suggestion, Bill Plummer, the Chinese company’s Washington-based
vice president of external affairs, said in an interview today.  Huawei wants a fair review of its May purchase of patents
from  Santa Clara , California-based 3Leaf that five U.S.
lawmakers termed a threat to American  computer networks  in a
letter they wrote last week to the Obama administration. Huawei
told the U.S. Commerce Department it bought the 3Leaf patents
and then submitted the transaction at the end of November to the
interagency committee on foreign investment, Plummer said.  ‘In Good Faith’  “We’ve been engaged for two months, in good faith, in a
process in which we have trust and great respect,” Plummer said
in a telephone interview. “To withdraw would have an adverse
impact on our brand and reputation. We want to see the process
through. We welcome the presidential review.”  Plummer declined to disclose the value of the 3Leaf
purchase, which he described as “very modest.”  Huawei, founded in 1988 by former Chinese army officer Ren Zhengfei, has struggled to expand in the U.S. as the federal
government considers whether the company’s phone networks pose
national-security risks. Members of Congress wrote at least two
letters last year expressing concerns about the company’s
activities in the U.S. A third letter last week raised concerns
specifically about the 3Leaf purchase.  3Leaf, founded in 2004, developed technology for cloud
computing, the lawmakers wrote. Cloud computing lets businesses
and government agencies move applications and programs such as
e-mail to remote networks owned and operated by a third-party.  Allowing Huawei and, by extension, China access to 3Leaf’s
technology could pose a serious risk to U.S. computer networks
as they increase use of cloud computing, Senators  Jon Kyl , an
Arizona Republican, Richard Burr, a North Carolina Republican,
and Jim Webb, a Virginia Democrat, wrote. Republican
representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of  Florida  and Sue Myrick of  North Carolina  were the two other signatories to the letter.  Huawei has said the allegations are unfounded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  