-- 
Hungary Bonds Gain for Second Day as Inflation Curbs Rate Bets

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-02-15T16:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/hungarian-bonds-gain-for-second-day-after-inflation-decelerates.html
Hungarian  government bonds  climbed
for a second day after a report showed inflation slowed more
than expected in January, relieving pressure on the central bank
to raise borrowing costs.  The advance in bond prices pushed yields on the forint note
maturing in February 2015 down 6 basis points to 7.142 percent
by 5:15 p.m. in Budapest.  The annual inflation rate dropped to 4 percent last month,
from 4.7 percent in December, the government said today, slower
than the 4.4 percent median estimate of 14 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Policy makers cited quickening inflation as a
reason for lifting the central bank’s main rate, now 6 percent,
at each of the past three meetings.  “Lower inflation in January should help ease concerns of
Hungarian central bankers who were hiking rates in previous
months in an attempt to bring the consumer-price index lower,”  Piotr Kalisz , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Warsaw, wrote in
a report today. Citigroup expects no rate change on Feb. 21.  Investors in interest-rate derivatives reduced bets the
rates will rise by May after the inflation report. Forward-rate
agreements used to fix interest costs three months from now fell
4 basis points, the most in two weeks, to 6.22 percent. The
three-month FRA contract traded 13 basis points above the three-
month Budapest Interbank Offered Rate to which it settles.  Today’s CPI “numbers point to less risk of a February rate
hike,” Anders Svendsen, Copenhagen-based chief analyst at
Nordea Bank AB, wrote in a report to clients.  ‘Cut or Two’  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s administration has pushed for
lower borrowing costs to support the country’s recovery from the
deepest recession in two decades. The cabinet has called rate
increases “unjustified,” cut the salaries of rate setters and
proposed a bill to give a parliamentary committee dominated by
the ruling party the right to appoint new policy makers when the
terms of four of the seven-member board expire in March.  The government’s move to control monetary-policy council
appointments “probably means no more rate hikes from March,”
Svendsen said in the Nordea note. “We do not believe that the
four new MPC members will force through an outright rate cut at
the March meeting since it would undermine the central bank’s
and the government’s credibility. However, we would not be
surprised to see a rate cut or two within the next quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  