-- 
Unitech Drops as Quarterly Profit Falls to 3-Year Low

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-02-15T06:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/unitech-shares-drop-in-mumbai-after-profit-falls-37-on-declining-sales.html
  Unitech Ltd ., the Indian developer
whose mobile phone unit is embroiled in a corruption probe, fell
after third-quarter profit declined to its lowest in at least
three years and the company sold assets at a loss.  Unitech dropped 2.8 percent to 35.25 rupees as of 11:31
a.m. in Mumbai trading, after slumping as much as 5.9 percent to
the lowest in almost two years. Net income dropped to 1.11
billion rupees ($24.4 million) in the three months ended Dec.
31, from 1.76 billion rupees a year earlier, the New Delhi-based
company said late yesterday in a statement to the Bombay Stock
Exchange. That was lower than the 1.98 billion rupee average
estimate of 20 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Lower than anticipated execution on recent launches and a
loss on account of sale of an aircraft resulted in earnings
being below our estimates,” Mumbai-based Prem Khurana, an
analyst at broker B&K Securities  India  Pvt., said in a note to
clients late yesterday. Khurana maintains an “outperformer”
rating on the stock, setting an estimated fair value at 54
rupees a share.  B&K Securities cut its earnings estimate by 23 percent to
2.4 rupees a share to factor in lower than anticipated execution
of projects, the one-time loss on the sale of the aircraft and a
higher-than-expected tax incidence in the first nine months.  Federal Investigation  Group net sales at India’s second-biggest developer by
market value fell to 6.59 billion rupees from 7.74 billion
rupees. The earnings include a loss of 375.9 million rupees on
the sale of an aircraft, it said.  Unitech shares declined 19 percent in 2010, after doubling
in the previous year. The developer’s net debt was at 46.17
billion rupees as of Dec. 31. It plans to develop 10 million
square feet of new projects in the next four months, it said.  The company’s average cost of debt has risen to 12.5
percent from 12 percent in the last couple of months, R.
Nagaraju, head of planning and strategy, said in a telephone
interview today. The company needs to repay less than a billion
rupees in debt by March and about 10 billion rupees in the next
financial year, he said.  Unitech has plunged 47 percent this year as federal
investigators deepened their probe into a 2008 mobile phone
license sale and after the government fined Unitech Wireless
Ltd., its venture with  Telenor ASA , for not meeting network
rollout targets. In December, authorities asked the operator to
respond to an audit that said it bought permits after
suppressing facts and submitting fictitious documents.  Unitech Wireless, 67 percent owned by  Norway ’s Telenor,
said it will present its case to the government after the
company was ordered to prove the validity of its licenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  