-- 
Uranium Declines 1%, First Drop This Year, UxC Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-02-15T13:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/uranium-declines-1-first-drop-this-year-uxc-says-correct-.html
(Corrects the percentage change in headline and second
paragraph.)  Uranium prices, which gained 17
percent in January, fell for the first time this year as traders
sold to secure profits from the nuclear fuel, according to  Ux
Consulting Co.   Uranium-oxide concentrate for immediate delivery traded at
$72.25 a pound in the seven days ended yesterday, down 1 percent
from the week before, UxC said in an e-mailed report
today, based on the most competitive offer tracked by the
Roswell, Georgia-based company. That compares with $73 on Feb. 8
and $62.50 at the beginning of the year, according to UxC.  “Attitudes shifted over the past week, and several
participants shared the view that the top had been taken off the
market, at least for the near term,” UxC said in the report.
“A few sellers appear to view the current price level as an
opportunity to lock in previous gains.”  More than 150 new reactors are planned worldwide by 2030,
with  China  planning 110 units, according to data compiled by the
 World Nuclear Association . Uranium prices, which reached a high
of $136 a pound in 2007 before falling to about $40, have risen
since mid-2010 as China increased the use of nuclear power to
curb emissions from burning coal.  There have been “numerous reports” of Chinese traders
seeking to sell uranium on the  spot market  in the past week, UxC
said.  “Over the past several months, each time the spot price
showed signs of flattening or a downward turn, renewed demand
interest reversed the price movement,” UxC said. “It will be
interesting to see how the market reacts to this most recent
downturn in price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  