-- 
Turkey Says Next Iranian Nuclear Talks Likely to Be in Istanbul

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-02-15T12:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/turkey-says-next-iranian-nuclear-talks-likely-to-be-in-istanbul.html
The next round of talks on  Iran’s
nuclear program  is likely to take place in Istanbul, Turkey’s
state-run Anatolia news agency cited Turkish Foreign Minister
Ahmet Davutoglu as saying in the Iranian capital.  Davutoglu met Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi and
Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, today in Tehran,
where they worked to set a date and place for the negotiations
between Iran and the five permanent members of the United
Nations Security Council -- China, France, Russia, the U.K. and
U.S. -- as well as Germany. Davutoglu didn’t give a date for
further talks on  Iran ’s atomic development, Anatolia said.  The previous session ended Jan. 22 in Istanbul with no
breakthrough, nor any commitment by the parties to meet again.
The  Security Council  approved a fourth set of sanctions against
Iran in June over its refusal to curb the nuclear work, which
the U.S. and many of its allies say may be a cover for weapons
development. Iran says its program is designed to produce
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.  European Union Foreign Policy Chief  Catherine Ashton  said
she was “disappointed” after the Iranians issued new
conditions, including the lifting of sanctions, before
discussing their nuclear program in Istanbul. She said the
international community would be left to decide how to deal with
Iran if talks continued to produce no result.  Davutoglu is in Iran with Turkish President Abdullah Gul
and more than 100 Turkish business leaders seeking to expand
trade between the two neighboring countries.  Gul and Davutoglu held a meeting today with Iranian Supreme
Leader Ali Khamenei and President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  that was
closed to the press, Anatolia said.  For Related News and Information:
Top regional news: TOP MIDEAST
Search for news on the Iranian nuclear program:
STNI IRANTENS  To contact the reporter on this story:  Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 