-- 
Turkey's Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Repo Lending Rate at 6.25 Percent

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-02-15T12:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/turkey-s-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-repo-lending-rate-at-6-25-percent.html
  Turkey ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged, after two months of cuts, to
assess whether curbs on lending are reducing consumer demand.  The bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending rate at a
record low of 6.25 percent, according to an e-mailed statement
today. Six of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg this week
had predicted no change. The bank will release minutes of the
meeting within eight working days.  Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  unexpectedly lowered the rate in
December and January, seeking to deter short-term capital
inflows and weaken the lira. He said the easing would be more
than offset by higher reserve requirements for banks that will
slow lending. The central bank said its tracking the impact of
the reserves increases, according to today’s statement.  The bank is “hoping to get some data on the effectiveness
of its policy mix in the coming weeks,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an
economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul, said in an e-
mailed report before the announcement. While the bank has been
successful in deterring capital inflows, “regarding the second
policy target -- restraining loan growth -- there is more
uncertainty.”  The jobless rate fell to 11 percent in November, the
statistics agency said today. That was the lowest rate for the
period since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers. The current-
account deficit in the same month was $7.5 billion, the widest
in more than 25 years, as a growing economy pulls in  consumer
goods  and raw materials.  Domestic Demand  The economy probably grew 8 percent last year, Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said Feb. 10 in  Abu Dhabi . The growth is
“not balanced” because it’s based on strong domestic demand,
Yilmaz told investors in London on Feb. 7.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is seeking re-election
and says his priority for his third term in office would be
drafting a new constitution.  The central bank’s new policy aims to restrain domestic
demand by forcing banks to set aside more reserves against
lending. The central bank made increases on Jan. 17 of as much
as 4 percentage points to the reserves banks must set aside
against short-term liabilities, hindering lending. Those changes
won’t take full effect until Feb. 18, three days after the rates
meeting.  Consumer Loans  Outstanding consumer loans excluding credit cards were 128
billion liras ($80 billion) in the week ending Feb. 2, about 38
percent higher than a year earlier, according to central bank
data. The government thinks loan growth of between 20 percent
and 25 percent would be better, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said in December.  Net income last year at  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , the
biggest single provider of  consumer lending , according to the
country’s banks’ association, rose 6.2 percent to 3.15 billion
liras, the company said Feb. 10.  Inflation slowed to a four-decade low of 4.9 percent in
January. The bank said it expects it to slow again this month
before accelerating, partly because the weaker lira increases
the price of imported gas and oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 