-- 
Canadian Stocks Advance as Gold Producers Gain on U.K. Inflation

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-02-15T21:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/husky-energy-innergex-mercer-canadian-equity-market-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for a second
day as precious-metal futures gained after the U.K. reported its
highest inflation rate since November 2008.    Barrick Gold Corp ., the world’s largest gold producer,
advanced 1.4 percent as the metal climbed to the highest level
in almost four weeks.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd ., the
country’s second-largest energy company by market value,
increased 0.7 percent after saying it plans to restart its fire-
damaged oil-sands operations in the second quarter. Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc. fell 3.3 percent as agricultural
commodities retreated.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 18.58
points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,929.35, the highest level since
July 2008. The equity benchmark has gained 2.8 percent this
month as gold bounced back after falling the most in 13 months
in January.  “It has a binary role: It’s a metal to use in time of
duress, but it’s also a metal to protect from excess, which is
what we’ve got now,” said  Bob Decker , who helps oversee C$5.5
billion ($5.6 billion) as a money manager at Aurion Capital
Management in Toronto. “It seems to be back in the bull phase
after a short and sharp correction.”  The precious metal has advanced this month on concern over
inflation in emerging markets and Europe and the strife in the
Middle East. U.K. consumer prices rose at an annual rate of 4
percent in January, twice the Bank of England’s inflation
target, the Office for National Statistics said today in  London .  Rate Issue  In a letter to George Osborne, the U.K.’s Chancellor of the
Exchequer, central-bank Governor Mervyn King argued against
raising  interest rates , saying the excess inflation is “a
temporary deviation.”  Chinese inflation excluding food increased the most in at
least six years last month, the country’s statistics bureau said
today.  Gold for April delivery advanced 0.7 percent to C$1,374.10
an ounce in  New York . Silver climbed 0.5 percent.  Barrick rose 1.4 percent to C$48.66.  Goldcorp Inc ., the
world’s second-largest gold producer by market value, gained 1.7
percent to C$43.56. Silver reseller  Silver Wheaton Corp .
advanced 4.1 percent to C$36.26.  North American Palladium Ltd .,
which mines the precious metal in Ontario, jumped 5.6 percent to
C$7.57 after reporting drilling results.  Pretium Resources Inc., which explores for gold in British
Columbia, rallied for a 15th day, surging 12 percent to $10.85.
In a press release, the company said it “is not aware of any
material undisclosed development that would cause the upward
movement” in the share price.  Pretium has soared 81 percent since its December initial
public offering. In a Jan. 11 note, Adam P. Graf, an analyst at
Dahlman Rose & Co. told clients, “The company offers high gold
leverage, high gold grades, and a proven management team.”  Refinery Update  Canadian Natural increased 0.7 percent to C$44.68 after
releasing an update on its Horizon mine and refinery, which have
been idled since a Jan. 6 fire. George Toriola, an analyst at
UBS AG, told clients in a note that the update is “positive”
and will reduce concerns about the project.    Progress Energy Resources Corp ., which produces natural gas
in western Canada, dropped 6.9 percent, the most in 23 months,
to C$13.17 after saying it will sell 14.4 million shares at
C$13.90 a share. The company will also sell C$200 million ($203
million) in debt that can be converted into stock.  Manulife Rises    Manulife Financial Corp ., North America’s fourth-largest
insurer, climbed 2.4 percent to C$18.69 after rising 1.8 percent
yesterday. Shares of the Toronto-based company had tumbled 6.5
percent over the prior three days as the company’s fourth-
quarter profit trailed the average analyst forecast.  Fertilizer producers fell as wheat dropped the most since
Nov. 16 on forecasts for rain in parts of China that have
suffered drought. Also today,  Yara International ASA , the
world’s largest publicly traded maker of nitrogen fertilizer,
reported fourth-quarter earnings that missed the average analyst
estimate by 7.6 percent, excluding certain items.  Potash Corp. declined 3.3 percent from a 29-month high to
C$60.63.  Agrium Inc ., Canada’s second-largest fertilizer
producer, retreated for the first time in seven days, losing 2.9
percent to C$94.26.  Base-metals producers fell as copper dropped from a record
price in New York.  Teck, Shaw    Teck Resources Ltd ., Canada’s biggest base-metals and coal
producer, declined 1.4 percent to C$58.  First Quantum Minerals
Ltd ., the country’s second-largest publicly traded copper
producer, slumped 4.2 percent to C$128.15.    Shaw Communications Inc ., Canada’s biggest cable and
satellite television provider by subscribers, declined 2.2
percent to C$21.30 after Tim Casey, a Bank of Montreal analyst,
reduced his rating on the shares to “market perform” from
“outperform.”.  In a note to clients, Casey cited competition from Telus
Corp., the country’s third-largest wireless carrier. Casey said
he “is growing increasingly concerned with Shaw’s ability to
withstand competitive pressures from Telus, specifically its
OptikTV service.”  Casey had rated the Calgary-based company “outperform”
since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  