-- 
Westfield Seeks Partners for U.S., U.K. Assets, Not Spinoffs, Lowy Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-02-16T05:51:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/westfield-second-half-profit-declines-by-39-on-spinoff-stronger-currency.html
Westfield Group, which last year
spun off a unit owning stakes in its Australian and  New Zealand 
malls to boost shareholder returns, prefers joint ventures with
institutional investors for its U.S. and U.K. assets.  The new  Westfield Retail Trust  “suited the demand in
Australia perfectly,” Peter Lowy, joint-managing director of
Westfield Group, said in a telephone interview today. “We’re
not sure it’ll be suited to the U.S. or U.K.”  Westfield, which today reported net profit of A$1.11
billion ($1.1 billion) in the year to Dec. 31, listed the retail
trust -- which owns a 50 percent stake in its 56 Australian and
New Zealand malls -- on the Australian stock exchange in
December. Westfield formed the unit, partially reversing the
merger of its three businesses in 2004, in response to demand
from Australian investors for a domestic vehicle, the company
has said, enabling  Westfield Group  to focus on higher-growth
investments and new developments.  In the U.S. and U.K., Westfield is seeking joint ventures
with sovereign wealth funds and pension funds, similar to the
strategy employed in its Stratford City development, Lowy said.  The company sold a 50 percent stake in the project,
adjacent to the 2012 Olympic site in east  London , to a joint
venture comprising APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV and the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board for 871.5 million pounds ($1.4
billion) in November to bolster its returns from the development.  Joint Ventures  “We’d do more of that in the U.S., either single joint
ventures or portfolios with institutional investors,” Lowy said.
The company, which has no plans to sell any more of the
Stratford City project, will seek to maintain similar stakes and
management rights in any future partnerships, he said.  While Westfield expects an internal rate of return of 12
percent to 15 percent over 10 years through such partnerships,
the returns may be boosted as more joint ventures are finalized,
he said.  Westfield Group shares declined 1 percent to A$9.82 at the
4:10 p.m. close of trade in Sydney. Westfield Retail ended the
day unchanged at A$2.72, compared with the A$2.75 price at which
it was sold to investors before it started trading on Dec. 13.  A joint venture in which Westfield continues to manage the
assets allows the company to free up capital for new investments
while increasing the proportion of earnings to assets, Scott Courtney, Sydney-based head of REIT research at Morningstar Inc.,
said in a telephone interview.  More Options  “It provides them the flexibility, where they may have
identified assets that they believe their ability to outperform
the market may be limited, to withdraw capital from those assets,
retain the management rights, and invest in new centers
elsewhere, where they think they can outperform,” he said.  Westfield plans to sell off some assets, predominantly in
the U.S., and some in the U.K., and reinvest the capital into
development projects in its existing markets and to enter new
countries, Lowy said, declining to identify the malls that are
likely to be sold.  Westfield is considering a number of projects, both new
developments and existing malls, in new places including  Asia ,
Lowy said, without specifying. Currently, its malls are confined
to Australia, New Zealand, the U.S. and U.K.  In its existing markets, the capital raised will be used to
further its A$10 billion development pipeline, which includes
the Century City development in  California , Garden State Plaza
in  New Jersey , Macquarie Center in New South Wales and Westfield
London, the company said today in its results presentation.  Operating Income  U.S. operating income shrank 1.4 percent in 2010, less than
its 3.9 percent contraction in 2009. The U.K. expanded 12.2
percent, and Australia and New Zealand rose 4 percent. In 2011,
the company will see between 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent
operating income growth in the U.S., between 7 percent and 8
percent in the U.K., and 3 percent to 4 percent in  Australia  and
New Zealand, it said today.  “Australian retail sales are showing a deteriorating trend,
particularly in discretionary sales, in line with what we’re
seeing in the broader retail sector,” said  John White , who
helps oversee $3 billion as Melbourne-based managing director
for Asia-Pacific public real estate securities at property
management firm Heitman. “U.S. sales are showing steady, not
improving growth, which is a negative surprise.”  The flat U.S. sales are expected to continue, with some
stronger growth if the world’s biggest economy sees sustainable
jobs growth, White said. In Australia, expectations that the
central bank will hold off on raising rates will help stabilize
retail sales growth, he said.  Retail sales in the U.S. in January and in Australia in
December rose less than economists forecast, according to the
latest releases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  