-- 
Milk Powder Prices Jump to 31-Month High in Auction

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-02-15T22:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/whole-milk-powder-auction-prices-jump-8-4-to-31-month-high-fonterra-says.html
Whole milk powder prices rose to the
highest in more than two and a half years on demand from  China 
and concerns that dry weather in New Zealand may curb supply.  Powder gained 8.4 percent from two weeks earlier, reaching
the highest for the near-term contract since July 2008,
according to auction results published today by Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter.  Prices have risen 20 percent this year amid increasing
demand from Asian buyers and as dry weather in parts of New
Zealand led to concerns about milk production. Higher prices
“are the new normal,” Andrew Ferrier, chief executive officer
at Auckland-based Fonterra, said in an interview on Feb. 14.  “There’s very strong demand out of China for whole milk
powder and has been for some time,” said Doug Steel, markets
economist at Bank of  New Zealand  Ltd. in Wellington. Rising
incomes have boosted demand for dairy products in emerging
markets and higher  oil prices  may fan demand from oil-producing
nations as well, he said.  Whole milk powder prices will likely remain at least 50
percent above their historical averages in the longer term,
Ferrier said this week. New Zealand in December declared medium-
level droughts in Northland and in the Waikato province, the
nation’s biggest milk-producing region.  “When you get quite a tight market and stocks are on the
low side, it doesn’t take much of a change in outlook of supply
to create volatility,” Steel said. “You’d be unwise to think
the volatility isn’t going to be around for a while.”  Milk Contracts  Fonterra, which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in butter, milk powder and cheese, sells whole and skim
milk powder and dried milk fat at its  GlobalDairyTrade  auctions.
It offers one-month contracts with delivery starting two months
after the sale, and two three-month contracts with delivery
starting three and six months later.  Whole milk powder for delivery from May through July rose
9.3 percent, Fonterra said. Powder for shipment from August
through October increased 5.1 percent. Prices gained 7.9 percent
across all contracts.  On Dec. 10, Fonterra raised its forecast payment to farmers
by 4.5 percent, citing higher international prices.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 