-- 
WikiLeaks Backers Will Fight U.S. Demand for Assange Twitter Account Data

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-02-15T19:31:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/wikileaks-backers-will-fight-u-s-demand-for-assange-twitter-account-data.html
Three WikiLeaks backers asked a
federal judge in  Virginia  to block the U.S. from reviewing their
 Twitter  account data, arguing that the government’s demands
violate their constitutional rights.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Theresa Buchanan in Alexandria,
during an hour-long hearing today, considered a challenge to her
order requiring Twitter to give investigators data on
subscribers “associated with WikiLeaks,” including its leader,
Julian Assange, and Bradley Manning, a U.S. soldier charged with
leaking classified information.  “The government says there’s no expectation of privacy
when logging into Twitter,” John Keker, a San Francisco-based
lawyer representing one of the WikiLeaks backers, told Buchanan
during the hearing. “Our point is, this is not phone records.
It’s not bank records. This is something different.”  Keker said the information would allow the government to
create a map of people tied to WikiLeaks, which could chill free
speech online.  “It is incredibly powerful to know who the opposition is
and who they’re working with,” Keker said, citing as an example
Egypt and  Tunisia , where citizens used social networks to push
for regime changes.  Buchanan questioned Keker’s argument that turning over the
information would violate Fourth Amendment protections against
warrantless searches and seizures by the government. She said
she thought Keker exaggerated the amount of information her
order would allow the government to get.  “What they’re seeking is location data and timing data,”
Buchanan said. The judge didn’t rule from the bench, saying she
would issue an opinion.  Public Skirmish  The hearing was the first public skirmish in the
government’s criminal investigation of Assange and others who
may have helped leak diplomatic cables and classified military
documents through the WikiLeaks website.  “This is just round one in what promises to be an ongoing
fight about the government trying to have the tools to bring
WikiLeaks into an American court,” Bruce D. Brown, a media
lawyer at Baker Hostetler in  Washington , said in a phone
interview.  Buchanan on Dec. 14 ordered Twitter to give the government
records and information related to the accounts of several named
individuals and anyone else linked to Assange. Prosecutors asked
for subscriber names, contact information, billing records, user
activity, Internet Protocol addresses and source and destination
e-mail addresses.  Grand Jury  The judge initially barred the San Francisco-based social
networking company from disclosing the government’s demand,
which came as part of a federal grand jury investigation in
Virginia. She unsealed the order on Jan. 5, saying it was in the
“best interest of the investigation” and allowed Twitter to
disclose the order to its users.  Three subscribers whose records are being sought are Jacob
Appelbaum, a computer security researcher, who represented
WikiLeaks at a 2010 hacker’s conference in  New York ; Birgitta
Jonsdottir, a member of the Icelandic parliament, elected to a
four-year term in 2009; and Rop Gonggrijp, described in court
papers as a Dutch activist and businessman who helped found the
first public  Internet service provider  in the Netherlands.  The three claim the order supporting the government’s
request is overly broad and doesn’t explain how the information
is “relevant and material” to the criminal probe.  First Amendment  “There are First Amendment implications because
information being sought pertains to speech,” said Cindy Cohn,
the legal director of the San Francisco-based  Electronic
Frontier Foundation , which is representing Jonsdottir. “We also
think there are Fourth Amendment implications because some of
the information reveals location.”  Twitter negotiated with the government to restrict the time
frame of the order to activity from Nov. 15, 2009, to June 1,
2010, and limit the scope of the information being sought,
according to court papers.  The three are asking Buchanan to force investigators to
seek a warrant for the information. A search warrant would mean
the government has shown probable cause, a higher hurdle than
the “relevant” and “material” standard under the Stored
Communications Act, on which Buchanan based her order.  The WikiLeaks backers also have asked that the court unseal
all records in the court file related to prosecutors’ efforts to
get information from Twitter and any other companies.  ‘Very Alarming’  “It’s very alarming that the government is trying to
obtain detailed information about people’s communications over
the Internet,” Aden Fine, a lawyer with the  American Civil
Liberties Union  who also represents Jonsdottir, said in an
interview. “They shouldn’t be able to get that in the first
place, but above all they shouldn’t be able to get it in
secret.” Fine made the same argument to Buchanan today in
court.  John Davis, an assistant U.S. attorney in Alexandria, said
in court today that the government’s request from Twitter was
routine.  “This is a standard -- as this court knows well --
investigative measure used in criminal investigations every day
of the year all over the country,” Davis said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Andy Peterson told Buchanan the
government is still in the preliminary stages of its WikiLeaks
investigation and that publicly releasing information would
damage its probe.  Carolyn Penner, a Twitter spokeswoman, didn’t return e-mail
and phone messages seeking comment.  ‘Almost Impossible’  Privacy lawyers said the information being sought by the
government is common in criminal probes and predicted the
Twitter users will have a hard time convincing the judge that
her order was improper.  “This is almost impossible to win when the government has
thought seriously about what it was doing,” said Stewart Baker,
a lawyer at Steptoe & Johnson LLP in Washington who was
assistant secretary of policy at the Department of  Homeland
Security  under President  George W. Bush .  Marc Zwillinger, an Internet privacy and security expert,
said the Fourth Amendment typically wouldn’t protect
“transactional information” related to communications, such as
dialed phone numbers or IP addresses.  Google, Facebook  U.S. investigators sought similar information from Google
Inc., Facebook Inc. and EBay Inc.’s Skype unit, said  Mark Stephens , a lawyer for Assange, in an interview last month.
Stephens regularly represents media organizations, including
Bloomberg News.  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said Nov. 29 that the  Justice Department  is investigating the posting by WikiLeaks of
thousands of classified U.S. diplomatic communications and
military documents.  Assange, an Australian who was arrested last month in  London  and is free on bail, is facing extradition to Sweden to
face unrelated allegations of sexual misconduct against two
women. Stephens has said the case in  Sweden  is politically
motivated and related to WikiLeaks.  The case is In Re Application of the U.S. For an Order
Pursuant to 18 USC 2703(d), 10-GJ-3793, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 