-- 
Two-Year Treasury Yields Reaches an 8-Month High Before Reports on Growth

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-15T10:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/two-year-treasury-yields-approach-8-month-high-before-reports-on-growth.html
Two-year Treasury yields reached the
highest in more than eight months before the release of data
that may bolster evidence that a U.S. economic recovery is
taking hold.  Ten-year yields snapped a two-day decline before a report
that’s predicted to show U.S. retail sales rose for a seventh
month in January. Orders and sales at factories in the  New York 
region picked up in February, a survey before separate data
showed. A third report may show business inventories grew.  “We have seen positive surprises on several U.S. economic
indicators, so the market might be preparing for another strong
print in retail sales,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income
analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,  Germany . “If we see an
above-consensus number, there will be further pressure on
Treasuries.”  The two-year yield was two basis points higher at 0.87
percent as of 9:50 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market
Data. That’s the highest since May 28, when it was 0.88 percent.
The price of the 0.625 percent security maturing in January 2013
dropped 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 17/32.
The 10-year yield was one basis point higher at 3.64 percent,
while five-year yields rose two basis points to 2.38 percent.  Benchmark 10-year yields will advance to 3.94 percent by
year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  Retail Sales  Retail sales likely climbed 0.5 percent in January,
following a 0.6 percent increase in December, the median of 67
estimates in a survey before the Commerce Department’s report
today showed. Sales at clothing retailers Gap Inc. and Limited
Brands Inc., owner of the Victoria’s Secret chain, topped
analysts’ estimates in January.  The Federal Reserve  plans  to buy $5 billion to $7 billion
of Treasuries maturing from February 2015 to August 2016 today.
The central bank announced in November it would scoop up $600
billion of  U.S. debt  by June 30, part of the asset-buying
program known as quantitative easing.  The Fed’s purchases of bonds have made the outlook for the
economy “considerably brighter,” with growth likely to quicken
this year and next, Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said in a speech yesterday.  Fed Index  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index probably rose to 15 this month from 11.9 in January,
according to the Bloomberg survey median before the data due
later today. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the
so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey , and southern  Connecticut .  Commerce Department figures may show business inventories
grew 0.7 percent in December, a sign companies are restocking
shelves to meet rising demand, according to the survey median.  “We think that there’s potential for a comeback in
Treasuries and slightly falling yields, not to extreme lows but
back from the current extreme levels,” said Ralf Umlauf, head
of floor research at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt . Umlauf forecasts the U.S. Federal Reserve won’t
change its accommodative monetary policy stance during 2011,
which he said may underpin Treasuries.  The  U.S. economy  will expand at a rate of 3.2 percent this
year, up from last year’s 2.9 percent growth, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. It will outstrip the  euro zone , which is forecast to grow at 1.6 percent.  Thirty-Year Bonds  Thirty-year bonds gained yesterday as yields near the
highest level in 10 months bolstered demand and President Barack Obama’s administration submitted a budget plan that included
$1.1 trillion in deficit cuts during 10 years.  The 30-year rate reached 4.79 percent on Feb. 9, the most
since April 7. The yield was 4.68 percent today.  Treasuries are lagging behind company bonds and stocks as
the economy improves and investors seek higher-yielding assets.  U.S. government securities have handed investors a 1.2
percent loss in 2011, while U.S. corporate bonds returned 0.4
percent, based on the Bank of America data. The MSCI All Country
World Index of stocks gained 4.2 percent, after accounting for
reinvested dividends.  Net purchases of long-term U.S. bonds, stocks and other
assets by investors outside the nation fell to $40 billion in
December from $85.1 billion in November, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the Treasury Department report today.  Total net purchases increased to $43.7 billion from $39
billion, the survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  