-- 
Women Can Win Corporate Sex War Without Ackermann: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-02-15T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/women-wage-corporate-sex-war-without-ackermann-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
If there is one German banker who
isn’t taking  gender equality  seriously, it is  Josef Ackermann .  The  Deutsche Bank AG  chief executive officer is in hot
water over flippant remarks he made about women serving on bank
management boards. Now some German ministers are calling for
mandatory quotas to be introduced, forcing companies to appoint
women to top positions.  If it happens, it will be following a trend across Europe.
Norway has quotas. So does  Spain .  France  is introducing them. In
the U.K., the coalition government has set up a commission run
by a former chairman of Standard Chartered Plc, Mervyn Davis, to
look at ways of getting more women on to company boards.  Everyone believes that a company’s directors should reflect
the diversity of the societies where they do business, and that
equal opportunities should be offered to everyone.  But it is a big step to set mandatory quotas. It focuses
too much attention on a few senior jobs; it deflects attention
from the progress that has already been made; it risks creating
a small army of token women directors; and it will distract
European companies from competing with the U.S. and  Asia .  Ackermann’s remarks were certainly crass. Earlier this
month, he said Deutsche Bank’s management board would be “more
colorful and prettier” with a woman on it. Most of us would
think that comments like that are about as acceptable as
pinching the intern’s bottom or sending the only woman in the
room out to fetch some coffee. It’s not the kind of behavior you
should be able to get away with anymore.  Sexual Equality  Germany may have the most powerful female politician in the
world in Chancellor  Angela Merkel , but it hardly has a great
record when it comes to equality of the sexes. Perhaps because
it has so much male-dominated heavy industry, women haven’t made
as much progress in business as in other countries.  Germany  was
ranked 13th in the  World Economic Forum ’s 2010  Global Gender Gap 
report. Back in 2006, it was in fifth place.  There are still obstacles for women climbing to the top of
corporations, and that is probably truer in Germany than it is
in most developed economies. Even so, it should be left to
companies to decide who sits on their boards. Here’s why.  First, it is a mistake to focus too much on the top jobs.
Very few of us, whether we are male or female, are ever going to
be asked to join the board of Deutsche Bank. What counts is how
women are doing in the broader labor market. And, as it happens,
they are doing really well. They are better educated, the new
jobs being created are often more suited to them, and they are
rapidly closing the pay gap with men.  Gap Shrinks  In the U.K., the difference between male and female full-
time earnings  shrank to 10.2 percent  in 2010, the lowest on
record, the  Office for National Statistics  said. In professional
jobs, the gap is almost gone. In the 22-29 age group, the
average woman in full-time work earns more than the average man.  A post-industrial economy that requires social skills more
than brute strength; higher education levels; and a willingness
to work flexibly is better suited to women than men. Obsessing
about a few high-profile board-level jobs obscures the bigger
picture. In reality, the challenge for society may well be what
to do with a lot of increasingly unemployable men rather than
opening up senior executive jobs for women.  ‘Mad Men’  Second, it takes time. Take a look at “ Mad Men ,” the
television series set in an early 1960s  advertising agency . Most
of us watch the non-stop, casual sexism with astonishment. It’s
only half a century since women were completely excluded from
senior executive jobs. The workplace has become far more equal
since then -- and it still is.  According to the Paris-based  European Professional Women’s
Network , the proportion of females on the boards of top European
companies rose to 12 percent in 2010 from 8 percent in 2004. At
that rate, it predicts we will hit parity in 16 years.  Third, quotas create tokenism. We all know what will happen
once you demand that every listed company of a certain size has
to have, say, two female directors. You will create a small pool
of very well-paid women who keep getting appointed to lots of
boards. That’s great for them -- they’ll be paid a lot of money
for going to a few meetings. It will be fine for headhunters and
compliance consultants -- they will charge big fees to find the
people and make sure the quota is met. But it is hard to see
what good it does for anyone outside that charmed circle.  Finally, what  Europe  really needs to do is compete
globally. The region’s economy remains stuck in the doldrums,
struggling to stay competitive with the U.S. and emerging
economies. Why impose more rules on company boards when what
businesses really need to do is figure out how to compete in a
far tougher world than they used to?  Women can run companies just as well as men can. Nobody
disputes that. But similarly no one would argue that we live in
a far more equal society than our parents did. More rules are
unnecessary and will distract companies from their real job.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  