-- 
Woori Finance Nominates Chairman Lee for Second Term for Privatization

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-02-15T02:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/woori-finance-nominates-chairman-lee-for-second-term-for-privatization.html
Woori Finance Holdings Co.,  South
Korea ’s third-largest financial company by market value,
nominated current chairman Lee Pal Seung to serve a second term
as the government draws a new plan to privatize the company.  The committee called on Lee as chairman and chief executive
officer based on his performance during his last term and
ability to manage the privatization, Oh Jong Nam, head of
Woori’s seven-member chairman selection committee, told
reporters today in Seoul. Lee has been Woori’s chairman since
June 2008, according to the company.  The appointment will help the government resume a plan to
divest its 57 percent stake in Woori after it halted the process
last year due to a lack of investor interest. South Korean
president  Lee Myung Bak  aims to privatize state-run companies to
boost competitiveness.  “The main task for the next Woori chairman will be the
privatization and Lee is the best person for it,” said Chang In Whan, Seoul-based chief executive officer of KTB Asset
Management Co., which manages the equivalent of $6.4 billion in
assets. “Lee will help smooth communication with the government
by staying in the job.”  Lee in 1967 joined Hanil Bank, which collapsed during the
1997 Asian financial crisis and later became part of Woori
through government-led consolidation. His nomination is subject
to approvals by Woori’s board and shareholders at a meeting to
be held next month.  Privatization  Woori shares rose 0.7 percent to 14,750 won at 11:05 a.m.
in  Seoul  trading. That compared with the benchmark Kospi index’s
0.1 percent gain.  South Korea is drawing a new plan to divest state-run Korea
Deposit Insurance Corp.’s $6 billion Woori stake after halting
the process in December when a group led by bank employees
pulled out of the bidding on Dec. 13. The group abandoned plans
to buy control of the company because the government’s asking
price was too high.  The government initially planned to name a preferred bidder
in the first quarter of 2011 for the stake.  Woori was created in 2001 as a holding company for banks
that the government rescued following the Asian financial crisis
in 1997 to 1998 as part of push to make the nation’s financial
industry competitive.  Shinhan Financial Group Co., the country’s biggest
financial company by market value, yesterday nominated Han Dong Woo as new chairman to fill the post after predecessor Ra Eung Chan stepped down in October following a management scandal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  