-- 
Hypo Real Estate Has Pretax Profit in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   J a n n   B e t t i n g a   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-02-15T16:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/hypo-real-estate-posted-pretax-profit-in-fourth-quarter-of-2010.html
Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, the
German commercial-property lender that’s owned by the government
following a bailout during the financial crisis, posted a pretax
profit in the fourth quarter.  “The restructuring of the company over the last two years
is proving its merit,” Chief Executive Officer Manuela Better
said in an e-mailed  statement  today. “All group entities were
profitable in the last quarter” of 2010, she said, without
providing a total figure.  Hypo Real Estate last year completed the transfer of about
173 billion euros ($234 billion) of loans and securities to its
FMS Wertmanagement bad bank. Today’s results come after a
government-appointed commission suggested  Germany  should “very
seriously consider a wind-down” of the lender, according to the
document obtained by Bloomberg.  Hypo Real Estate’s remaining core bank, pbb Deutsche
Pfandbriefbank, probably had a pretax profit of more than 90
million euros in the fourth quarter, the lender said.  “We continue to work towards the reprivatization of pbb
Deutsche Pfandbriefbank with the goal of using the revenue that
reprivatization would produce to repay a further, considerable
part of the state aid,” Better said. The company expects the
core bank to be profitable in 2011, she said.  ‘Overall Loss’  The bank, which plans to publish final full-year and
fourth-quarter results in April, said it “will post an overall
loss for 2010,” adding that “results for the fourth quarter
can only be projected to future quarters to a limited extent.”  Hypo Real Estate needed a total of 10 billion euros in
capital and as much as 142 billion euros in credit lines and
debt guarantees from the state and financial institutions to
save it from collapse after its Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc unit
couldn’t raise financing in 2008 following the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The lender’s restructuring is being reviewed by the
European Union to make sure it didn’t gain an unfair competitive
advantage through the bailout.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Jann Bettinga in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  