-- 
Zaha Hadid Pavilion, Al Jarreau to Boost Abu Dhabi Art Festival

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-02-15T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/zaha-hadid-pavilion-al-jarreau-to-boost-abu-dhabi-s-growing-arts-ambition.html
The  J. S. Bach Chamber  Music Hall , a
mobile concert hall built by Pritzker-prize winner  Zaha Hadid ,
will relocate to Abu Dhabi in March.  The 200-seat fabric-and-steel structure with flowing lines,
commissioned in 2009 by the  Manchester International Festival ,
will host Arab art and music. The  Abu Dhabi Festival , starting
on March 19, will take place in a city that’s using its oil
income to transform into a hub of culture for the 21st century.  “It is such an intimate place to meet, a unique
experience,” Hoda al-Khamis Kanoo, founder of the festival’s
host the  Abu Dhabi Music & Arts Foundation , said in an
interview. “Hadid designed the hall like a beautiful shawl
wrapping everyone with so much warmth, bringing people together
to appreciate music and art.”  Abu Dhabi, with 1 million people, 7 percent of the world’s
oil reserves and one of the largest sovereign wealth funds, is
pumping money into developing tourist attractions to break away
from its dependence on crude-oil exports. The government is
developing a cultural district on  Saadiyat Island , including new
branches of the  Guggenheim  and  Louvre  museums, for an estimated
investment cost of 100 billion dirhams ($27.2 billion).  Tickets are now on sale for the festival, which is in its
eighth year. Its opening night will feature the  Orchestre Royal
de Chambre de Wallonie ,  Belgium ’s oldest chamber orchestra, led
by  Augustin Dumay . Soloists will include Lebanese pianist and
composer Abdel Rahman El Bacha.  Jarreau, Ballet  A ballet gala evening will feature  Irina Dvorovenko and
Maxim Belesorkovsy  of the  American Ballet Theater , while seven-
time Grammy award winning singer Al Jarreau will bring jazz to
the festival.  Russian-born pianist  Yefim Bronfman  will be accompanied by
the Russian National Orchestra for a “Bronfman and Brahms”
concert, and the orchestra will accompany baritone Dmitri Hvorostovsky and soprano  Ekaterina Siurina  for a night of
operatic pieces written by Mozart, Rossini, Verdi and Puccini.  The spirit of artistic collaboration has overcome the
competition between  Abu Dhabi  and its neighbor Dubai. The
festival will start after, rather than during, next month’s
contemporary art fair  Art Dubai , whose own program has expanded
regionally this year to include events in Doha,  Qatar , and the
 Sharjah Biennial .  Hadid’s pavilion will be located on the Emirates Palace
Lawns and host events under the banner of “Arab Creativity in
the Architecture of the Future.”  Tickets start at 225 dirhams for early bookers, rising to
as much as 495 dirhams. This year’s proceeds will go to the
Ewa’a Shelter for Women and Children, the “A Child A Promise”
Foundation, and the Abu Dhabi Music and Arts Foundation.  “Money isn’t an obstacle,” Kanoo said. “It could be an
obstacle elsewhere, but not here.”  The Abu Dhabi Festival runs from March 19 through April 4.
Information:  http://www.abudhabifestival.ae   To contact the reporter on the story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net 
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 