-- 
ZTE to Bid Again for U.S. Contracts After Sprint Halt, CFO Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   E d m o n d   L o c o c o
-- 
2011-02-15T18:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/zte-to-bid-again-for-u-s-contracts-after-sprint-halt-cfo-says.html
  ZTE Corp ., China’s second-biggest
maker of phone-network equipment, will renew attempts to bid for
U.S. contracts after it said opposition from the government
foiled the signing of a previous deal with  Sprint Nextel Corp .  “The U.S. government has a broadband agenda and we want to
make a contribution to this agenda,” ZTE Chief Financial
Officer Wei Zaisheng said in an Feb. 14 interview at the Mobile
World Congress in Barcelona. “We hope to help further
development of Sprint.”  In October, U.S. lawmakers asked the Federal Communications
Commission to review the security risks of domestic companies
such as Sprint Nextel using equipment from ZTE and Huawei
Technologies Co. Sprint ultimately ordered gear from other
suppliers.  ZTE, based in Shenzhen,  China , makes mobile phones, data
cards and infrastructure for wireless networks. It has boosted
revenue in many markets by offering advanced technologies at low
prices. To tap into the growth opportunities in the U.S., the
company has invested in fourth-generation wireless technology
equipment.  At the time, Sprint was “very satisfied” with the
contract, which was the best in terms of technology and
financing, Wei said.  Sprint’s network chief Bob Azzi told reporters yesterday in
Barcelona that the carrier chose its vendors and wasn’t
influenced by any government intervention.  The U.S. has less confidence in Chinese network vendors,
Wei said. The government “is also protecting local vendors but
it’s only in their short-term interests,” he said. “We still
have contracts with them on the handset side.”  Surging Sales  ZTE has used the rising popularity of smartphones running  Google Inc .’s Android operating system to expand sales of
handsets in the U.S. and Europe. Europe was the country’s
fastest-growing market last year as revenue jumped 150 percent,
ZTE said last month. The company also doubled sales in the U.S.
last year.  The company has 3 percent market share in handsets in
western Europe, Wei said. “We hope to have this percentage in
America or even exceed this.”  Sales of mobile phones, tablet computers and wireless data
cards are projected to jump 33 percent to 120 million units this
year, ZTE, based in the southern city of Shenzhen, said last
month. Sales of those products worldwide jumped almost 50
percent last year to 90 million units, lead by demand in  Europe 
and the U.S., the company said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Barcelona at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  