-- H&R Block Profit Misses Estimates Amid Tax-Filing Delays
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   E r i k a   W a d d e l l
-- 2013-06-13T13:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/h-r-block-profit-misses-estimates-amid-tax-filing-delays.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the largest U.S. tax
preparer, fell the most since April after posting a fiscal
fourth-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates amid tax-law changes and filing delays.  H&R Block slipped 3.1 percent to $27.94 at 9:42 a.m. in New
York. Adjusted earnings per share, which exclude some items,
were $2.54, the Kansas City-based company said yesterday in a
statement, missing the $2.61 average  estimate  of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  H&R Block, led by Chief Executive Officer Bill Cobb, 56,
said last year that it would cut about 350 jobs and close
offices as the firm sought to recapture market share lost to
TurboTax maker  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  Internal Revenue Service changes and
new U.S. tax laws led to the filing of fewer returns during the
quarter, the firm said.  “The 2013 U.S. tax season experienced unprecedented
challenges, including significant tax legislation changes that
occurred shortly before the traditional opening of the tax
season,” the company said in the statement.  Net income  from continuing operations for the three months
ended April 30 rose 16 percent to $688.9 million, or $2.51 a
share, from $591.7 million, or $2.01, a year earlier, according
to the statement.  The stock has climbed 50 percent this year, outpacing the
13 percent advance for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Fewer Returns  The shares slid in late April after the company said it
handled fewer returns than expected during the 2013 tax season.
The stock has since recovered as investors expect the U.S.
health-care overhaul and potential changes in immigration policy
to increase the number of people who file tax returns, Mark Palmer, a New York-based analyst at BTIG LLC, wrote in a June 11
report.  Fourth-quarter revenue rose 10 percent to $2.2 billion,
according to the statement. Full-year net income from continuing
operations rose 34 percent to $465 million as expenses fell 5
percent to $2.2 billion, H&R Block said.  “We improved overall profitability, while maintaining our
overall share of the U.S. market,” Cobb said in the statement.  Total U.S. returns prepared by H&R Block fell 0.7 percent
to 22.2 million in the fiscal year ended April 30, the company
said. Returns filed online and with the firm’s desktop software
climbed 3.1 percent to 7.67 million.  ‘Strong Interest’  H&R Block said last year that it hired New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help the tax preparer explore
“strategic alternatives” for its bank. Selling the unit may
free up as much as $400 million of capital that may be used to
buy back stock, Palmer said.  The company said yesterday in a  presentation  that there’s
been “strong interest” in the bank and it’s looking for a
partner that will let it keep increasing its financial-services
businesses.  H&R Block, which had offices inside Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
locations, said yesterday that it ended its partnership with the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer. The agreement with Wal-Mart was set to expire last month, according to a regulatory
filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Erika Waddell in New York at 
 ewaddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  