-- AbbVie Says It Can Be First With New Hepatitis C Drugs
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-13T20:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/abbvie-says-it-can-be-first-with-new-hepatitis-c-drugs.html
AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  said it can win the race
against  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  to bring to market a new generation
of all-oral hepatitis C drugs.  AbbVie’s trial for an unnamed multidrug therapy is in the
last of three stages typically required for U.S. approval and is
moving quickly, Scott Brun, the company’s head of  drug
development , told  investors  today at a conference in  New York .
Gilead is seeking to bring its own multidrug regimen with its
therapies sofosbuvir and ledipasvir to market next year.  “We’ve got a very good shot at being first,” Brun said at
the conference hosted by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “It is a very
tight race.”  Multidrug regimens by AbbVie, Gilead and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  will offer hepatitis C patients more tolerable
options that do away with weekly shots of interferon, a current
standard of treatment that causes flu-like side effects. Gilead
estimated in May that 150,000 patients may seek treatment in the
U.S. once the new class of all-oral drugs is on the market,
compared with 85,000 patients taking therapies last year.  “The idea is Gilead will be first, AbbVie will be on
roughly the same timeline, Bristol-Myers will be somewhere after
that,” said Marshall Gordon, a New York-based analyst with Legg
Mason Inc.’s ClearBridge Investments affiliate.  With Gilead’s and AbbVie’s drugs possibly coming onto the
market about the same time, their success may depend on what
their effectiveness looks like in the final phase of trials, and
how they’re priced.  “We don’t know where the efficacy is ultimately going to
fall out,” Brun said on the two companies’ drugs.  Market Potential  Hepatitis C attacks the liver and can lead to  liver cancer .
The virus affects about 150 million people worldwide and the
market for new pills is estimated at $20 billion. Gilead’s drug
is projected to have annual sales of $6.03 billion by 2016,
according to an average of 10  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  AbbVie, spun off from Abbott Laboratories, has risen 26
percent since the shares began trading on the open market in
January. The stock rose less than 1 percent today to close at
$43.15 in New York. Gilead, the world’s largest maker of HIV
medicines, increased 1.5 percent to $51.95.  “AbbVie is not getting nearly the credit that Gilead is,”
ClearBridge’s Gordon said in a telephone interview. “It’s funny
to me that it’s a foregone conclusion that Gilead has dominated
the market.”  Phase II  In a Phase II trial, Gilead’s all-oral hepatitis C
treatments sofosbuvir and ledipasvir cured 95 percent of
patients after eight weeks of the therapy. The  Foster City ,
California-based company is moving the drugs into a third of
three stages of clinical trials. The treatment may be sold as a
single pill taken once a day.  AbbVie’s treatment will require three pills in the morning
and one at night, according to Brun. In a Phase II trial with
the drugs, 90 percent of patients who completed the eight-week
regimen had the virus cleared from their body.  “To be fair, Gilead’s drug looks better, but not that much
better,” Gordon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  