-- Madoff Evoked in New Zealand With $317 Million Ponzi Loss
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-13T02:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/madoff-evoked-in-n-z-as-ponzi-scheme-loses-317-million.html
New Zealand charged a 63-year-old
financial adviser with running the biggest Ponzi scheme ever
alleged in the South Pacific nation.  The  Serious Fraud Office  and Financial Markets Authority
allege  David Ross  defrauded investors of about NZ$400 million
($317 million) through his closely-held Ross Asset Management
Ltd., which collapsed in November last year. He will face four
charges of false accounting and one of theft in the Wellington
District Court, the agencies said in a joint statement today.  “It’s yet to be seen if he’s New Zealand’s  Bernie Madoff ,
but the amounts were high by New Zealand standards and hurt a
lot of people,” said Wellington barrister  Kevin Sullivan .  Bernard Madoff , 75, is serving a 150-year sentence in the
U.S. for what prosecutors said was the biggest Ponzi scheme in
U.S. history after his victims lost $17 billion. Ross, who is
accused of overstating investment positions by more than NZ$380
million, didn’t enter a plea today and is due to appear in court
again on July 4, his barrister Gary Turkington said.  Ross “conducted a Ponzi scheme which he disguised by
falsely reporting clients’ investments,” according to the
statement. “Large portions of client portfolios shown as
invested through a broker” were “fictitious and never
existed.”  Initial inquiries by receivers showed investments of only
NZ$10.2 million actually existed, the agencies said. The alleged
Ponzi scheme is the biggest ever in  New Zealand , the SFO said.  Ross has no comment at this stage, Turkington said.  Investigations Hampered  Receivers PricewaterhouseCoopers said in November that Ross
Asset Management owed clients about NZ$450 million.
Investigations were hampered because many of the investment
decisions were made by sole director Ross, who was hospitalized
at the time and unable to assist, they said.  About 45 New Zealand finance companies failed between 2006
and 2011, according to the report of a parliament inquiry
published in October 2011. The failures -- either receiverships
or debt moratoriums agreed with investors -- put at risk NZ$6
billion of deposits and affected at least 150,000 people, the
report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  