-- Malaysia to Tap $317 Billion Savings Pool for Mid-Cap Stocks
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-06-13T06:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/malaysia-to-tap-317-billion-savings-pool-for-mid-cap-stocks.html
Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak
said he wants government-linked investment companies, including
the Employees Provident Fund, to play a more prominent role
investing in good-quality local mid-sized stocks.  The Southeast Asian nation possesses a collective savings
pool in excess of 1 trillion ringgit ($317 billion) which can be
potentially tapped to help mobilize capital, the prime minister
said a speech in  Kuala Lumpur  today. The EPF, which reports to
Najib as finance minister, oversees $176 billion and was ranked
the world’s sixth-largest state pension fund by asset size by
Towers Watson & Co. in August.  “By setting a specific objective to increase the velocity
of shares traded, they can make a significant contribution to
overall market vibrancy,” said Najib. “Their participation
will provide another avenue for companies to access primary and
secondary funding to bring their businesses to the next stage of
development.”  His comments come three years after Najib urged state
agencies to scale back domestic business holdings to help boost
market liquidity and allow breathing space for other investors.
EPF has since raised its overseas interests, while state
investment company Khazanah Nasional Bhd. has cut stakes in
listed Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd. and Tenaga Nasional Bhd.
and listed hospitals operator  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH)   “We are already investing about 20 percent in mid-cap
shares,” Shahril Ridza Ridzuan, EPF’s chief executive officer,
told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. “We might increase the
percentage if the companies are good.”  Entry Visas  About 15.7 percent of EPF’s assets at end of 2012 were in
overseas investments, the pension fund said in a Feb. 17
statement. The fund’s biggest mid-cap holdings currently include
cement producer Lafarge Malaysia Bhd., palm oil producer United
Plantations Bhd. and vehicle assembler Oriental Holdings Bhd.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 30-member FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index fell 1.1
percent today. The benchmark has climbed 3.9 percent this year,
underperforming regional peers in  Indonesia  and the  Philippines 
which have both risen more than 7 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The broader FTSE Bursa Malaysia Top 100
Index has gained 6 percent this year.  To help lure foreigners, multiple-entry visas for as long
as five years will be granted to qualifying business investors
and fund managers, Najib said. The prime minister also announced
a plan to groom 1,000 graduates for the securities and
derivatives industry which he said will kick off within weeks.  Last year, Najib announced an initiative to develop a forum
for the trading of unlisted securities and alternative
investment products. The virtual platform, known as myULM, will
be rolled out in 2014, the premier said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  