-- Manchester Airport and EasyJet Agree to Boost Stansted Traffic
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-06-13T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/manchester-airport-and-easyjet-agree-to-boost-stansted-traffic.html
Manchester Airports Group, owner of
 London  Stansted Airport, has signed an agreement with  EasyJet
Plc (EZJ)  aimed at more than doubling the discount carrier’s traffic
from the busiest airfield outside the capital city.  The accord will boost EasyJet’s Stansted traffic to 6
million passengers over the next five years, from 2.8 million
today, Manchester Airports said in a statement.  Europe ’s No. 2
low-cost carrier currently operates eight aircraft on almost 30
routes from the facility, located about an hour north of London.  The deal comes three months after MAG agreed to buy
Stansted for 1.5 billion pounds ($2.35 billion) in cash. The
airport, which lies about an hour north of London, attracted 18
million people in 2011 and specializes in low-cost services,
with  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  as its No. 1 operator. Designed by
U.K. architect  Norman Foster , it ranks as London’s third-busiest
airport behind Heathrow, Europe’s most frequented, and Gatwick
south of the capital.  “We’re working hard with existing and prospective airlines
to drive passenger growth at Stansted,” Manchester Airport
Chief Executive Officer Charlie Cornish said in the release.
“We strongly believe that London Stansted has a key role to
play in any debate on South East capacity.”  A government-appointed  task force  led by  Howard Davies , a
former U.K. Financial Services Authority chief, is considering
options to expand the U.K.’s airport capacity. The task force is
scheduled to publish an interim report next year, recommending
short-term options, and a final report by mid-2015, after the
next parliamentary election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  