-- Apple’s Eddy Cue Says He Didn’t Know of Publisher Talks
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-13T19:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/apple-s-eddy-cue-says-he-didn-t-know-of-publisher-talks.html
Eddy Cue, the Apple Inc. executive
the government claims was the “chief ringleader” of a scheme
to fix e-book prices, said he was unaware that publishing chief
executive officers were talking with one another during six
weeks of intense negotiations with Apple.  Cue, 48, took the stand today in the  Justice Department ’s
civil antitrust case against Cupertino, California-based Apple,
which is on trial in federal court in  Manhattan . Cue testified
that he didn’t know about any of the e-mails and more than 100
phone calls involving the CEOs of five of the biggest U.S. book
publishers in late 2009 and early 2010.  Cue said he “struggled and fought” with the publishers,
in individual talks before the introduction of the iPad, to get
them to sign contracts to sell e-books on Apple’s iBookstore.
Cue testified it’s his opinion the CEOs weren’t coordinating
over their negotiations with Apple.  “If they were talking to one another, I would assume I
would have had a much easier time getting those deals done,”
Cue testified.  The government claims Cue led a conspiracy by the
publishers to raise prices and pressure  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the
biggest e-book seller, to abandon its practice of selling
electronic versions of best-selling books for $9.99, at a loss.  Apple CEO  Apple denies it conspired to fix prices and is fighting the
case, which U.S. District Judge Denise Cote will decide without
a jury. Apple CEO  Tim Cook , at an industry conference last
month, called the Department of Justice’s case “bizarre.”  Justice Department lawyer Lawrence Buterman questioned Cue,
trying to show that Apple took advantage of the publishers’
dislike of Amazon’s $9.99 e-book pricing to get them to raise
prices across the industry.  The government claims Apple got the publishers to force
Amazon and other e-book retailers to switch from a wholesale
pricing model, under which the retailers set prices, to a
“agency” pricing, which allowed the publishers to set the
prices.  Apple’s contracts with the publishers gave Apple 30 percent
of the retail price. A so-called “most-favored nation,” or
MFN, clause in the contract allowed it to match low prices set
by other e-book sellers.  24 Years  Cue, an Apple employee for 24 years, testified that he
reported on the talks with publishers to  Steve Jobs , the
company’s cofounder who died in 2011.  Five publishers signed agency contracts with Apple:
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit,  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and News Corp.’s HarperCollins. All
five settled with the government, avoiding trial.  A sixth publisher, Random House Inc., didn’t sign an agency
agreement with Apple and isn’t involved in the U.S. suit.  Buterman today asked Cue about a Jan. 14, 2010, e-mail in
which Cue presented Jobs with a set of proposed price tiers for
e-books.  “I can live with this, as long as they move Amazon to the
agent model too for new releases for the first year,” Jobs
wrote in a draft response. “If they don’t, I’m not sure we can
be competitive ...”  Cue testified that he explained to Jobs that the MFN clause
meant that Apple could match Amazon prices even if it didn’t
switch to agency pricing.  The case is U.S. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  