-- Marathon Taps Formula 1 Fan From Exxon to Follow Cazalot
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-06-13T20:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/marathon-oil-names-exxon-executive-lee-tillman-as-next-ceo.html
Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , the U.S. oil
producer that has been expanding exploration from Ethiopia to
Texas, picked as its next chief executive officer the  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  engineer who helped oversee the global portfolio of
the world’s largest energy company.  Lee M. Tillman, 51, formerly Exxon’s vice president of
engineering, will succeed Clarence Cazalot as Marathon’s CEO and
president on Aug. 1, the Houston-based company said in a
statement today. Cazalot, who has been CEO of the company since
it was formed in 2002, is ending a 41-year career in the energy
industry with his Dec. 31 retirement.  Tillman will need to adjust to operating at a smaller
company with fewer resources than Exxon,  Fadel Gheit , a New
York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in a telephone
interview today. His appointment was a surprise because Tillman
doesn’t come from a company with Marathon’s narrow focus on
exploration and production, Gheit said.  “If he can adapt very quickly, I’m sure he will be a
tremendous success,” Gheit said. “Let’s not forget that this
guy has an incredible background and is obviously very
qualified.”  Tillman joined Exxon in 1989 after studying chemical
engineering at Texas A&M University and Auburn University. His
international assignments included postings in Scotland,
Indonesia and  Equatorial Guinea . The Texas native said in a 2012
interview with Dice Holdings Inc.’s Rigzone website that he had
a “passion for cars” and that if he hadn’t become an engineer
he would have been a Formula 1 race car driver.  Cazalot’s Legacy  Lee Warren , a Marathon spokeswoman, said neither Cazalot
nor Tillman were available for interviews today.  Marathon rose 2.9 percent to $34.37 at the close in New
York and was the best-performing oil producer in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Energy Index. The stock has increased 12 percent this
year.  Cazalot, 62, led Marathon through its split from what
became  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  in 2002 and the consolidation of the
company’s fuel-making business through the acquisition of
 Ashland Inc. (ASH) ’s stake in a joint venture three years later. In
2011, Cazalot reversed course and shed the refining unit after
saying the effort to mimic the so-called integrated model of
larger oil producers such as Exxon had failed.  During Cazalot’s tenure, Marathon achieved average annual
gains of 29 percent, outperforming Exxon’s 17 percent increases
and Chevron Corp.’s 16 percent advances, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Marathon’s lead director, Dennis H. Reilley, will become
chairman of the board upon Cazalot’s departure, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  