-- Argentina’s Ex-President Menem Sentenced to 7 Years of Prison
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-13T20:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/argentina-s-ex-president-menem-sentenced-to-7-years-of-prison.html
An Argentine court sentenced former
President Carlos Menem to seven years in prison for smuggling
weapons to Croatia during the Yugoslav civil war of the 1990s,
and to Ecuador.  A federal court in  Buenos Aires  will ask the Senate to lift
the 82-year-old Peronist party supporter’s immunity from 
imprisonment so he can serve out the sentence.  Menem pegged Argentina’s currency to the  U.S. dollar  in
1991, ushering in an almost decade-long boom in foreign
investment. Within three years of his departure from office in
1999, Argentina had defaulted on $95 billion in bonds and
abandoned the peso peg. That didn’t stop Menem being elected to
the Senate for La Rioja province in 2005.  As a Senator, Menem has sided with the government in key
votes. Last year, he voted in favor of the nationalization of
the oil company YPF SA by President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who said that its Spanish owner Repsol SA had failed
to invest sufficiently in the country. Menem had sold the
company during his time in office.  In March, a court found Menem and his former Defense
Minister Oscar Camilion guilty of orchestrating the sale of tons
of weapons to the former  Yugoslavia  and Ecuador, in violation of
international embargoes. The weapons were officially destined
for Panama and Venezuela.  Menem, who was placed under house arrest in 2001 in the
case, has denied any wrongdoing. The ruling can still be
overturned by Argentina’s  Supreme Court , and, given Menem’s age,
it’s unclear whether he would serve out the sentence in jail
should lawmakers vote to lift his immunity.  Argentine troops were part of the United Nations
peacekeeping force in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, and
Buenos Aires was a guarantor of the  peace process  in a border
conflict between Ecuador and Peru.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 