-- Arizona’s Brewer Prevails in Bid Over Expanding Medicaid
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-06-13T23:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/arizona-s-brewer-set-to-prevail-in-bid-to-expand-medicaid.html
Republican Governor  Jan Brewer  of
Arizona scored a hard-fought victory against her party’s
legislative leaders after winning passage of her plan to expand
Medicaid to cover about 300,000 more residents.  The final 18-11 vote today in the state Senate capped five
months of maneuvering after Brewer, 68, shocked the political
establishment by calling for the expansion of the joint federal-state program for the poor -- a foundation of President  Barack Obama ’s signature health-care law that she had opposed. Her
measure cleared the state Legislature with bipartisan support,
leading Brewer to praise Republicans who sided with her.  “Legislators of my own party have come under sharp
criticism in some quarters,” Brewer said in a statement. “Some
have had threats made not just against their political future,
but also their personal livelihood.”  “But I also know this in my heart: The great majority of
Arizonans stand with us,” she said.  An outspoken foe of Obama on immigration policy and other
issues, Brewer joined fellow Republican governors -- including
 New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie ,  Florida ’s  Rick Scott  and  Ohio ’s
 John Kasich  -- to back extending Medicaid to cover residents
with annual incomes of as much as $32,500 for a family of four.
She said her state couldn’t afford not to take the step.  Cost Sharing  Under Obama’s 2010 Affordable Care Act, the U.S. government
covers the cost of the Medicaid expansion until 2022, when the
subsidy drops to 90 percent. Eight states including Arizona were
still considering whether to broaden their Medicaid systems as
of May 30, while 20 others weren’t taking the step, according to
the  Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonprofit health-research organization based in  Menlo Park ,  California .  Arizona ’s Republican leaders met Brewer’s January Medicaid
expansion call with hostility. The party chief in Maricopa
County, which includes Phoenix, compared Brewer to Judas.
Protesters brandishing signs blasting “Obrewercare” heckled
her at rallies. Last month, Brewer vetoed five bills sent to her
by the Senate, saying she would reject all legislation until
lawmakers dealt with the expansion, her top priority.  The Medicaid votes came in a special legislative session
called by Brewer with less than three weeks until the start of
Arizona’s fiscal 2014. The governor ordered the budget session
on June 11 because she was tired of “game playing” by
opponents, spokesman Matthew Benson said.  Her adversaries in the  House of Representatives  protested
by initially refusing to take their seats, sitting instead in
the spectators’ gallery.  Casting Shame  “She wanted Obamacare so badly that she could not wait to
impose high taxes and a huge government program on the people of
Arizona,” said Representative Adam Kwasman, a Republican from
Oro Valley. “Shame on the members of this House and shame on
the governor.”  Republican opponents proposed dozens of hostile amendments
in the House. They spoke against Brewer and her supporters from
their party during an almost 12-hour floor session on 10 budget
bills, including the one that expands Medicaid. The lower
chamber passed the bills earlier today, approving the health
measure by a 33-27 vote.  The governor’s plan will bring about $1.6 billion in
federal money to the state each year, according to her office.
The proposal calls for a tax on hospitals to cover costs tied to
the change.  Key Measure  “We are talking about an issue that means the difference
between having health care and not having health care for
hundreds of thousands of Arizonans,” Benson said. Medicaid
covers about 1.3 million people in the state now.  The move will let the state restore Medicaid to childless
adults living in poverty, who were covered until 2011, when
lawmakers froze enrollment. It also will ease a rising burden on
residents whose insurance rates help pay for the care hospitals
give to the uninsured, Brewer has said.  “This amounts to a hidden tax estimated at nearly $2,000
per family, per year,” the governor said in January.  Passage of the measure “will help prevent our rural and
safety-net hospitals from closing their doors,” Brewer said
today. “And it will boost our economy by creating more than
20,000 jobs at a time when Arizona needs them most.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  