-- Harper Lobbies Europe as Canada Fights Dirty-Oil Label
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-06-14T15:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/harper-lobbies-europe-as-canada-fights-dirty-oil-label.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is appealing to his European peers to stop EU plans to
single out Alberta’s  oil sands  as a source of high-polluting
energy as the country struggles to find new markets for its oil.  Harper will push the issue with French President Francois Hollande today after raising it with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  yesterday. Canadian Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver is also meeting with government and industry officials in
 London  this week.  If  Europe  labels Canadian bitumen as more polluting than
other oil sources, it could affect the economic viability of
proposed pipelines and embolden environmental critics determined
to stop projects such as Calgary-based  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Northern Gateway, Oliver said.  “We don’t want to see our reputation sullied and our
resource singled out for special negative treatment,” Oliver
said in an interview with Bloomberg News. The fuel quality
directive could affect TransCanada’s Energy East proposal, as
well as give ammunition to people opposed to development of the
deposits, he said.  The directive “would be used by those who are opposed to
the development of the oil sands as further propaganda,” Oliver
said by telephone yesterday.  Harper will raise the issue with Hollande when they meet in
Paris today, according to a person familiar with Harper’s plans
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
The issue was already discussed at a lunch attended by Harper
and Cameron, Oliver said.  ‘Fundamentally Flawed’  In a May letter obtained this week by  Bloomberg News ,
Oliver urged European Commissioner for Climate Action Connie Hedegaard to change the EU’s “fundamentally flawed” plan
because it isn’t based on science. The directive would rank
transportation fuels based on how they have been sourced, Oliver
said, with “conventional” crude assigned lower greenhouse gas
intensities than crude from oil sands.  Canada  wants the EU to
revise the rule so it would be based on the actual emissions of
individual grades of crude, rewarding companies that reduce
emissions of their production.  Oliver said in his letter that crude produced by five of
the top exporters to the EU-- Russia ,  Nigeria ,  Iraq ,  Saudi
Arabia , and Angola--have “demonstrably higher” emission levels
than the directive’s standard for conventional oil.  Megan Leslie, spokeswoman for environmental issues for
Canada’s main opposition  New Democratic Party , told reporters
last month the EU proposal was a “perfectly reasonable way to
set regulations.”  Emissions Impact  “Canada’s behavior in this scenario has not been one of
respect for the EU and their own authority to make their own
decisions and it has also been I think to the detriment of our
international relations,” Leslie told reporters last month.  Hedegaard told the European Parliament last month the rule
would put a “true value” on the relative impact on emissions
of different fuels, Bloomberg BNA reported.  The European Commission said in April last year it would
delay a decision on the directive until “early 2013” so it
could examine the economic effect of the measure.  Environmental groups such as 350.org and the  Sierra Club 
have lobbied President  Barack Obama  to reject the Keystone XL
pipeline, which would carry crude from Alberta’s oil sands to
refineries along the  Gulf Coast , saying that oil-sands crude has
a larger climate-change impact.  More Gases  A State Department analysis released in March said that
while oil sands mining releases more of the gases linked by
scientists to global warming, rejecting Keystone XL won’t reduce
the rate of development in the oil sands or the amount of heavy
crude refined in the U.S.  Last year, Obama denied a permit for Keystone XL, citing
concerns it may be a threat to the ecologically sensitive Sand
Hills region in  Nebraska .  Obama said he would decide on a new permit request for the
pipeline this year, Republican North Dakota Senator and Keystone
XL supporter  John Hoeven  said in March, after a meeting with the
president and other Republican lawmakers.  “What is harming Canada is the perception among
environmentalists claiming that oil sands oil is dirty oil,”
said Lawrence Herman, a lawyer at Cassels Brock & Blackwell LLP
in Toronto, who specializes in trade issues. “I fear that
Canada does not have an adequate answer,” Herman said by
telephone June 7.  Energy East  Harper said last year that selling energy outside the U.S.
is a national priority. A glut of oil in the U.S. has helped
depress the price of heavy crude from the oil sands, known as
Western Canada Select. Oil-sands crude has traded at an  average 
discount this year of $22.50 a barrel to the main U.S. grade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canada, which has the world’s third-largest pool of oil
reserves, currently exports less than 2 percent of its oil to
Europe, according to the British Petroleum Statistical Review of
World Energy. TransCanada’s Energy East project, which would
ship oil to Canada’s east coast for export to Europe, could
change that. At that point, “what would be a perhaps
theoretical concern with respect to the European market becomes
a practical one,” Oliver said.  Canadian oil producers “wouldn’t want to rule out the
option of Europe,” said Greg Stringham, vice president of oil
sands and markets for the Calgary-based Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers, in a June 12 phone interview. “We, as an
industry, don’t want to preclude any market because of poor
policy,” Stringham said.  Reducing Emissions  The directive is aimed at reducing the greenhouse gas
emissions from producing and consuming transportation fuels by 6
percent by 2020. In his letter, Oliver recommends the EU appoint
a third party such as the  International Energy Agency  to analyze
the emissions of different types of oil production.  “This is a matter we’ve discussed with European leaders
and will continue to raise,” Harper told reporters in London
June 12. “We don’t have a difficulty with the concept of
evaluating the various qualities of fuels, but this simply has
to be done on an objective, scientific and transparent basis.”  According to Canada’s government, EU  refineries  would have
to reduce their fuels greenhouse gases “intensity” by an
additional 22 percent before they could use oil sands crude if
the directive is passed, making it uncompetitive for them unless
Canadian crude is discounted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  