-- Marubeni, PTT Unit to Consider Building Power Plants in Asia
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-06-13T08:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/marubeni-ptt-unit-to-consider-building-power-plants-in-asia.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002) ,  Japan ’s biggest
investor in electricity outside of utilities, agreed to study
building generation plants in  Southeast Asia  with a unit of
Thailand’s state-owned PTT Plc.  Marubeni and PTT’s Global Power  Synergy Co. (SYNG)  will evaluate
adding power stations in Myanmar, Laos, Vietnam and Thailand,
PTT Chief Financial Officer Surong Bulakul said by phone today.
Tokyo-based Marubeni and Global Power will study each project
separately and decide whether to pursue it jointly, Surong said,
adding that the partnership has no legal commitment.  The agreement was earlier reported by the Nikkei newspaper,
which said the two companies would jointly invest 1 trillion yen
($10.6 billion) to build plants with a total capacity of 5,000
megawatts in the Southeast Asian nations. A Marubeni spokesman
declined to comment, asking not to be identified in line with
company policy.  Marubeni is tapping Southeast Asia, projected to grow 5.9
percent this year by the  International Monetary Fund , as the
general trading house seeks to cut its reliance on Japan and
commodities for earnings. Global Power, which has 1,600
megawatts of capacity, is seeking to boost generation to 6,000
megawatts by 2020.  Separately, Global Power may make an initial public
offering next year, Surong said, without elaborating.  Metals contributed 23 percent of Marubeni’s record 205.7
billion yen profit in the year ended March 31, while about 15
percent came from sales of energy commodities such as crude oil
and natural gas. The Japanese trading house has steadily grown
its investments in  power plants  and water treatment businesses
over the last 10 years. Power projects grew to contribute 14
percent of net income in the last financial year from 1.1 in
2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  