-- Asia Stock Futures Signal Rebound on U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-13T23:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/asia-stock-futures-signal-rebound-on-u-s-economic-data.html
Stock futures in  Japan , Hong Kong
and  Australia  rose, indicating equity gauges in Asia will
rebound from a rout yesterday that erased the regional
benchmark’s gains for the year, on positive U.S. economic data
and bets the Federal Reserve will maintain record-low rates.  American Depositary Receipts of Toyota Motor Corp. gained
3.6 percent from the close in  Tokyo  as the yen fell against the
dollar, boosting the earnings outlook at the world’s largest
carmaker. ADRs of Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., Asia’s biggest
international carrier, added 1.2 percent from the close in Hong
Kong. Those of BHP Billiton Ltd., the No. 1 global miner,
climbed 2.7 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 12,925 in  Chicago  yesterday, up from 12,400
at the close in Osaka. They were bid in the pre-market at 12,970
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index advanced 1.2 percent, and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.4 percent. Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained
1.1 percent.  “There are reasons to be optimistic that further weakness
will be temporary and that the peak is not behind us,” Alex Treves, head of equities Japan for Fidelity Worldwide, which has
about $248 billion under management, said in e-mailed comments.
“The key drivers of the rally remain intact, valuations are
still reasonable and earnings are projected to recover to 2007
highs.”  Futures contracts on the Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index
of mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong added 1.8
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.8 percent in New York
yesterday.  U.S. Economy  Retail sales in the U.S. rose 0.6 percent last month, the
biggest increase in three months, Commerce Department figures
showed yesterday. The median forecast of 83 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg called for a 0.4 percent advance. Data from a
separate report indicated fewer Americans than forecast filed
applications for unemployment benefits last week.  Asia’s biggest equity sell-off in three weeks yesterday
sent gauges in Tokyo and Hong Kong into bear markets, while the
regional and Australian benchmark entered corrections. The
decline cut the seven-month advance on the Topix index to 45
percent, compared with 77 percent at the market’s recent peak on
May 22. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has climbed 7.7 percent over
that period through yesterday, beginning when elections were
announced that stoked optimism Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s policies could weaken the yen and beat deflation.  Bullish Stance  “Assuming that Abenomics has not been defeated, we see no
reason to become bearish on Japanese stocks, and recommend a
bullish stance,” analysts led by Hiromichi Tamura at Nomura
Holdings Inc. wrote in a report yesterday. The brokerage
increased its year-end estimate for the Topix index to 1,500
from 1,350, while boosting the outlook for earnings per share to
82.5 from 75.  Concern central banks around the world may refrain from
adding stimulus erased $2.7 trillion of stock value globally
since May 21. Declines yesterday came after the World Bank cut
its global growth forecast as emerging-market economies led by
China slow.  The Asia-Pacific measure has erased more than $800 billion
since May 20 and traded through yesterday at 12.5 times average
estimated earnings compared with 14.8 for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  and 12.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2
percent, indicating the gauge will extend yesterday’s biggest
gain since January. The measure advanced 1.5 percent. Stocks and
Treasuries extended gains as the Wall Street Journal reported
that the Fed may “push back” on market expectations for higher
borrowing costs. Global stocks have plunged more than 3 percent
from this year’s May 21 peak on speculation the Fed may scale
back record stimulus as the U.S. economy strengthens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  