-- Aussie, Kiwi Tumble Versus Peers as Volatility Triggers Selling
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-06-13T03:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/aussie-kiwi-tumble-versus-peers-as-volatility-triggers-selling.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars slumped against their major peers as market volatility
prompted traders to retreat from higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie resumed a decline against the greenback after
rallying briefly following a report that showed  Australia ’s
unemployment rate was lower than expected in May. New Zealand’s
kiwi dollar tumbled after the nation’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged at a record low. Australian bond
yields rose as Asian stocks fell as investors shifted toward
refuge assets.  “The volatility we’ve seen in markets over the past couple
of weeks has led to an unwind of entrenched positions,” said
 John Horner , a currency strategist in Sydney at Deutsche Bank
AG. “The market has been committed to long Asia positions for a
considerable period of time.” A long position is a bet that an
asset’s price will appreciate.  Australia’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to 94.49 U.S. cents as
of 1:53 p.m. in Sydney after gaining as much as 0.4 percent. It
touched 93.26 on June 12, the lowest since Sept. 14, 2010. The
kiwi slumped 0.9 percent to 79.15 U.S. cents.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell as much as 3
percent, erasing this year’s gains. The yield on Australia’s 10-year government bond declined as much as six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 3.39 percent.  One-month implied volatility for the Aussie was at 14.08
percent, based on currency options, after reaching 14.47 percent
on June 11, the highest since June 5, 2012.  Australia’s currency has tumbled 6.5 percent in the past
month, the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The  New Zealand  dollar
was the second-worst performer with a 5.4 percent slide.  Record Shorts  Futures traders increased bets to a record that the Aussie
will fall against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission from last week
showed. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds 
and other large speculators on a decline in the Aussie compared
with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 58,550 on
June 4, the most bearish in data going back to January 1993.  The Aussie rose briefly after data showed that Australian
employers unexpectedly boosted  payrolls  in May. The number of
people employed rose by 1,100, the statistics bureau said in
Sydney, after rising by a revised 45,000 in April. Last month’s
increase compares with the median estimate of a 10,000 drop in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The  jobless rate  fell to
5.5 percent from a revised 5.6 percent.  Rate Bets  Benchmark central bank rates are 2.75 percent in Australia
and 2.5 percent in New Zealand. Although both are record lows,
they compare with as rates as low as zero in the U.S. and  Japan ,
attracting investor flows into the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets.  Traders are  pricing  in 34 basis points of interest-rate
cuts by the  Reserve Bank  of Australia within 12 months,
according to a Credit Suisse AG index based on swap contracts.
They  see  36 basis points of increases in the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand’s Official Cash Rate.  “We expect to keep the OCR unchanged through the end of
the year,” RBNZ Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a statement in
Wellington today after leaving the benchmark unchanged,
extending a two-year pause. “Despite having fallen over the
past few weeks, the New Zealand dollar remains overvalued.”  “If we see the opportunity to try, for example, to take
the tops off any exchange-rate peak then we may exercise
intervention,” Wheeler said at a briefing after the
announcement.  The currency has declined more than 5 percent against the
greenback since Wheeler first said on May 8 he was intervening
to weaken it. He sold a net NZ$256 million ($203 million) in
April, according to central bank data. In a May 30 speech,
Wheeler said he was prepared to step up his efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  