-- Austrian Central Banker Charged on Syrian Money Bribe
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-06-13T15:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/austrian-central-banker-charged-on-syrian-money-bribe.html
Austrian prosecutors charged nine
people, including the vice-governor at the national bank, with
bribery and money laundering in connection with money-printing
deals in Syria and  Azerbaijan .  Wolfgang Duchatczek, 63, and the unnamed co-defendants paid
14 million euros ($18.6 million), or as much as 20 percent of
order volumes, to win contracts, according to a statement from
Nina Bussek, a spokeswoman for the Vienna prosecutor.  The charges follow an 18-month investigation into
Oesterreichische Banknoten- und Sicherheitsdruck GmbH, the
money-printing press owned by the central bank. Authorities
arrested four people in November 2011 after kickbacks were
discovered. Duchatczek headed the unit’s supervisory board.  “The defendants face a 10 year prison term,” Bussek said
in the statement. Eighty interviews were conducted over the
course of the investigation, she said.  Duchatczek’s lawyer, Gabriel Lansky, said via telephone
that his client isn’t guilty. Duchatczek said he wouldn’t
comment before having the opportunity to study the indictment,
when reached on his mobile phone. His term at the central bank
ends next month.  The Austrian central bank’s money-printing arm, which has
produced banknotes since 1816, also designs and prints notes for
African, Asian and Latin American countries. It sells engravers
used to produce printing plates for banknotes and technologies
to identify forgeries. Robert Kalina, the currency designer who
created the euro area’s bills, worked at the company.  The central bank’s general council will hold an
extraordinary meeting on June 18 to discuss the matter,
according to a statement from the Vienna-based institution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  