-- Australia Adds Workers in May as Rate-Cut Bet Deferred: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-13T06:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/australian-employers-unexpectedly-add-staff-in-may-aussie-gains.html
Australia unexpectedly boosted
payrolls in May and unemployment declined as the job market
withstood a weaker domestic outlook, prompting traders to push
back interest-rate cut bets.  The number of people employed rose by 1,100, the statistics
bureau said in Sydney, after rising a revised 45,000 in April.
May’s increase compares with the median estimate for a 10,000
drop in a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists. The  jobless rate 
fell to 5.5 percent from a revised 5.6 percent.  The data underscore the resilience of the world’s 12th-largest economy, which has been driven by investment in
resources to meet Chinese demand.  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut rates by 2 percentage points in the
past 20 months, including a quarter-point reduction in May to a
record-low 2.75 percent, as he seeks to revive industries
outside mining, where investment is predicted to peak this year.  The “jobs data was undeniably better than feared,” said
Scott Haslem, Sydney-based chief economist for Australia at UBS
AG, who also noted a swing to part-time over full-time jobs that
indicates underlying weakness. The  unemployment rate  “is no
smoking gun for the RBA in July and we keep our 25 basis point
call for a cut in August.”  The Australian dollar traded at 94.60 U.S. cents at 4:06
p.m. in Sydney, compared with 94.42 before the data’s release.
Traders are pricing in a 37 percent chance the central bank will
next month lower rates by a quarter-point to a new record low
2.5 percent, down from 47 percent before the report.  Unemployment Trend  The number of  full-time jobs  declined by 5,300 in May, and
part-time employment rose by 6,400, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the  labor force  in
proportion to the population, dropped to 65.2 percent in May
from 65.3 percent a month earlier, it showed.  “We’ve come down a tick this month, but broadly we suspect
the trend is toward a higher unemployment rate,” said  Michael
Turner , a debt strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Sydney.  Industry has been squeezed by a currency that held above $1
from mid-June last year to May 10, the longest stretch above
parity with the  U.S. dollar  since the Aussie was freely floated
in 1983, boosted by resource investment in the nation’s north
and west.  Australia’s industrial heartland of Victoria added 11,400
workers, while Queensland employment rose 2,400, the data show.  Equity Rout  In  Asia , equities dropped today, with the region’s
benchmark index headed toward a correction, and the yen rose to
the strongest in two months against the dollar after the  World
Bank  cut its global growth forecast amid concern central banks
may pare monetary stimulus.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index tumbled 2.6 percent, erasing
this year’s gains. The yen gained at least 1.4 percent against
its 16 major peers, reaching 93.95 per dollar, the strongest
since April. The global economy will expand 2.2 percent in 2013,
the World Bank said yesterday, paring a January forecast of 2.4
percent.  New Zealand  and South Korea held rates today, while
 Indonesia  unexpectedly raised its  reference rate  to 6 percent
from 5.75 percent.  New Zealand central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said his
currency “remains overvalued and continues to be a headwind”
for industries that compete with imports. Wheeler cut his growth
forecast for the year through March 2014 to 3 percent from 3.3
percent and reiterated that he will seek to intervene in the
foreign-exchange market where appropriate.  Jobless Claims  In Europe, Ireland,  Poland  and  Russia  are scheduled to
report inflation data. In the U.S.,  weekly jobless claims  were
probably unchanged at 346,000 for the week ending June 8,
economists forecast ahead of a report due today.  In Australia, hiring has been spurred by energy companies
from Chevron Corp. to ConocoPhillips that are building seven
liquefied natural gas projects in Australia at a cost of almost
$200 billion. BG Group Plc, Santos Ltd. and a ConocoPhillips and
Origin Energy Ltd. venture are developing three of them on
Queensland state’s  Curtis Island .  More than 7,000 people are working on Santos’s $18.5
billion Gladstone LNG project in Queensland, Chief Executive
Officer David Knox said in a May 9 speech. BG Group’s Australian
unit said in a May 24 statement it has been hiring more than 15
people a day for six months and 11,600 people are working with
the company and its major contractors.  Stevens said in a June 4 statement after keeping the key
rate unchanged that the RBA still has room to cut and judged
that the nation’s exchange rate remains high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  