-- Warner Is Lucky to Escape Ashes Ban, Cricket Australia CEO Says
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-14T03:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/australia-s-david-warner-is-suspended-until-first-ashes-test.html
Australian cricket’s top executive
said batsman David Warner is “very lucky” to be available to
start the Ashes series, though his suspension for punching an
opponent in a bar will make it hard for him to be selected.  Cricket Australia Chief Executive Officer James Sutherland
said Warner’s actions in hitting  England  batsman Joe Root last
weekend were “despicable” and that he’s fortunate his ban up
until the July 10 Ashes opener was not more severe.  “It could have been a lot worse, as it stands he is lucky
to be available for selection,” Sutherland said today at a
televised news conference in Brisbane. “Cricket people know
it’s going to be very, very hard for David Warner to get
selected for the first Test match. He can’t play cricket until
the first Test match starts.”  Opening batsman Warner, 26, was last night suspended for
the remainder of Australia’s ICC Champions Trophy campaign as
well as the team’s two Ashes warm-up matches after pleading
guilty to a charge of “unbecoming behavior” at a disciplinary
hearing. He also was fined A$11,500 ($11,000).  Warner, who was last month fined A$5,750 for posting
abusive comments on Twitter, had been reported for breaching
Cricket  Australia ’s behavior code for an altercation that
followed the June 8 Champions Trophy match between England and
Australia in Birmingham.  The England and Wales Cricket Board said the “unprovoked
physical attack” occurred in the early hours of June 9 after
the tournament host’s 48-run win over Australia in the same
city.  ‘Extremely Remorseful’  While the ECB didn’t identify the player involved, England
captain Alastair Cook later confirmed it was Root and that the
batsman hadn’t suffered any injury. Newspapers including the
Daily Telegraph said Warner threw a punch that partially landed
after the pair got into an argument over Root wearing a fancy-dress wig.  At a news conference in  London  yesterday, Warner said he
had apologized to Root and was “extremely remorseful” for his
actions. Warner said he’d had a few drinks at the bar, though
rejected suggestions that he had an alcohol problem.  Sutherland said players who were with Warner at the time of
the incident were also accountable.  “There’s not a lot of good that happens at 2.30 in the
morning in a pub or a nightclub,” Sutherland said. “I believe
that the team as a whole, and the people who were around him at
the time, also need to take responsibility for what happened.”  Warner, who’s averaged 39.46 in 19 Test matches for
Australia, was previously found guilty of unbecoming behavior at
a May 22 disciplinary hearing after posting abusive messages to
journalists, some containing obscene language, on Twitter.  Watching Closely  “I hope this is a turning point for him,” Sutherland said
today. “What really counts is his actions in the future, and
we’re watching those very closely.”  In March, Australia stood down vice-captain Shane Watson
and three other players for the third Test against  India  after
they failed to provide feedback requested by coach Mickey Arthur
following back-to-back defeats. Australia went on to lose the
series 4-0.  Former Australia wicketkeeper Adam Gilchrist, who played 96
Tests, said that the latest incident involving Warner may
reflect a cultural problem within the team.  “It hints that there is something culturally, something
awry within the team and just that discipline that is required,
particularly in the middle of an international tournament,”
Gilchrist told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. “There is a
bit for them to work on and I’m sure they are trying to work
through that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  