-- Lawsky Call on Captive Insurers Questioned by NAIC
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-13T16:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/lawsky-call-on-captive-insurers-questioned-by-naic.html
Jim Donelon, the president of the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners, questioned the
need for a countrywide halt on approvals of captive insurance
deals one day after New York’s regulator said the transactions
hide risk.  “Frankly, at this point in time, I don’t see an obvious
need for such a moratorium,” Donelon said today on a conference
call held by the NAIC.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the largest
U.S. life insurers, are among companies that use subsidiaries
known as captives to transfer risk and increase financial
flexibility.  Benjamin Lawsky , the superintendent of New York’s
Department of Financial Services, said in a  report  yesterday
that other states are allowing captives to use riskier
collateral in a “regulatory race to the bottom.”  “The fact that certain insurers are inappropriately using
shell games to hide risk and loosen reserve requirements is
greatly troubling,” Lawsky said in the report. “Shadow
insurance allows companies to divert reserves for other
purposes besides paying policyholder claims.”  Donelon said NAIC members already have a group reviewing
captives and that state regulators support improved transparency
on the deals.  “We are doing what we need to do in a thoughtful,
deliberative way,” Donelon said on the call. He said that the
NAIC weighs standards rather than imposing regulations and that
“one of those standards could be to implement what I consider a
knee-jerk position of issuance of moratorium before the house is
on fire.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  