-- MLB Will Open 2014 Season in Sydney With Dodgers-Arizona
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-13T03:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/mlb-will-open-2014-season-in-sydney-with-dodgers-arizona-series.html
The 2014  Major League Baseball 
season will open in Australia with a two-game series between the
 Los Angeles Dodgers  and  Arizona  Diamondbacks.  The teams will play at the Sydney Cricket Ground on March
22 and 23 in the first MLB regular-season games to be played in
Australia, Barry O’Farrell, premier of New South Wales state,
said today at a televised news conference in Sydney.  MLB previously has held season openers overseas to spread
its brand internationally. The Colorado Rockies and San Diego
Padres began the 1999 season in Mexico, while four season
openers have been staged in Japan, most recently last year when
the Oakland Athletics and  Seattle Mariners  met in Tokyo. Puerto
Rico hosted the 2001 season opener.  “The globalization of our game continues to be paramount
to Major League Baseball, and Australia is an essential part of
our long-term efforts to grow the sport,” MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  said in a statement. “We look forward to writing an
exciting new chapter in international baseball history at the
historic Sydney Cricket Ground next March.”  The series will take place 100 years after the  Chicago
White Sox  and  New York  Giants played an exhibition game at the
SCG. It will take about 10 days to transform the ground, which
has hosted elite international cricket matches since 1882, into
an MLB-standard field with the construction of a dirt infield
area, pitcher’s mound, dugouts and bullpens.  Economic Impact  “We are well aware of the playing field requirements laid
down by MLB,” Jamie Barkley, chief executive officer of the SCG
Trust that operates the venue, said in a statement. “We look
forward to showcasing the SCG.”  The New South Wales state government’s tourism and events
authority estimates the series will bring 10,000 visitors to
Sydney and generate more than A$13 million ($12.2 million) in
economic investment, O’Farrell said. ESPN will broadcast the
games to an estimated global television audience of 168 million
households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  