-- Bank of Korea Holds Rate After Cut in May to Fight Yen Fall
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-06-13T01:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/bank-of-korea-holds-rate-after-cut-in-may-to-fight-yen-s-decline.html
The  Bank of Korea  left its  interest
rate  unchanged after a surprise cut in May aimed at boosting an
economy hit by a yen drop that gives Japanese companies an edge
over Korean exporters.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
seven-day repurchase rate at 2.5 percent, the central bank said
in a statement in Seoul today. All 15 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  predicted the move.  The central bank faces the task of supporting an economy
burdened with rising household debt and a competitive challenge
from  Japan ’s stimulus policies that have pushed the yen down
about 17 percent against the won since the start of October. A
surprise increase in May exports following the fastest pace of
economic growth in a year in the first quarter pointed to
resilience in  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy.  “Should the growth outlook deteriorate in the second half
of 2013, especially in key export markets, pressures may build
on the central bank to deliver further rate cuts to support
growth,” said Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc. For now, “there is ample liquidity in the
system,” he said.  The Kospi index extended its decline after the decision,
falling 0.6 percent as of 10:23 a.m.  Unemployment, Inflation  The economy grew 0.8 percent in the first quarter from the
previus three months as the government front-loaded spending
after marking its slowest expansion last year since 2009. The
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose to 3.2 percent in May from
3.1 percent in April, government data showed yesterday.
Inflation fell to a 14-year low of 1 percent in May, below the
central bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent.  A reduction in the benchmark interest rate wouldn’t affect
inflation much at this stage, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said
yesterday. “While an interest-rate cut may affect prices in
situations where growth momentum reaches near the potential
growth rate, such won’t be the case under current situation,”
Hyun said at a parliament session.  The high level of  household debt  limits the central bank’s
flexibility to cut interest rates, Jackit Wong, economist at
Natixis Asia Ltd. said last week.  Bank loans to households increased by 2.6 trillion won in
May to 465.1 trillion, close a record set in December, the
central bank said yesterday.  Korea ’s trade showed resilience. Exports increased 3.2
percent in May from a year earlier on strength in smart phone
sales, faster than a 0.4 percent rise in April and against a
consensus forecast for a 0.9 percent fall.  Finance Minister Hyun pledged this week to continue efforts
to support growth in the second half of this year, with
uncertainty increasing due to Japan’s stimulus programs and talk
of an exit from quantitative easing in the U.S. Governor Kim
agreed last week to respond to any side effects from monetary
policies in major economies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  