-- Bank of Canada Says Household Imbalances Will Be Slow to Correct
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-13T14:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/bank-of-canada-says-household-imbalances-will-be-slow-to-correct.html
The Bank of Canada said record
consumer debt loads remain the biggest domestic risk to the
financial system and these imbalances will take time to unwind.  Slower credit growth and tighter mortgage regulations have
curbed the risks that some families have taken on unaffordable
debts, the bank said today in its semi-annual  Financial System
Review  from Ottawa.  “These imbalances, which built up over many years, will
take some time to correct,” the bank’s governing council
members wrote in the report. “While a gradual unwinding of
imbalances is expected, there is a risk of a sharper
correction.”  The report is the first published under Governor Stephen Poloz who took the post June 3 as Mark Carney left to head the
Bank of England. Poloz told lawmakers last week he is concerned
about the risks posed by consumer debts that grew through the
housing boom as banks increased mortgage lending. He also said
the limits of domestic-demand led growth have become clear.  The overall risk level remained “high,”  the bank said,
because of dangers posed by Europe’s financial crisis and weak
global demand, as well as a prolonged period of low interest
rates globally that could lead some investors to take on too
much risk.  The bank’s report has four categories of risk: moderate,
elevated, high and very high. The risks posed by household debt
remained elevated, the report said.  Record Debts  Household debt reached a record 165 percent of disposable
income in the fourth quarter, and Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
tightened mortgage rules last year to avoid what he called signs
of overheated condominium markets in Toronto and  Vancouver .
Statistics Canada will publish first-quarter debt figures later
this month.  The central bank forecast today that the debt to disposable
income ratio will stabilize this year. Other signs of
“constructive evolution” of household imbalances include
slowing  housing starts  and resales since mid-2012, according to
the report.  There are also signs of overbuilding in markets such as
condominiums in Toronto that could trigger “an abrupt
correction in prices,” the Bank of Canada said today.  “The Bank is working closely with other federal
authorities to assess the risks related to household finances
and the housing market,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  