-- Barcelona May Move for Torres, Daily Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-06-13T10:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/barcelona-may-move-for-torres-daily-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Torres Interest  Barcelona will try to tempt  Fernando Torres  to join as a
“super-sub” for the Spanish champion, although the Chelsea
player may look at other options to ready himself for next
year’s  World Cup , the  Daily Mirror  said.  New Chelsea coach  Jose Mourinho  may offer to sell the
player to Napoli, where former Blues and Liverpool manager Rafa Benitez was just hired, the newspaper said.  Barcelona is probably willing to pay about 17 million
pounds ($27 million) for Torres, the Evening Standard said.  Ronaldo Bale Out  Manchester United is pushing a move to bring back Real
Madrid forward Cristiano Ronaldo should the Spanish team sign
Tottenham winger Gareth Bale,  the Sun said.   United is ready to target Ronaldo should Madrid’s 85
million-pound offer for Bale be accepted by Spurs, the newspaper
said. The Red Devils are ready to bid 65 million pounds and
offer either Nani or  Javier Hernandez  to see off competition
from Paris Saint-Germain, the newspaper said.  Liverpool Goalkeepers  Liverpool is ready to bid 8 million pounds for Sunderland
goalkeeper Simon Mignolet, the Daily Mail said.  His present team is holding out for a 10 million-pound
offer but the sides will probably reach a compromise, the
newspaper said. Liverpool’s Pepe Reina is likely to move to
Barcelona, where  Victor Valdes  hasn’t committed to a new
contract, the Mail said.  West Ham Targets  West Ham will attempt to sign Chelsea’s Demba Ba and new
Manchester United winger Wilfried Zaha on loan for next season,
 the Times said.   Ba’s future at Chelsea looks uncertain with Mourinho
looking to bring in other strikers, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  