-- Bernanke’s Tapering Talk Backfires Amid Bond Yield Surge
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-06-13T21:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/bernanke-s-tapering-talk-backfires-amid-bond-yield-surge.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has repeatedly said a reduction in the Fed’s $85
billion in monthly bond purchases wouldn’t mean an end to record
easing. Investors are behaving as if they don’t believe him.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has risen to 2.15
percent, an almost 14-month high, from 1.63 percent on May 2 as
investors bet  the Fed  will begin trimming bond buying. The surge
is undermining Bernanke’s unprecedented effort to hold down
borrowing costs and combat 7.6 percent unemployment.  The Fed chairman needs to persuade markets that tapering
monthly purchases wouldn’t be a prelude to aggressive policy
tightening and ensure rising interest rates don’t choke off the
weak U.S. economic expansion, said Michael Gapen, a former
section chief at the Fed Board’s Division of Monetary Affairs.  “They are playing with fire when they want to talk about
tapering but don’t explain how it fits in with the rest of the
exit strategy clearly,” said Gapen, a senior U.S. economist at
Barclays Plc. “You risk the  premature tightening  that you want
to avoid.”  Bernanke, 59, will have an opportunity to retune the Fed’s
message during a press conference on June 19 after the Federal
Open Market Committee concludes a two-day meeting and releases a
policy statement. The committee also plans to provide forecasts
for economic growth, inflation, unemployment and interest rates.  Bernanke’s comments will follow a rise in the yield on the
U.S. 30-year bond to 3.43 percent on June 11, the highest since
April 2012. The 30-year bond yield declined 0.06 percentage
point to 3.31 percent at 4:42 p.m. New York time.  Main Rate  Investors interpret policy makers’ talk of reduced bond
purchases as a signal the Fed is more likely to increase  its
main interest rate  as soon as next year. They see a 37 percent
chance the Fed will raise the rate to at least 0.5 percent from
zero to 0.25 percent by December 2014, according to prices for
federal funds futures contracts.  That’s an increase from about 20 percent probability two
months ago. It also contrasts with a majority of 14 Fed
officials who forecast in March that the FOMC won’t increase the
federal funds rate until 2015 or later. The Fed has held the
rate banks charge one another for overnight loans near zero
since December 2008.  Bernanke needs to emphasize on June 19 that “policy will
remain quite accommodative” even after any reduction in bond
buying, said Mark Spindel, chief investment officer at Potomac
River Capital, a Washington-based hedge fund with $500 million
under management. The Fed chief needs to make clear that, when
adjusting monetary policy, “there is a difference between the
accelerator and the brake.”  Declined Comment  Michelle Smith, a spokeswoman for the Fed, declined to
comment.  In testimony to the Joint Economic Committee on May 22,
Bernanke said the FOMC “expects a highly accommodative stance
of monetary policy to remain appropriate for a considerable time
after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery
strengthens.”  Bernanke said policy makers want to see “increased
confidence that the labor market is improving and that the
improvement is sustainable.” Nearly 8 million people who have
part-time jobs want to work full-time, he said.  “High rates of unemployment and underemployment are
extraordinarily costly,” he said. “Not only do they impose
hardships on the affected individuals and their families, they
also damage the productive potential of the economy as a whole
by eroding workers’ skills.”  Labor Market  In response to a question from Representative Kevin Brady,
a Texas Republican and the committee chairman, Bernanke said the
FOMC could consider reducing bond purchases within “the next
few meetings” if officials see signs of sustained improvement
in the labor market.  The FOMC is more specific with its criteria for raising the
fed funds rate, saying it will consider such a move when
unemployment falls to 6.5 percent so long as the outlook for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Bernanke said at his most recent press conference on March
20 that the Fed would adjust its monthly bond buying in a
“sensitive way” based on several measures of the labor market,
including payrolls, wages and jobless claims.  Job Openings  Non-farm payrolls since September have increased at a
monthly average of 190,000, pushing down the unemployment rate
to 7.6 percent in May from 8.1 percent in August, a month before
the third round of quantitative easing began. The Labor
Department’s Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey showed that
the number of people hired climbed to 4.43 million in April.
That lags the 5.19 million monthly average of 2007, the final
year of the previous expansion.  Investors can’t be sure whether such data come close to
satisfying the committee’s desire to see substantial job market
gains, said Michael Hanson, senior U.S. economist at Bank of
America Corp. in New York.  The Fed “hasn’t been clear on what it’s going to take,”
Hanson said. Once policy makers begin reducing monthly bond
purchases, “the markets see this as a ball rolling downhill
that’s only going to gain steam.”  William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, cautioned last month that the potency of Fed policy
depends on clearly describing how changes in the outlook will
influence FOMC decisions.  ‘Calibrate’ Policy  “There is some risk that market participants could
overreact even before normalization begins, when the pace of
purchases is adjusted but the level of accommodation is still
increasing month by month,” Dudley said on May 21 in New York.
“Not only could such responses threaten financial stability,
but also they might make it harder to calibrate monetary policy
appropriately to the economic situation.”  The comments by policy makers about a possible reduction in
bond buying don’t necessarily indicate the Fed will provide less
total accommodation. The central bank through its third round of
purchases, known as quantitative easing, has pumped up its
assets to $3.4 trillion.  “Changing the flow of purchases does not necessarily
yield, in the end, a smaller central bank balance sheet,”
Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said in a May 29 speech.
“Even if we were to adjust the rate of monthly purchases, the
ultimate size of the Fed’s balance sheet would depend on the
point of cessation.”  Balance Sheet  Bernanke and his policy making colleagues are commenting on
the potential for tapering bond buying in part because of
“unease over the size of the balance sheet,” said Joseph Gagnon, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  In February, Bernanke told lawmakers that the size of the
balance sheet risks eroding public confidence in the Fed’s
ability to reduce it and may stoke inflation expectations.  At the same time, policy makers’ comments keep
“conflicting with the stimulus that they want to deliver to the
economy,” said Gagnon, a former associate director at the Fed’s
Division of International Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  