-- Blackhawks Top Bruins 4-3 in Triple-Overtime Stanley Cup Opener
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-13T05:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/blackhawks-top-bruins-4-3-in-triple-overtime-stanley-cup-opener.html
Andrew Shaw scored in triple
overtime to give the  Chicago  Blackhawks a 4-3 victory against
the visiting  Boston  Bruins in the opening game of the National
Hockey League’s Stanley Cup finals.  The game, which ended 52 minutes, eight seconds into
overtime, was the fifth-longest Stanley Cup finals game in NHL
history. The longest lasted 55:13 of overtime in 1990 between
the Bruins and the Edmonton Oilers.  “It was a great battle for us,” Shaw said in a televised
interview.  The Blackhawks host Game 2 in the best-of-seven series on
June 15.  Michael Rozsival shot from the right point into a crowd in
front of the net at United Center in Chicago. The puck deflected
off  Dave Bolland  and then Shaw before slipping past Boston
goalie Tuukka Rask at 12:08 of triple overtime.  “He’s a competitor, he does things game in, game out,”
Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville said of Shaw in a news
conference. “The bigger the stage, the bigger the challenge, he
rises to the occasion. He knows where the front of the net is.
He’s relentless.”  Boston’s Milan Lucic scored goals in the first and second
periods before Brandon Saad gave the Blackhawks their first
score 3:08 into the second period.  Patrice Bergeron had a power-play goal in the third as the
Bruins took a 3-1 lead. Bolland scored at the eight-minute mark
and Johnny Oduya tied the game 3-3 four minutes later to force
the overtime.  Nathan Horton, the second-leading scorer for the Bruins,
was injured in the first overtime and left the ice. He didn’t
return for the remainder of the game.  Goalies’ Performances  Corey Crawford stopped 51 shots for the Blackhawks, while
Rask had 59 saves for the Bruins.  Bruins coach Claude Julien, whose team won the Stanley Cup
in 2011, said in a news conference that he didn’t consider the
loss devastating.  “Last time we won the Cup, we lost the first two games to
 Vancouver ; it never stopped us from coming back,” Julien said.
“This certainly won’t. They got a good break on their tying
goal going off one of our skates. That’s the way the game goes.
Some nights you get the break going your way, some nights you
don’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  