-- Blankfein Says Doubt Over Rate Move May Avoid Jarring Market
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-06-13T15:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/blankfein-says-debate-over-rate-outlook-may-avoid-jarring-market.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein said debate about when the
Federal Reserve will raise interest rates may help avoid “a
jarring surprise” to markets.  It’s difficult to adjust rates slowly because markets
anticipate changes in policy and react quickly, Blankfein, 58,
said today at an event hosted by Politico in  Washington . Public
awareness and discussion about what will happen can smooth the
process, he said.  “In order to do that in a way that’s not jarring, it makes
sense to create incremental uncertainty that it’s about to
switch,” he said of the Fed. “The behavior of the official
sector in communicating is consistent with that ambition.”  Speculation that the Fed may slow or cease buying $85
billion a month in U.S. government debt and mortgage-backed
notes has led the 10-year  Treasury yield  to climb to 2.18
percent from 1.63 percent on May 2 and sparked sell-offs of
emerging-market bonds and currencies.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-CEO
Anshu Jain said last week that the market reaction is a
“healthy” response to signals from the Fed that it may
withdraw some of their record stimulus.  ‘Jawboning’ Rates  “Without any privileged knowledge, I think you can see
exactly what they’re doing -- they’re jawboning the possibility
of this intervention coming to an end,” Jain, 50, said at an
investor conference in New York on June 4, referring to a
practice of using speech instead of actions to produce market
moves. “Term rates are now starting to absorb that information
and reflect it in pricing -- no bad thing.”  Investors see a 47 percent chance the Fed will raise the
rate to at least 0.5 percent from zero to 0.25 percent by
December 2014, according to prices for federal funds futures
contracts. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, 59, will have an
opportunity to address those expectations during a press
conference on June 19 after the Federal Open Market Committee
concludes a two-day meeting and releases a policy statement.  Blankfein has said he sees risks of a repeat of 1994, when
a sudden and sharp increase in rates caught many investors off-guard. He said today record amount of debt issuance and
individuals holding a greater portion of their portfolios in
bonds make that a risk.  Price Swings  The recent rise in rates reflect a view that quantitative
easing could end “sooner rather than later,” Blankfein said.
The current Treasury yields are still not at normal levels and
short-term rates are unlikely to average 2.2 percent over the
next 10 years, he said.  “Sentiment has adjusted, expectations have adjusted, and
actually we’ve gotten some lift in rates, which is more toward
normalization, and the world hasn’t come to an end,” Blankfein
said. “So creating these doubts and creating these
uncertainties is actually effective in the long-term goal of
having as much stability as you can while you engineer a
transition.”  Jamie Dimon,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s CEO, said at a panel
discussion in Chengdu,  China , on June 6 that he expects the
prospect of higher interest rates to lead to some price swings.  “We should all hope for a normalization of interest rates
-- that’s a good thing,” Dimon, 57, said at the Fortune Global
Forum. “As we go back to normal, it’s going to be scary, and
it’s going to be kind of volatile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  