-- Chinese Dissident Chen Guangcheng to Leave NYU After Year
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-06-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/blind-chinese-dissident-chen-to-leave-nyu-after-year.html
     June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Chen Guangcheng , a blind Chinese
lawyer and human rights activist, will leave  New York
University , where he is a fellow, after fleeing China last year.  Chen, who arrived at NYU in May 2012 to study law, and his
family will need to find a new place to live,  John Beckman , a
spokesman for NYU, said in an e-mailed statement. NYU has
supplied Chen and his family housing, health care, food and
clothing, Beckman said.  “NYU and Mr. Chen had discussions at the beginning of last
fall that NYU could not support him indefinitely,” Beckman said
in the statement yesterday. “We indicated that beyond this
academic year he would need to make a transition to a more self-supporting life.”  Chen arrived in  New York  after fleeing to the U.S. embassy
in Beijing following a year of house arrest. NYU law professor
Jerome Cohen, a friend and supporter, helped arrange a
fellowship at the university for Chen.  “No political refugee, even  Albert Einstein , has received
better treatment by an American academic institution than that
received by Chen from NYU,” Cohen said in a statement. “I am
grateful to the university administration for its extraordinary
generosity, which could not reasonably be expected to go on
indefinitely.”  He said Chen is in the process of choosing between two
“attractive opportunities.”  Chen didn’t respond to e-mail requests for comment.  Chen’s departure isn’t a result of pressure from the
Chinese government, as reported in a New York Post  article 
yesterday, Beckman said. NYU received permission from the
Chinese government to open a campus in Shanghai, and its first
class begins in September.  “The plain fact is that these are unrelated matters,”
Beckman said in the statement. “In countless hours of
conversations involving the establishment of our  Shanghai 
campus, this matter has never come up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  