-- LBO Loans Jump as Fees Double Average Worth Risk: China Credit
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g
-- 2013-06-13T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/lbo-loans-jump-as-fees-double-average-worth-risk-china-credit.html
Chinese banks extended at least $8.3
billion in loans for acquisitions and leveraged buyouts this
year, seeking to generate new business as a bond-market boom cut
syndicated lending to a four-year low.  Finance companies entering the riskiest part of the loan
market are being rewarded by fees that are more than double
regular corporate loans, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The $1.525 billion loan to acquire display
advertising company Focus Media Holding Ltd., the subject of
 China ’s biggest leveraged buyout, pays a top level all-in rate
of 619 basis points versus a 249 basis-point average for U.S.
dollar-denominated loans signed in the region since Dec. 31.  Chinese companies were involved in 25 percent of the
mergers and acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific outside of Japan
this year, with deals valued at $110.7 billion, Bloomberg-compiled data show. Banks in the world’s second-biggest economy
are keen to expand their lending relationships with companies to
increase their chances of being selected to help manage initial
share sales and other potentially lucrative investment banking
transactions.  “Leveraged loans offer decent returns to compensate for
their higher risks and more complex structure,” said Stephen
Ching, the general manager of structured finance and syndication
at China Citic Bank International Ltd., a unit of the nation’s
largest state-owned investment firm. “They’re attractive for
lenders especially given the slowdown in corporate loan deal
flow.”  Volume Slump  Average interest margins for U.S. dollar-denominated loans
signed in the region since Dec. 31 have dropped 58 basis points
from 12 months ago to a two-year low of 251 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate, Bloomberg data show.
About 65 percent of loans signed in the past year have been to
either refinance debt, replenish capital or for general
corporate purposes, the data show.  Loan volumes have slumped as companies turned to the
region’s bond markets for their financing needs. Dollar
corporate yields in  Asia  touched a record low 3.77 percent on
May 9, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data going back to 1997
show.  Bond sales in Asia outside  Japan  surged to a record $358
billion this year, 10 percent higher than the same period of
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China National
Petroleum Corp., the country’s largest oil producer, led
issuance, selling $14.9 billion of notes, followed by China
State Grid Corp., Bank of Beijing Co. and six other borrowers
from China.  Resilient Pricing  Syndicated lending totals $123.3 billion since Dec. 31,
down from $142.5 billion the same period of 2012 and the worst
start to a year since 2009 when $80.6 billion of transactions
were inked, Bloomberg-compiled data show. Only one of the top 10
companies taking bank loans this year was Chinese.  “Corporate loan volumes have suffered from the strong
downward pricing pressure over the last 18 months,” said Aaron Chow, the head of event driven syndicate for Asia-Pacific at
 HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA) , the region’s fourth-largest arranger of
transactions this year. “LBO deals have been relatively
resilient toward pricing movements with interest margins
generally remaining at 4 percent to 4.5 percent.”  Leveraged loans in the region pay an average interest
margin of 463 basis points so far this year, up from 438 basis
points in the same period of 2012, Bloomberg data show.  China has become a more popular market for LBOs in the past
year as falling asset values attract financial sponsors, Chow
said, adding that Chinese banks are more willing to support
leveraged buyout deals which come with the “right context, such
as Chinese shareholder sponsorship.”  Focus, 7 Days  Focus Media’s buyout loan backing the bid of a Carlyle
Group LP-led consortium including Chinese private equity firms
FountainVest Partners Co. and China Everbright Structured
Investment Holdings Ltd., attracted 18 lenders ahead of its
signing last month, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Among the banks, four Chinese -- China Development Bank
Corp., China Minsheng Banking Corp., Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. and China Citic Bank Corp. -- lent more than
one third of the total.  Other Chinese LBO deals in the market include a $330
million facility to fund the $890 million buyout of Chinese
software services provider AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. by a consortium
led by Citic Capital Partners, and a $120 million leveraged loan
backing the Carlyle Group-led buyout of budget-hotel operator  7
Days Group Holdings Ltd .  ‘Fine Tuning’  Not only are banks in China participating in a wider
variety of financing, they’re increasingly lending to borrowers
outside of their home territory. Bank of China Ltd. and Wing
Lung Bank Ltd. joined  Australia ’s flagship carrier  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s A$780 million ($744 million) financing in April
and were the two biggest lenders to the deal, the data show.  “Chinese banks have been fine tuning their loan mix,”
said Grace Wu, the head of greater China financial institutions
research at Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd. They’re
focusing on “higher-margin lending because interest-rate
liberalization in China is putting pressure on them.”  The People’s Bank of China reiterated the country will push
forward with interest-rate liberalization and  yuan  exchange rate
reform in a “stable” fashion, according to a financial
stability report posted to its website June 7.  That will help promote market pricing of capital, according
to Moody’s Investors Service, and comes at a time China’s new
leadership has signaled an unprecedented tolerance for slower
growth.  Growth Downshift  Industrial production rose a less-than-forecast 9.2 percent
last month, while export gains were at a 10-month low and
imports dropped, National Bureau of Statistics data released
June 9 showed, adding to pressure on President Xi Jinping and
Premier  Li Keqiang  to shore up economic expansion less than
three months into their tenure.  Growth in China will “downshift, averaging 6 percent to
7.5 percent annually for the next five years versus more than 9
percent on average for the past five,” according to Pacific
Investment Management Co., which manages the world’s biggest
bond fund.  “The previous engines of Chinese growth -– net exports and
investment -– are reaching their limits,” Ramin Toloui, Pimco’s
global co-head of emerging-markets portfolio management, said in
a June 11 report. “Before the global financial crisis, each $1
of new credit generated an average of about 60 cents of GDP. Now
that number is falling toward 20 cents.”  Credit Risk  As growth optimism flags, benchmark bond yields are
dropping. The  yield  on China’s 10-year yuan-denominated
government bond has fallen nine basis points this quarter to
3.45 percent.  The dollar bond market is also showing signs of concern
among global investors, with the yield on debt sold by Chinese
companies surging to a near one-year high of 5.95 percent on
June 12, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes .  The cost of insuring sovereign notes against non-payment
has jumped 37 basis points since the end of March to 110.3 basis
points on June 13, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The risk of extending leveraged loans, which typically
refer to debt carrying ratings of less than Baa3 from Moody’s
and below BBB-from Standard & Poor’s, are “well justified” and
will continue to attract Chinese banks, HSBC’s Chow said. HSBC
has completed four LBO loans in the Asia-Pacific region this
year.  “Financial covenants and other conditions for LBOs are
usually much tighter than plain vanilla corporate loans and that
gives lenders a lot of control over how a company may be run in
the future,” he said. “LBO loan volume is expected to grow
steadily this year and China will be a very important market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Foster Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  