-- Bogle Says SEC’s Money-Fund Plan Doesn’t Go Far Enough
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-06-13T22:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/bogle-says-sec-s-money-fund-plan-doesn-t-go-far-enough.html
John C. Bogle, the founder of
Vanguard Group Inc. who popularized index-based investing, said
proposed rules for money-market mutual funds don’t go far enough
to protect investors and the financial system.  The U.S Securities and Exchange Commission’s June 5
proposal to make only the riskiest money funds, known as prime
funds, adopt a floating share price is a “compromise” forced
by the fund industry’s resistance to reform, Bogle said today in
remarks at the Morningstar Investment Conference in  Chicago .
Regulators should force all money funds to float their share
price, he said.  “The fact is money-market fund net-asset values fluctuate
and they don’t want to let the world know,” Bogle said,
referring to fund-company executives.  Bogle, 84, has spent his career advocating for lower costs
and investor-friendly practices in the financial industry,
sometimes putting him at odds with the firm he founded in 1975.
Vanguard was among a group of firms including  Fidelity
Investments  and Charles Schwab Corp. that earlier this year
urged regulators to exempt retail-oriented money funds from
regulation and focus only on those prime funds that cater to
institutional clients.  U.S. regulators have debated how to make money funds safer
since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on debt issued by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run on prime
funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  Narrower Plan  Former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  championed a plan in late
2011 and 2012 that envisioned changing the accounting standard
for all money funds, including those that invest only in
 government securities  or municipal bonds.  After running into opposition from the fund industry, the
SEC, now led by Mary Jo White, approved a set of narrower
proposals. The plan includes one that would require prime funds,
which invest in corporate debt and cater to institutional
investors, to abandon their fixed $1 share price. The proposal
also included an industry-favored alternate plan that would
limit the ability of investors to pull out of a fund that comes
under stress. The SEC has left open the option of adopting
either approach or both together.  “The probability of something bad happening in  money
market funds  is tiny, but the consequence of something going
wrong is fatal,” Bogle said. “We really should be thinking
about the shareholders and about society.”  ICI’s Stand  Mike McNamee, a spokesman for the  Investment Company
Institute , the Washington-based trade group for the mutual-fund
industry, said today in an e-mailed statement that “floating
the net asset value of money-market funds would not serve the
interests of investors.”  “Money-market fund shareholders value the stable net asset
value of these funds, as evidenced by the public comments filed
by more than 300 groups representing businesses, state and local
governments, and nonprofits in opposition to floating NAV
proposals,” McNamee said.  Bogle retired from  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard in 2000 and established the Bogle Financial Markets
Research Center. Vanguard, known for its low-cost index funds
funds, is the biggest U.S. mutual-fund company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  