-- Booker Senate Run Imperils Newark’s Wall Street Pipeline
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/booker-senate-run-imperils-newark-s-wall-street-pipeline.html
Even before  Cory Booker  won his
first term as Newark mayor in 2006, he was mining Wall Street
contacts for an antidote to the blight that had gripped New
Jersey’s most populous city for more than four decades.  Seven years later, hedge-fund founders including  Bill Ackman  and  Leon Cooperman  have donated more than $6 million for
public safety and recreation, and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  has pledged $100 million for schools. By Booker’s
count, he’s drawn $1 billion in economic development, from
residential lofts to  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s $200 million North
American headquarters, opening next month.  Now Booker’s ambition for national office threatens to cut
the city’s access to a moneyed network he has cultivated to help
recast Newark as an alternative to  Manhattan , 20 minutes away by
rail. A 44-year-old Democrat, Booker is the frontrunner among
six candidates seeking to replace U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg ,
a five-term Democrat who died June 3.  “A lot of the money that is pouring into Newark is because
of Cory Booker’s charisma and personality and ability to reach
out nationally,” said  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth
University Polling Institute in  West Long Branch , New Jersey.
“Unfortunately, Cory Booker has not set up the infrastructure
to maintain that legacy.”  Big Lead  In his 2006 mayoral run, Booker won with 72 percent of the
vote. He was re-elected in 2010 with 59 percent. For his Senate
race, in which the winners of an Aug. 13 primary will face off
in an Oct. 16 election, he has support from more than half of
Democrats, according to a June 10 Quinnipiac University poll.  His closest opponent, Representative Rush Holt, had 10
percent, and  Frank Pallone , a 25-year veteran of Congress, had 9
percent. The poll didn’t include state Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, who announced her candidacy on June 10.  Booker, who grew up in the northern  New Jersey  suburb of
Harrington Park, was a Rhodes Scholar and Yale University-educated lawyer who moved to Newark in 1996. The mayor said an
increase in the city’s population in the 2010 census was its
first growth in six decades, and proof that his focus on crime
reduction and economic development are working.  “When I took office, some people said we couldn’t get
crime rates under control,” Booker told campaign supporters.
“But today, the streets are safer and the city’s population is
up, because more families can see a better future for themselves
here.”  Twitter Master  A frequent Twitter user with 1.3 million followers, Booker
has sent more than 28,000 messages, from inspirational quotes to
responses to residents’ complaints. He often tags along with
police patrols, popping out of squad cars for pick-up basketball
games or curbside chats with loitering teenagers.  Booker gained national attention last year for saving a
neighbor from a fire and for living on  food stamps  for a week to
show the difficulty of relying on the government-assistance
program. He was a speaker at the 2012 Democratic National
Convention and helped lead its platform committee.  At home, Booker has often been under siege from the city
council and municipal unions. The council has refused to approve
a plan he first raised in 2010 to plug a deficit by leasing the
city’s water system.  City Plight  Some critics say Booker is more concerned with his national
image than the plight of Newark, where about one-fourth of its
278,000 residents live in poverty. The city has struggled to
recover from 1967 race riots that left 26 people dead, turned
neighborhoods into ruin and sent middle-class residents fleeing
to the suburbs.  A year into Booker’s first term, residents and union
members jammed into a council meeting to demand his ouster after
he proposed firing city workers. In 2010, the Newark Fraternal
Order of Police rejected a package Booker proposed to avert the
loss of more than 160 officers, saying it would lead to pay and
benefits that were too low to support families.  After his police firings, shootings climbed 43 percent in
the first six months of 2011, following a 46 percent drop over
his first four years in office. Through this April, crime is up
about 3 percent from the same period of 2012, largely because of
an increase in robberies, as violent offenses have declined.  Senate Seat  Urged by members of his party to challenge Christie for
governor, Booker opted instead in December to explore seeking
Lautenberg’s seat. Two months later, the senator said he
wouldn’t run again. He died at 89 of complications from viral
pneumonia.  The mayor’s popularity giving speeches at colleges and
dinners earned him $1.3 million from 2008 to 2013, according to
a May financial-disclosure form. He paid more than $400,000 in
taxes on the income and donated more than $600,000 to charity,
according to his campaign.  “The speaking opportunities have provided benefits for the
city of Newark,” Booker’s campaign spokesman, Kevin Griffis,
said in a statement released after the disclosures. “They have
helped the mayor connect to philanthropists and developers and
attracted talented people to the city.”  For his 2010 re-election, Booker raised $6.5 million from
donors including  Steven Spielberg ,  Oprah Winfrey ,  Loews Corp. (L) 
Co-Chairman  Jonathan Tisch  and Tiger Management LLC founder
 Julian Robertson . Less than a year from the May 2014 mayoral
election, the three candidates looking to replace him had a
combined $277,482 in their campaign accounts as of mid-April.  Booker Network  In an interview last year, Booker said he had been creating
a web of political-, business- and tech-savvy friends since his
days as a Stanford University undergraduate.  “In the beginning I could have given you a tree about how
this person led to this person, led to these people,” Booker
said. “Now it’s become so interwoven that it’s hard to pull out
the strands of a lot of these relationships.”  None of the other mayoral candidates can match that
networking, said Rahaman Muhammad, president of the Service
Employees International Union Local 617, whose 3,000 members
include Newark’s public-works and public-housing employees.  “One of my biggest criticisms is what he does is not
sustainable for Newark, unless you have those types of ties,
unless you run in those circles” said Muhammad, 44. “Most of
that is going to go with him.”  Sarah Feinberg, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to
comment on whether Zuckerberg had confidence in Newark without
Booker in  City Hall . Newark’s mayorship has no  term limits ,
meaning Booker could run again if he lost his Senate bid.  Booker, speaking June 8 at his Senate announcement in
Newark, said he was confident that the city projects begun under
him will continue even if he moves on to the Senate.  “There’s a forward momentum in Newark that will be
impossible to stop,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  