-- Brazilian Currency Rises From Four-Year Low After Tax Eliminated
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-06-13T21:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/brazilian-currency-rises-from-four-year-low-after-tax-eliminated.html
Brazil’s real rose from a four-year
low after the government removed a 1 percent tax charged on
wagers against the dollar in a second easing this month of
 capital controls  to stem the local currency’s rout.  The real appreciated 1.7 percent to 2.1212 per  U.S. dollar 
after declining yesterday to 2.1564, the weakest level since May
2009. Today’s increase was the biggest since January 28 on a
closing basis.  “The real should strengthen,” Daniel Cunha, the chief
economist at XP Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “The magnitude and velocity will
continue to be highly dependent on the dynamic abroad.”  The real is the second-worst performer among major
currencies in the past three months on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will curtail a stimulus program that has supported the
Latin American nation’s assets. Brazil is responding by
unwinding capital controls that it began putting in place in
2010 to defend itself from policies of developed countries that
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  then characterized as a currency
war.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration removed the tax
on dollar shorts in the futures market after four currency swap
interventions this week failed to stem the real’s decline. The
government is also creating an $8.7 billion  credit line  for low-income families. The levy’s elimination follows last week’s
removal of the tax, known as IOF, on foreign investors who buy
Brazilian bonds in the domestic market.  ‘Greater Supply’  “With the dollar strengthening, it doesn’t make sense to
keep this obstacle in place,” Mantega told reporters yesterday.
“We are reducing the IOF so there will be greater supply of the
dollar in the futures market.”  The real pared its decline over the past three months to
7.1 percent today, still the worst performance among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Australian dollar.  While the derivatives-tax cut will provide “some relief”
for the real, it is still being hurt by waning confidence in the
government’s policies,  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin America currency
strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the outlook on Brazil’s BBB
rating to negative last week on concern that sluggish growth and
weakening fiscal accounts will reduce the country’s ability to
manage an external shock. Rousseff said yesterday in Brasilia
that inflation and fiscal accounts are under control and that
the poor should have access to credit.  Swap Rates  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2016 fell for the
first time in seven days, dropping 26 basis points, or 0.26
percentage point, to 10.09 percent on eased speculation a
weakening currency will spur the central bank to sustain the
pace of increases in borrowing costs.  The central bank raised the  target lending rate  by 50 basis
points on May 29 to curb inflation, surprising 38 of 57 analysts
who expected policy makers would raise borrowing costs by 25
basis points for a second consecutive time. The benchmark was
held at a record low 7.25 percent from October to March.  Annual inflation  accelerated for nine straight months
through March to 6.59 percent, above the top of the central
bank’s target range of 2.50 percent to 6.50 percent. It eased to
6.49 percent in April and was 6.50 percent in May.  Retail sales climbed 0.5 percent in April from a month
earlier, the national statistics agency reported today. The
median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
an increase of 1.2 percent.  Currency Volatility  The real’s three-month implied volatility fell to 13.75
percent after rising yesterday to an 11-month high. The reading
was below 10 percent before Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on
May 22 that the central bank may scale back stimulus efforts if
the U.S. employment outlook shows sustainable improvement.  “There’s volatility in  currency markets  at the moment
purely because of uncertainty, with a lot of talk that
quantitative easing will be tapered,” Jarratt Davis, a currency
consultant at Smile Global Management, a unit of Independent
Portfolio Managers Ltd., said in a phone interview from  London .
“But I don’t think they’re going to taper just yet because
nothing has changed in terms of data. Once the market digests
that, money that’s getting taken out of  emerging markets  will be
put back in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  