-- Brazil’s Retail Sales Rise at Less Than Half the Forecast Pace
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-06-13T12:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/brazil-s-retail-sales-rise-at-less-than-half-the-forecast-pace.html
  Brazil ’s retail  sales  rose in April
at less than half the pace economists forecast as inflation
erodes purchasing power, complicating the government’s effort to
boost growth.  Sales rose 0.5 percent from the previous month, after
revised numbers showed they were unchanged in March, the
national statistics agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The
number was lower than 26 of 28 forecasts from economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median  estimate  was for a 1.2
percent median rise. Retail sales grew 1.6 percent from the same
month last year, below the median  forecast  for a 3.4 percent
increase.  President  Dilma Rousseff  has introduced a host of measures
to fuel domestic consumption in  Latin America ’s largest market
including tax breaks and subsidized credit for the purchase of
furniture and appliances. Still, Brazilian families’ year-on-year spending in the first quarter was the slowest in nine years
as inflation sapped demand. Consumer price increases prompted
Brazil in April to become the only country in the Group of 20
Nations to raise rates, which threatens to limit the recovery in
demand.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 9.72 percent at 9:18 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.4 percent to 2.1486 per  U.S. dollar .  Food, Beverages  The retail sales increase included a 0.5 percent fall in
supermarkets and hypermarkets, including food, beverages and
tobacco. The broader retail index, which includes cars and
construction materials, jumped 9.1 percent from the year before
after rising 3.1 percent in March, the agency said today.  Rousseff yesterday announced subsidized credit totaling
18.7 billion reais ($8.7 billion) for low-income families to
purchase furniture and appliances.  “Giving dignity to a family also consists of providing
access to the goods that all consumers want, the best ones
possible,” Rousseff said.  The measure will increase sales of the goods by 10 percent
to 15 percent, the chairwoman of Brazil retailer  Magazine Luiza (MGLU3) ,
Luiza Trajano, said in an interview after the announcement. The
program should generate demand of 12 billion reais to 15 billion
reais, said Eneas Pestana, chief executive of Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo  Pao de Acucar , Brazil’s biggest retailer, in
a June 6 interview.  Consumer  confidence  in May hit a three-year low after
Brazil’s family consumption in the first quarter rose 0.1
percent from the prior quarter.  Gross domestic product  expanded
0.6 percent in the quarter, and economists in the latest central
bank survey forecast growth of 2.53 percent this year, down from
2.93 percent before the May 29 release of the GDP data.  Inflation, which has remained above the 4.5 percent
midpoint of the target since central bank president Alexandre Tombini took office in January 2011, in May quickened to 6.5
percent, the top of the bank’s target range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  