-- Brazil Dismantles Capital Control as Real Drops to Four Year Low
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2013-06-13T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/brazil-dismantles-capital-control-as-real-drops-to-four-year-low.html
Brazil  dismantled capital controls
for the second time in eight days as it seeks to arrest a
decline in the real that threatens to further fan inflation.  After the currency weakened to a four-year low yesterday,
the government removed the 1 percent tax charged on bets against
the dollar in the futures market. The so-called IOF tax was
implemented in July 2011 and its removal follows last week’s
elimination of a tax on foreign purchases of bonds.  A weaker real increases import prices and threatens to
derail Brazil’s efforts to tame  inflation  that is running at the
top of its target range. A stronger currency would help a
central bank that has increased the benchmark interest rate in
its past two meetings rein in consumer prices,  Jankiel Santos ,
chief economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento, said.  The tax cuts are “meant to curb an even stronger weakening
of the real that would put extra fuel on inflation dynamics,”
Santos said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The real yesterday closed at a four-year low of 2.1564 per
U.S. dollar. The currency had lost 5 percent over the last three
weeks, making it the worst performer against the dollar  of 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the South African
rand.  “With the dollar strengthening, it doesn’t make sense to
keep this obstacle in place,” Finance Minister Guido Mantega
told reporters in Brasilia yesterday. “We are reducing the IOF
so there will be greater supply of the dollar in the futures
market.”  Currency War  Brazil is unwinding capital controls that it began putting
in place in 2010 to defend itself from policies Mantega then
characterized as a currency war. The dollar has strengthened
worldwide amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will dial
back its bond-buying program, Mantega said yesterday.  He scrapped on June 5 a 6 percent tax on foreign investment
in bonds purchased in the Brazilian market. Still the real
continued to slide, and on June 10 and June 11 the government
offered foreign exchange swap contracts worth $3.86 billion in
four auctions.  The tax measure probably will have a limited impact on the
exchange rate, Barclays Plc analysts Guilherme Loureiro and
Marcelo Salomon wrote in a note e-mailed to investors yesterday.  “Negative global conditions and growing fiscal concerns
locally should continue to dominate flows,” they wrote.  Annual inflation accelerated for nine straight months
through March to 6.59 percent, above the top of the central
bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent. It eased back
to 6.5 percent in May.  Policy Response  Policy makers responded by raising the benchmark interest
rate to 8 percent, after keeping borrowing costs at a record-low
7.25 percent from October to March.  The key rate was lifted 50 basis points on May 29,
surprising 38 of 57 analysts who expected policy makers would
raise borrowing costs by 25 basis points for a second
consecutive time.  “We increased rates in April and May, and we are in the
process of fighting inflation without giving it any relief at
the moment,” central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
yesterday in an interview on Record television. “We will bring
the inflation rate lower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  