-- Buffett’s MidAmerican Plans $700 Million Solar Bond Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-06-13T21:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/buffett-s-midamerican-plans-700-million-solar-bond-deal.html
Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co. may complete a $700 million bond offering this
month to finance its $2.74 billion Antelope Valley solar farm in
Southern California.  The company plans to issue Series A senior secured notes
due in 2035, Elizabeth Fogerty, a Fitch Ratings spokeswoman,
said today by e-mail. Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc are leading the offering, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This will be Buffett’s second utility-scale solar farm
financed through a bond offering, as mainstream investors become
more comfortable backing renewable-energy projects.  “Our understanding is bankers are looking to close the
deal this month,” Trevor D’Olier-Lees, a director of the
infrastructure and renewables group at Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services, said today by e-mail.  The project uses a “proven technology” and its strengths
include “a solar resource that is fairly well characterized,”
S&P said in a report yesterday. S&P and Fitch both rate the
bonds BBB-, the lowest investment grade. The venture is also
known as Solar Star Funding LLC.  The deal would bring clean-energy issuance this year to
more than $2 billion, “putting 2013 on track to be the biggest
year on record for renewables bond offerings,” Joseph Salvatore, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in
an e-mail today. Based on pricing for “comparatively rated”
projects, he expects the notes to price “in mid to upper 5
percent range.”  Construction Schedule  MidAmerican, based in Des Moines,  Iowa , and the state’s
largest utility, acquired the 579-megawatt Antelope Valley
project in Los Angeles and Kern counties in January. It
announced that  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  had begun construction about three
months later and Edison International’s Southern California
Edison utility will buy the electricity for 20 years.  Construction is expected to be completed by October 2015,
and the unit of Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  may issue an
additional $575 million in notes next year, according to the S&P
report.  The project is “ahead of schedule and on budget,” S&P
said. Edison’s power contract, approved last year by the
California Public Utilities Commission, contains “well-above-market prices.”  MidAmerican has pledged to provide sufficient equity to
fully fund the project if it doesn’t complete the offering next
year, according to a Fitch report.  Topaz Bonds  MidAmerican in February 2012 issued $850 million in 5.75
percent bonds due in September 2039 to help fund the 550-megawatt Topaz solar farm in Southern California it bought from
First Solar. In April it issued $250 million in 4.875 percent
bonds for the project, also due September 2039. Topaz is
expected to cost $2.4 billion.  The company is the third-largest U.S. owner of photovoltaic
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  is the biggest, followed by  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR)   Robert Julavits, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment on when the offering would be complete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  