-- Bus Fare Protests Add to Commuting Woes in Brazil Cities
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-06-14T13:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/bus-fare-protests-add-to-commuting-woes-in-brazil-cities.html
More than a hundred people were
arrested and dozens wounded as police in  Sao Paulo  clashed with
activists last night in the latest and most rowdy in a rising
tide of protests against bus fare increases in  Brazil .  Security forces used rubber bullets and tear gas to quell
last night’s protests, the fourth disturbance in a week in  Latin
America ’s business capital. The protests, organized on social
networking sites, have become more violent and spread across
Brazil in recent weeks as cities implement annual fare
adjustments that are further draining wallets strained by slower
economic growth and 6.5 percent  inflation .  After last night’s confrontation, which led to record rush
hour congestion in Sao Paulo, protest organizers vowed to return
to street barricades as early as today to continue their fight
to eliminate bus fares. Authorities condemned acts of vandalism
and said they won’t negotiate with those perpetrating violence.  “It’s impossible to ignore the dimension that these
protests have acquired in the entire country,”  Andre Perfeito ,
chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, wrote in a note to
clients today in which he argued that strong inflation threatens
to erode the past decade’s economic gains. “A Tropical Spring
could be approaching.”  Among those injured last night were seven reporters from
Folha de S. Paulo newspaper, one of whom was shot in the eye
with a rubber bullet that left her vision impaired.  Abolishing Fares  The Sao Paulo-based organization behind the demonstrations,
called the Free Fare Movement, wants to abolish bus fares
altogether. While the movement has existed since 2005, its
following has grown after Sao Paulo last month announced it was
raising fares 7 percent, or 20 centavos, to 3.20 reais ($1.50).  The near-daily marches, while so far limited to a few
hundred students on Brazil’s political fringe, coincide with a
sudden drop in President Dilma Rousseff’s approval rating. Even
as the government spends billions to host the 2014  World Cup  and
2016  Summer Olympics , frustration with inflation, the poor state
of public transport and urban violence is rising among Brazil’s
expanding middle class.  The protests have angered commuters in Brazil’s biggest
cities and are increasingly catching the attention of the
government, which has been cutting taxes on food and fuel to
shield poorer Brazilians who use public transport from
inflation.  Justice Minister Jose Eduardo Cardozo has called on police
to investigate the movement’s leaders after several protesters,
some with Mohawks and waving red flags bearing the insignia of
Brazil’s Communist Party, were filmed vandalizing buildings and
destroying bus windows at recent marches.  No Negotiation  Sao Paulo’s Mayor Fernando Haddad of the ruling Workers’
Party said today that he won’t negotiate with protesters until
they renounce violence. A fare increase that went into effect
this month was below inflation and prices would be even higher
if not for 600 million reais in city subsidies, he said.  “We’re not going to play the game of it’s all or
nothing,” Haddad said in an interview on Globo TV.  Adding to traffic in Sao Paulo yesterday was a railway
strike, which forced more cars on the road. Congestion in the
city reached a record for the year, stretching 176 kilometers
(109 miles) at 7 p.m. local time, according to a city agency
that monitors traffic.  Protests also took place last night in  Rio de Janeiro ,
blocking traffic on the main downtown thoroughfare.  “I’m here because of the abusive prices being charged by
buses,” said 24-year-old Rafael Guarnier, wearing a Guy Fawkes
mask that’s become a symbol for the online hacking group
Anonymous, said at the Rio protest. “It’s only 20 cents, but
for everyone here it’s a lot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  