-- Canada April New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-06-13T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/canada-april-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for April released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.2% in April,
following a 0.1% increase in March and similar gains over the
past 12 months.  For the third consecutive month, Calgary was the top
contributor to the national advance, as prices for new homes
rose 0.5% in April. Builders reported that higher material and
labour costs as well as market conditions were the main reasons
for higher prices.  The largest monthly price advance occurred in St. John’s
(+1.0%), following eight consecutive months of little or no
price change. Builders reported higher material and labour costs
as the reason for the rise in that region. This was the largest
price movement in  St. John’s  since November 2010, when new
housing prices rose 4.3%. Since then, prices have been
relatively flat, despite a few modest gains over the summer of
2012.  Hamilton followed closely with prices for new homes rising
by 0.8% in April. Builders cited market conditions as the reason
for the advance, the largest in that region since October 2012.  New housing prices were also up in Winnipeg (+0.6%) and
Saskatoon (+0.3%). This was the second monthly increase in a row
for Saskatoon, following 10 months of little or no price
movement.  In April, prices decreased 0.1% in the combined
metropolitan region of Saint John, Fredericton and Moncton, as
well as in Montréal.  Builders in the region of Saint John, Fredericton and
Moncton reported lower prices as a result of market conditions,
while builders in Montréal lowered prices to finalize sales.  Prices were unchanged in 5 of the 21 metropolitan regions
surveyed.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 2.0% in the 12
months to April, following a similar increase the previous month.  The main contributor to the advance was the combined region
of Toronto and Oshawa, where the year-over-year increase in
contractors’ selling prices was 2.9%. Annual price increases in
this region have been slowing since the start of 2013, following
steady growth throughout 2011 and the early part of 2012.  For the fifth consecutive month, Winnipeg recorded the
largest year-over-year price movement in  Canada . Prices were up
5.5% in April following a 5.1% advance in March.  Other significant year-over-year increases occurred in
Calgary (+4.7%), Regina (+3.1%) and Hamilton (+2.8%). In Calgary,
annual price gains have been generally accelerating throughout
2012 and 2013.  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, only Victoria
(-1.5%) and  Vancouver  (-0.6%) posted 12-month price declines in
April, continuing a long stretch of annual decreases in the two
western-most regions.  Note to readers  The New Housing  Price Index  measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax (GST) or the Harmonized Sales Tax
(HST).  Effective April 1, 2013, builders in British Columbia once
again paid a 7% Provincial Sales Tax (PST) on their building
materials. The PST on building materials in British Columbia is
now embedded in the contractors’ selling prices of new houses,
representing an average of about 2% of the home’s final price.  Effective April 1, 2013, in Prince  Edward Island , the
federal 5% GST was combined with a reduced 9% provincial tax to
create a single 14% HST. Previously, only the GST (5%) was
applied to new homes. Under the new rules, the tax applied to
the purchase of a new home is 14%.  The indexes are not subject to revision and are not
seasonally adjusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  