-- Canada Dollar Rises to 4-Week High on Rate-Increase Speculation
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-13T21:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/canadian-dollar-rises-to-four-week-high-on-growth-optimism.html
The Canadian dollar touched its
highest point in four weeks against its U.S. peer as signs of
growth in the North American economy boosted bets the Bank of
 Canada  will raise interest rates earlier than expected.  The currency strengthened for the fifth time in six days
against the greenback as retail sales in the U.S., Canada’s
biggest export market, rose more than forecast in May. Canada
posted its strongest  job gains  in more than a decade last month
and home construction rose the most in 13 months, driving
expectations to the highest in more than a year the central bank
will raise rates. Stocks and oil, Canada’s largest export,
climbed.  “This all really stems from last Friday’s stellar jobs
report moving forward -- we’re starting to hear rumors the Bank
of Canada might pull the trigger sooner than expected on a rate
hike,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of Western union Co., said by phone from
 Washington . “The loonie is enjoying a sea change in sentiment
over the last few sessions.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed, rose 0.5
percent to C$1.0159 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after
touching C$1.0150 per U.S. dollar, its highest point since May
16. One loonie buys 98.44 U.S. cents.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  rose, with
yields falling seven basis points, or 0.7 percentage point, to
2.14 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
gained 61 cents to C$94.33.  Futures on crude oil added 0.9 percent to $96.73 per barrel
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks gained 1.5
percent.  The rate for the one-year forward overnight index swap, or
OIS, was 1.35 percent, or 35 basis points more than the Bank of
Canada’s target rate, near the 1.42 percent level reached June
10, the most since May 2012. The measure, which shows the
market’s expectation for the one-year average central-bank rate
beginning in one year’s time, was predicting a rate cut last
June.  The Bank of Canada, whose key interest rate of  1 percent  is
the highest among the Group of Seven nations, is the only
central bank among them with a leaning, or bias, toward higher
rates. New central-bank Governor Stephen Poloz reiterated that
stance in his first public comments on June 6.  ‘Rate Hike’  “After some recent data in Canada, we’re pricing in a rate
hike a little bit sooner than we thought,” said David Bradley,
director of foreign-exchange trading at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s
Scotia Capital Inc., by phone from Toronto. “That’s probably
helping the Canadian dollar.”  The JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index reached 11.2 percent for a
second day, the highest level since June 2012.  U.S.  retail sales  rose 0.6 percent, the biggest increase in
three months, following a 0.1 percent gain in April, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
forecast of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.4
percent advance.  The loonie gained with  Australia ’s dollar as that nation
unexpectedly boosted payrolls in May, adding 1,100 new jobs in
May compared to a forecast for a 10,000 job decline in a
Bloomberg survey of 25 economists. The jobless rate fell to 5.5
percent from a revised 5.6 percent in an economy that’s been
driven by investments in resources to meet Chinese demand.  Haven Flows  “There’s been marginal out-performance for the Canadian
dollar on the back of strength in Australia, as well as safe-haven flows,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA) , by phone from Toronto.
“There’s an overall offer to the U.S. dollar against risk-related currencies, such as the Japanese yen and the Australian
dollar.”  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer fell to its lowest point in five weeks. The
one month so called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell as low as
1.37 percent, the least since May 14.  The Canadian dollar has dropped 1.9 percent in the past
month against nine developed-nation peers tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has
dropped 1.2 percent and the Australian currency declined 4.8
percent to lead decliners. The yen has surged six percent to
pace gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  