-- Canada First Quarter Capacity Utilization Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-06-13T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/canada-first-quarter-capacity-utilization-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s capacity utilization report for the first quarter
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian industries operated at 81.1% of their production
capacity in the first quarter, up from 80.5% in the previous
quarter. The first quarter growth followed two quarters of
decline. Both the manufacturing and non-manufacturing sectors
contributed equally to the advance.  Non-manufacturing industries: Strength in the  mining industry   Mining, oil and gas extraction was the main source of the
overall increase in capacity use in the first quarter.  Higher crude petroleum extraction boosted the oil and gas
extraction industry’s capacity utilization rate, up 1.8
percentage points to 87.4%.  As was the case in the fourth quarter of 2012, an increase
in metallic and non-metallic mineral mining pushed the mining
and quarrying industry’s capacity utilization rate (+4.7%)
upward in the first quarter. The rate rose to 66.0%.  Among non-manufacturing industries, only the forestry and
logging industry had a lower capacity utilization rate than in
the previous quarter, its first decline since the first quarter
of 2012.  The  construction industry  operated at 80.7% of its capacity,
up 0.4 percentage points from the previous quarter. This advance
was attributable to growth in all types of construction except
residential buildings.  Manufacturing: The wood product manufacturing industry leads the
increase in capacity use  The manufacturing sector operated at 79.7% of its capacity
in the first quarter, up 0.2 percentage points from the previous
quarter. The increase followed two quarters of decline.  The capacity utilization rate rose in 12 of the 21 major
industry groups, representing approximately 60% of the
manufacturing sector.  The largest contributors to the increase in the capacity
utilization rate were the wood product, food and chemical
product manufacturing industries. Capacity utilization rates
declined in nine industries, notably the transportation
equipment manufacturing industry where it went down by 2.5
percentage points.  Increased activity in the wood product manufacturing
industry pushed its capacity utilization rate up 3.9 percentage
points to 87.8% in the first quarter.  In the food manufacturing industry, capacity use rose 1.3
percentage points to 75.4% in the first quarter. Higher
production in the grain and oilseed milling industry was largely
responsible for the increase.  For chemical product manufacturers, capacity use advanced
from 79.5% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 81.7% in the first
quarter, the third consecutive increase. Higher industry output,
combined with lower capital stock contributed to the gain.  Lower production of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts
and of aerospace products and parts reduced the capacity
utilization rate in the transportation equipment industry. The
rate fell from 88.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 85.9% in
the first quarter.  Note to readers  The industrial capacity utilization rate is the ratio of an
industry’s actual output to its estimated potential output. For
most industries, the annual estimates are obtained from the
Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey while the quarterly
pattern is derived from output-to-capital ratio series, the
output being the real gross domestic product at basic prices,
seasonally adjusted, by industry.  This program covers all manufacturing and selected non-manufacturing industries.  At the time of this release, rates have been revised back
to the first quarter of 2012 to reflect updated source data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  