-- Canada’s Manulife Plans to Accelerate Growth in Indonesia
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-06-13T19:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/canada-s-manulife-plans-to-accelerate-growth-in-indonesia.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Canada’s
largest insurer, will seek to benefit from  Indonesia ’s economic
growth by adding staff and branches and teaming up with local
banks, an executive said.  Manulife plans to have its 11 Asian units contribute 40
percent, or C$1.6 billion ($1.57 billion), of its core profit
goal of C$4 billion in 2016, said Chris Bendl, chief executive
officer of Manulife Indonesia. The country, where Manulife has
operated since 1985 and has a partnership with  PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia (BDMN) , will contribute about 10 percent of  Asia  profit, he
said.  “There will be a time where Indonesia will surpass Canada
in terms of importance to Manulife -- and that could happen in
my lifetime,” Bendl, who is based in Jakarta, said in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Toronto yesterday.
“That is the exciting thing.”  Indonesia has almost half of  Southeast Asia ’s population,
or 250 million people, and is targeting economic expansion of
6.3 percent this year as its middle class grows. Indonesia’s
unemployment rate will be 5.9 percent for 2013, according to the
median forecast of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s
lower than the forecasts for Canada and the U.S.  The insurer in 2011 formed a partnership with Danamon, now
the takeover target of  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast Asia’s
biggest bank. Danamon promotes Manulife’s insurance products and
gives Manulife 3,000 sales locations extending to both urban
cities and smaller markets with fewer than 2 million people,
Bendl said.  Other Partnerships  Manulife has entered into similar partnerships with
 Alliance Financial Group Bhd (AFG)  in  Malaysia  and  Vietnam ’s Ho Chi
Minh City Development Joint Stock Commercial Bank. The company
isn’t planning to make acquisitions in Indonesia, Bendl said. He
declined to say how many employees or branches the company plans
to add in the country.  Indonesians spend about C$35 dollars a year on life
insurance and fewer than 10 percent are covered, Bendl said. He
said the country’s middle class is expected to grow as annual
gross domestic product has stayed at or above 4 percent for a
decade.  “There is a demographic move towards urbanization,” in
Indonesia, Bendl said. “We really need to make sure that in the
big four to five cities that we are well represented.”  Manulife rose 0.6 percent to C$15.89 at 2:07 p.m. in
Toronto trading. It’s jumped 18 percent this year, more than
Royal Bank of  Canada , the country’s largest lender. Twelve
analysts have a “buy” recommendation on Manulife stock, with
five saying hold, and one saying the shares should be sold,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Fuel Prices  Manulife won’t have an easy time winning customers and
market share, Bendl said.  “A challenge for a big company like Manulife is that
Indonesia is still an emerging market,” Bendl said. “It’s such
a spread-out country. Infrastructure does need to be improved.”  The Indonesian government may raise subsidized fuel prices
to do that, with a final decision due at the end of June. Higher
fuel prices would leave consumers with less money to spend on
 life insurance  products.  “It will be slightly inflationary and it will definitely
dampen some demand in the short-term,” Bendl said. In the long
term, he said the price move will probably have a positive
impact on Manulife. The company has a team lobbying the
Indonesian government on reforms and regulations, he said.  Last quarter, sales in Asia declined 31 percent from a year
earlier, the company said in May. The drop reflected higher-than-average profit the prior year when  Japan  announced tax
changes and the company announced new products in  Taiwan , the
company said. Manulife’s first-quarter  net income  fell 56
percent to C$540 million, or 28 cents a share, as total
insurance sales dropped 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  