-- Carbine Competition Canceled by Army as Soldiers Keep M4s
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-06-13T22:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/carbine-competition-canceled-by-army-as-soldiers-keep-m4s.html
The U.S. Army canceled a competition
to develop a rifle that the Pentagon’s inspector general said
risked wasting $1.8 billion.  None of the carbines tested by the military met the minimum
requirements needed to move to the next phase of its evaluation,
the Army said today in an e-mailed statement.  The service also cited “limited fiscal resources” and
said it will continue to use its current rifle, the M4A1
carbine, which “consistently performs well and has received
high marks from soldiers.”  Colt Defense LLC, based in West Hartford,  Connecticut , is
the primary supplier of the Army’s M4 rifle and would have faced
competition under the replacement program.  The Army and Defense Department may want to re-evaluate the
rifle replacement program because the service is “seeking to
acquire more rifles during a time when” its total force
structure will be reduced, Lynne Halbrooks, principal deputy
inspector general, said  in a statement  to a congressional
committee in March.  The Pentagon plans to reduce Army ground forces to 490,000
by 2017 from about 560,000 in 2011.  The Army “may not have an established need for this weapon
nor developed performance requirements for the $1.8 billion
acquisition,” Halbrooks said.  Defense Cuts  The cancellation comes as the Defense Department is
absorbing cuts under a process known as sequestration. The
reductions are triggering furloughs for as many as 680,000 of
the Pentagon’s civilian workers. The across-the-board spending
cuts are set to reduce defense programs by $37 billion by Sept.
30.  Colt Defense officials weren’t immediately available for
comment by phone.  The M4 carbine is a lighter, more compact version of the
Vietnam-era M16 rifle. Like its predecessor, the weapon employs
a gas operating system, which produces carbon residue that, if
not properly cleaned, may result in malfunctions.  Questions over the reliability of the M4 surfaced after
soldiers reported their weapons jamming during a 2008 firefight
with insurgents near Wanat,  Afghanistan . The battle was one of
the deadliest of the war for the U.S. -- nine soldiers were
killed and 27 were wounded.  Army and Colt officials have said the Army’s final report
on the battle of Wanat attributes the M4 stoppages to the way
the guns were used, not design flaws. The weapon, which fires
5.56mm rounds in single shots and three-round bursts, was not
developed to produce sustained automatic fire like a machine
gun, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  