-- HD Supply Seeks $1.33 Billion in IPO Amid Housing Comeback
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-06-13T19:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/carlyle-s-hd-supply-seeks-to-raise-1-33-billion-in-u-s-ipo.html
HD Supply Holdings Inc. (HDS)  is seeking
as much as $1.33 billion in its U.S. initial public offering, a
half-dozen years after the construction-supply company was
bought in the midst of the housing crash.  The Atlanta-based company is offering 53.2 million shares,
equivalent to a 29 percent stake, for $22 to $25 each, according
to a regulatory  filing  today. The IPO is set for June 26,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At the midpoint of the range, the price would spell a gain
for private-equity owners  Carlyle (CG)  Group LP, Bain Capital LLC and
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC, which acquired HD Supply during the
worst housing slump since the Great Depression. Now the company
is tapping equity markets amid a rebounding housing market and
increasing demand from contractors, as rising U.S. home prices
give homeowners the confidence to spend on renovations.  “This is an opportune time to go public based on the
momentum of the U.S. housing recovery,” Neil Frohnapple, a
building-materials analyst at Cleveland-based Northcoast
Research, said by e-mail. “There is a lot of interest from
investors in companies with housing recovery exposure and HD
Supply will provide investors with another avenue to play this
recovery.”  The slump almost derailed the buyout, originally priced at
$10.3 billion including debt. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and Merrill Lynch & Co. balked at
financing the takeover amid tightening credit markets, people
familiar with the matter said at the time. In August 2007,
parent  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and the parties agreed to lower the price
to $8.5 billion.  Earnings Hit  The housing slump ate into profit at HD Supply, whose
adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization tumbled from $964 million in the year before the
buyout to $343 million in the fiscal year ended January 31,
2010.  In recent years, the rebound in housing has reversed that
trend. It’s also helped turn a looming loss for the buyout firms
into a modest gain on investment. An offering priced at the
$23.50-a-share midpoint of the range would give them an 18
percent unrealized gain on the $2.28 billion of equity they sank
in the deal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Private equity seems to be taking advantage here of a
window of opportunity,” Josef Schuster, the founder of IPOX
Schuster LLC, an investment firm based in  Chicago  with about
$2.5 billion under management, said by phone. “They’ll be able
to bring this deal to the market at a reasonable valuation,
since the homebuilding sector is pretty hot right now and it’s
still a positive environment for IPOs.”  HD Supply Valuation  HD Supply filed for an IPO in April using a $1 billion
placeholder amount. The stock will list on the Nasdaq Stock
Market under the symbol HDS.  At the midpoint of the range, HD Supply would have an
enterprise value of $8.67 billion, which includes a working-capital surplus of about $1.2 billion.  That’s about 12 times Ebitda of $714 million in the 12
months through May 5, adjusted to reflect the cost of
extinguishing debt and stock-based compensation, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That compares with the median multiple of
about 13 for companies including Fastenal Co. and WW Grainger
Inc., the data show.  HD Supply will use estimated IPO proceeds of about $1.16
billion after fees to reduce debt to $5.6 billion, filings show.
Carlyle, Bain and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice will see their
respective stakes shrink to 20 percent from 28 percent as the
company sells new stock in the IPO, according to the documents.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, JPMorgan and Credit
Suisse Group AG are among the banks managing the share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  