-- Case Backs Clothing Startup That Sells Through Facebook
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-06-13T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/case-backs-clothing-startup-that-sells-through-facebook.html
Revolution LLC, run by America
Online Inc. co-founder Steve Case, is investing in an e-commerce
kids’ clothing startup that does the majority of its sales
through  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Lolly Wolly Doodle Inc. , based in Lexington, North
Carolina, generates 60 percent of revenue through the world’s
largest social network -- a method that allows personal
interaction with buyers, who order products through postings and
messages.  Revolution’s investment is the majority of a $20 million
funding round that includes existing holders  Firstmark Capital 
and  High Line Venture Partners . The financing will help Lolly
Wolly Doodle hire 100 people in the next few years, taking its
total number of workers to about 200, according to a statement
today by the clothing company and Revolution.  Case is buying into the company through his firm’s $450
million Revolution Growth  fund , which he runs with former AOL
executives Ted Leonsis and Donn Davis. Case, who helped start
AOL in 1985, typically looks for promising small businesses on
the East Coast that may not make their way onto the radars of
most Silicon Valley-based venture capital firms. Revolution,
based in  Washington , has also invested in car-sharing service
Zipcar Inc. and LivingSocial Inc., the daily deal coupon site.  “Lolly Wolly Doodle is a perfect example of our core
belief at Revolution that great entrepreneurs and innovative
companies can be found all across the country, not just in
Silicon Valley,” Case said in the statement. “Lolly Wolly
Doodle proves affordable manufacturing can thrive in America.”  Funding Round  Bonnie Rothman Morris, a spokeswoman for Lolly Wolly
Doodle, said Case’s firm is putting up most of the funds in the
investment round.  Selling through Facebook lets Chief Executive Officer
Brandi Temple take immediate feedback from customers into
account -- a suggestion that she make a certain dress in zebra
print, for instance. She can also use Facebook users’ reactions
to gauge demand and predict production, a leg up that
transformed her living-room hobby of sewing dresses for her
niece into a business that ships 30,000 kids’ garments a month.  Lolly Wolly Doodle has a loyal fan base, with more than
580,000 followers on Facebook. Startups such as Combatant
Gentlemen LLC and Southern Tots have also won sales by engaging
customers through the direct link provided by social media.  Incorporating consumers’ suggestions into the design
process is more effective than creating a line of clothing and
hoping the patterns and fabrics are popular, Temple said in an
interview earlier this year.  To place an order on Lolly Wolly Doodle, users “like” the
retailer’s  page  and comment on an item, expressing an intent to
buy. The company then e-mails an invoice and ships the product.
Temple has said she was originally selling on  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s site
and switched when two weeks of sales via Facebook brought in as
much revenue as two months on EBay.  Customers can also purchase merchandise from Lolly Wolly 
Doodle’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  