-- Chidambaram Vows Reforms to Aid Growth as Rupee Resumes Drop
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a ,   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-13T13:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/chidambaram-pledges-more-india-growth-reforms-after-fitch-boost.html
India ’s finance minister signaled
more policy changes to revive economic growth and said steps are
being taken to stabilize the nation’s currency as it resumed a
slide near a record low.  “There is concern about the rupee,” Palaniappan Chidambaram said in a briefing in New Delhi today. “But I don’t
think there is any reason for panic. We are concerned about the
volatility and some steps are being taken to ensure there is no
volatility. It’s quite possible the rupee will regain some of
the losses it has suffered in the last few days.”  The economy is stronger than last year and  government
spending  will help drive its expansion, said Chidambaram, who
has spearheaded a nine-month policy push to counter the weakest
Indian growth in a decade. The rupee, which plunged to a record
low earlier this week, weakened as much as 1.3 percent to the
dollar, reversing gains yesterday after  Fitch Ratings  boosted
India’s sovereign credit outlook to stable from negative.  The finance minister said no decision has been taken yet on
whether to generate capital inflows by selling bonds to Indians
living overseas, a statement that may have weighed on the
currency as officials try to fund a record current-account gap.  “While we were not expecting any big bang announcements
from the FM today, even our meager expectations have not been
met with Chidambaram offering only the hope of more reforms by
end June,” said Priyanka Kishore, a strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Mumbai.  Rupee Drop  The rupee depreciated 0.3 percent to 57.99 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It slid to an
all-time low of 58.9850 on June 11 and is down 5.2 percent this
year. The S&P BSE India Sensex index retreated 1.1 percent to
18,827.16, its lowest close since April 17. The yield on the
benchmark 8.15 percent government bonds due June 2022 rose five
basis points to 7.55 percent, according to the central bank’s
trading system.  The current account deficit will be around 4 percent of the
gross domestic product in the quarter ended March 31, Bloomberg
TV India reported citing  Raghuram Rajan , chief economic adviser
in the  finance ministry .  The  Reserve Bank  of India sold dollars to prevent the
currency dropping to 60 per dollar, according to two people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named as the
information isn’t public.  Luring Inflows  Long-term investors, including sovereign-wealth funds,
multilateral agencies and global central banks, can buy $5
billion more Indian sovereign debt, the central bank said in a
statement yesterday as it tries to lure inflows. The cap now
stands at $30 billion, compared with $25 billion earlier.  Chidambaram said a review of restrictions on foreign-direct
investment will be “resolved” before the end of the month. He
indicated that changes to coal and gas prices to better reflect
market rates are due in June as well.  He also said the rupee’s decline will pressure inflation.
Consumer prices rose 9.31 percent in May from a year earlier.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will keep the
 repurchase rate  at 7.25 percent on June 17, 12 of 22 analysts
said in a Bloomberg News survey. The rest see a reduction to 7
percent. Subbarao lowered the benchmark in January, March and
May by 25 basis points at each meeting.  Fitch’s revision provided some succor for Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s coalition, which has been hurt by graft
scandals that in recent weeks disrupted parliament and hampered
efforts to extend the policy push for faster economic expansion.  Addressing Impediments  The company said yesterday its move “reflects the measures
taken by the government to contain the  budget deficit ” and
“some, albeit limited, progress in addressing some of the
structural impediments to investment and economic growth.”  Singh began reforms in September to woo investment and
avert a rating downgrade. Steps have included liberalization in
the retail and aviation industries to attract overseas capital,
and a drive to speed up infrastructure projects.  The prime minister today established a group to monitor
large public and private investment projects, according to a
statement from his office.  The minority administration, whose economic credentials
will be tested in elections due by May 2014, has also reduced
levies on overseas buyers of local bonds and raised taxes on
gold imports to pare the current-account shortfall.  Etihad-Jet  Etihad Airways PJSC agreed in April to buy a 24 percent
stake in Mumbai-based Jet Airways (India) Ltd. for 20.6 billion
rupees ($355 million), taking advantage of reduced restrictions.  Still, the recent legislative logjam has held up bills to
simplify taxes, provide more land for industry and open up the
pensions and insurance business to foreign companies.  A proposal to provide the poor with cheap food grains is
also stalled. Chidambaram said today the government is seeking
the support of opposition parties to convene a special session
of parliament to pass the bill.  The economy expanded 5 percent in the year ended March, the
slowest pace since 2003, and less than the 10-year average of
about 8 percent. The government today twice corrected
industrial-production data released yesterday. Output rose 2.3
percent in April from a year earlier rather than the 2 percent
originally reported.  “Walk the talk is the most critical thing and unless you
address slow decision making and implementation, it’ll be
difficult to get back to significant growth levels,” said Sujan Hajra, a Mumbai-based economist at Anand Rathi Financial
Services Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  