-- Chile Keeps Key Rate Unchanged as Retail Boom Defies Slowdown
-- B y   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s
-- 2013-06-13T22:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/chile-keeps-key-rate-unchanged-as-retail-boom-defies-slowdown.html
Chile ’s central bank kept  borrowing
costs  unchanged for a 17th straight month as booming retail
sales defied a slowdown elsewhere in the economy, delaying a cut
in rates that most analysts expect in the next few months.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held
the benchmark rate at 5 percent today, as forecast by 15 of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The other four expected a
quarter-point reduction. It is the longest period without a rate
change in Chile since at least 1995.  Retail sales leaped 11.2 percent in April from the year
earlier, the fastest pace since August, even as manufacturing
growth stagnated and a four-year decline in  unemployment (CHUETOTL)  slowed.
Policy makers probably will cut the key rate to 4.75 percent
next month as growth weakens and the inflation rate remains at
the lowest in Latin America, economists surveyed by the central
bank forecast this week.  “The central bank doesn’t have the space to cut rates
yet,” said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at  Banco de Credito e
Inversiones (BCI)  in Santiago. “The key is domestic demand, which is
still far from showing signs of deceleration.”  Policy makers debated the possibility of a rate cut at last
month’s meeting, according to the minutes of the discussion
released on June 3. Minutes from today’s meeting will be
published June 28.  Central bankers said they would give a rate reduction
closer scrutiny at future meetings, according to the minutes.  Slowing Down  Chile’s  Imacec index , a proxy for gross domestic product,
grew 4.4 percent in April from the year before, less than the 5
percent forecast by analysts, even though the month contained
two more working days than in 2012. Economic activity expanded 3
percent in March, the slowest pace in 20 months.  Inflation is also weakening. Prices rose 0.9 percent in the
year through May, the least since April 2010 and compared with
2.46 percent in  Peru , 2 percent in  Colombia  and 4.63 percent in
 Mexico . Chile targets inflation of 2 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Weaker growth and inflation pushed two-year interest rate
swaps down 59 basis points, or 0.59 percentage point, to 4.51
percent today from April 1. That implies policy makers will
reduce the key rate to 4.5 percent by September, according to
calculations made by  Banco de Chile. (CHILE)   Manufacturing growth averaged 0.42 percent over the three
months through April from the year before, down from 4.25
percent in the fourth quarter of last year, according to the
 National Institute of Statistics .  Unemployment rose to 6.4 percent in April, compared with
6.1 percent at the end of 2012 and little changed from the year
earlier. The jobless rate has tumbled from 11.6 percent in
August of 2009.  Retail Strength  The economic slowdown is yet to impact consumers, with
retail sales rising more than 10 percent in four of the past six
months.  Strong demand justified keeping the benchmark rate
unchanged last month, even as weaker inflation and growth argued
for a rate cut, policy makers said in the minutes of the May
meeting.  Economists surveyed by the central bank this week cut their
forecast for growth in 2013 to 4.6 percent from 5 percent in the
month earlier poll. They reduced their prediction for year-end
inflation to 2.4 percent from the 2.5 percent forecast in May
and 2.8 percent estimated in April.  “The central bank is in no hurry in terms of inflationary
pressures,” said Alfredo Coutino,  Latin America  director at
Moody’s Analytics. “The central bank sees that its monetary
policies are in neutral terrain, as they don’t stifle growth and
they keep inflation under control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Sanders in London at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  