-- China to Survey Soil Pollution Nationwide, Xinhua Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-13T07:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/china-to-survey-level-of-soil-pollution-nationwide-xinhua-says.html
China  is surveying soil nationwide
to ascertain levels of heavy metals pollution after the
discovery of rice tainted with cadmium spurred concern that
crops may be unsafe, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  The project will compare samples collected from topsoil and
deeper layers to determine heavy-metal pollution caused by human
activities, Xinhua reported, citing the Ministry of Land
Resources and China Geological Survey. The survey will test for
78 elements in soil, according to the report that was posted to
the central government’s  website  yesterday.  Authorities have pledged to reduce pollution and ensure
 food safety  as they seek to assuage public anger sparked by
incidents including chemical spills into supplies of drinking
water and the sale of tainted baby formula. Pollution has
surpassed land disputes as the main cause of social unrest in
China, Chen Jiping, a former member of the Communist Party’s
Committee of Political and Legislative Affairs, said in March.  The discovery of cadmium-tainted rice at eateries in
southern China’s Guangdong province this year has led to public
calls for the release of information on soil pollution, Xinhua
reported, without saying if the results of the latest survey
would be made public.  In January, a lawyer in Beijing named Dong Zhengwei asked
the environment ministry to release information on soil
pollution, Xinhua reported earlier on May 9. The ministry
responded in February by refusing to provide the information
because it is a state secret, according to the report. Dong then
asked that that decision be reviewed, to which the ministry
responded by saying the data would be released following
additional evaluations, according to Xinhua.  Heavy Metals  The land ministry has previously said tests found severe
pollution in several regions, including abnormally high levels
of cadmium, mercury, lead and arsenic in parts of the mid-and
lower-tributaries of the  Yangtze River , according to the Xinhua
report from yesterday.  A survey of Guangdong found 40 percent of its soil was
polluted by heavy metals and that the situation had “severely
worsened” since 2008, the China Daily newspaper reported in
July 2010, citing Wang Hongfu, a researcher with the Guangdong
Institute of Eco-environment and Soil Sciences.  Shortages of land and water have limited the growth of
Chinese grain production, which has trailed the pace at which
the nation’s consumption has increased,  Chen Xiwen , deputy head
of the Communist Party’s Central Rural Work Leading Group, said
in January. Grain imports last year reached a record 72.33
million tons, Chen said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  