-- China Scraps Iron Ore Import Licensing System to Help Companies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-13T12:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/china-scraps-iron-ore-import-licensing-system-to-help-companies.html
China , the world’s largest  iron ore 
buyer, scrapped a licensing system for imports of the
steelmaking raw material, according to two industry executives.  The abolition of the permit system will help small and
medium-sized trading companies easy access to the raw material,
said Wang Chunsheng, head of iron ore trading at Beijing-based
steelmaker Shougang Group, who was previously vice secretary-general of the state-run  China Iron and Steel Association . Zhu
Dingfa, vice president for purchasing at China Railway Materials
Trading Co., a unit of the  China Railway Group Ltd. (390) , also
confirmed the scrapping of the licensing system.  Easier import rules may help cut shipment costs and make
purchases more transparent and efficient for buyers, Zhu said.
The changes won’t have much impact on larger companies such as
Shougang as they held licenses under the previous system,
according to Shougang’s Wang. The changes were reported earlier
today by Reuters.  Two calls to the steel association’s Beijing office after
office hours weren’t answered today.  “This is a significant move and it will help level the
playing ground,” Zhu said. “We may not see imports jump but we
will definitely see less manipulation and less hoarding.”  China imported a record  745 million metric tons  of iron ore
in 2012. Inventories at China’s ports and mills are at the
lowest in 2 1/2 years at 20 days of demand, Dominic O’Kane, an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report today.  Iron ore  for immediate delivery at Tianjin port in China
climbed 1 percent to $112 a dry ton today, according to The
Steel Index Ltd. The steelmaking ingredient fell to $110.40 a
dry ton on May 31, the lowest since October.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  