-- China Stocks Fall to 6-Month Low After Holiday on Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-13T07:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-on-economic-data-after-holiday.html
China’s stocks  fell after a three-day holiday, dragging the benchmark index to a six-month low, as
government reports showed industrial production and exports
trailed economists’ estimates.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)  led declines for automakers after growth
in industrial output slowed to 9.2 percent last month from 9.3
percent in April.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) , the listed unit of
China’s second-biggest steelmaker, lost 2.8 percent after it cut
product prices. Sany Heavy Industry Co., the biggest Chinese
machinery maker, tumbled 5.7 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 2.8 percent to
2,148.36 at the close, the lowest level since Dec. 13. The CSI
300 Index declined 3.4 percent to 2,399.94. Mainland markets
were shut for the Dragon Boat holiday. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost 3.3 percent, heading for a bear
market, as trading resumed following a one-day holiday.  “May economic data were poor and it looks like the
slowdown in  China ’s economic growth isn’t temporary and may
trend down for a while,” said Li Jun, a strategist at Central
China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The downward pressure on the
market will be big.”  The Shanghai index has fallen 12 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 6 on concern economic growth is slowing and amid
speculation regulators will resume initial public offerings
after halting them since October. It trades at 8.8 times 12-month estimated earnings, the lowest since Dec. 6,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg showed. Trading volumes in the index were 5.8
percent below the 30-day average today.  Economic Data  The MSCI Emerging Market Index lost 3.2 percent and the
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index dropped 2.9 percent when China’s
markets were shut. The  H-shares index  closed June 11 at an
eight-month low, dragging its  valuation  to 1.2 times net assets,
the lowest ratio versus the MSCI All-Country World Index since
November 2003.  SAIC, China’s largest carmaker, lost 3.9 percent to 14.47
 yuan .  Great Wall Motor Co. (601633) , the nation’s biggest maker of SUVs
and pickup trucks, slumped 3.4 percent to 34.67 yuan. FAW Car
Co., which makes cars in China with Volkswagen AG, tumbled 10
percent to 13.90 yuan.  China’s  industrial production  compared with a median
estimate for a 9.4 percent increase. May exports rose 1 percent
from a year earlier, down from 14.7 percent in April, while
imports dropped 0.3 percent from a year earlier. The median
 estimates  of analysts were for a 7.4 percent export growth and a
6.6 percent import gain. The reports were released on June 8.  China Caution  The data add pressure on President Xi Jinping and Premier
Li Keqiang to shore up growth that unexpectedly slowed to a 7.7
percent rate in the first quarter. While the figures boost the
case for easing monetary policy or increasing spending, the
government’s room is limited by rising home prices and
overcapacity in an economy where lenders’ bad loans have risen
for six straight quarters.  “The data has disappointed the market, so investors have
become a little more cautious on China,” Robert Aspin, Standard
Chartered Plc’s head of global equity investment strategy, said
in  Singapore  on June 11. “We are looking for a bit more clarity
in terms of government policies.”  The World Bank cut its global growth forecast for this year
to 2.2 percent from 2.4 percent projected in January, the bank
said in a report released yesterday in  Washington . China’s
growth outlook was reduced to 7.7 percent from 8.4 percent,
according to the report.  The slowdown in China’s growth may extend into the third
quarter, the China Securities Journal said today. Uncertainties
over investment growth will increase as urban development may be
slower than expected, according to the newspaper.  Easing Stimulus  Baoshan Steel, the listed unit of China’s second-biggest
steelmaker, sank 2.8 percent to 4.53 yuan after the company said
it cut hot-rolled and cold-rolled product prices for July
delivery by 200 yuan per ton.  Sany Heavy retreated 5.7 percent to 8.34 yuan after denying
a media report saying it inflated sales of pump trucks and
vehicle pumps by 415 million yuan ($67.6 million).  Some foreign investors pulled funds from Chinese equities
since Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central
bank could ease its stimulus policies should the U.S. employment
outlook show sustainable improvement. Investors withdrew $834
million from Chinese stock funds in the week to June 5,
Citigroup Inc. said in a June 7 report, citing EPFR Global data.  China’s securities regulator plans to restrict share
issuers and major holders from selling their stock below the
initial public offering price as part of new rules aimed at
cracking down on fraud and protecting investors.  The restrictions will be in place for two years after lock-ups end, according to draft rules the China Securities
Regulatory Commission posted on its  website  on June 7 after the
market closed. Issuers must also prepare and disclose plans to
stabilize share prices that fall below net asset value within
five years of their debut.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  