-- China Local Debt Audit ‘Credit Negative,’ Moody’s Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-13T06:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/china-local-debt-audit-credit-negative-moody-s-says-correct-.html
(Corrects currency conversion in second paragraph.)  China ’s government risks being
forced to bail out some local authorities and take over their
liabilities after a report from the nation’s audit office showed
a jump in borrowings, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The National Audit Office  review  indicates that total local
government direct and guaranteed debt may have risen 13 percent
to 12.1 trillion yuan ($2 trillion) by end-2012 from end-2010,
Moody’s said, citing its own calculations based on data in the
report which showed a 13 percent increase in the debts of a
sample 36 local authorities.  Moody’s lowered its outlook for China’s sovereign credit
rating to stable from positive in April, saying the nation has
made less progress than anticipated in reducing risks from
local-government debt and credit expansion. Earlier that same
month, Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut China’s long-term local-currency
debt rating, citing increasing dangers to the country’s
financial stability given the lack of transparency in local
authorities’ borrowing.  “Both the amount of debt among the sampled local
governments and the limited scope of the report are credit
negative for China,” Moody’s said today, referring to the
National Audit Office report. “The amount of local government
debt makes it more likely its burden will eventually fall upon
the central government and the limited scope of the report makes
the size of that potential burden uncertain.”  The auditor’s  report , released on its website June 10, a
public holiday in China, showed the debts of the local
governments chosen for scrutiny rose to 3.85 trillion  yuan  in
the two years through Dec. 31. The 36 regions accounted for 32
percent of total local government debt at the end of 2010, the
auditor said.  Bank Borrowings  The report follows the government’s first audit of local
government debt released in June 2011. The investigation found
liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan at end-2010 after local
authorities, barred from directly selling bonds or borrowing
from banks to pay for projects including roads and bridges, set
up more than 6,000 financing vehicles to raise money.  Nine provincial capital cities had debt ratios higher than
100 percent excluding guarantees last year, with the highest at
189 percent, suggesting “protrusive” debt risks, according to
the audit report. Some cities had to roll over debts, with five
repaying more than 20 percent of debt last year with new
borrowings, it said.  “The pile up in debt is cutting down the effectiveness of
economic policy and slowing down growth, reminiscent of ‘zombie
companies’ in  Japan  in the 1990s,” Shen Jianguang, chief Asia
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, wrote in
a note today. While the risk of a broad-based default is still
controllable, “policy makers will have to take swift action
before the situation deteriorates,” he said.  Expansion Cooled  Local authorities face “large pressure” paying off loans
where land sales or highway revenues were pledged as a source of
repayment, the audit office said. Such debt rose last year while
land sales and toll fees fell as economic expansion cooled, it
said.  Some regions resorted to new funding channels such as trust
loans, financial leasing, wealth management products and build-transfer arrangements after banks tightened lending, the auditor
said. Such new channels “engender new, hidden risks” as
they’re more difficult to supervise and funding costs are as
high as 20 percent, it said.  The auditor’s latest report highlights the lack of
transparency in local government financing, Moody’s said. It
also shows growing use of “irregular financing” and that local
authorities are increasingly rolling over their debt and
refinancing, it said.  Modest Burden  Moody’s estimated that China’s government debt, including
contingent liabilities that have a “high likelihood of winding
up on the government’s budgetary balance sheet,” may be more
than 40 percent of gross domestic product rather than the 29.4
percent it estimated for the end of 2012.  “Although such a debt burden is relatively modest,
especially compared with highly indebted mature sovereigns, the
large amount of contingent liabilities illustrates the harm done
to China’s balance sheet from unchecked moral hazard and a
mismanagement of fiscal risks,” Moody’s said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  