-- CNET Founder’s Bankruptcy Thrown Out Over Missed Deadline
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/cnet-founder-s-bankruptcy-thrown-out-over-missed-deadline.html
Halsey Minor, the CNET Networks Inc.
founder who filed for bankruptcy last month -- five years after
selling the company for $1.8 billion -- lost access to court
protection after missing a deadline for handing in documents.  The personal Chapter 7 bankruptcy case was dismissed
yesterday by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Los Angeles over a
“failure to file schedules, statements and/or plan,” according
to an order posted in the online docket for the case. The
documents include detailed lists of assets and explanations of a
debtor’s state of affairs, which are required by judges.  The June 7 deadline was missed by a few days and the
documents were filed this week, David Shemano, Minor’s lawyer
with Peitzman Weg LLP in Los Angeles, said in an e-mail. Minor
will seek to have the case reinstated, Shemano said, adding that
such requests are routinely granted.  Minor filed the bankruptcy petition on May 24, listing
assets of as much as $50 million and debt of as much as $100
million. In a Chapter 7, an impartial trustee is appointed to
administer the case and sell assets such as automobiles.  Minor, 47, sold CNET to  CBS Corp. (CBS)  in 2008, netting himself
about $200 million, according to  CNN Money . He lost money on bad
bets on real estate and other ventures.  Technology Startups  In the petition, Minor said he didn’t have money for his
unsecured creditors, and that he intended to hand over all his
eligible assets to a court official who would sell them to the
highest bidder and wipe Minor’s finances clean.  Halsey Minor’s Minor Ventures invested in early-stage
technology startups including GrandCentral Communications Inc.,
which  Google Inc. (GOOG)  bought in 2007 for about $65 million and
renamed Google Voice.  Since then, Minor has been selling his art collection to
pay debts. In 2010, he sold a painting of a blue-eyed nurse by
Richard Prince and an aluminum couch by Marc Newson to help
raise $21.1 million for his creditors. Proceeds from the sales
went toward a $21.6 million judgment obtained in 2009 by  Bank of
America Corp.  affiliate ML Private Finance on a late loan.  In April 2010, Sotheby’s Inc. won a $6.6 million judgment
against him in connection with three artworks he bought at
auction and later refused to pay for.  The case is In re Halsey McLean Minor, 13-bk-23787, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  