-- Commercial Paper Rises for Fourth Time in Five Weeks, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2013-06-13T15:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/commercial-paper-rises-for-fourth-time-in-five-weeks-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  short-term IOUs  expanded for the fourth time in five
weeks, led by an increase in nonfinancial issuance.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
rose $3.9 billion to $1.035 trillion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website.
That’s the highest level since $1.048 trillion in the period
ended May 29. Last week, the market fell $17.2 billion after
rising a total $55.3 billion during three periods.  IOUs issued by  nonfinancial  companies increased $2.8
billion to $220.1 billion outstanding, the highest level since
$232 billion for the period ended Feb. 27, according to the Fed.  “The rise in domestic nonfinancial issuance is a reversal
to the trend seen into May when borrowers were moving into
short-term debt and locking in the low forward rates,”  Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco Research LLC in Chicago, wrote in
an e-mail. “Borrowers who are unsure of the trend in rates can
take the rollover risk and remain in the CP market rather than
shifting into the short end of the  bond market .”  U.S. company bond yields surged to 3.91 percent yesterday,
the highest level since August and up from a record low of 3.35
percent on May 2, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate & High Yield Index.  ‘Mind Set’  The climb in yields has accelerated since Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that the central bank could
reduce $85 billion in monthly Treasury and mortgage debt
purchases within “the next few meetings” if officials see
signs of sustainable improvement in the economy.  “The increase by the nonfinancial paper sector may signal
that the mind set may be shifting as the expectation for the
Federal Open Market Committee to taper increases,”  Sean Simko ,
a money manager at SEI Investments Co. in Oaks, Pennsylvania,
whose team manages about $3 billion of commercial paper, wrote
in an e-mail. The FOMC is the U.S. central bank’s policy-setting
body. Taper in market parlance refers to a potential reduction
of the Fed’s bond buying.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  