-- Communist Rebels Attack Indian Train in Bid to Loot Police Guns
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-06-13T11:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/communist-rebels-attack-indian-train-in-bid-to-loot-police-guns.html
About 100 communist insurgents
attacked a passenger train in eastern  India , killing two people,
in what officials said was an attempt to loot the weapons of
security personnel.  The Maoist guerrillas forcibly stopped an inter-city
express service in the  Jamui  district of Bihar state this
afternoon and opened fire at armed railway police, Deepak
Barnwal, the region’s superintendent of police, said by phone.
One of the two dead was a member of the railways security force,
Shashikant Tiwary, the district magistrate, said. Two other
people were injured in the attack.  Today’s incident took place two weeks after the rebels,
known in India as Naxalites after the village of Naxalbari where
their leftwing revolt began, struck a convoy of vehicles
carrying senior members of the ruling Congress party. Twenty-eight people died in the May 25 strike, including local
political leaders, in one of the most deadly attacks on
civilians of a four-decade offensive.  The Maoists rebels are active in about a dozen of the
country’s 28 states, many of them rich in  iron ore , coal,
bauxite, manganese and other minerals. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has called the insurgents the greatest threat to India’s
internal security.  The guerrillas say they are fighting for the rights of poor
villagers and tribal communities whose resources are, the rebels
argue, being exploited to propel India’s $1.9 trillion economy
with few benefits for local people.  Maoists ‘Desperate’  The rebels attacked the train to grab arms and ammunition
from railway police as their traditional sources of weapons have
dried up, said R.P.N. Singh, federal junior home minister, in
New Delhi. “It definitely shows the sense of desperation among
the Naxalites,” he said, expressing the government’s resolve to
fight the rebels.  Singh, India’s premier, and Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde this month consulted chief ministers of the country’s
states and political parties on a strategy to deal with the
insurgents.  Maoists killed 1,005 civilians and security personnel in
2010, a figure that fell to 611 in 2011, and 415 last year,
according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  