-- Congress Rating as Institution Hits Low, Gallup Says
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-06-13T18:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/congress-rating-as-institution-hits-low-gallup-says.html
The public’s scorn for a gridlocked
 U.S. Congress  continues to grow, with a new Gallup poll showing
confidence in the legislative body falling to 10 percent, the
lowest level Gallup has ever found for any institution.  The  poll released today  placed Congress dead last among 16
institutions in a survey that included banks, the U.S. Supreme
Court and the presidency. Congress was behind organized labor
and health maintenance organizations in public confidence.  Congress’s 10 percent rating in the survey was three
percentage points lower than in a similar Gallup survey of the
public’s views of major institutions conducted at the same time
last year.  “Partisan bickering, gridlock, an inability to get things
done -- that’s what Americans are complaining about,”  Frank Newport , Gallup’s editor in chief, said in an interview today.  The decline in confidence in Congress dates to 1973, when
it was 42 percent, a level not matched since. While it’s ebbed
and flowed, public opinion of the institution has fallen sharply
in the past decade. Gallup’s current level of 10 percent is in
line with other polls that show historically poor approval
ratings for Congress and its top leaders.  Immigration Law  Both chambers are seeking ways to push past the partisan
fighting in a bid to approve immigration legislation this year,
with the full Senate debating the most significant revision to
immigration law in a generation while House members are seeking
to craft a measure. Lawmakers in both parties say they can’t
predict whether a final measure will make it to the president’s
desk for his signature.  Republicans took over the House majority in 2011, while the
Democrats have the majority in the Senate.  Newport, a longtime Congress-watcher, said the gridlock is
driven by factors including newer methods of redrawing
congressional districts that create House seats either more
Republican or Democratic-leaning than in the past. House members
must worry every two years about whether voters in their more
partisan districts will return them to office Newport said.  “The ramification is that Congress will continue to have
disdain heaped on it until they can find a way to work around
these structural issues,” Newport said.  Incumbents Return  Still, voters last year returned the vast majority of
incumbents to their Senate and House seats, even with the low
approval ratings. Some senators seeking re-election next year
say they want a repeat with voters more focused on individual
voting records than the broader concerns of Congress.  “They will judge their individual senators and congressmen
based on what they’ve done,” said Senator  Mark Begich , an
 Alaska  Democrat up for re-election in 2014. “I think I’ve done
a very good job representing Alaska’s needs and fighting against
this broken system here. I’m probably in that 90 percent that is
saying, we have to function much better here.”  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who has said he
won’t seek another term in 2016, said the poll result was
deserved.  “Why should it be that high?” Coburn said. “Look, we’re
incompetent. I think it’s fully appropriate.”  In the Gallup poll, the institution with the highest rating
was the U.S. military, with 76 percent of Americans expressing
confidence. That was followed by small business, with 65
percent.  The phone survey of 1,529 U.S. adults was conducted June
1-4. It has a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  