-- Coty Falls in Trading Debut After Raising $1 Billion in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-06-13T20:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/coty-little-changed-in-debut-after-raising-1-billion-in-ipo.html
Coty Inc. (COTY) , maker of perfumes
endorsed by Beyonce and  Heidi Klum , dropped in New York trading
after raising about $1 billion on behalf of existing holders in
an initial public offering yesterday.  The stock fell less than 1 percent to $17.36 as of 4:02
p.m. Coty’s owners including the billionaire Reimann family sold
57.1 million shares for $17.50 each, after offering them for
$16.50 to $18.50 apiece.  The Reimanns maintained control over the company by
allowing themselves 10 votes per share, compared with one vote
for new shareholders. Coty is seeking to increase sales from
developing markets and add skin-care products to its offering.  “There’s a lot of competition, and they have significant
exposure to the Europe region, which has been hampered by
challenging macro conditions,” said David Wu, an analyst at
Telsey Advisory Group in  New York . “However, they are a strong
player with compelling global brands. That should enable them to
capture further market share over the long run.”  At the offering price, Coty had an enterprise value of
about $8.6 billion including net debt, or about 11 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the 12 months through March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Avon Products Inc. and  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) , which Coty names
as competitors, traded at enterprise values of about 14 times
Ebitda during the same period, as of the close on June 11, the
day before the offering.  TJoy Acquisition  Joh. A. Benckiser, the Reimanns’ Luxembourg-based
investment arm, planned to retain an 85 percent voting stake
while paring its equity holding to about 70 percent, filings
show.  In fiscal 2012, more than  half  of Coty’s $4.61 billion in
sales came from fragrances, 31 percent from color cosmetics and
16 percent from skin and body care, filings show. Coty agreed to
pay $400 million for Chinese skin-care company TJoy Holdings
Ltd. in December 2010 to gain access to its distribution
channels.  Coty is likely to make further acquisitions in higher-growth areas such as skin care, Wu said.  Berkshire Partners LLC, which has no relation to  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and Rhone Capital LLC also
planned to sell stock in the IPO.  New York-based Coty was founded in 1904 in Paris by
Corsica-born Francois Coty. The company owns the color cosmetics
brand OPI and has a licensing agreement to sell the Adidas line
of skin-care products.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley led the sale. The stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol COTY.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  