-- Czech Premier Fights to Survive Amid Spy Scandal
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a ,   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-06-14T20:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/czech-premier-fights-to-survive-as-police-hold-close-aide.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas is
in a scrap to keep his job after prosecutors said one of his
closest aides illegally ordered intelligence officers to spy on
three people and was involved in a bribery case where ex-lawmakers were offered jobs at state-owned companies.  Jana Nagyova, who runs Necas’s office and has worked with
him since at least 2006, the head of military intelligence and
five other people were charged, prosecutor Ivo Istvan said in
Prague today. Officers seized as much as 150 million koruna
($7.8 million) in cash and some gold after raiding 31 homes.  Necas, 48, who refused to quit, is entering his fourth year
in power after quelling a rebellion over austerity in his  Civic
Democratic Party  to become the longest-serving Czech premier in
a decade. The opposition  Social Democrats , emboldened by an
opinion-poll lead a year before elections, called a June 18 no-confidence vote, while Necas failed to get the full support of
his party’s leaders at a meeting today.  “It looks like one of the gravest threats this government
has faced so far,” said  Martin Lobotka , an economist at Erste
Group Bank AG’s Prague-based unit, in a report to clients today.
“While markets normally ignore domestic political turbulences,
short-lived volatility on foreign exchange and bonds cannot be
excluded.”  Koruna, Stocks  The koruna weakened 0.2 percent to 25.743 per euro at 8:29
p.m. in Prague. It depreciated 0.5 percent yesterday, the
biggest retreat among the world’s 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, after the raids on government offices took place. The
benchmark PX stock index fell for a fifth day to close the week
3.1 percent lower at a 10-month low.  The cost of insuring Czech bonds against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 59, after reaching a two-month high of
63 yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The executive council of Necas’s party voted to back his
premiership, parliamentary speaker Miroslava Nemcova told
reporters in Prague after the panel’s four-hour meeting. The
body voted by a ratio of two-to-one for the decision, Necas
said.  “The situation is very hard, very difficult, and the fact
that there were both positive and negative voices is natural in
this situation,” Necas said, adding the voting showed “decent
support” for him.  The  Czech Republic , a former communist country, ranked 54th
of 174 countries in  Transparency International’s  2012 corruption
perception index, tied with Latvia, Malaysia and  Turkey . In the
27-member European Union, only Slovakia, Romania, Italy,
Bulgaria and  Greece  did worse.  Bribery, Corruption  Civil servants and military officials were charged with
abuse of power, while other detainees were charged with bribery
and corruption, Istvan said. In the bribery case, ex-lawmakers
were offered jobs in state-owned companies, according to Istvan.  Necas’s chief of staff Lubomir Poul was among the detained,
though not charged, the Prague-based newspaper  Lidove Noviny 
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Nagyova illegally asked intelligence officers to spy on a
person in a “private” matter, Istvan said, without identifying
the victim. He didn’t elaborate on other victims. She faces as
much as five years in prison if convicted, according to Robert
Slachta, the head of the police organized crime unit.  ‘Personal Responsibility’  “If the prime minister refuses to take personal
responsibility for the way this government has been engulfed by
this huge scandal, if he refuses to resign, this will obviously
only strengthen the dark streams of extremism and populism in
our country,” said opposition leader Bohuslav Sobotka, the
chairman of the  Social Democratic Party , in parliament.  Prosecutors suspect that one of the detainees, a former
head of military intelligence service, was involved in spying on
Necas’ wife, which was ordered by Nagyova, CTK reported, citing
attorney Tomas Sokol. Necas, who is separated from his wife,
said in a statement on June 11 that the couple had agreed to an
uncontested divorce.  Necas told lawmakers today that the various police probes
are not linked, adding that all suspects should be investigated
properly. It is “standard political practice” to offer jobs to
allies, which can’t be viewed as bribery if no payments were
involved, he said.  Nagyova has been the head of Necas’s office since he took
power in 2010. She was the head of his office when he served as
social affairs minister from 2006 to 2009 and advised the
 Defense Ministry  in 2010, according to the government’s website.
She didn’t answer calls to her mobile phone yesterday.  Police Raids  Hundreds of officers started raiding several locations on
June 12, including the government building and the Defense
Ministry, police spokesman Pavel Hantak told reporters
yesterday. They also searched the city of Prague’s chief
investment office, requesting documents about municipal
contracts, the mayor’s press department said in a statement.  The Social Democrats, the largest opposition party that
leads in opinion polls a year before elections, joined the
Communist Party in calling for Necas’s resignation. Nemcova set
the preliminary date for a vote against the Cabinet for June 18
in a special session that starts at 2 p.m.  The country should move toward early elections as soon as
possible, Sobotka said. The opposition will “do everything
possible” to make Necas leave the office, he said.  ‘Never Before’  “Never before have there been arrests at the government
offices, in the closest circles of the prime minister,” Sobotka
told lawmakers after Necas refused to resign.  President Milos Zeman, a critic of the government and a
Social Democratic prime minister from 1998 to 2002, met with
Necas and Sobotka at the  Prague  Castle today and didn’t comment.  While the top leadership of Necas’s Civic Democrats
expressed support for the prime minister, the premier faced
criticism at the meeting of a wider executive council of the
party, according to Jiri Pospisil, a deputy chairman.  “We all perceive the situation as very serious, some
delegates are more critical,” Pospisil, who was fired as
justice minister last year after he had opposed some of Necas’s
policies, said at the party’s headquarters in a Prague business
district. “For now, the government is functioning, but let’s
wait for further developments. I’m convinced that the government
as such isn’t threatened.”  Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek, the deputy leader of
the junior coalition party TOP09, said there was “no reason to
lose confidence” in Necas and destabilize the government.  “We are at the crossroads for the development of democracy
in our republic,” Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg, who is
also TOP09’s leader, told reporters. “Either the police has
real evidence of something illegal and then what happened in the
past hours may lead to a revival of our democracy. Or, god
forbid, there is no evidence, then this would be a threat to our
democracy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  