-- Czech Premier Under Pressure After Police Raid Cabinet Offices
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-13T13:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/czech-premier-under-pressure-after-police-raid-cabinet-offices.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas is
under mounting pressure from the opposition after prosecutors
and police raided government offices in a criminal
investigation. The koruna weakened against the euro.  One of Necas’s aides was among several people detained in a
raid last night by the police’s organized crime unit, the
Prague-based iDnes.cz news website reported today, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the case. The head of the unit
and two prosecutors “visited the premier in relation to a
criminal procedure,” Interior Minister Jan Kubice told
lawmakers today, saying he had no further information.  The lower house of parliament adjourned deliberations and
will reconvene at 9 a.m. in Prague tomorrow when Necas will
attend, Miroslava Nemcova, the chamber’s head, said in a
statement. The Social Democrats, the largest opposition party
that leads in opinion polls a year before elections, will meet
at 6 p.m. to decide whether to initiate a no-confidence motion
against Necas. The Communist Party has called on him to resign.  “This is one of the biggest scandals of this government,”
Jeronym Tejc, the head of  Social Democratic Party ’s
parliamentary caucus, told state television today. “If the
Social Democrats decide to initiate a no-confidence vote, we
will announce it and we will proceed with it.”  The koruna weakened as much as 0.6 percent against the euro
and was down 0.4 percent at 25.679 as of 3:02 p.m. in Prague,
the worst performance among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Police or prosecutors didn’t say whether anybody was
detained in the raid, leaving government and opposition
lawmakers scrambling for information. Police will hold a news
conference at 3:30 p.m. in Prague.  “The situation so far appears to be very serious, however,
we only have second-hand information,” Karolina Peake, the head
of the junior coalition party Lidem, said in a statement. “Like
everybody, I’m expecting a statement by the Prime Minister. Only
after that we will be able to comment further, or take a
stance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  