-- Dallas Pension Battles With Museum Over Plan to Reduce Sun Glare
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-06-13T19:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/dallas-pension-battles-with-museum-over-plan-to-reduce-sun-glare.html
A Dallas pension fund whose 42-story
apartment building with reflective windows may be damaging art
in a nearby museum has come up with a plan to fix it:
Reconfigure a sun screen over the museum’s glass roof.  The museum, the Nasher Sculpture Center in downtown Dallas,
rejected the proposal announced today as a “publicity stunt”
that won’t prevent harm to its art, which includes works by
 Edgar Degas ,  Pablo Picasso  and Auguste Rodin.  The dispute pits Museum Tower, a $200 million investment by
the city’s pension for police and firefighters, against the
Nasher, designed by Pritzker Architecture Prize winner  Renzo Piano  and Peter Walker. The pension fund and developer said they
spent $1 million over the past year and a half trying to find a
solution to the building’s glass sending light into the museum.  The resulting plan “restores the visitor experience in the
Nasher galleries,” according to a statement today from building
developers and the Dallas Police and Fire Pension System, which
says it has $3.7 billion in assets.  The museum said the reconfigured sun screen won’t block the
reflected light.  “Recycling the same grossly inadequate and deeply flawed
idea in another publicity stunt is not a way to address the
problems Museum Tower is causing for the people of  Dallas ,”
said Kristen Gibbins, spokeswoman for the museum, in an e-mail.
“The owners of Museum Tower need to fix their building.”  Arts District  The museum and glass apartment building, which opened this
year, are located in the city’s arts district. The area also
includes the Dallas Museum of Art and Morton H. Meyerson
Symphony Center. The pension has marketed the apartment
building’s location near the cultural institutions as an
amenity.  The museum became concerned during construction that the
tower’s reflective glass was damaging art and the museum’s
garden.  Museum Tower representatives described their solution to
the museum in a private meeting on April 26, according to the
statement. They said they’d pay for the sun screen
modifications.  Tower representatives said in the statement today that they
discovered only after the reflective glass was installed that
the building was sending light through the sun screen and into
the galleries.  Screening Sun  After studying a variety of options, the apartment
developers concluded the only way to completely stop reflected
light from entering the museum was to change the sun screen,
said Greg Greene, one of the developers.  “This change will be imperceptible to visitors inside the
galleries,” Greene said in an interview.  The solution doesn’t address sunlight directed into the
museum’s garden, and it isn’t significantly different from a
proposal made by developers more than a year ago that the museum
rejected.  The developers and pension fund said in the statement that
they hired a horticulturalist to study the impact of the light
on plants in the garden and concluded it isn’t causing damage.  Steve Sandborg, vice president of sales and marketing for
Museum Tower, declined to release sales figures on the building.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  