-- Detroit Emergency Manager Bans Mobile Phones at Creditor Meeting
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-06-13T18:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/detroit-emergency-manager-bans-mobile-phones-at-creditor-meeting.html
Mobile phones and iPads will be
banned and more than 100 creditors and union leaders will have
to show photo identification to hear  Detroit  emergency manager
Kevyn Orr demand concessions to erase a $386 million deficit.  The prohibition on handheld devices at tomorrow’s meeting
will assure attention during a session meant to put Detroit on a
path to viability, rather than a record reorganization in
bankruptcy court, said Bill Nowling, Orr’s spokesman. It may
last two hours, he said.  “We don’t want them tweeting or texting or Facebooking,”
Nowling said. “They’re there to listen to our proposal and ask
questions about it. We don’t want to give anybody an undue
advantage over anyone else in the room in trying to game the
system or trying to move numbers in the markets.”  The closed meeting at the Detroit Metropolitan Airport is
meant to cap the creation of a recovery plan and foster
negotiations over liabilities. Orr last month called for
restructuring $9.4 billion in long-term debt that saps services.
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have both cut the city’s credit
rating in the past 24 hours.  The city’s population has dropped by a quarter since 2000,
to around 701,000. Since 2008, Detroit has spent an average of
$100 million more than its revenue each year.  Orr, a 55-year-old Washington bankruptcy lawyer, was
appointed by Republican Governor Rick Snyder to supersede the
city’s elected representatives and solve the fiscal crisis.  Same Page  Tomorrow’s meeting is a prudent step, said Doug Bernstein,
a bankruptcy lawyer with Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based
Plunkett Cooney PC.  “You want to deliver the message so everybody’s hearing
the same thing,” Bernstein said.  Nowling said the meeting will drive home the idea that a
community’s future is at stake.  “This is not a business transaction,” he said. “We’re
not liquidating a company. This is about making a city viable
again.”  On June 10, Orr held a public hearing in Detroit to discuss
his plan. Those coming from out of town tomorrow for the
creditor meeting at a Westin Hotel 20 miles from the city may
escape the wrath of citizens that emerged at the earlier session
-- and public scrutiny.  “People could fly in for the meeting and leave
unobserved,” Dan McNamara, Detroit Fire Fighters Association
president and an invitee, said in a telephone interview.  Battle Ready  At the public hearing, Orr told more than 260 people that
he would demand “painful sacrifices” and outlined finances
that include more than $15 billion in long-term liabilities.  He said improving public safety and other services would be
a priority, and that he would seek concessions from employee
health care as well as givebacks from bondholders, such as lower
interest rates or outright forgiveness of loans.  George Orzech, a member of Detroit’s police and fire
fighters pension board, said the two retirement funds for city
employees have set aside a combined $5 million for anticipated
court battles with Orr.  Orzech said that while pensions are protected under the
Michigan constitution, board members are worried the emergency
manager will attempt to take control, even though he’s said he
won’t cut benefits.  Art Preservation  Today, state Attorney General Bill Schuette said that the
city can’t sell works from the Detroit Institute of Arts to pay
debts, because they are held in public trust. Orr had asked for
an inventory.  If creditors and retirees can’t be satisfied, Chapter 9
bankruptcy would be the last resort, said Orr. It would be the
largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  Among bond insurers attending tomorrow’s meeting will be
 MBIA Inc. (MBI) , based in Armonk, New York, said Kevin Brown, a
spokesman. MBIA subsidiary National Public Finance Guarantee
Corp. insures $100.7 million of Detroit general-obligation bonds
and almost $2.5 billion in revenue bonds, mostly for the water
and sewer system.  “Our plan is to go and listen to what Mr. Orr has to say
and we’ll go from there,” Brown said.  Michael Camarella at OppenheimerFunds Inc., which oversees
about $241 million of Detroit debt, said no one from his New
York-based firm would attend.  “The insurers are representing our interests,” he said.
“If there’s a payment interruption, it would be the insurers
that are going to bear that, not the bondholders.  Bernstein said Orr is ‘‘swimming upstream.’’  ‘‘Exhausting all remedies before you pull the trigger on
bankruptcy is the right strategy,’’ he said.  And the tomorrow’s cloistered meeting may have unexpected
benefits for those inside.  ‘‘Not having a cell phone for a couple hours will be a
relief,’’ Orzech said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  