-- Detroit Yielding 16% Drives Nuveen Bet on Repayment: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a ,   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-13T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/detroit-yielding-16-drives-nuveen-bet-on-repayment-muni-credit.html
Nuveen Asset Management, the second-biggest owner of  Detroit ’s debt, is betting emergency financial
manager Kevyn Orr will come up with a recovery plan that repays
bondholders in full.  The  money manager  oversees $95 billion of municipal bonds,
including at least $190 million of all types of Detroit debt,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s second to  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN)  Orr, 55, a lawyer who has said bankruptcy is an
option for the city of 701,000, will call for “staggering”
concessions from creditors in a meeting tomorrow, said his
spokesman, Bill Nowling.  John Miller , co-head of fixed income at Nuveen in  Chicago ,
said he’s comfortable holding uninsured Detroit general
obligations, some of which have seen yields rise to a record 16
percent. In Jefferson County,  Alabama , which reached a deal last
week to exit bankruptcy, investors will get back about $1.8
billion of $3.1 billion.  The uninsured bonds “are speculation about the ability of
the emergency manager to succeed with what he’s charged with
doing,” Miller said by telephone. He cited the state’s
emergency-manager law, which calls for full repayment of the
scheduled debt service on all muni debt. No  Michigan  locality
has had to seek Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection.  Creditor Meeting  Should Detroit wind up in bankruptcy, federal law may trump
the Michigan statutes designed to protect bondholders. Detroit,
where officials are struggling to provide public safety and
street lights, would join  California  cities Stockton and San
Bernardino in trying to stick bondholders with a loss. Moody’s
Investors Service said last month that a May report from Orr on
the city’s finances makes a Chapter 9 filing “a real option.”  Orr plans a hearing tomorrow with more than 100 creditors,
union leaders and bond insurers on his preliminary proposal,
which paints a picture of a government that since 2008 has spent
an average of $100 million more each year than its revenue and
has borrowed to stay afloat. Orr would cut debt costs by
lengthening payback terms, lowering  interest rates  or obtaining
forgiveness on some obligations, according to his report.  Orr, who worked on the 2009 bankruptcy of the former
Chrysler LLC, said last week he’s preparing for possible Chapter
9 bankruptcy if he can’t strike deals to restructure $15.7
billion in long-term obligations. Negotiations could extend into
August or beyond, he said.  Franklin’s Holdings  Stacey Johnston Coleman, a spokeswoman for  San Mateo ,
California-based Franklin, declined to comment. The company has
the most Detroit debt, at $232 million, Bloomberg data show.  The holdings data include the city’s $7.5 billion of
combined general-obligation bonds, water and sewer debt, pension
borrowings and securities backed by state aid. It is based on
regulatory filings and data provided by the companies for some
funds, and may not capture all of their holdings.  For example, Nuveen said its total holdings tally $539
million as of yesterday, according to Kathleen Cardoza, a
spokeswoman.  The burden of the liability would fall on insurers if debt
payments are reduced. They back about 80 percent of the $2.5
billion of Detroit general-obligation and pension bonds,
according to Lisa Washburn, a managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  Historic Levels  Some bonds without insurer guarantees are trading at
record-high yields.  Tax-exempt Detroit general obligations that are backed by
the city’s limited taxing power and mature in April 2015 traded
June 10 at an average yield of 16.3 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s double levels from last month and the
highest since the uninsured debt was sold in 2008. It’s also
equivalent to about 83 cents on the dollar.  The securities have a CCC- rating from  Standard & Poor’s ,
nine levels below investment grade. The New York-based company
cut Detroit’s rank by four levels yesterday, saying Orr “may
take steps to adjust payments to bondholders.”  Nuveen holds about $16 million of the bonds of the $21
million outstanding, Bloomberg data show. About $12 million is
in its  high-yield fund , which is run by Miller and has beaten 95
percent of its peers this year.  “There’s a lot more risk in the unenhanced G.O.s, no
question about it,” Miller said, referring to uninsured bonds.
Still, “depending on the dollar price, where they’re trading
today and what the emergency manager comes up with in terms of
workout, restructuring and recovery plans, they could generate
positive returns.”  Full Payment  The emergency-manager law says the financial operating plan
must provide for “payment in full of the scheduled debt service
requirements on all bonds, notes, and municipal securities of
the local government.”  Miller may be relying on a legal position that hasn’t been
widely tested -- that state law trumps the U.S.  bankruptcy code .  “It’s an open question at best,” said Dale Ginter, a
bankruptcy attorney in  Sacramento , California, at Downey Brand
LLP who represented retired workers of Vallejo, California, when
the city filed for bankruptcy in 2008.  Because there have been so few major Chapter 9 cases, there
aren’t binding precedents to settle the question, though U.S.
bankruptcy judges have tended to favor federal law, he said.  Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code was written to avoid
conflicts between state and federal power, and one way it does
that is by acknowledging that states have authority to decide
whether their localities can file bankruptcy, Ginter said.  Legal Principle  A state “can say no, but once you say yes, you take the
entire bankruptcy law,” he said.  Upholding Michigan’s requirement that bondholders be repaid
in full would put all the burden of cutting a city’s debt onto
its employees, Ginter said. It would also contradict one of the
most important principles of bankruptcy law, which says that
creditors holding debt that has similar repayment priorities
must be treated the same, he said.  Detroit bonds such as those for the water and sewer system
will have a better chance of being fully repaid, while others
will have interest or principal reduced, said Robert Amodeo at
Western Asset Management Co., a unit of  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the
third-largest holder of Detroit bonds.  “There is uncertainty, but you have to understand what you
have and what’s securing and supporting your debt,” said
Amodeo, head of munis in  New York . “Investors hopefully will be
made whole.”  Detroit Comfort  Michael Camarella at OppenheimerFunds Inc. in New York said
he will get paid no matter what Orr does, because the company
has only general obligations that are backed by the city’s
unlimited-tax pledge and also by insurers. He expects those
companies “to make payments so bondholders don’t miss a beat.”  Chris Alwine, Vanguard’s head of muni funds in  Valley
Forge , Pennsylvania, said he’s “comfortable” holding Detroit
general obligations insured by units of  Assured Guaranty  Ltd.  OppenheimerFunds ranks fourth in Detroit muni holdings,
followed by BlackRock Advisors LLC and Vanguard, Bloomberg data
show.  “Should the city of Detroit fail to make a required debt-service payment for any reason, including a bankruptcy filing,
National’s insured bondholders are guaranteed their scheduled
interest and principal payments on time and in full,” said Adam Bergonzi, National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.’s chief risk
officer, in a March 5 statement.  ‘Irrevocable Guaranty’  Assured Guaranty “is committed to honoring its
unconditional and irrevocable guaranty to holders of its insured
obligations,” according to a statement from Ashweeta Durani, a
company spokeswoman.  Michael Fitzgerald , a spokesman for Ambac Assurance Corp.,
declined to comment. Michael Corbally, a spokesman for Syncora
Guarantee Inc., didn’t return an e-mail.  The Massachusetts Educational Financing Authority is among
issuers set to sell a combined $3.3 billion next week, down from
$7.2 billion this week.  At  2.36 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are the
highest since March 2012. The interest rate compares with  2.23
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 106 percent, compared with an average of 92 percent since
2001. The greater the figure, the cheaper munis are compared
with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  