-- Deutsche Bank’s Property Funds Testing Waters in Spain
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-06-13T08:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/deutsche-bank-s-property-funds-testing-waters-in-spain.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , whose asset
management unit has about 41 billion euros ($55 billion) of
property investments, is looking for opportunities to buy
Spanish and Italian offices and shops on behalf of German
institutional clients for the first time in three years.  German pension funds and insurers that invest with Europe’s
second-largest bank have begun to show a willingness to target
assets in southern European countries hurt by the sovereign debt
crisis, Georg Allendorf, head of German real estate at Deutsche 
Asset and Wealth Management, said in an interview last week. His
unit manages about 12 billion euros of real estate.  “A window of opportunity has opened,” he said. “We’ll
never be able to time the bottom precisely, but if you buy after
prices have come down, you can catch the upside when the market
turns around.”  Institutions have cut their investments in Spain and Italy
in the past three years as property values fall amid an economic
slowdown.  Madrid  prime office prices have slid 20 percent since
2010 and retail property prices have dropped 6.8 percent,
according to data compiled by broker Knight Frank LLP. Prime
offices in Milan, Italy’s financial capital, fell 1 percent.  It’s safest to invest in centrally located offices and
retail properties in large cities such as Madrid,  Barcelona ,
Milan and  Rome , said Allendorf.  Crisis-Proof  “There will always be demand for core offices and
retail,” he said. “The euro crisis doesn’t affect those
markets.”  Funds overseen by Allendorf have about 1.5 billion euros
available to spend on new buildings around the world in 2013,
compared with about 2.2 billion euros of investments made
globally in 2012. There’s no guarantee that all the money will
be spent, Allendorf said.  “It’s not clear to us whether sellers are willing to sell
at prices that we consider reasonable,” he said. “We’ve been
observing the market.”  Deutsche Bank’s asset and wealth management unit has about
15 billion euros of real estate investments in Europe, including
900 million euros in  Italy  and 1.7 billion euros in Spain,
according to data provided by the company. About 21.6 billion
euros of its property investments are in the U.S. and 4 billion
euros in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  