-- Dior to McDonald’s in Macau Casinos Help Adelson Pass Ho
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-06-14T10:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/dior-to-mcdonald-s-in-macau-casinos-help-adelson-pass-ho.html
As Judy Huang’s husband prepared to
hit Macau’s gaming tables, the 33-year-old mother from mainland
 China  was more drawn to the Venetian resort’s shopping plaza,
home to a fake grand canal, crooning gondoliers and brands from
McDonald’s to Dior.  “The mall is important” for visitors with children, Huang
said while preparing to board a ferry to Macau from Hong Kong.
“At least it will keep us entertained while we’re waiting for
my husband.”  Tourists such as the Huangs, seeking a mix of fast food,
fashion and baccarat, are fueling profits for the Venetian and
other resorts owned by  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  -- and
helping the company woo players from local rival  SJM Holdings
Ltd. (880)   Family-friendly attractions have boosted the appeal of the
U.S. billionaire’s casinos for middle-class Chinese, who have
helped turn  Macau  into the world’s largest gambling hub, with
$38 billion in revenue last year, more than six times the Las
Vegas Strip.  In the first quarter, Sands took the top spot in Macau’s
mass-market casino business, overtaking SJM Holdings, whose
founder, Stanley Ho, built Asia’s largest gambling empire by
catering to high rollers. Sands’ mass gambling revenue in Macau
jumped 63 percent to a record $863 million for the quarter,
while SJM’s rose 5 percent to about HK$6.22 billion ($801
million), earnings statements show.  Michelin Stars  “Shopping malls are the biggest selling point to drive
mass-market traffic,” said Grant Govertsen, an analyst at Union
Gaming Group in Macau. “SJM is missing that essential piece.”  Ninety-one year old Ho held a Macau gambling monopoly for
four decades until 2002, when the government issued licenses to
foreign players such as Sands and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  Today, his
flagship Grand Lisboa casino houses pricey Michelin star
restaurants and has a performance lineup that includes the
French Can Can dance, but offers little shopping or family
entertainment.  When Ho’s monopoly began, Mao Zedong led China and Macau
was a Portuguese colony. The city became a special
administrative region of China in 1999, ending nearly 450 years
of Portuguese rule.  Vegas Glitz  Even as the Chinese economy slowed in 2012, growth in
gambling from mainstream tourists stayed relatively steady, with
mass-market gaming revenue rising an average of 33 percent
annually since 2010, according to Bloomberg Industries.  “Macau has transformed itself from a pure gambling center
into a brand-new tourist destination,” Lui Che Woo, chairman of
Galaxy Entertainment, said after a recent shareholder meeting.  Ho was initially reluctant to copy the Vegas-style glitz of
his U.S. competitors. “Ignoring Macau’s special characteristics
and duplicating a Las Vegas or an Atlantic City would not be a
successful strategy,” the SJM founder and chairman said at a
2009 gaming expo.  By contrast, retail stores from Zara to Tiffany line Sands’
resorts. Sands China has a total retail space of 1.49 million
square feet, consisting of close to 600 shops, in Macau. The
mall business raked in annual revenue of $239.1 million in 2012,
an increase of 28 percent from a year earlier.  The sprawling Venetian, Macau’s biggest casino, stands on a
piece of reclaimed land called the Cotai Strip, where Sands and
other operators have sought to create an Asian version of Las
Vegas.  SJM received government approval in May to develop its
first gambling resort on Cotai, becoming the last of Macau’s six
licensed casino operators to get permission to open there. Ho’s
company will need at least three years to build its casino.  Best Vision  “Adelson has the best vision in Macau’s gaming market,”
said Richard Huang, a CLSA Ltd. analyst. “He was the first one
investing big money into Cotai Strip.”  Ho and his family control Sociedade de Turismo e Diversoes
de Macau, owner of about $7.85 billion worth of stock in SJM,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. SJM remains the largest
Macau casino operator, running 20 of the city’s 35 gambling
venues, versus Sands’ four. SJM also ranks first by revenue in
Macau, with $10.3 billion last year. Galaxy Entertainment Ltd.
was second at $7.3 billion, and Sands China third with $6.5
billion.  Sands China has risen 16 percent in Hong Kong this year and
trades at 20.5 times estimated 12-month earnings. SJM has gained
10 percent and is valued at 14.7 times forward profits. The 79-year-old Adelson now ranks 16th on the Bloomberg Billionaire’s
list and has a net worth of about $27.1 billion.  Sands China declined to comment on its mass-market
business. SJM didn’t respond to calls and e-mails seeking
comment on how it will compete in that market.  1,000 Butterflies  Members of Ho’s family who have branched off to set up
rival businesses have also courted middle-class gamblers.  Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , where Ho’s son Lawrence is CEO, lures
visitors with the House of Dancing Water, a show featuring
motorcycle stunts.  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , where daughter Pansy Ho is co-chairman, had a  pavilion  showcasing more than 1,000
butterflies last year and now features an aquarium exhibiting
more than 1,000 fish.  “Chinese consumers are becoming very demanding,” MGM
China CEO Grant Bowie said in an interview. “When you start
moving into leisure gaming, which is what the mass market is all
about, you need to develop multiple touch points.”  While Macau counts on high-stakes bettors for two thirds of
its revenue, the mass market is growing faster. And middle-class
gamblers offer fatter margins since casinos often pay
commissions to middlemen who bring in the high rollers.  To keep appealing to visitors like Anita Lin and Bill Chen,
newlyweds planning to stay at a Holiday Inn for a night, casinos
understand they must continue increasing their offerings that go
beyond the green felt of the tables. Lin and Chen expected to
shop and enjoy the restaurants, sampling local specialties like
egg tarts.  And gambling? “Not a lot,” Lin said. “Maybe just
1,000-2,000  yuan  ($160-$320).”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  