-- SoftBank, Sprint Say Dish Broken Pledge Claim Is Nonsense
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-06-13T22:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/dish-says-softbank-s-lower-sprint-cash-infusion-broke-fcc-pledge.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984)  and its takeover
target  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  told regulators that rival suitor
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s complaint of a broken pledge requiring
fresh regulatory scrutiny of the deal is “nonsensical.”  “There is no factual or legal basis for Dish’s
arguments,” the companies said in a filing yesterday with the
Federal Communications Commission, the last U.S. agency
scrutinizing the $21.6 billion transaction.  Mobile operator SoftBank, based in Tokyo, in a revised
offer this week cut the amount of capital devoted to the new
business to $5 billion from $8 billion, Dish lawyer Pantelis Michalopoulos said in a filing. The agreement also may prevent a
U.S. company from acquiring a substantial portion of Sprint,
Michalopoulos said. The changes require fresh analysis at the
FCC, he said.  SoftBank’s proposed investment in third-largest U.S.
wireless carrier Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, remains
substantial, the companies said in their filing yesterday.
“There is no basis for the commission to open a new public
comment period or otherwise delay its review,” they said.  “Dish’s claim that the adoption of a stockholder’s rights
plan requires commission review because that plan would restrict
U.S. ownership of Sprint is nonsensical,” the companies said in
their filing. Nothing in the plan “says anything about whether
U.S. citizens or corporations can own Sprint stock.”  Dish Bid  Dish, the satellite-TV provider controlled by billionaire
 Charlie Ergen , bid $25.5 billion for Sprint on April 15. It
faces a June 18 deadline to submit another offer after Sprint’s
board approved SoftBank’s new offer. Dish said this week that it
continues to view Sprint as holding “tremendous value” and is
considering its options.  Justin Cole, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  The FCC is reviewing the transfer of control of Sprint’s
airwaves. The review determines whether the change is in the
public’s interest.  While some of the deal terms have changed, the transfer of
control remains the same, so a completely new application
probably isn’t necessary, said  Chris King , an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “This is more of a minor speed bump than a major delay,”
King said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  