-- Dollar Correlates to Stocks in Economy Obama Desires: Currencies
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-13T12:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/dollar-correlates-to-stocks-in-economy-obama-desires-currencies.html
The dollar is moving more in tandem
with  stocks  than any time since 2008 in a sign that traders are
gaining confidence in the sustainability of the U.S. recovery.  The U.S. Dollar Index and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
are the most closely correlated since the start of the global
financial crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
gauges started moving more in lockstep last month as the
greenback jumped to an almost three-year high and U.S. equities
surged to a record.  Traders retreating from  emerging markets  are seeking
America’s currency as everything from jobs to  consumer
confidence  and housing fuel the economy while the  euro zone 
struggles with recession,  Japan  debases its currency and the
U.K. stagnates. Rising U.S.  bond yields  as the Federal Reserve
debates whether to slow bond purchases are adding to the
dollar’s allure.  “The whole correlation structure in the market is
shifting,”  Jens Nordvig , global head of foreign-exchange
strategy at Nomura Securities International Inc., said by phone
from New York. “The way the dollar is trading relative to risk
is totally different. The way the dollar is responding to news
is totally different. ”  Correlation Coefficient  The 30-day correlation coefficient between the Dollar Index
and the  S&P 500 (SPX)  reached 0.28 on May 30, the highest level since
October 2008, before falling back to 0.1 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with as low as minus
0.9 on Nov. 15, 2011. A reading of 1 means the gauges move in
lockstep, and minus 1 means they move in opposite directions.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canada
dollar and Swedish krona, dropped 0.2 percent to 80.809 as of
8:03 a.m. in New York. It’s gained 1.3 percent this year and
reached 84.498 on May 23, the highest level since July 2010. A
day earlier, the  S&P 500  rose to a record 1,687.18, and it has
risen more than 13 percent this year.  The positive correlation implies traders expect growth in
the world’s largest economy to boost stocks and also push the
dollar higher. U.S. gross domestic product will expand 1.9
percent this year and 2.7 percent in 2014, beating the Group of
10 average of 1.09 percent and 1.95 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists in separate Bloomberg surveys.  Shrinking Deficit  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is benefiting from
an economic revival as he seeks to shrink the  budget deficit .
The bipartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said May 14 that the
shortfall will be reduced this fiscal year to $642 billion, the
smallest since 2008 and less than half 2009’s record $1.4
trillion deficit.  “Our deficits are going down faster than they have gone
down in decades,” Obama said May 17 in Baltimore as he touted
efforts to push infrastructure projects. “The American  auto
industry  is thriving. American energy is booming.”  A stronger economy is also bolstering speculation the Fed
will reduce the $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
securities it buys each month. The central bank prints dollars
to make the purchases and inject cash into the financial system,
debasing the currency in a policy called quantitative easing.  Economists estimate the Fed will reduce the pace of
purchases to $65 billion a month at its Oct. 29-30 meeting,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Carry Trade  With the central bank adopting near-zero  interest rates 
since December 2008, some investors turned to the dollar to fund
purchases of higher-yielding assets, weighing on the currency.  Selling the U.S. currency versus a basket of the Australian
dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso and  New
Zealand dollar  would have generated a 26 percent return in 2009,
according to calculations using Bloomberg Carry-Trade Data. The
same trade would have lost an annualized 6.2 percent if
initiated at the start of 2013.  “The whole nature of the dollar as a funding currency is
breaking down,” Nomura’s Nordvig said.  The potential for tapering of Fed bond purchases has led to
higher yields on Treasuries. Yields on Treasuries due in 10
years were as much as 0.62 percentage point higher than the
average for sovereign markets elsewhere with similar maturities,
the most since mid-2011, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show. As recently as November there was no difference.  Capital Flows  While the correlation between the dollar and riskier assets
such as equities is “the big trend this year,” stronger
capital inflows may be necessary for the trend to become
entrenched, according to Vassili Serebriakov, a foreign-exchange
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New York .  “We’re not really seeing signs of that yet,” he said in a
telephone interview on June 10.  International demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other
financial assets weakened for a second month in March. Net sales
of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled $13.5 billion,
the most since May 2009, following net sales of $13.3 billion in
February, the Treasury said May 15.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks 10
currencies against the greenback, fell to a nine-month low this
week as the Malaysian ringgit, the Korean won and the Philippine
peso led the decline. A  similar index  of Latin America
currencies dropped to its lowest in a year.  Trend Reversal  “Quantitative easing means a lot of creation of liquidity,
and then there was a search for yield,” Bernd Berg, a global
emerging-market foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said by phone from Zurich. “This trend we saw over
the past couple of years is somewhat reversing itself because
you have Treasury yields in the U.S. rising and at the same time
you had yields in countries like  Australia  coming down.”  The dollar’s inflation-adjusted value against its major
trading partners is 10 percent below its average since 1994. A
gauge of the currency’s  real-effective exchange rate  was 97.64
in April, compared with the record 93 reached July 2011, the
latest data from the Bank for International Settlements show.  Investors are looking for clarity on whether the Fed will
pare stimulus before the dollar can become a currency that has a
clearer positive correlation with growth, according to  Peter Frank , global head of currency strategy at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  London .  “That will be the final piece in the jigsaw to be put in
place to turn the dollar into a fully pro-cyclical currency,”
Frank said in a June 11 telephone interview. “You will see a
much higher correlation between risk metrics such as equity
prices and the value of the dollar. There’ll be a much stronger
positive correlation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  