-- Dormant Inflation Seen Giving Fed Time to Wait: Chart
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-06-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/dormant-inflation-seen-giving-fed-time-to-wait-chart.html
The Federal Reserve may be able to
take its time in adopting a more restrictive monetary policy
because inflation is relatively tame, according to Pavilion
Global Markets Ltd.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, the U.S. core consumer
price index’s increase since the latest recession ended in June
2009 is the smallest for any multiyear recovery since the 1970s.
The gauge of prices excluding food and energy rose 6.3 percent
through April, according to the Labor Department.  “There is no pressure on inflation that could lead the Fed
to act more quickly than it would like” in scaling back a bond-buying program and raising interest rates, Pierre Lapointe, the
Montreal-based head of global strategy and research at Pavilion,
and two colleagues wrote yesterday in a report.  Core consumer prices were 7 percent higher at the same
point in the previous recovery, which started in December 2001,
as the chart shows. The biggest increase in the inflation gauge
was 29 percent, posted in a recovery that began in April 1975.  These and other inflation statistics are at odds with the
magnitude of losses in U.S. bonds, according to David R. Kotok,
chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors. The decline in
10-year Treasury notes sent their yield surging 60 basis points
from this year’s low, reached on May 2, through yesterday. Each
basis point amounts to 0.01 percentage point.  “The bond-market adjustment is too extreme and has created
bargains,” Kotok wrote. He added that Cumberland, a firm that’s
based in Sarasota,  Florida , is buying tax-free bonds and taking
more interest-rate risk with its holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  