-- The Supreme Court’s Bad Science on Gene Patents
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-06-13T16:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/the-supreme-court-s-bad-science-on-gene-patents.html
Can you patent genes? In  Association
for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics,  the U.S.  Supreme
Court  answered this imponderable question with a split decision:
You can’t if they are naturally occurring, and you’ve simply
discovered the gene; but if you’ve crafted a synthetic gene,
you’ve invented it -- and you can keep the patent. As sensible
as this compromise sounds, it doesn’t reflect scientific logic.
The court is trying to protect big pharma and our economy
without offending basic principles of ethics and law. It may
succeed in doing neither.  Today’s Solomonic decision is intuitive on the surface. On
the one hand, as my 6-year-old daughter explained to me, “if
you discover something, that means it was already there. And if
it was already there, you couldn’t have invented it.” Patents
are reserved for inventions, not naturally occurring phenomena.
On the other hand, the synthetic gene -- in this case, a
sequence of what is called “complementary DNA” that includes
only those elements of the gene sequence that actually encode
proteins --has some claim to having been invented, because it is
not (exactly) naturally occurring.  Yet beneath the court’s formalist decision lies an attempt
to reconcile the ethical principle that natural phenomena can’t
be patented with the economic reality of the contemporary U.S.
We increasingly rely on the products of intellectual property to
produce goods that the rest of the world might want to buy. If
there were no patent available for gene identification, it would
significantly reduce the incentive of big pharmaceutical
companies to go after the basic science needed to identify genes
and, potentially, create treatments for the diseases that those
genes might cause. The Supreme Court cut the genetic baby in
half in the hopes of preserving that incentive.  Shaky Reasoning  The devil, as usual, lies in the details. Those details
strongly suggest that the court’s distinction rests on very
shaky scientific grounds -- and can be explained more by
political economy than by logic.  To simplify a modestly complex scientific process -- as
Justice  Clarence Thomas  skillfully did for a unanimous Supreme
Court -- the complementary DNA (or cDNA for short) is created by
taking a naturally occurring messenger RNA molecule and, using
ordinary nucleotide binding, turning it into cDNA. The now
patentable cDNA is different from the original DNA in that it
omits those elements of the original sequence that do not code
for protein formation (if you’re keeping score at home, these
are called introns).  Notably, however, it is not the scientists who removed the
introns from the officially unpatentable original DNA sequence
to make the new, patentable cDNA sequence. It is nature itself,
through the magic by which pre-RNA, which includes the introns,
becomes messenger RNA, which does not. The Supreme Court
described this process by saying, “the pre-RNA is then
naturally ‘spliced’ by the physical removal of the introns” --
that is, the introns are removed as part of the ordinary process
by which messenger RNA is created. The role scientists then
subsequently play is to take the messenger RNA and use it to
synthesize the intron-free cDNA.  To put it much more simply, there is nothing that a 6-year-old would consider “invented” about the patentable cDNA. It is
nothing more than the messenger RNA flipped into a DNA sequence
that omits unnecessary elements that nature already excluded.
The sequence that codes the proteins is just as naturally
occurring as the original DNA itself, which the court held
couldn’t be patented because it was naturally occurring. The
distinction is, to put it bluntly, a lawyer’s distinction, not a
scientist’s. We are accustomed to disparaging law-office
history. The Myriad Genetics case is giving us law-office
biology.  Preserving Research  But if the court’s formalism is a bit unconvincing, its
desire to preserve something capable of being patented in
genetic research makes a certain amount of sense. Much basic
science is and remains government funded, but a large and ever-increasing share of scientific advances connected to particular
genes and diseases is dependent on private financing -- driven,
of course, by the desire to produce drugs and get them to
market.  Patent is a form of intellectual property, and  intellectual
property  is increasingly one of the basic drivers of the  U.S.
economy . From big pharma to computer technology to Hollywood
films, exports that depend upon the protection of intellectual
property lie at the heart of American competitiveness in global
markets. For the Supreme Court to be too relaxed about defining
intellectual property might send a global message that our
government may not be vigilant about protecting intellectual
property abroad.  It therefore makes sense for the Supreme Court to have
found some mechanism for patent protection in genetic research,
however tenuous or formalist the reasoning.  On the other side of the equation lie the concerns of
ethics. It really would be too Orwellian if the court had
allowed naturally occurring phenomena such as genes to be
patented and thus owned, if only temporarily. As philosophers
Margaret Radin and Michael Sandel have argued, some things
really shouldn’t be made into commodities, no matter what
advantages might accrue from it -- and our naturally occurring
genes are surely such things. We should applaud the court for
underscoring this basic principle. At the same time, we should
realize that the same court that produced an ethically appealing
judgment also left room for private enterprise to play its role.
The baby has been split -- or maybe spliced -- in half. Let’s
hope she survives, and that we do.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Stacey Shick at   sshick@bloomberg.net . 