-- EADS CEO Sees A350 Orders at Paris Show in Wake of First Flight
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-13T19:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/eads-ceo-sees-a350-orders-at-paris-show-in-wake-of-first-flight.html
EADS Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  struck an upbeat tone on the eve of the first flight of
the Airbus A350, saying the program is on track for commercial
delivery next year even as it remains “immensely” challenging.  Airbus plans to perform the inaugural lift-off of the long-range jet at 10 a.m. tomorrow from its headquarters in Toulouse,
southwestern  France , marking the last time in at least 15 years
that the European planemaker will stage the flight of a brand
new plane, Enders told reporters in Paris.  “First flight is a special moment, but of course there are
still plenty of challenges ahead,” Enders said. “The real work
starts tomorrow.”  Enders, who took over leadership of European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. last year, said he expects the  Paris Air
Show  that starts on June 17 to yield “a few hundred” orders
for Airbus, including for the A350, which the company is
positioning against  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s twin-engine long-range models.  The A350 is Airbus’s first new commercial jet since
development of the A380 superjumbo suffered delays on production
setbacks before entering service in 2005. Enders said Airbus
“worked very hard” to learn from those issues, and also
studied the missteps that Boeing suffered on its 787 Dreamliner,
which debuted more than three years behind plan.  Tomorrow’s first flying aircraft will be joined by an
additional four jets as Airbus puts the program through tests to
gain approval from safety authorities next year. The first
serial plane is slated for delivery to Qatar Airways Ltd.
Building the airliners to quickly reach output of 10 a month
will be the next challenge, Enders said.  “I am quite happy with where the program stands,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  