-- Leaks in a Big Data Age: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   P a u l   F o r d
-- 2013-06-13T11:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/leaks-in-a-big-data-age-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
A very large  Internet company  once
had the noble impulse to share some of its data with the
research community. It made three months of log files from its
search service available to all.  The company took many steps to preserve privacy, removing
personal information and randomizing ID numbers in the belief
that this would make it impossible to identify any of the more
than 650,000 customers who’d used the service. But Internet
hobbyists, professional researchers, and journalists were able
to ferret out many of the users. No. 4417749, for example, was a
Georgia widow. Another user appeared to be planning a murder.  Today, the AOL Search Log Scandal is remembered as one of
the weirdest missteps in Internet history.  That took place an epoch ago, way back in 2006. Now anyone
with a few dollars and a knack for computers can rent some cloud
capacity and set up a stack of totally free technologies to deal
with enormous amounts of data. Managing this data is a key part
of functioning as a large Internet company.  If you’re the intelligence apparatus of a global
superpower, and your job is to keep an eye on people who are
contemplating terrible acts, this data is incredibly valuable.
You’re going to do what you can to get your hands on it. Once
you do, you can employ beautiful, supple pieces of software --
some with point-and-click interfaces and little icons -- to help
you understand what you’re seeing. It’s powerful stuff.  That’s essentially what’s been going on. From a series
of leaks to the  Guardian newspaper  we’ve learned that  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  turns over logs of all its calls -- the
numbers, locations, and other “metadata,” but not audio from
calls themselves -- to the National Security Agency every day.  Discovering Prism  Thanks to a 29-year-old consultant for  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH)  named Edward Snowden, we also learned of a program
called Prism. The details are uncertain: At first it seemed that
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Apple Inc.,  Facebook Inc. (FB) , and
Microsoft Corp. had given the NSA open access to all of their
user information. Now it seems that these companies are merely
streamlining the way that Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act
requests work, setting up a secured drop-point service for the
NSA to use.  Of course, this implies that there are so many requests
that a special expediting system is needed -— and since we don’t
know how much data is being shared, nor which is domestic or
international, the leak about the NSA program has become a
global sensation.  Public debate about how to strike a balance between security
and liberty in the age of global terrorism and big data is long
overdue. And despite the insistence of the country’s elected
leaders that the NSA’s activities pose no threat to law-abiding
citizens, we can’t merely shrug off the details.  Total Absorption  The total absorption of our telecommunications system into
the national-security apparatus should give all of us pause. But
it shouldn’t be shocking. That’s because the vast digital trove
of secrets amassed by the government isn’t a secret.  Amid all the fury over the Snowden leak, it’s easy to forget
that when asked in a March 12 hearing if the NSA collects “any
type of data at all” on millions of Americans, the director of
National Intelligence,  James Clapper , said, “No sir, not
wittingly.” Later, on NBC, Clapper offered this explanation:
“What I was thinking of is looking at the Dewey Decimal numbers
of those books in the metaphorical library.” Collecting data,
he said, “would mean taking the books off the shelf, opening it
up, and reading it.”  Human Card Catalog  In other words, the NSA is building a giant card catalog
of human beings, many of whom are Americans. They’re not
actually collecting their conversations, or the people
themselves, but all the data about their conversations -— not
the data but the metadata.  It’s entirely possible that Clapper believes he has drawn
a sensible ethical line here. Yet as that AOL case in 2006 made
clear, metadata can be revealing. Search histories or call logs
like those the NSA ingests and presumably stores are hardly the
same as Dewey Decimal numbers. They’re more like the index in
the back of a book. What the NSA seems to be doing is treating
hundreds of millions of people like open books and indexing
them: Who are they, who do they know, where have they been, and
so forth.  Data that’s well-defined and cleanly organized can be
connected to whole other swaths of data. So once you build big
organized indexes of human beings -- one of their search terms,
one of their phone calls, for example -- you can merge them into
one mega-index. And you can combine that mega-index with other
mega-indexes.  Linking Power  There’s enormous power in linking things. Google famously
got its start by judging the way one page connected to another
on the Web. Facebook has its “social graph” of interconnected
people and organizations. Person A connects to person B, and by
inference to all of person B’s friends, too.  This capability is so powerful and compelling that it gets
hard not to link things. That a midlevel external consultant
such as Snowden could have access to so many poorly designed
PowerPoint slides doesn’t necessarily demonstrate that the NSA
is bad at keeping secrets. It could imply that these programs
are so typical inside the organization that they’re almost taken
for granted. Perhaps people like Director Clapper really do
believe, or have chosen to believe, that building a huge index
to the invisible library of humanity is essentially a clerical
act that doesn’t fall under the same moral category as
surveillance. He might argue that a program like Prism doesn’t
involve digging up secrets so much as combining ways of seeing
the world.  Statistical Self  There’s a weird side effect for the rest of us. We are not
just ourselves anymore. Each one of us has a new, statistical
self living in databases around the world. It’s those selves,
uniquely identified bundles of behavior, that marketers target
and companies try to reach. These are remarkable, distributed
portraits of what we read, what we eat, and where we sleep.  When it comes to our statistical selves, the difference
between the NSA and private companies such as Facebook or Google
or  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  lies in what the government can do with the
data it collects. It’s building that giant index so that, if it
needs to, it can actively cross the line between your
statistical self and your real, physical self. It’s the
difference between “would you like to receive local coupons for
businesses you love?” and “why is there a van in front of our
house?”  Less Snoopable  Do we have a choice? Not much of one, not yet. It’s
possible but very burdensome to encrypt all of your data and
become less snoopable. Americans, according to polls, just don’t
care that much about this sort of privacy. As long as the line
between the statistical self and the real self isn’t crossed,
why worry? Full participation in modern culture, one could
argue, requires us to continually leave these data trails, to
build these other selves, all bound to be indexed inside the
NSA’s secret empire at Fort Meade,  Maryland .  Will that change, now that the extent of surveillance has
been revealed? It’s hard to imagine the president doing much,
since the executive branch has become an executive dashboard: a
world of online petitions and spreadsheets and briefings
produced from the very data under discussion. The legislature
could act, but no one ever went broke underestimating the
technical savvy of the  U.S. Congress .  Requesting Files  There are, however, some basic questions an informed
citizenry can and should ask. Where is this data being
collected? Where does it come from? How long is it stored? Which
databases are linked? And another one: Can I see? To its credit,
the NSA does allow you to request your own file and see the
information it has on record. You can mail the request to Fort
Meade, fax it, or e-mail it (with a special digital signature).
It takes a while to process; obviously the NSA would prefer not
to share this information with you.  The irony is that the NSA is very likely the organization
that best understands the digital self-portraits we’ve painted
over the Internet years. Searching for terrorists, it’s built an
unbelievably large index of human events.  As the conversation unfolds, it’s likely that the media
will focus on individuals: Edward Snowden and his motives, or
the terrorists caught out. But don’t forget all of that data,
all those captured moments. We deserve to know this database’s
shape and how it protects us.  As the weeks go on and people in power talk about needles,
keep your eye on the haystack.  (Paul Ford is a programmer and the creator of
SavePublishing.com.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  