-- Heavy Rain as Thunderstorms in Mid-Atlantic Delay Flights
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-13T20:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/heavy-rain-as-thunderstorms-sweep-mid-atlantic-delaying-flights.html
Heavy rain is forecast to wash
through New York City today as severe thunderstorms and gusting
winds push across the mid-Atlantic, snarling air traffic.  More than 14.9 million people are in the predicted path of
today’s most severe weather, according to the  U.S. Storm
Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma . The storms will grow from
a system that roared through the Midwest yesterday, touching off
tornadoes, knocking power out to thousands and grounding
hundreds of flights.  The Washington area will probably get the worst of it,
while New York, at the fringe, may simply have heavy rain, said
Tom Kines, a forecaster with AccuWeather Inc.  “D.C. stands a better chance of seeing something severe
than New York City,” Kines said by telephone from State
College,  Pennsylvania .  As of 4:15 p.m. New York time, more than 760 flights had
been canceled, with the Northeast and mid-Atlantic hardest hit,
according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based tracking service.  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  canceled 159, while AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines and American Eagle Airlines grounded 60 and United
Continental Holdings Inc. scrubbed 50, spokesmen said.  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  reported “lengthy delays” in Baltimore, and
expected flights at Norfolk,  Virginia , and Atlanta to be
affected later today.  Flights Held  Flights  bound for airports  in New York, Washington,
Philadelphia, Baltimore and  Newark , New Jersey, were being held
or delayed at their points of origin, and outbound flights were
being held long as 90 minutes, FlightAware said.  An area from southern New Jersey through eastern Virginia
has a 45 percent chance of being raked with high winds and 30
percent chance of bearing the brunt of damaging hail storms. A
tornado was confirmed near Laurel,  Maryland , at 4:06 p.m., the
National Weather Service said.  Flood watches and warnings reach south from  Massachusetts 
to Virginia, while severe thunderstorm watches and warnings have
been posted across West Virginia and  Kentucky , according to the
 weather service .  “Those have some punch to them right now and I think as
the afternoon wears on it will get worse,” Kines said of the
thunderstorms. “We will have to worry about them in the I-95
corridor.”  Yesterday’s Storms  A line of thunderstorms yesterday touched off tornadoes,
knocked out power to thousands and grounded hundreds of flights
across the Midwest.  More than 66,000 customers in  Chicago  and northern  Indiana 
were without power yesterday, according to utility reports. An
additional 58,000 customers lost power in Pennsylvania and Ohio.  Meteorologists had feared yesterday’s thunderstorms would
coalesce into a derecho, characterized by winds of at least 58
miles (93 kilometers) per hour, creating a line of damage at
least 240 miles long. A derecho swept through the Midwest into
the mid-Atlantic  a year ago , knocking out power to 5 million
people from Chicago to  Washington  and killing 22, according to
government data.  Kines said while a derecho probably didn’t form, there was
a wide area of damage from the hail, tornadoes and wind gusts
the storms produced.  “Those storms that came through overnight had some punch
to them,” Kines said. “I think people hear the ‘derecho’ term
and they think it is the world coming to an end, but other
thunderstorms can be just as bad. Don’t get hung up on the
name.”  Storm Damage  Severe thunderstorms and the tornadoes that sometimes
accompany them caused $15 billion in insured losses in 2012 and
$25 billion in 2011, according to the  Insurance Information
Institute  in New York.  From 1992 to 2011, thunderstorms and tornadoes accounted
for the second-highest amount of catastrophic loss in the U.S.,
$130.2 billion, topped only by hurricanes and tropical storms
with $161.3 billion, the institute said.  After the current round of rough weather passes by
tomorrow, the weekend is expected to be sunny in the Northeast.
Washington may have a high of 84 degrees Fahrenheit (29 Celsius)
under clear skies in two days. New York is expected to have a
high of 77 degrees and  Boston  should reach 79, according to the
weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  