-- Medical-Device Makers Urged by FDA to Boost Cybersecurity
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-06-13T15:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/medical-device-makers-urged-by-fda-to-boost-cybersecurity.html
Hospitals and medical-device makers
are being urged by the U.S. government to boost safeguards
against computer hackers and malware that can disrupt the use of
life-saving technology.  There has been a rise in incidents including breaches of
hospital networks and computer-embedded medical devices that
could expose patient data or privileged passwords, The  Food and
Drug Administration   said  today on its website. The FDA said it’s
not aware of any patient injuries from the intrusions, and
didn’t name specific devices or facilities targeted.  Spies, criminals and activists have stepped up assaults on
government and corporate systems, spurring efforts by Congress
and President  Barack Obama  to shield U.S. infrastructure. The
frequency of data breaches at hospitals has grown as doctors
become more reliant on electronic recordkeeping and digital
equipment such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads to monitor patients.  “We recommend that manufacturers review their
cybersecurity practices and policies to assure that appropriate
safeguards are in place,” the agency said. “The extent to
which security controls are needed will depend on the medical
device, its environment of use, the type and probability of the
risks to which it is exposed, and the probable risks to patients
from a security breach.”  The FDA’s draft guidance today outlines what cybersecurity
measures companies must include when applying for approval of
new devices and urges hospitals to restrict unauthorized access
to their networks and update computer firewalls. Device makers
are responsible for identifying potential risks and creating
safety measures to mitigate any damage, the agency said.  The FDA is working with other government agencies to
identify potential vulnerabilities, communicate the risk and
help mitigate any damage that may result.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  