-- Egypt Stocks’ Biggest Drop in 7 Months Attracts Foreigners
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-06-13T13:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/egyptian-stocks-biggest-drop-in-7-months-attracts-foreigners.html
The  steepest decline  for  Egypt ’s
benchmark EGX 30 Index in almost seven months is attracting
foreign investors as locals dump shares ahead of planned anti-government protests.  Non-Arab foreign investors  are net buyers of shares valued
at about 236 million pounds ($34 million) this month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The EGX 30 tumbled more than 14
percent in the period, entering a so-called  bear market 
yesterday after losing 23 percent from a September peak. The
investors were net buyers of less than 30 million pounds of
stocks last month, when the index rose 4.7 percent.  Egyptian shares have lost the most in the last 10 trading
days since a similar stretch in November as anti-government
activists prepare for nationwide demonstrations at the end of
the month.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  warned this week it may review Egypt’s 12
year-old emerging-market status for a possible cut if the
nation’s currency shortage worsens.  Foreign investors are “trading the risk, banking on high
returns,” Tarek Abaza,  executive director  for sales at Cairo-based Naeem Brokerage, said by phone. “Prices are highly
depressed, you can make a huge return. The political situation
has prevented them from coming into the market more heavily.”  The EGX 30 is trading at  1.1 times net assets  compared with
a multiple of two for  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul (SASEIDX)  All Share Index and
2.1 times for Morocco’s MADEX Free Float Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure advanced 1.2 percent to
4,651.76 at the close in Cairo on volume of 68 million shares,
compared with a one-year average of 126 million shares.  The central bank said in March it took steps to “ease the
exit of foreign investors” by providing banks with foreign
currency on the same day they receive orders from those
investors in Egyptian equities and debt.  “Foreigners still see opportunities to invest in Egypt,”
Mohamed Omran, chairman of the Egyptian Exchange, said in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York  yesterday.
“Prices are going down aggressively, and they’re taking
advantage of that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  