-- Elan Drops as Royal Pharma Says Takeover May Fail
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-13T14:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/elan-drops-as-royal-pharma-says-takeover-may-fail.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  fell the most in four
months after Royalty Pharma, an investor in royalty streams from
medicines, said it may be forced to end its $6.7 billion bid to
takeover the Irish biotechnology company.  Elan fell as much as 9 percent to 8.92 euros in Dublin, the
biggest drop in intraday trading since Feb. 6, and traded at
9.28 euros as of 2:42 p.m. Trading volume in the stock was 31
percent of the daily average for the past three months at about
122,030 shares.  Elan shareholders may approve a share-repurchasing program
at their meeting on June 17, Royalty Pharma said today in a
statement after reviewing votes cast as of yesterday. Investor
backing of the plan, or of any of three other proposals by
Elan’s board, would require Royalty to withdraw its offer under
an Irish Takeover Panel ruling.  “Royalty Pharma believes that this proposal can still be
voted down if a few shareholders change their vote,” Royalty
Pharma said. “Royalty Pharma remains in active dialogue with
Elan shareholders.”  As of 5:30 p.m. in New York yesterday, holders of about 276
million Elan American depository receipts, representing more
than 70 percent of ADRs held by shareholders in their brokers’
names, had voted on proposals that may block Royalty Pharma’s
takeover offer, Royalty Pharma said. Based on its review,
Royalty Pharma said the buyback will probably be approved.  Four Transactions  Shareholders are voting on four transactions proposed by
Elan: a $1 billion investment in  Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties, a
$340 million takeover of Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals
AG, the spin-out of an experimental drug called ELND005 for
Alzheimer’s disease to Speranza Therapeutics and $200 million in
share buybacks. Royalty’s takeover lapses if shareholders
approve any one of those transactions.  While the voting deadline for some shareholders has passed,
they can change their vote by asking their custodian or proxy
voting agent to do so manually by 3 p.m. Eastern time today.  “Royalty Pharma is seeking judicial review of this
decision of the Irish Takeover Panel, but there can be no
assurance that such judicial review will result in any change to
that decision,” the company, which this month boosted its
unsolicited offer to as much as $15.50 a share this month, said.  Elan’s U.S. shares fell as much as 5.3 percent, and were
down 2.7 percent to $12.75 at 10:20 a.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  