-- Elan Rises as Most Investors Reject Three Bid-Hald Plans
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-06-14T08:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/elan-drops-as-royal-pharma-says-takeover-may-fail-dublin-mover.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  rose the for first time in
three days after a majority of investors voted against three of
four proposals that stand in the way of Royalty Pharma’s $6.7
billion bid for the Irish biotechnology company.  Elan  gained  as much as 2.8 percent and was trading up 1.5
percent to 9.43 euros at 9:04 a.m. in Dublin. The stock has
gained 20 percent this year.  A sufficient number of Elan shareholders have voted against
two transactions proposed by the company’s board, while a narrow
majority opposes a third proposal, Royalty Pharma said today in
a statement. A share buyback has the backing of a narrow
majority of investors, it said. Investor support of any of the
four proposals would require Dublin-based Royalty Pharma to
withdraw its offer under an Irish Takeover Panel ruling.  “Royalty Pharma is seeking judicial review of this
decision of the Irish Takeover Panel, but there can be no
assurance that such judicial review will result in any change to
that decision,” said Royalty Pharma.  Elan shareholders are casting votes in advance of an
investor meeting on June 17 in Dublin. Balloting ends at 10 a.m.
Dublin time tomorrow.  The Irish commercial court granted a temporary injunction
yesterday and set a hearing for June 19 to review the Irish
takeover panel’s ruling that Royalty Pharma end its bid in the
event any of the four transactions are  approved  on June 17, a
Royalty Pharma spokeswoman said yesterday.  Holders’ Proportion  As of 3 p.m. in  New York  yesterday, holders of about 311
million American depositary receipts in Dublin-based Elan,
representing more than 81 percent of ADRs held by shareholders
in their brokers’ names, had voted on the board proposals, said
Royalty Pharma, an investor in royalty streams from medicines.  The four transactions under consideration are a $1 billion
investment in  Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties, a $340 million
takeover of Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG, the sale
of an experimental drug called ELND005 for Alzheimer’s disease
to Speranza Therapeutics and $200 million in share buybacks.  Elan’s U.S. shares fell 3.7 percent to $12.61 in New York
trading yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  