-- Elderly Britons See Incomes Rise as Young Get Squeezed
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/elderly-britons-see-incomes-rise-as-young-get-squeezed.html
Britons over the age of 60 have
continued to see their incomes rise since the recession, while
earnings for those in their 20s slumped, the  Institute for
Fiscal Studies  said.  Average income as a whole fell again in the year ended
March 2012 and were 7.2 percent below their peak in 2009-10, the
London-based research group said in a report published today.
Only the elderly were spared, with median incomes adjusted for
inflation growing by as much as 3 percent between 2008 and 2012
for individuals older than 60, the IFS said. For people in their
20s, they dropped 12 percent, the largest decline of any age
group.  Pensioners have long enjoyed faster income growth than
working-age adults and pressure is building on political parties
to target better-off retirees as they seek ways to narrow the
 budget deficit . The opposition  Labour Party  pledged this month
to end winter-fuel subsidies for the richest pensioners if it
wins the 2015 general election.  “These figures confirm that it is young people who have
suffered most as a result of the recent recession and who are
now at risk of falling further behind,” said  David Phillips , a
senior research economist at the IFS. “It is important that
policy makers and politicians understand these profound changes
to patterns of low incomes and respond accordingly.”  The IFS said the figures partly reflect the fact that
employment rates for young people fell faster than other groups
during the recession. State pensions increase in line with
inflation, while many workers have had their wages cut or
frozen.  “Whereas in the 1960s and early 1970s the  poverty rate  for
pensioners was around six to eight times as high as for working-age adults without children, by 2011-12 the risks had near-enough equalized,” Phillips said. “Indeed, once housing costs
are accounted for, pensioners actually had a substantially lower
risk of poverty by 2011-12.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  