-- Telefonica Czech Is ‘Optimistic’ for Auction Rule Changes
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-06-13T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/telefonica-czech-is-optimistic-for-auction-rule-changes.html
Telefonica Czech Republic AS is
“optimistic” the nation’s telecommunications regulator will
amend disputed rules for a radio-spectrum auction before bidding
begins in July, Chief Executive Officer Luis Malvido said.  The Czech units of Telefonica,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , and T-Mobile have criticized the auction  draft , saying it would hurt
their business by allocating two of six blocks of 800 megahertz
frequencies to a new provider and allowing it alone to bid for
the remainder as well. Providers need to control at least two
blocks to ensure good service, meaning at least one of the
current companies would lose out.  “It’s difficult to imagine that these conditions that were
so far only drafted would be confirmed,” Malvido said in an
interview yesterday in Bloomberg’s Prague office. “So, I’m
really optimistic that there will be some changes. This is about
our rights and they’re not negotiable.”  The  Czech Telecommunication Office  proposed in April new
terms for the spectrum auction, after unexpectedly canceling the
previous tender on March 8 after four months on concern the
bids, which totaled to 20 billion koruna ($1 billion), were
“excessive, ” and would result in higher prices for customers
and slow investment in the domestic industry.  PPF Group NV, a Czech financial group, which also bid in
the failed auction, has said its auction participation depends
on keeping some of the regulator’s proposed terms including
reserving the two blocks for the newcomer or obliging existing
operators to provide roaming in 2G and 3G networks to the new
entrant.  Future Steps  Malvido declined to say what concrete steps Telefonica
would take in case the authority refuses to change the proposed
rules for the sale.  “I prefer not to speculate on what we will do if they’re
confirmed,” he said. “They’re just a draft, which was done by
the previous authority.”  The Czech Telecom Office plans to announce its response to
the objections received during the public consultancy period for
the drafted rules by June 24 and the auction should start in
July, spokesman Frantisek Malina said by phone.  The  government  yesterday approved the regulator’s intention
to bring at least one new operator to the country through the
auction, Hospodarske Noviny said.  Operators across the globe are rushing to build faster
mobile networks based on  Long Term Evolution , or LTE, technology
that will enable consumers to use enhanced services to shop
online and to communicate better.  Buildup Costs  The initial costs for building such a network in the  800
MHz band , a frequency needed to blanket wider areas, would be
between 5 billion koruna ($260 million) to 10 billion koruna, in
addition to the spectrum purchase costs, Malvido estimated. The
final costs would also depend on negotiations with vendors and
the position on the market, he said.  “We believe that 800 MHz is very important to us but we’re
not desperate, so if the auction goes against our rights, we
believe that the chances of our participation are low,” Malvido
said.  Telefonica  and other operators have already started
deploying LTE in big cities like Prague or Brno. Still, in a
long-run, it would be difficult to compete against networks
built using the 800 MHz bandwidth.  “We would be competitive at the beginning, but would
suffer probably from 2016 to 2020 and have to wait for the next
wave of technology,” Malvido said.  Telefonica Czech  slashed prices  and offered first-ever
bundles of unlimited calls,  text messages  and some data in
April. The company doesn’t expect a “huge” drop in revenue in
the short term, even though some customers used the offer to cut
spending.  Unlimited Calls    “Of course, our revenue would drop at the beginning, but
this will be partially already offset as some clients actually
choose to spend more,” Malvido said.  Telecommunications companies in the country have been
battling a steady decline in revenue over the last few years as
customers continued to spend less on calls, competition and
regulatory changes eroded prices.  Telefonica said on May that its first-quarter revenue
declined 4.4 percent to 11.9 billion koruna from a year earlier.
Net income fell to 1.05 billion koruna from 1.62 billion due to
one-time costs linked to a business overhaul and a drop in
spending on phone calls.  From about 300,000 clients who adopted the new tariffs
since April, close to 60 percent reduced spending, while 40
percent chose to pay more for unlimited services. In the last
few weeks, the trend is just the opposite as majority of people
that choose flat fees are increasing their spending, Malvido
said.  He wouldn’t provide details on how the flat fees would
affect measures like margins, or average revenue per a user.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  