-- Emerging Markets Act to Stem Capital Flight
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-06-13T08:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/emerging-markets-from-brazil-to-india-act-to-stem-capital-flight.html
Emerging markets from Brazil to
 India  took steps to stem an outflow of capital as concern mounts
that developed nations are approaching the beginning of the end
of an era pumping unprecedented liquidity.  India’s central bank sold dollars the past two days to stem
the rupee’s slide, two people familiar with the matter said,
while Indonesia unexpectedly raised its benchmark interest rate
today. Brazil said yesterday it would unwind some of the capital
controls it began putting in place in 2010 -- when the Federal
Reserve was embarking on its second round of quantitative easing,
known as QE2. Thailand said it sold dollars in the past week.  The moves follow the Bank of  Japan ’s decision this week to
refrain from adding stimulus even after a slide in the nation’s
stocks that risks hurting its campaign to revive growth. The
MSCI Emerging Market Index of shares has fallen more than 10
percent since Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 the U.S.
Federal Reserve could scale back asset buying if it’s confident
of sustained economic improvement.  “People are taking money off the table wherever they made
the most money,” said Tim Condon, head of Asia research in
 Singapore  at ING Groep NV, who previously worked for the World
Bank. “Markets are re-pricing for what we would see in a
normalization of U.S. Treasury yields and all that central banks
can do right now is to batten down the hatches. We haven’t seen
the end of this volatility.”  Stocks Fall  The MSCI EM index was down 1.6 percent as of 4 p.m. in Hong
Kong. The yen, typically a haven in times of global market
turmoil because of Japan’s status as world’s top net creditor,
climbed 2.1 percent to 94.05 per dollar at 8:29 a.m. in  London .  Foreign selling of Thai, Indonesian and Philippine stocks
has reached record levels as the threat of reduced Fed monetary
stimulus spurs the biggest equity declines since 2011. Overseas
investors unloaded a net $2.7 billion from the three stock
markets so far this month, the biggest eight-day outflow since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in March 1999.  Three years after emerging-market policy makers from  Brazil 
to South Korea warned about destabilization from record Fed
stimulus, they are now coping with the prospect of the spigot
being tightened. Fed actions have pumped more than $2.5 trillion
into the financial system since 2008.  Brazil’s Move  Brazil’s government said yesterday it will eliminate a tax
on currency derivatives in a bid to arrest the decline of the
real that is at a four-year low. The 1 percent tax had been
applied on bets against the dollar in the country’s futures
market in a bid to weaken the Brazilian currency. Finance
Minister Guido Mantega had already announced on June 4 the
elimination of a 6 percent tax on foreign investment in bonds
purchased in the Brazilian market.  Indonesia ’s surprise increase in its benchmark borrowing
cost today comes after the central bank this week raised the
rate it pays lenders on overnight deposits and said it’s ready
to buy government bonds from the secondary market to support the
weakening rupiah. The currency pared losses after today’s
decision, having touched 9,925 earlier, the weakest level since
Sept. 15, 2009.  Bank Indonesia will continue to sell dollars and buy
government debt, Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said today. The
rupiah is one of the worst performing currencies in Asia in the
past year, and overseas investors have pulled more than $2
billion from stocks and local-currency bonds in Indonesia in the
past two weeks.  Philippine Assurance  Indonesia’s central bank is studying plans to allow banks
to sell their rupiah term deposits to other lenders to ensure
rupiah and dollar stability in the market, Warjiyo said.  The Philippine central bank will ensure that price
movements including those in the foreign-exchange market are not
excessive, Governor Amando Tetangco said today before keeping
the benchmark rate unchanged. Recent movements in the currency
and stock markets are “part of investor reassessment of global
risk,” he said.  The Philippine benchmark stock index fell 6.8 percent today,
the biggest drop since October 2008.  Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci yesterday said
that concern about Fed tapering of asset purchases has created
significant market tension, sending bond yields higher across
the globe. His Thai counterpart Prasarn Trairatvorakul today
said a sell-off in his nation’s stocks isn’t a surprise given a
past surge. He told reporters in Bangkok that  Thailand  sold
dollars in the past week to smooth volatility in the baht.  Priorities Changed  “Emerging markets put measures in initially to limit
capital inflows and now that currencies are weakening and giving
them some concern about funding the current account, it’s
perfectly natural that they no longer meet the needs of the
policy makers,” said Richard Jerram, chief economist at Bank of
Singapore Ltd., who has analyzed Asian economies for two decades.
“Their economic concerns have changed, their priorities have
changed so the policy changes make sense.”  The Reserve Bank of India sold dollars through six state-run banks to prevent the rupee from dropping to 60 versus the
U.S. currency, according to two people familiar with the matter
who asked not to be named as the information isn’t public. The
government plans to eliminate the cap on foreign-direct
investment in telecommunications and raise the limit in defense
to lure funds and boost the rupee, two Finance Ministry
officials with direct knowledge of the matter said this month.  Indian Caps  Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in
March a review of foreign-direct investment caps had begun, part
of a government push to woo capital, fund a record current-account deficit and revive economic growth. The imbalance in the
broadest measure of trade has weighed on the rupee, which
plunged to its weakest level on record this week.  Thai Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today the
country should use its foreign reserves as a “cushion” to
prevent excessive movements in the baht. Sri Lanka’s central
bank yesterday said it will relax some foreign exchange
regulations.  The temptation for central banks to engage in competitive
devaluation is fading as rising Treasury yields diminish the
allure of assets in  emerging markets , Bank of Israel Governor
Stanley Fischer said yesterday. Brazil’s Mantega coined the term
“currency war” in 2010, saying his country was the victim of
rich nations that were using monetary policy to devalue their
currencies and fuel exports.  As speculation increased that the Fed will pare asset
purchases, yields on 10-year Treasury bonds reached 2.29 percent
on June 11, the highest since April 2012 and up from a record
1.38 percent in July. Wall Street’s biggest bond dealers are
telling clients to shift from most fixed-income markets into U.S.
stocks amid the worst debt losses since 2011.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Emerging Markets Currency Index has
fallen 4 percent in the past month as investors pull money out
of developing nation bond funds.  “This kind of volatility is crazy but it reveals the
amount of money that people feel might be trapped in fixed-income investments,” Condon said. “People have been warning
for the longest time that this is the biggest bubble in the
world. Those people look like sages now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  