-- Emerging Stocks Tumble to Nine-Month Low on World Bank
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-06-13T21:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/emerging-stocks-drop-to-nine-month-low-china-thai-shares-slide.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled to a
nine-month low, led by declines in the  Philippines  and  China , as the
World Bank cut its global growth forecast. Mexico’s peso rose
the most since 2011 on better-than-forecast U.S. data.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index plunged 2.7 percent,
extending losses from a Feb. 1 high to 21 percent. China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., the biggest mainland developer
listed in  Hong Kong , slid 3.5 percent. Benchmark gauges in the
Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia dropped at least 1.9
percent. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  sank to a one-year low in Moscow as OAO
Gazprom slumped.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa rose the most since March 6,
while Mexico’s peso gained 2.4 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 1.1 percent to 943.59,
the lowest since Sept. 5. The global economy will expand 2.2
percent this year, less than a January forecast of 2.4 percent
and slower than last year’s 2.3 percent, the World Bank said
yesterday as it lowered its prediction for developing economies.  “It’s a vortex of negativity,”  Quincy Krosby , a market
strategist for  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential Financial
Inc., which oversees more than $1 trillion of assets, said by
phone. “Investors have to divorce themselves from these large
macroeconomic projections, which are continually being revised.
Emerging markets have been dragged into this hypersensitivity.”  Developing nations from Brazil to India took steps to stem
an outflow of capital as concern mounts that developed nations
are approaching the beginning of the end of an era pumping
unprecedented liquidity. The MSCI Emerging Market Index has
fallen 10 percent since Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 the
U.S. Federal Reserve could scale back asset buying if it’s
confident of sustained economic improvement.  Biggest Losses  The emerging-market index has lost 11 percent this year,
compared with an 9.4 percent advance in the MSCI World Index of
developed-country stocks. The emerging-stocks measure trades at
9.7 times 12-month projected earnings, the lowest level since
August 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nine out
of  10 groups  in the gauge retreated today as technology and
financial shares had the biggest losses.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 2.1 percent to $39.94. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 6.9 percent to 26.05.  China’s growth outlook was cut to 7.7 percent from 8.4
percent, according to the  World Bank ’s report. The 6.1 percent
forecast for India was reduced to 5.7 percent and Brazil’s was
lowered to 2.9 percent from 3.4 percent.  ‘Very Bearish’  “The bad news is that the governance fundamentals for most
of the EM universe and the situation in China remain very
bearish,” John-Paul Smith, an emerging-markets strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London  said by e-mail. “The good news is
that U.S. bond yields should begin to decline over the near
term, which removes one source of bearish sentiment.”  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose for the first time in five days as
homebuilder MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA soared 12 percent.
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA jumped 8.8 percent,
driving commodity exporters higher. The real rebounded from a
four-year low after the government removed a 1 percent tax
charged on bets against the dollar in the futures market.  Mexico’s peso jumped the most in almost two years as U.S.
reports showing a pickup in retail sales and a drop in jobless
claims boosted prospects for the Latin American nation’s top
export market. The currency surged 2.4 percent to 12.6273 per
 U.S. dollar , the biggest advance since Sept. 23, 2011. The
peso’s rally today pushed it to the biggest gain in 2013 among
24 major emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Micex Index  Russia’s Micex Index declined 1.5 percent as OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel, the world’s biggest producer of the metal,
tumbled to the lowest price since July 2010. Gazprom dropped a
third day to the lowest level since 2009.  The lira climbed to its highest level this month as calm
returned to Istanbul’s Taksim Square after two weeks of clashes
between anti-government demonstrators and riot police. The
koruna weakened as police arrested several people in raids,
including at government offices, which put Czech Prime Minister
Petr Necas under pressure from the opposition. The forint
strengthened a third day as  Hungary  raised more debt than
planned.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  closed at the lowest
level since Sept. 26, while the Shanghai Composite Index fell
2.8 percent to the lowest level since Dec. 13 as it resumed
trading after a three-day holiday. China Overseas Land sank to a
seven-month low.  Overseas Funds  Overseas funds  sold the most Indian shares over a two-day
period since November 2011, contributing to a slide that has
dragged the nation’s benchmark equity index to its lowest level
in two months.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  dropped 6.8 percent,
extending this month’s retreat to 13 percent. Thailand’s SET
Index sank 2.1 percent, while Indonesia’s benchmark gauge lost
1.9 percent. Overseas investors unloaded a net $2.7 billion from
the three stock markets this month through yesterday, the
biggest eight-day outflow since Bloomberg began compiling the
data in 1999.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 328 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  