-- Empire Soars to Record High on Safeway Purchase
-- B y   L a u r e n   M u r p h y   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-06-13T20:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/empire-soars-to-record-high-on-safeway-purchase-toronto-mover.html
Empire Co. (EMP/A)  surged 11 percent to a
record high as investors bet the C$5.8 billion ($5.7 billion)
purchase of Safeway Inc.’s Canadian stores by its Sobeys Inc.
grocery unit will boost revenue and add to earnings as it
expands west.  It was Empire’s biggest jump since March 2001 and took the
Stellarton, Nova Scotia-based grocer to its highest level since
September 1988, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Empire
closed at C$74.77 in Toronto today.  “We see Canada Safeway’s asset providing Sobeys with
critical density to fill in what we felt was a chronically
underutilized distribution network and as a result, expect the
company to benefit from significant efficiencies,” Michael Van Aelst, consumer analyst with TD Securities in Toronto said in a
note to clients. Van Aelst raised his rating on the stock to buy
from hold and his target price to C$90 from C$67.  The purchase will give Sobeys 213 stores in Western  Canada ,
62 gas stations and 199 in-store pharmacies, allowing it to
expand from Ontario and Atlantic Canada and take on Loblaw Cos.,
the country’s largest grocer. Sobeys would add 30,000 employees
to the 95,000 it already has with the purchase.  Competition in Canadian retail is heating up as
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart and Target Corp. also add
stores and expand grocery offerings. Minneapolis-based Target
has said it will open 124 locations in Canada this year.  Competition Bureau  Empire Chief Executive Officer Paul Sobey said he expects
any job cuts to depend on a review from Canada’s Competition
Bureau. The country’s antitrust regulator will give the
transaction a “close review” and may require stores to be
divested in  Alberta , where Sobeys will have three times as many
grocery stores as Loblaw, Andrew Calder, an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets said in a note today.  “The big picture is going to be a decision of the
Competition Bureau,” Sobey said in a phone interview today.
“Any acquisition of this nature in Canada needs to be examined
by the bureau. We cannot comment on the decisions the bureau
will reach. We expect them to have their decision in the fall.”  The Ottawa-based bureau will review the transaction,
according to an e-mailed statement from spokesman Greg Scott.  Metro Inc., the No. 3 grocer in Canada, was
“disappointed” they weren’t given a chance to bid on Safeway.  “We’ve always been open and said we wanted to go into
Western Canada through acquisition, as going greenfield is
almost impossible in this business,” Robert Sbrugnera, Metro’s
senior director treasury, risk and investor relations, said in
an interview. “It would have been a good fit to integrate these
stores, but unfortunately we’re a bit disappointed that we
weren’t part of the running -- it was not an option offered to
us.”  ‘Dry Powder’  Still, Metro would not be interested in making a bid above
Sobeys’ purchase price as Metro could not realize enough
synergies, Sbrugnera said.  “Metro definitely has a lot of dry powder,” Behrak
Shahriari, who helps manage C$5.6 billion at Montrusco Bolton
Investments Inc., said in a phone interview. Montrusco owns
shares in Metro. “There’s cash there and I’m sure they would
rather deploy it in better-earning assets than just cash in the
bank, but at the same time they don’t want to do anything stupid
and we commend them for that.”  The acquisition will solidify Sobey’s position as the No.2
grocer, boosting revenue to about C$24 billion from C$16.2
 billion  in the 12 months ended May 5 and will immediately add to
adjusted earnings per share, Empire said yesterday in a
statement. Safeway’s real estate is worth about C$1.8 billion in
Canada, it said.  More Consolidation  Sobeys plans to pay for the cash purchase in part through a
C$1.5 billion equity offering by Empire. It will also take out a
C$1.83 billion term loan and sell C$800 million in unsecured
notes.  The earnings gain will be moderated by the purchase
multiple and share dilution and it may take three years to
achieve synergies from the deal, Peter Sklar, an industrial
analyst with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said in a note,
rating Empire the equivalent of a hold.  More consolidation in the grocery sector is likely with
Overwaitea Food Group the next “primary target” Perry Caicco,
an analyst at CIBC World Markets, said in a note today
Overwaitea, owned by closely held Jim Pattison Group Inc., has
125 stores in Western Canada.  “It would be more likely for Loblaw to make an
acquisition” of Overwaitea, Shahriari said.  Julija Hunter, a spokeswoman for Brampton, Ontario-based
Loblaw, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  