-- Equity Bull Market Intact as Falcon Sees Central Bank Support
-- B y   D a l e   C r o f t s
-- 2013-06-13T13:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/equity-bull-market-intact-as-falcon-sees-central-bank-support.html
Falcon Private Bank, the wealth
manager owned by an Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund, expects
stock declines to be temporary as fund managers move from bond
purchases and central banks step in to support asset prices.  Equities are in a multi-year bull market and will be
underpinned by the shift of institutional money from bonds,
valuations that are cheap on a historical basis and the
accommodative stance of policy makers to capital markets, David Pinkerton, the chief investment officer for Falcon, said today
in a phone interview from the bank’s Zurich headquarters.  More than $2.5 trillion has been erased from the value of
global equities since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22
the central bank could scale back stimulus efforts should the
job market show “sustainable improvement.” In a June 10
speech, European Central Bank executive board member Benoit
Coeure said policy makers have the ability to provide additional
stimulus to aid the single currency block’s economy.  “The mentality of the central banks has been very gentle
toward the capital markets,” said Pinkerton, a former manager
of AIG’s private equity portfolio. “We’re going through a
correction within a bull market and not a correction toward a
bear market. We’re still in a bull market.”  The global economy will expand 2.2 percent in 2013, the
World Bank said yesterday, paring a January forecast of 2.4
percent. The Federal Open Market Committee meets next week after
the Bank of  Japan  this week left its lending program unchanged.
Global stocks have plunged 5.3 percent from their May 21 peak
this year on speculation the Fed may ease stimulus.  Equities Better  “If it’s spring time and there’s a cold snap, it doesn’t
mean that winter’s coming back,” Pinkerton said of recent
declines. “Equities are still a better place for capital than
bonds.”  ECB President Mario Draghi said June 6 the euro-area
economy will return to growth by the end of the year as policy
makers held back further stimulus measures. The ECB’s Governing
Council left its main refinancing rate at 0.5 percent after
reducing it by a quarter point last month.  Falcon Private Bank is targeting companies undertaking
major share repurchase programs or ones likely to do so for
client portfolios, Pinkerton said, adding that this will help
underpin stock prices.  Falcon Private Bank is based in Zurich with about 15
billion Swiss francs ($16 billion) under management and is  owned
by Abu Dhabi’s  Aabar Investment PJS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dale Crofts in Buenos Aires at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  