-- Erdogan Urges Protesters to Leave in Final Warning
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   B e n   H o l l a n d
-- 2013-06-13T14:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/erdogan-urges-protesters-to-leave-in-final-warning.html
Turkey ’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  warned anti-government protesters that he was losing
patience with their occupation of an Istanbul square and ordered
them to clear out.  Erdogan said authorities would hold and honor a plebiscite
on the future of Gezi Park near Taksim square, whose proposed
development touched off two weeks of clashes between protesters
and police that have sent Turkish markets plummeting.  The protesters’ genuine demands have been heard, and now
they must leave the park and Taksim, the Turkish leader said.  “Our patience is coming to an end,” Erdogan said. “I am
warning for the last time.”  Hundreds of riot police, armed with pepper spray, batons
and riot shields, stood on guard around the square, where water
cannons were also deployed. Neither Erdogan’s warning nor the
police deployment had any immediate effect on the protesters,
who made no move to pack up their tents or prepare to leave.  “They’re coming,” said Gokhan Samlioglu, a student, as he
handed out drinks and sandwiches to protesters at a free food
stall in Gezi Park. “But the more the police threaten us, the
more people will come here.”  Mehmet Uzunkaya of the Taksim Solidarity Group, a group
that has spoken on behalf of demonstrators, vowed to stay put
until development plans are scrapped. “They will never defeat
us or scare us away from here,” Uzunkaya said.  Major Challenge  The unrest, which spread to dozens of communities
nationwide after it erupted in Istanbul on May 31, has presented
Erdogan with one of the biggest challenges to his power since he
took office more then 10 years ago. The spectacle of tens of
thousands of demonstrators marching in city streets and police
turning tear gas, water cannons and truncheons on protesters has
battered Turkish markets.  At least four people have died in clashes. The Turkish
Medical Association says more than 4,000 people have been
treated at hospitals, and Erdogan said 600 police were among the
wounded. The demonstrators say Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted
government has been emboldened by three successive and electoral
victories to act in increasingly autocratic ways.  Turkish officials have acknowledged that police used
excessive force. Still, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu 
dismissed the European Parliament’s rebuke today, saying
“Turkey doesn’t have to take lessons from anyone.”  Water Cannons  Several thousand protesters went to Taksim late yesterday,
chanting anti-government slogans as police looked on. The
previous night, riot squads had used tear gas and water cannons
to drive tens of thousands out of the square, the center of the
unrest.  Istanbul Governor Huseyin Avni Mutlu said the police action
was aimed at unidentified extremist groups who had joined the
protesters.  Taksim remained calm throughout the day yesterday and early
today, as municipal workers swept up piles of litter and started
scrubbing off anti-government slogans sprayed on walls, while
trucks carted off barricades erected by the protesters.  Erdogan has blamed the unrest on unidentified financial
speculators and extremist groups exploiting environmental
concerns.  Turkish stocks extended gains today, with the  main index 
adding 1 percent at 4:40 p.m. in Istanbul. Still, it’s down 9.6
percent this month.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds dropped 6 basis points
to 6.74 percent, after reaching a seven-month high on June 11.
The central bank tightened liquidity that day to shield the
lira, and the currency has since rebounded, adding 0.5 percent
to 1.8652 per dollar today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Holland in Istanbul at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  