-- Merkel Hosts Floods Summit With $16 Billion Cleanup on Agenda
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-06-13T12:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/merkel-hosts-floods-summit-with-16-billion-cleanup-on-agenda.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government may be forced to accept a supplementary budget for
next year to cover the costs of floods that have ravaged large
parts of the country, a senior lawmaker said.  Swollen rivers including the Elbe and Danube have caused
about 12 billion euros ($16 billion) in damage,  according to 
 Fitch Ratings . Merkel’s government and some of  Germany ’s 16
states have agreed to provide around 8 billion euros for a joint
flood aid fund, Die Welt newspaper reported today, citing
coalition members it didn’t name.  “I can’t imagine that we can come up with such an amount
quickly by means of spending cuts,”  Norbert Barthle , the budget
spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  in the lower
house of parliament, said in an interview. “It seems to be
clear that we’ll most probably have a supplementary budget.”  As tens of thousands of German residents are forced to
leave their homes less than four months before national
elections, Merkel and the prime ministers of the 16 states are
due to meet in Berlin today to discuss the size of the fund and
the share of federal and state contributions.  How to Pay  Merkel faces unpopular choices on ways to pay for the most
severe flooding in more than a decade. Saxony-Anhalt Prime
Minister Reiner Haseloff, a member of Merkel’s CDU, suggested
raising the solidarity surcharge on income and profits for a
limited time even after Federal Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, a Free Democrat, rejected calls for tax increases.  “I can’t say at this stage what we will decide and when,”
Barthle said. The lower-house budget committee may gather for a
special meeting as soon as tomorrow to discuss financing, though
it’s unclear when any results can be expected, he said.  Higher federal borrowing in 2014 to pay for the flood costs
wouldn’t affect a measure of the budget that strips out swings
in the economy and one-time factors such as natural disasters.
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has said he wants to balance
the budget in these “structural” terms next year and eliminate
net new borrowing altogether in 2015.  The  European Investment Bank  said yesterday that it is
considering loans to flood-affected countries including the
Czech Republic and  Hungary  that could be on the scale of the 1
billion euros provided in 2002 under similar conditions.  While emergency aid can be provided through “non-budgeted
expenditures,” for larger sums “a supplementary budget may be
required,” Priska Hinz, budget spokeswoman for the Green party
in parliament, said in an e-mailed comment. “After the acute
emergency aid we also need long-term assistance to rebuild
infrastructure in the coming years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  