-- Merkel Got Taste of Markets From East German Blueberries
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-06-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/merkel-got-taste-of-markets-from-east-german-blueberries.html
Angela Merkel’s sheltered childhood
as a pastor’s daughter living behind the Iron Curtain was no
preparation for the job of steering  Europe  through its most
serious economic crisis in decades.  Yet when faced with political and market turmoil that at
one stage threatened to tear apart the 17-nation euro region,
she learned fast. In their book  “Angela Merkel: A
Chancellorship Forged in Crisis,”  Bloomberg News journalists
 Alan Crawford  and Tony Czuczka track Merkel’s cautious course,
often criticized as faltering and hesitant, through the
uncharted waters of Europe’s subprime, economic and sovereign
debt crisis.  Crawford and Czuczka reported every last episode of those
turbulent months. Their book shows how Merkel’s vision of Europe
and capacity to lead it developed in the chaos. She is fighting
for re-election from a position of strength, they say.  They talked to Catherine Hickley in the Bloomberg Berlin
office.  Hickley: Merkel grew up in a planned economy. Did she have
any idea of how a market economy functioned at that time?  Czuczka: She grew up very sheltered as a child and young
woman in East  Germany , and then went into a job as a physicist,
highly theoretical and also sheltered.  There is one episode showing she figured out as a school-age child that the East German economy had contradictions. She
picked blueberries and after her mother had taken what she
needed, she sold the rest to the store for 4 marks to boost her
income. Then one of her gang would go back and buy a kilo for 2
marks because the communist authorities subsidized food.  Subprime Opera  Hickley: There is one anecdote in your book describing how
she received a text from an adviser while at the opera saying
that the IKB ( Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB) ) is in trouble, the
first sign of the subprime crisis in Germany. She texted back
“What’s IKB?”  Crawford: Yes, she was taken by surprise. She said in one
speech that suddenly the lowest figures we are discussing are
billions instead of millions, and this was new to all of us. She
used to say frequently “I am not an economist.” She has
stopped saying that.  Czuczka: One of the people who got to know her around that
time told us that the collapse of East Germany and the feeling
of powerlessness that went with it had a big impact on her. She
mentions, sometimes, that she witnessed one economic collapse
and she doesn’t want to experience another one.  Greek Euro  Hickley: And yet she nearly let  Greece  leave the euro and
risked the unraveling of the whole project. Was her decision to
keep Greece on board whatever the cost purely pragmatic?  Czuczka: She has said as much publicly: There was a
weighing of pros and cons, risks and rewards, and she came to
the conclusion that it was too risky to let Greece go. Caution
is her defining trait.  Hickley:  Helmut Kohl , the chancellor who promoted her, had
an idealistic vision of a united Europe that stemmed from
youthful memories of war. Does Merkel have a European vision?  Crawford: Merkel has evolved. She has developed a European
vision through the crisis. That’s why she is in this position
now -- the second most powerful politician in the world after
 Barack Obama .  Obama Watching  Hickley: Your book shows that the Obama administration was
following events in Europe very closely, and earlier than
previously realized.  Czuczka: What we know as the  European debt crisis  is an
extension of the subprime crisis in the U.S. The U.S. was
already sensitized. It very quickly became a clash over the
remedy.  Crawford: The U.S. couldn’t do anything more than berate
the Europeans, particularly the Germans.  George Papaconstantinou , who was the Greek finance minister at the
time, told us that he was getting calls every week from the  U.S.
Treasury  saying “when are you going to get this bailout?” And
he said “it’s not up to us! We don’t know!”  Hickley: Merkel’s leadership has been criticized in Europe
and further afield, yet she still tops popularity polls in
Germany. How has she taken the public with her?  Czuczka: She has found the balance that the Germans like.
She has taken it slowly, and thereby addressed German
insecurities. The Germans want to be good Europeans, while,
understandably, not paying all the bills. And that has been her
policy.  Angst Remover  Crawford: Anton Boerner, the head of the exporters’
association, said it best -- he said Merkel takes the angst away
from Germans. By being cautious, pragmatic, unemotional and
logical.  Hickley: So is she going to win re-election on Sept. 22?  Crawford: It’s hard to see beyond her. I would bet on her
being the next chancellor.  Czuczka: No polls suggest a mood for change in Germany. She
is very popular. She can tell Germans “I have gotten you
through the euro crisis.”  Hickley: Will she be remembered as the great prevaricator,
or the great savior of the euro?  Crawford: The jury is still out. The next year will tell,
if unemployment starts to fall in Spain and Greece. She is
treading a very fine line.  “ Angela Merkel : A Chancellorship Forged in Crisis” is
published by Wiley Press, priced at 19.99 pounds in the U.K. and
$29.95 in the U.S. To purchase the book, click  here  or  here  for
 North America .  Muse highlights include  London  and  New York   weekend guides 
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 