-- Mersch Says Negative Rate in ECB Toolkit May or May Not Be Used
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-06-13T17:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/mersch-says-negative-rate-in-ecb-toolkit-may-or-may-not-be-used.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Yves Mersch said that officials haven’t run out of
ammunition, are technically ready for negative  interest rates ,
and may or may not use them depending on the economic situation.  “There are constellations conceivable where the Eurosystem
could deploy such a negative rate, if it is deemed required by
our mandate to safeguard  price stability ,” Mersch said in
Copenhagen today, according to a speech published on the ECB’s
website. “Negative rates are in our bag of tools, but may or
may not be deployed depending on the economic landscape.”  Mersch’s comments echo those of ECB President  Mario Draghi ,
who has held out the threat of an  interest-rate cut  that would
mean banks are charged for depositing cash at the institution,
if the euro-region economy requires it. Both of them have
emphasized that such a move risks unintended consequences.  “Theoretically, a negative deposit rate may provide
additional accommodation,” Mersch said. “At the same time,
possible caveats and unintended side effects of this move have
to be kept in mind. In particular, crossing the zero line can
set off actions in the market that may run counter to the
central bank’s policy-easing intentions.”  Mersch, the former governor of the Luxembourg central bank,
said that the current environment “certainly warrants an
accommodative policy stance.”  “The ECB has not run out of ammunition,” he said. “But
monetary policy has its limits.”  Economic Outlook  Mersch also echoed Draghi’s statement at his most recent
press conference on June 6, where the Governing Council noted
that the euro-region economy may pick up in the second half of
this year.  Conditions in the euro area “show a combination of subdued
underlying price pressure, a shallow recovery of economic
activity and weak credit dynamics,” Mersch said. “Economic
sentiment appears to be slowly picking up from low levels.
Looking ahead until the end of next year, the Governing Council
expects euro-area export growth to benefit from the recovery in
global demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  