-- EU’s Barroso Approves EIB Lending to Portuguese SMEs
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-06-13T17:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/eu-s-barroso-approves-eib-lending-to-portuguese-smes.html
European Commission President Jose Barroso said a European Investment Bank loan to spur the
Portuguese economy will go ahead, ending a growing spat between
the two institutions.  A credit line of as much as 6 billion euros ($8 billion)
for Portuguese banks to lend to small and medium-sized
enterprises has been on hold as the EIB and the commission
squabbled over the guarantees needed.  “The European Commission, European Investment Bank and the
Portuguese authorities have come to an agreement to have lending
made available to Portuguese SMEs,” Barroso said in Brussels
today after meeting Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva.
The head of the commission told reporters he hopes the money can
be unlocked “swiftly.”  Portugal , struggling to return to growth and facing a 2.3
percent contraction in its gross domestic product this year, is
looking to exit its bailout program next year after benefiting
from EU and IMF financial aid totaling 78 billion euros since
2011.  In December last year, the Portuguese government said it
would provide a  2.8 billion-euro guarantee  that would enable the
EIB to cover its 5 billion-euro exposure to Portugal and lay the
ground for an additional 1 billion euros for new operations. The
government stepped in to spare commercial banks from running out
of liquidity when providing collateral, the EIB said in a
statement.  Since early 2013, when the commission was notified, it has
been working “with Portugal and the EIB to find a solution that
would be compatible with EU state-aid rules for the state
guarantee provided, therefore respecting EU law,” Antoine Colombani, Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia’s spokesman,
said this week.  “The delay wasn’t because of the commission,” Barroso
said. “The delay was due to the fact that guarantees asked
for” by the EIB “strictly speaking weren’t necessary.”  The EIB did not have an immediate comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  