-- European Union’s Regulator Seeks Tougher Nuclear-Safety Law
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-06-13T12:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/european-union-s-regulator-seeks-tougher-nuclear-safety-law.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
proposed strengthening the bloc’s nuclear-safety legislation by
setting up a system of peer reviews of atomic plants and
enhancing emergency guidelines.  The draft law by the European Commission follows a series of
stress tests on EU nuclear stations in response to  Japan ’s
atomic accident caused by a 2011 earthquake and tsunami. The
proposal would increase transparency on nuclear-safety matters
and give more power to national regulators.  “It’s up to member states to decide if they want to
produce nuclear energy or not,” EU Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  said today in a statement. “The fact remains that
there are 132 nuclear reactors in operation in Europe today. Our
task at the commission is to make sure that safety is given the
utmost priority in every single one of them,” he said.  Those operating reactors are in 14 out of 27 member states,
according to EU data. Four reactors are under construction and
16 to 17 are planned in countries including  Lithuania , the
Netherlands,  Poland  and the U.K. All new stations will need to
be designed in such a way that potential damage to the core of a
reactor would have no consequences outside the plant, according
to the draft law.  The proposal introduces EU-wide, legally binding reviews of
atomic plants to be carried out every six years by multinational
teams. Governments will jointly agree on topic and common
methodology of the reviews, the commission said.  EU governments will be responsible for ensuring that the
release of  radioactivity  is “practically eliminated” in case
of an accident, according to the draft law. The commission also
wants nuclear-power plants to have emergency response centers
and develop, together with national regulators, a public-information strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  