-- Lew Says World Economy Needs Faster Growth From U.S. and Europe
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-06-13T23:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/lew-says-world-economy-needs-faster-growth-from-u-s-and-europe.html
The world economy needs faster U.S.
and European growth as populations age and immigration policies
restrict movement of labor needed to raise gross domestic
product, U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said.  Lew, speaking at the  Clinton Global Initiative  America
meeting in  Chicago  today, said  population growth  could help U.S.
GDP advance annually by as much as 4 percent and boost European
economic growth beyond 1 percent a year.  “There are policies they could pursue that would help
that, but at the core, the demographics are part of it, and we
can improve that with immigration reform,” he said. “I’m
struck when I meet with my European counterparts at how low
their horizons are in terms of what they think their growth can
be because of their shrinking population.”  The Obama administration and Congress’s efforts to craft a
new immigration law have run into opposition from Senate
Republicans demanding more stringent border controls. President
 Barack Obama  also wants Congress to increase the limit on U.S.
borrowing, reached earlier this year, and replace the across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration.  Those reductions, together with tax increases that kicked
in at the beginning of the year, will limit U.S. growth to 2
percent in 2013, said Lew. Next year the economy would grow
faster, he said. He urged support for an administration plan to
increase spending on infrastructure.  Weaker Outlook  The  World Bank  yesterday lowered its forecast for the euro-area’s economy this year, predicting a 0.6 percent contraction
following a 0.5 percent fall in GDP in 2012 and lower than the
bank’s January projection for a 0.1 percent drop.  The  U.S. economy  will advance 2 percent this year compared
with a forecast in January for a 1.9 percent expansion and 2.2
percent growth last year, the World Bank said.  “When I look at where we are and where we need to be, I
see unfortunately, some self-inflicted wounds that we’ve had to
overcome,” Lew said, referring to the months-long debate
between the administration and Congress in 2011 over raising the
debt limit.  The U.S. is facing a debt limit confrontation again later
this year. The nation is currently near the $16.7 trillion
threshold and the Treasury has been using extraordinary measures
to avoid breaching it.  “We need to take some of this anxiety out of the economy.
So there shouldn’t be another fight over the debt limit,” Lew
said. “We shouldn’t have a near-shutdown of the federal
government when the fiscal year ends. And we frankly should
buckle down and do some of the work to do medium- and long-term
deficit reduction so we don’t have the burden of kind of
senseless across-the-board cuts weighting down the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  