-- Ex-Bradford & Bingley Banker May Be Fined in Secret FCA Dispute
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-06-13T13:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/ex-bradford-bingley-banker-may-be-fined-in-secret-fca-dispute.html
Chris Willford, former group finance
director at nationalized lender Bradford & Bingley Plc, may be
fined as much as 100,000 pounds ($157,000) for risk management
failures after losing a court appeal today.  The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority’s predecessor properly
notified Willford of the fine in 2010, Judge Martin Moore-Bick
said. Willford’s identity had been secret throughout the three-year-old dispute until the court today overturned restrictions
that limited the press to calling him “C.”  Bradford & Bingley was rescued by the British government in
2008 after credit markets froze in the wake of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse. Willford didn’t do enough to warn the
board about its deteriorating financial position, FCA lawyer
Michael Brindle said at a February court hearing.  The FCA’s decision to fine Willford 100,000 pounds was
overturned by a judge in May 2012 because he ruled the
regulator, then known as the Financial Services Authority,
didn’t give proper reasons in the notice of its decision. The
court of appeal reversed that ruling.  It wasn’t necessary for the FCA to “discuss all the
arguments in detail or to give more extended reasons for its
findings,” Judge Moore-Bick said in a written decision.  The fine hasn’t been confirmed and Willford may still
challenge it at the Upper Tribunal, another court dealing with
regulatory disputes.  Willford is now chief operating officer at online storage
company  My Wealth Cloud . Nikunj Kiri, his lawyer, declined to
comment after the ruling.  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the
FCA, also declined to comment.  2008 Seizure  Bradford & Bingley, which was the U.K.’s biggest lender to
landlords, was left struggling to fund its operations when
credit markets contracted. The bank made three attempts to
replenish its capital before being seized in September 2008.  Willford didn’t “see how bad the situation was,” FCA
lawyer Brindle said in the February hearing. Willford was paid
500,000 pounds when he left Bradford & Bingley in June 2009.  The FCA has faced pressure to punish those who oversaw the
failure of British banks. Three former executives at
nationalized Northern Rock Plc were fined and banned from
working in the industry in 2010, while HBOS Plc’s highest paid
banker Peter Cummings was fined 500,000 pounds and banned in
2012.  The regulator cleared executives at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  including former Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin 
of wrongdoing, before it published a report criticizing
management decisions that contributed to its near-failure.  The case is The Queen on the Application of Christopher
Willford v. Financial Services Authority, Court of Appeal,
Queen’s Bench Division (Administrative Court) C1/2012/1551  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  