-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Trader’s Request on Scheme Claim Opposed
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-06-13T23:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/ex-goldman-sachs-trader-s-request-on-scheme-claim-opposed.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
trader Fabrice Tourre’s request to exclude a scheme liability
claim was opposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
in its lawsuit over collateralized debt obligations.  “This court should deny the defense motion to preclude
evidence or argument concerning Tourre’s scheme to defraud and
his transactions, practices and courses of business that
operated as a fraud or deceit on others,” the SEC said in a
filing today in federal court in  Manhattan .  Tourre said in a May 30 motion that the SEC for three years
has accused him of making misleading statements and omissions,
not of participating in a scheme to defraud investors. The SEC
only sought to press a scheme liability claim in court filings
two months ago, Tourre said.  “This abrupt pivot to scheme liability is undoubtedly
driven by the SEC’s well-founded concern that certain evidence
it would like to introduce against Mr. Tourre is inadmissible
under the misstatements theory that has been the basis of the
SEC’s case for over three years,” according to Tourre’s May 30
filing.  The SEC initially sued the London-based trader in April
2010, saying he defrauded investors by not disclosing that hedge
fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying securities for a
collateralized debt obligation called Abacus 2007-AC1 with the
intention of betting against them.  After reaching a $550 million settlement with New York-based Goldman Sachs, the SEC filed a new claim against Tourre,
saying he gave the company “substantial assistance” as it
misled investors.  The case is scheduled for trial July 15.  Sean Coffey, Tourre’s lawyer, said he hadn’t seen the SEC’s
filing yet and couldn’t comment on it.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  