-- Hezbollah in Syrian War Drives Lebanon Risk Higher: Arab Credit
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-13T09:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/hezbollah-in-syrian-war-drives-lebanon-risk-higher-arab-credit.html
Lebanon’s investor risk surged to
the highest level in 10 months amid concern that sectarian
violence in the most indebted Arab country may escalate after
Hezbollah openly joined the war in neighboring  Syria .  The yield  premium  investors demand to hold Lebanon’s $34
billion of dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries climbed 33 basis
points in the past four weeks to 464 on June 11, the highest
since September, after the Shiite group sent fighters to support
the Syrian government, JP Morgan Chase & Co. data show. The cost
of insuring Lebanon’s debt against default rose 31 basis points
this month to 471, compared with 305 basis points for  Hungary ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hezbollah’s military backing of President Bashar al-Assad
against the mainly Sunni rebels risks turning sporadic clashes
between Islam’s two main sects in Lebanon into a civil war as
early as next year, according to research firm IHS. While
violence has been largely confined to the north, rockets slammed
into Hezbollah’s stronghold in southern  Beirut  last month for
the first time since Syria’s uprising started in 2011.  “Hezbollah’s support for the Assad regime is the single
biggest risk factor for Lebanese credit, the economy and social
stability,” Raza Agha, London-based chief  Middle East  and
Africa economist at VTB Capital Plc, said by e-mail June 11.  Yields Rising  The yield on Lebanon’s $2.1 billion bonds due April 2021
jumped 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, last week, the
biggest weekly increase since July last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It fell two basis points today to 6.74
percent.  Hezbollah’s leader Sayyed  Hassan Nasrallah  has justified
supporting pro-Assad forces as a necessary step “to protect the
back” of the group, which fought a monthlong war with  Israel  in
2006 and receives weapons through Syrian territories.  In response, the Sunni-ruled Gulf Arab states, which
include  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar labeled Hezbollah as a terrorist
organization. The action followed a warning to their citizens,
who account 60 percent of tourism revenue during peak summer
months in Lebanon, against traveling to the Arab country.  Tourism Minister Fadi Abboud said May 29 that the industry,
Lebanon’s main hard-currency earner, has already dropped 13
percent this year. Economic growth, which averaged 8 percent a
year between 2007 and 2010, won’t exceed 2 percent this year,
Finance Minister Mohammad Safadi said in an interview in Beirut
June 5.  ‘Political Uncertainty’  “There is a general wait-and-see approach by investors
regarding the prevailing political uncertainty that has
increased recently,” said  Nassib Ghobril , chief economist at
Beirut-based Byblos Bank SAL.  Lebanon’s credit default swaps have increased over the last
four weeks, making them the second-riskiest credit in the region
after  Egypt , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lebanon is
rated B at  Standard & Poor’s , the fifth-highest junk grade and
two levels above Egypt.  To be sure, not all reasons for Lebanon’s higher borrowing
costs are political.  “There has been a significant supply of Eurobonds in the
market recently” that helped drive yields up, Ghobril said. The
government sold $600 million in bonds due 2023 and $500 million
in securities maturing in 2027 in April. Lebanon has the
equivalent of $18 billion in debt due this year and next,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Political Turmoil  The performance is also affected by concern among investors
that the U.S. Federal Reserve may cut its bond purchases amid
signs that the world’s biggest economy is recovering.  “Most of emerging-market yields, be it local or external,
have gone up,” Jean-Dominique Butikofer, who helps manage over
$2.5 billion of emerging-market debt at Union Bancaire Privee in
Zurich, said by phone June 11. “The liquidity provided by banks
in this risk-off environment is not that ample. Non-investment
grades debt has for once also underperformed across the board.”  Add the region’s political turmoil, and holding Lebanese
debt becomes less appealing, he said. “The big question mark
for the entire region is whether there will be a spillover from
the Syrian turmoil into neighboring countries and its impact on
the performance of their external debt.”  Cabinet Delayed  Three people were injured on June 11 when nine rockets hit
Lebanon’s mostly Shiite northeastern region of Hermel, according
to the official National News Agency. After the attack,
unidentified gunmen shot and killed a man from a mainly Sunni
town. Earlier this month, Hezbollah’s fighters clashed with
Syrian rebels in Lebanon’s eastern Bekaa Valley.  Political unrest has also delayed the formation of a new
cabinet after the resignation of Prime Minister  Najib Mikati  in
April, amid disputes between Western-backed political groups and
a Hezbollah-led front over the mandate of the government and a
new election law. The U.S. lists Hezbollah as a terrorist
organization.  “The prospects of forming a cabinet have plummeted with
the increasing spillover from the Syrian conflict,” said James Petretta, associate director for the Middle East and North
Africa at Maplecroft, a U.K.-based global risk adviser.
“Hezballah’s open support for the Assad government and growing
violence inside Lebanon will make it virtually impossible for
the formation of a neutral, or non-partisan, cabinet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  