-- Agriculture Prices Slump After Emerging Market Currency Weakness
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-13T16:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/farm-commodities-fall-to-1-year-low-after-weakening-rand-to-real.html
Agricultural commodities fell to the
lowest in almost one year as weakening currencies in  emerging
markets  heightened speculation that farmers from  Brazil  to
Indonesia will boost exports, adding to supplies.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agricultural  gauge  of eight farm
commodities including sugar, coffee and soybeans fell 2.3
percent by 5:10 p.m. in London, heading the lowest close since
June 19, 2012. Nineteen of 24 emerging market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg sild against the dollar by an average 3.2 percent
in the past month.  Supplies of everything from soybeans to wheat are set to
increase this year as planting rebounded following droughts in
the U.S. and  Russia  in 2012. The global sugar surplus will be a
record in the 12 months ending in September, the International
Sugar Organization in London estimates. Weaker currencies make
overseas sales prices in dollars more attractive.  “The currency moves made everything a little more
bearish,”  Kona Haque , an agricultural commodities analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank, said
in an interview in London yesterday. “Sugar and coffee are
likely to see more selling pressure as so much of the exports
come from emerging markets.”  Brazil is the world’s top exporter of sugar, soybeans and
coffee, and the real is the second-worst performer of 24
emerging market currencies in the past month. Concern that the
U.S. Federal Reserve will curb its bond-buying program has
boosted the dollar, said Michael Henderson, an emerging markets
economist at Capital Economics in London.  Indian Rupee  The South African rand, Brazil’s real, the Indian rupee and
the Mexican peso have all depreciated more than 5 percent in the
past month, while the price of arabica coffee tumbled 14 and raw
sugar fell 4.1 percent in the period.  Supplies of agricultural commodities from sugar to wheat
have been climbing as farmers boost plantings. Global cereals
production will be a record 2.46 billion metric tons this year,
while the forecast for oilseeds output points to a balanced
situation, the United Nation’s Food & Agriculture Organization
said today. The sugar surplus will be 10 million tons, ISO says.  “The size and speed of the recent falls in emerging market
currencies have caught many in the market by surprise,”
Henderson of London-based researcher Capital Economics said in a
report e-mailed yesterday. “Concerns about a tapering of asset
purchases by the U.S. Fed have led to a rush of outflows from
emerging markets.”  Brazil’s Role  Brazil, the world’s leading  sugar , coffee and  soybean 
exporter, boosted shipments of the three commodities by more
than 10 percent last month from a year earlier, data from the
government and the country’s coffee exporters’ council showed.
Coffee shipments from  Indonesia ’s Sumatra, the main growing
region of the world’s third-biggest producer, surged 58 percent
in May from a month earlier, the provincial trade and industry
office said in a statement on June 3. The Indonesian rupiah,
down 1.5 percent in the past month, prompted the central bank to
unexpectedly raise its key interest rates yesterday.  Falling emerging market currencies are making it cheaper
for farmers to expand output. The cost of producing soybeans in
Brazil fell to $12 a bushel from $12.90 a bushel four months ago
as the real weakened, according to Macquarie. That prompted the
bank to raise its forecast for soybean production in the South
American nation to 86 million tons from a previous estimate of
84 million tons, it said in a report yesterday.  “The falling real has already lowered the cost of
production for soybeans,” Haque said. “The same impact will be
true for sugar and coffee.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  