-- FBI’s Mueller Says U.S. Surveillance Programs Are Legal
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-06-13T19:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/fbi-s-mueller-says-u-s-surveillance-programs-operate-legally.html
The U.S. government’s collection of
phone and Internet communications data under two classified
surveillance programs is fully legal and their exposure has
harmed national security, FBI Director Robert Mueller said.  “The legality has been assured by the Department of
Justice,” Mueller said today during testimony to the House
Judiciary Committee. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
“has ruled on these two programs, monitors these two programs
and has assured the legality of the efforts undertaken in these
two programs.”  Lawmakers have raised concerns about the legitimacy of
surveillance efforts since the disclosure that two National
Security Agency programs gave the federal government access to
data on millions of U.S. phone calls and Internet activities.  Michigan Representative John Conyers, the top Democrat on
the panel, questioned whether the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, which has a role in analyzing and using the data,
was violating the intent of the federal statutes that allowed
the programs to exist.  “It seems clear that the government’s activity exceeds the
authority this congress has provided, both in letter and in
spirit,” said Conyers, who also said he plans to introduce
legislation tomorrow to impose restrictions and new oversight
for the programs.  Mueller Departing  Mueller, who will depart the FBI in September after 12
years on the job, made his first public comments today since the
classified surveillance programs were exposed by Edward Snowden,
a 29-year-old NSA technology contractor who most recently worked
for  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)   President  Barack Obama ’s administration has confirmed the
existence of a program compelling  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to
provide the NSA with data on all its customers’ telephone use.  The administration also has confirmed the existence of a
separate program, called Prism, that monitors the Internet
activity of foreigners believed to be located outside the U.S.
and plotting terrorist attacks.  Snowden’s disclosures, to the Guardian and Washington Post
newspapers, sparked a criminal investigation by the Justice
Department, calls for the surveillance to be reined in, and a
lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union accusing the
government of violating citizens’ privacy. He fled to Hong Kong
May 20 before revealing himself as the source of the leak.  ‘Significant Harm’  Mueller, whose agents are conducting the criminal
investigation into the leak, said Snowden’s exposure of the
programs caused “significant harm to the nation.”  Justice Department prosecutors are in the process of
preparing charges against Snowden, according to two U.S.
officials briefed on the matter. Once charges are filed, the
U.S. will ask Hong Kong to detain Snowden for as many as 60 days
before making a formal extradition request, according to a
treaty signed between the two countries in 1996.  Hong Kong will deal with any extradition request based on
its own legal system, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in New York. He declined to
comment on specific cases.  FBI agents, who are conducting the criminal investigation
alongside the NSA’s own inquiry, have interviewed Snowden’s
family and associates and are looking for information about how
he obtained the material he eventually leaked, said the
officials, who weren’t authorized to publicly discuss the probe
and asked not to be identified.  Broader Investigation  The investigation into Snowden will also include an inquiry
into whether he might have been recruited or exploited by  China ,
said two other U.S. officials.  Both officials, who asked not to be identified because the
investigation is still under way, said they were unaware of any
evidence linking him to China. The questions about whether he
had contact with Chinese or any other foreign intelligence
officials are based on the circumstantial evidence of his flight
to Hong Kong, they said.  The officials added that Snowden also may be the idealistic
whistle-blower he claims to be and nothing more.  “I’m neither traitor nor hero,” Snowden said in an
 interview  published in the South China Morning Post. “I’m an
American.”  Sexual Entrapment  Along with an investigation of the technical aspects of how
Snowden acquired the leaked information, the two officials said,
the counterintelligence inquiry into Snowden will include a
review of his finances, his communications and movements. It
also will include a search for any evidence of sexual entrapment
or blackmail, techniques the officials said are used frequently
by China to recruit agents.  The two officials and a retired U.S. official, who also
asked not to be identified discussing classified matters, said
that despite the administration’s public focus on Chinese
efforts to breach computer networks, much of China’s spying uses
traditional low-tech techniques or a combination of both, such
as recruiting agents to steal information using thumb drives.  Public opinion on Snowden and the classified programs is
split, according to a recent survey by Time magazine. Forty-eight percent of those surveyed by Time approve of the
surveillance programs while 44 percent disapprove -- a
statistical tie in the poll, which had a 4 percentage point
margin of error.  The same poll found that while 54 percent of those surveyed
found that Snowden’s actions were a “good thing,” 53 percent
said he should be prosecuted for the leaks.  Seeking Information  Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who has asked for
public hearings into the NSA’s surveillance program, said the
administration needed to be clearer about why the surveillance
program was necessary.  “When the intelligence community is making a case for a
particular program that has significant impact on privacy
rights, I believe it’s important that they describe what the
unique value of that program is that they can’t obtain with
other programs,” Wyden said in an interview.  At the request of lawmakers at today’s hearing, Mueller
attempted to explain the scope of the information -- known as
“metadata” -- collected by the NSA as part of the program. In
one program, where telephone records are collected, intelligence
officials have no access to the content of the calls without a
warrant. They are able to see the phone numbers and the length
of calls through the program, Mueller said.  Limited Data  Internet communications also wouldn’t contain the content
of any message, Mueller said. That would include, for example,
the subject line of an e-mail, he told lawmakers. Mueller said
he coulnd’t say whether the government was able to obtain
geographic location data, though he did say he was unaware of
any database that would hold such information.  Mueller’s appearance on Capitol Hill came the day after
General Keith Alexander, the head of the NSA, told a Senate
committee that the programs had played a role in thwarting
“dozens” of terror plots since their existence.  Mueller said the programs, had they existed at the time,
might have aided law enforcement officials in the months before
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S.  The U.S. might have been able to track a call made by one
of the eventual hijackers located in San Diego,  California ,
Khalid al-Mihdhar, to an identified al-Qaeda safehouse in Yemen.  “If we had the telephone number from Yemen, we would have
matched it up to that telephone number in San Diego, got further
legal process, identified al-Midhar,” Mueller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  