-- FedEx Fights U.S. in Online-Pharmacy Probe After UPS Deal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-13T21:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/fedex-fights-u-s-in-online-pharmacy-probe-after-ups-deal.html
The latest fight against a
government investigation that might compromise customer privacy
isn’t coming from a phone or Internet company. It’s coming from
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)   The operator of the world’s largest  cargo airline  vows to
fight any charges that may result from a federal investigation
into drug shipments by illegal online pharmacies -- bucking both
government investigators and rival  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ,
which settled similar allegations.  FedEx finds itself a target of a criminal probe after
decades of working with law enforcement agencies to combat
attempts to use its network illegally. An indictment or
prosecution would threaten a basic tenet of the shipping
business -- not opening customers’ packages to see what’s
inside, FedEx said.  “Settlement is not an option because we haven’t done
anything wrong,” said Patrick Fitzgerald, senior vice president
of integrated marketing and communications. “The privacy of our
customers is core to our business. To somehow suggest we have
potential criminal responsibility for the contents of the
packages we pick up and deliver every day would fundamentally
change our business.”  Federal investigators have declined to share with  Memphis ,
Tennessee-based FedEx the names of pharmacies believed to be
operating illegally, so that the company could cut off service,
Fitzgerald said in an interview.  Josh Eaton, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
 San Francisco , declined to comment on the investigation. Casey
McEnry, a spokeswoman for the Drug Enforcement Administration in
San Francisco, said she couldn’t confirm or deny the
investigation.  Online Probe  Federal prosecutors in San Francisco charged nine people in
2010 with conspiracy to distribute controlled substances for
operating online pharmacies that filled drug orders without
requiring a valid prescription from a doctor. The pharmacies
worked with doctors who approved orders after patients filled
out brief online questionnaires, according to federal court
filings.  FedEx disclosed in a July 2012 U.S.  regulatory filing  that
it received requests for information from federal prosecutors in
Northern  California  investigating online pharmacies and
responded in 2008 and 2009 to subpoenas from a federal grand
jury. The shipping company initially worked with investigators
without realizing it was a target of the probe, Fitzgerald said.  He declined to comment on whether FedEx employees have been
called to testify before a grand jury. The company continues to
provide information when requested, Fitzgerald said.  40-Year History  “We have a 40-year history of cooperation and support and
working side-by-side with  law enforcement , and we want to do
that here,” Fitzgerald said. “For whatever reason, they are
taking a different view of the matter.”  Shipping companies are addressing illicit pharmacies in
their own ways and not coordinating on an industrywide level,
said Mike Mullen, executive director of Express Association of
America, a  trade group  created by UPS, FedEx,  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s
DHL and  TNT Express NV. (TNTE)  He declined to comment further.  FedEx rose 2.3 percent to $99.58 in  New York  trading today
as UPS increased 1 percent to $86.32 and the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index climbed 1.5 percent. FedEx’s 8.6 percent gain this
year lags UPS’s 17 percent and the  S&P 500 ’s 15 percent.  UPS Deal  In a non-prosecution  agreement  with the U.S. Justice
Department, UPS acknowledged doing business with online
pharmacies even after it learned they were illegally
distributing controlled substances without requiring valid
prescriptions.  UPS agreed in March to forfeit $40 million in payments it
received from illicit online pharmacies and to establish a
compliance program designed to ensure pharmacies won’t be able
to use its services to illegally distribute drugs.  “They are definitely taking completely different
approaches to the situation,” said Logan Purk, an Edward Jones
analyst in  St. Louis . “FedEx says, ‘We’ve done nothing wrong,
we just ship packages.’ I would like to see FedEx maybe go the
way of UPS just to get this behind them. Saving $40 million is
not worth the headache. Now this is done at UPS, it’s behind
them and they’re going ahead.”  Kirstin Ault, the federal prosecutor who signed the UPS
agreement, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on it.  FedEx doesn’t break out  revenue  from online pharmaceutical
shipments and Fitzgerald said it’s “a very small percentage,”
declining to be more specific. The company had $32.9 billion in
revenue through the first nine months of its fiscal year.  Privacy Concerns  “It’s a small issue in terms of revenue for our company,
but a major issue in terms of privacy concerns it raises for our
customers,” Fitzgerald said.  Under the U.S. Controlled Substances Act, a shipping or
freight company is allowed to possess and transport drugs “in
the lawful and usual course of its business” without
registering with drug enforcement authorities. The law regulates
the manufacture and distribution of narcotics and certain other
drugs and chemicals used in the illegal production of controlled
substances.  Consumers are turning to online pharmacies because of the
convenience and privacy of purchasing medicines online, and as
insurance companies encourage home delivery for long-term
medications, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
website.  10,000 Pharmacies  Only 3 percent of more than 10,000 online pharmacies
reviewed by the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy
comply with U.S. pharmacy laws and practice standards. More than
36 million U.S. consumers have bought medication online without
a valid prescription, according to the  National Association of
Chain Drug Stores.   Prosecutors recently have turned their attention from
“tens of thousands of website operators” to companies that
provide essential services like ways to process payments and to
ship and obtain drugs, said John Horton, founder and president
of  Portland , Oregon-based  LegiScript . The company investigates
online pharmacies to determine if they operate legally.  “It seems pretty clear that government expects
intermediaries to take an active role in policing their own
platforms for misuse by rogue Internet pharmacies,” Horton, who
was associate deputy director at the White House Office of
National Drug Control Policy from 2002 to 2007, said in a phone
interview. “Whether one agrees with that or disagrees with it,
that does seem to be the current reality.”  Google Deal  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s most popular online
search engine, agreed in August 2011 to pay $500 million to
settle U.S. allegations that advertising for online Canadian
pharmacies on its website allowed illegal imports of
 prescription drugs .  Google was aware as early as 2003 that the shipment of
prescriptions to the U.S. from outside the country is illegal,
the Justice Department said at the time. Under the non-prosecution agreement, the payment represents revenue that
Google generated from the ads and that Canadian pharmacies
reaped from online drug sales to U.S. consumers.  In the 2010 indictment against the operators of illegal
online pharmacies filed in San Francisco, federal prosecutors
said the defendants used FedEx Express, the company’s cargo
airline, Atlanta-based UPS or DHL to ship controlled substances
from 2004 to 2006. The shipping companies weren’t charged.  Attorneys for the defendants argued that prior to 2008, no
federal law prohibited distributing controlled substances to
patients who hadn’t undergone an in-person examination by a
doctor. A federal jury in San Francisco convicted five
defendants of conspiring to distribute controlled substances and
another four pleaded guilty, according to prosecutors and court
filings.  San Francisco Trial  Kevin Mullin, a Pennsylvania man who invested in an online
pharmacy business, testified in a 2012 federal trial in San
Francisco that FedEx was used because of its experience in
handling medical shipments and its ability to track packages,
according to a transcript of the proceeding. A DEA investigator
testified that one online pharmacy was filling as many as 1,600
prescriptions a day and shipping them through UPS and FedEx,
according to the transcript.  FedEx and UPS were identified in federal court filings in
 San Jose , California, as shippers for online business United
Care Pharmacy, whose top three executives pleaded guilty to
conspiring to distribute controlled substances in 2007 and 2008.
The delivery companies weren’t charged in the case.  United Care  United Care was a  UPS client  in 2005, according to the
 Justice Department ’s settlement with the shipper. In that
agreement, UPS acknowledged that from 2003 through 2010, the
company knew that Internet pharmacies were using its services to
illegally distribute controlled substances and medicines without
valid prescriptions. UPS didn’t implement procedures to close
those shipping accounts, the Justice Department said.  When FedEx suspects a customer’s shipments are illicit, it
gives the information to law enforcement and cuts off service if
an official investigation shows “there is clear illegal
activity,” Fitzgerald said. Fitzgerald said he couldn’t specify
whether the company has stopped handling shipments based only on
its own information because each case is different.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  