-- Marchionne Said Close on Fiat-Chrysler Refinancing Deal
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-06-14T08:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/fiat-said-set-to-reach-2-6-billion-refinancing-deal.html
Sergio Marchionne , chief executive
officer of  Fiat SpA (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, is closing in on
refinancing deals for both automakers ahead of a plan to merge
the two companies, people familiar with the matter said.  Marchionne is set to sign an agreement with nine banks this
month to refinance 1.95 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in Fiat
credit, said two people familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be identified because the talks are private. The CEO is also
seeking to reduce the rate on a $2.95 billion  term loan  at
Chrysler, another person said this week.  Fiat,  Italy ’s biggest manufacturer has accumulated a 58.5
percent holding in Chrysler since 2009 and plans to buy the rest
as it seeks a global presence to compete with  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  In total, the Italian manufacturer is in
talks with banks for as much as $10 billion in funding for the
deal and for refinancing the two companies’ debt, people
familiar with the matter said last month.  “We deem the news positive as the acquisition of Chrysler
minorities may materialize soon,” said Gabriele Gambarova, an
analyst at Banca Akros in Milan. “The reshaping of Chrysler
debt is important because current conditions prevent Fiat from
having access to Chrysler cash.”  Fiat  gained  as much as 8 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 5.70
euros and was little changed as of 10:17 a.m. in Milan trading.
The shares have surged 48 percent this year, valuing the Turin,
Italy-based company at 7 billion euros.  Refinancing Deals  The two refinancing agreements may be signed as soon as
June 21, the people said. The pool of banks working on the Fiat
loan include  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Citigroup Inc.,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Mediobanca SpA. (MB)  A Fiat representative said the automaker doesn’t
comment on its financing plans.  Marchionne is also looking to raise funds to help pay for
the purchase of the 41.5 percent Chrysler stake held by the
United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust.  The Italian carmaker may pay $4.5 billion to buy the
health-care trust’s holding, UBS said this week. That’s $1
billion more than the bank’s previous estimate made in April.  Fiat could pay for the acquisition in part with dividends
from Chrysler after the American carmaker refinances its debt,
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said in a report yesterday.
Chrysler is also likely to amend a $1.3 billion revolving credit
facility, according to Moody’s.  Legal Dispute  Marchionne may create a new company in the U.S., merge Fiat
and Chrysler into it and issue shares in the combined entity, a
person familiar with the matter said last month.  Exor SpA (EXO) , the
Agnelli family holding company which controls Fiat, said last
month it may invest further in the company.  Marchionne must first reach agreement with the health-care
trust over the price Fiat will pay for the trust’s holding.  A legal dispute between the two centers on whether the
Italian company should increase its $139.7 million offer in a
 call option  for a 3.3 percent Chrysler stake. The trust values
the contested holding at a minimum of $342 million. The Delaware
judge overseeing the case said in April that he’s “kind of
leaning” in the trust’s direction.  Under the disputed agreement, Fiat holds options that
require the labor group to sell almost 17 percent of Chrysler.
Fiat is negotiating with the trust, which also has the legal
right to push for a Chrysler initial public offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  