-- Flu Season Doctor Visits Reached Record at Early Peak
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-13T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/flu-season-doctor-visits-reached-record-at-early-peak.html
Patients visited outpatient clinics
for flu-like illnesses at one of the highest recorded rates
during the peak of last season, the  U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention  reported today.  The 2012-2013 flu season peaked early in late December and
was “moderately severe,” the CDC said in its latest Morbidity
and Mortality Weekly Report. One hundred and ninety-one of every
100,000 people over 65 were hospitalized, two and a half times
the previous highest rate for the age group. Influenza and
pneumonia deaths exceeded the epidemic threshold for 13
consecutive weeks from the end of December through March.  The severe flu season boosted sales of drugs and sickness
aids.  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  rose the most in more than three
years in April after revenue from its Kleenex tissue-brand
products helped drive a record first-quarter profit. Sales of
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Tamiflu antiviral drug gained 84 percent
during the first quarter.  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  beat analysts’
estimates in the quarter and increased profit 23 percent to $956
million from a year earlier on demand for flu medications.  At the season’s peak, 6.1 percent of outpatient hospital
visits were for flu-like symptoms, among the largest proportions
since the CDC’s current reporting system began in 1997. In past
seasons, this percentage ranged from 2.4 percent in 2011-12 to
7.7 percent during the H1N1 pandemic of 2009.  Influenza normally causes symptoms such as coughing,
sneezing, headaches and body aches, fever, chills, and sometimes
vomiting and diarrhea. Severe cases of flu are often seen in
very young and very old people whose immune systems are too weak
to fight off the virus, and annual vaccination is recommended
for vulnerable people and those who come into contact with them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  