-- Foreign Inflows to India Remain Strong, Citigroup’s Bandeen Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-13T09:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/foreign-inflows-to-india-remain-strong-citigroup-s-bandeen-says.html
Indian equities will continue to
lure foreigners even as concern global central banks may pare
stimulus dragged the benchmark index to a two-month low and
drove down the rupee to a record, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Overseas funds have bought $117.3 million of local shares
this month while they withdrew $1.3 billion from Indonesian
equities and $1.1 billion each from Taiwan and  Thailand , data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Foreigners have invested $15.2
billion into Indian stocks this year through June 11, second
only to Japan among Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  “India is a place that captures people’s imagination; what
this economy can grow to be and what this country can become,”
Derek Bandeen, head of equities at Citigroup, said in an
interview with Bloomberg TV India today. “It’s a natural place
to put capital to work. You will continue to see strong flows.”  India ’s Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram today
signaled more foreign-direct investment caps will be eased soon
and said measures are being taken to the rein in rupee swings,
seeking to build on the boost to sentiment from an improved
credit-rating outlook. Fitch Ratings yesterday upgraded India’s
outlook to stable from negative following efforts to reduce the
budget deficit and a nine-month policy push to spur expansion.  Fitch’s revision provided some succor for Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s administration, which has been hurt by graft
scandals that in recent weeks disrupted parliament and hampered
efforts to extend the policy changes. The rupee plunged to a
record earlier this week, weighed down by the current-account
gap, and slid as much as 1.3 percent today.  The 30-stock S&P BSE Sensex retreated 1 percent to 18,839
at 2:45 p.m. in Mumbai, headed for the lowest close since April
17.  Global Growth  The Sensex has declined 7.1 percent from a two-year high
reached May 17 on concern the rupee’s decline will make imports
more expensive and limit the Reserve Bank of India’s scope to
extend interest-rate cuts at its June 17 meeting. India’s gross
domestic product  grew  5 percent in the year ended March, the
least in a decade. The global economy will expand 2.2 percent
this year, the World Bank said yesterday, paring a January
forecast of 2.4 percent.  India is “probably not growing as fast as it could, but I
don’t know whether anybody is,” Citigroup’s Bandeen said. The
nation’s “great asset is the population; a large, educated and
aspirational middle class that’s really capable of delivering on
the global stage.”  Global stocks have lost some $2.5 trillion of their value
since U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22
the authority could taper stimulus if the economy improves. The
Bank of  Japan  this week held off adding to monetary stimulus,
and central banks in New Zealand and South Korea kept their key
rates unchanged.  ‘Exceptional Stimulus’  The withdrawal will be “a very gradual process,” Bandeen
said. “The Fed will test the waters from time to time and see
how reactions are. In the long run, we all want to get back to
an economy that’s strong on its own and doesn’t require the
exceptional stimulus that’s been provided.”  Bandeen said he prefers emerging market equities over the
long term even as developed-nations stocks have outperformed.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has slid 11 percent this year,
compared with an 8.1 percent advance in the MSCI World Index of
developed-country stocks.  Flows to emerging nations, including India, will increase
as global companies shift focus to growth from “being safe and
sound,” he said.  “Top-line growth is difficult in many of our industries so
people will start to look at mergers and acquisitions for that
opportunity,” Bandeen said. “That suggests there’s more money
coming into the equities space. Where will it find its way?
Quite naturally to  emerging markets .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  