-- Forgery Ring Broken Up, Two Arrested, German Police Say
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-06-13T12:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/forgery-ring-broken-up-two-arrested-german-police-say.html
German police said they arrested two
people and raided 28 premises to bust an international ring that
forged paintings and sold them as the work of Russian avant-garde artists including Kazimir Malevich and  Wassily Kandinsky .  Police officers in Wiesbaden, Mainz, Stuttgart, Munich,
Hamburg and Cologne searched apartments, business premises,
depots and art galleries and seized more than 1,000 items, a
statement from the  Federal Criminal Police Office  said.  The forgers are suspected of selling more than 400 works
since 2005, for prices ranging from 1,000 euros ($1,332) to more
than 1 million euros, the police said. Searches were also
carried out in Switzerland and  Israel  and the nationalities of
suspects are Russian, Israeli and German-Tunisian, police said.  “These investigations are a successful blow to an
internationally active forgery scene,” Joerg Ziercke, the
president of the Federal Criminal Police Office, said in a 
statement. “Our close coordination with partners in  Switzerland  
and Israel has allowed us to put a stop to these criminals.”  The two people arrested, who are 41 and 67 years old, are
suspected to be the leaders of an international group of six
forgers, police said, adding that they found suspected forgeries
and sales documents in their apartments. The forgers copied the
style of artists including Natalia Goncharova, Alexej Jawlensky
and Mikhail Larionov and passed the paintings off as unknown
works, the police said.  German Collectors  Most of the paintings were acquired by private collectors
in  Germany , the police said. The two people arrested may in the
last two years alone have sold forged paintings for more than 2
million euros to collectors in Germany in  Spain , police said.  In 2011, the German art forger Wolfgang Beltracchi was
sentenced to six years in jail after he confessed to painting 14
works that he sold as masterpieces by  Max Ernst , Max Pechstein,
Fernand Leger and Heinrich Campendonk. Three accomplices were
also sentenced.  Dealers and collectors said at the time that confidence in
the German art market was shaken by the forgery scandal,
described as the biggest ever in Germany, as art historians,
museums and auction houses were duped by the fake pictures.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 