-- FSA Backs Down in Denmark as Banks Win CoCo Trigger Battle
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-06-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/fsa-backs-down-in-denmark-as-banks-win-coco-trigger-battle.html
Denmark’s Financial Supervisory
Authority delivered banks a victory as the regulator proposed
following industry recommendations on trigger levels that govern
contingent convertible bonds.  Banks will be able to choose between a threshold of 7
percent core equity Tier 1 and an individual solvency
requirement, which includes Tier 2 capital, the regulator said
June 12. That matches European standards and is well below the
10.125 percent a government-appointed committee in March
recommended be applied to systemically important banks.  According to Anders Balling, head of bank oversight at the
FSA in Copenhagen, lenders will probably favor the 7 percent
trigger as a more reliable gauge of when conversion will occur.  “The CET1 trigger could be the preferred option for banks
since it is independent of the individual solvency
requirement,” Balling said in an interview. “But both options
work from our perspective since the principal aim is to make the
capital loss-absorbing in a going concern.”  The FSA’s proposal, which Balling said is based on
discussions with bank industry representatives, marks a
softening of the regulator’s approach, according to Jesper Berg,
senior vice president and head of regulatory affairs at Nykredit
Realkredit A/S. Denmark has previously singled itself out as a
pioneer in banking reform, enforcing the European Union’s first
bail-ins in 2011 and this year moving ahead with too-big-to-fail
designation before the EU.  ‘Great Leap’  That history makes this week’s proposal “very much an
appreciated step in terms of moving toward a more conform
practice,” Berg said in an interview. “We need to make fully
sure that the modalities are consistent with market practices so
that we don’t yet again have another special Danish instrument,
but I think we are definitely taking a great leap in the right
direction.”  The regulator said last month it will allow banks the
option of using contingent capital, or debt that converts to
equity at regulator-determined triggers, to help the industry
fulfill stricter  reserve requirements . For the country’s six
biggest banks, led by  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and Nykredit, lawmakers
are still debating where trigger levels should be set.  The 7 percent trigger “is a decent level and shows that
the FSA has listened to the financial industry,” Thomas Hovard,
head of credit research at Danske Bank Markets, a unit of Danske
Bank, said in an interview. “It doesn’t change the landscape
for Sifis, of course.”  ‘Pretty Confident’  Banks have until June 19 to send their responses to the
FSA’s proposal.  “We’re pretty confident this proposal is a sensible one,”
Balling at the FSA said. “The 7 percent target is very close to
what we know is used elsewhere in  Europe , in  Switzerland , for
example. We expect this proposal to go through pretty quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  