-- Gannett Jumps on $1.5 Billion Deal to Acquire Belo
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-06-13T20:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/gannett-to-buy-belo-for-1-5-billion-to-gain-tv-stations.html
     June 13 (Bloomberg) -- Gannett Co., the publisher of USA
Today, surged the most in more than four years after agreeing to
buy  Belo Corp. (BLC)  for about $1.5 billion, gaining TV stations to
reduce its dependence on its shrinking newspaper business.  Gannett rose 34 percent to $26.60 at the close in New York,
the biggest one-day gain since April 2009. The McLean, Virginia-based  publisher  will pay $13.75 per Belo share in cash and
assume $715 million in debt, according to a statement today. The
per-share price is 28 percent above Belo’s closing price
yesterday, a premium that’s 14 percent higher than the average
for similar deals, according to Bloomberg Industries analyst
Paul Sweeney.  The acquisition will make Gannett the fourth-largest owner
of major network affiliates, almost doubling the number of
stations to 43 from 23. Adding more local broadcasters in U.S.
cities such as Houston gives Gannett leverage with cable and
satellite distributors when they renegotiate licensing fees.  “It gives them bargaining power like crazy,” William Smead, chief executive of Smead Capital Management Inc., said in
an interview. His firm manages 1.1 million in Gannett shares.  In addition to Houston, the deal gives Gannett stations in
other  major markets  in  Texas  as well as in  Arizona  and in parts
of the South and Northwest. The stations, and the broadcast
networks they’re affiliated with, are beginning to extract fees
from cable and satellite operators such as Comcast Corp. and
DirecTV in exchange for distributing local-TV programming. Those
fees are estimated to rise 28 percent this year to $3 billion
industrywide, according to SNL Kagan.  Mergers Accelerating  The pace of mergers has accelerated in the broadcast-TV
industry: Last week, Media General Inc. agreed to buy New Young
Broadcasting Holding Co., while Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc.
has spent more than $1.84 billion on broadcasters in the past
two years.  “Consolidation continues in the industry,” Tracy Young, a
media analyst at Evercore Partners, said in an interview. “At
the end of the day there’ll be a handful of players.”  The transaction also underscores Gannett’s exposure to the
weakening newspaper industry. The company’s publishing business
declined  23 percent  in operating income last year from 2011.
Gannett’s broadcast division, meanwhile, gained 47 percent in
the same period. Gannett’s broadcasting division already
accounts for  52 percent  of its annual operating income.  Gannett’s acquisition doesn’t include newspapers such as
the Dallas Morning News, which Belo spun off into a separately
traded company in 2008 called A.H. Belo Corp.  High-Growth Markets  “We wanted to move Gannett into being a more diversified
multimedia company,” said Gracia Martore, president and chief
executive officer of Gannett, in an interview. “This was a
unique transaction which provides enormous scale, and it
solidifies Gannett as the largest local-media company in the
U.S.”  Gannett shares have advanced 48 percent this year. Dallas-based Belo jumped 28 percent to $13.77 at the close in New York,
its biggest one-day increase in more than four years. Other
media stocks also gained on the news. Sinclair rose 13 percent
to $27.15, while New York Times Co. gained 6 percent to $10.75.  The deal is expected to increase earnings by about 50 cents
a share within 12 months, Gannett said, citing a measurement
that doesn’t conform with generally accepted accounting
principles. The improvement in cash flow will help Gannett pay
down debt while remaining committed to capital allocation, the
publisher said.  Gannett will continue share repurchases and replaced its
old plan with a new $300 million authorization expected to be
used over the next two years, according to the statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is providing financial advice to
Gannett, and Nixon Peabody LLP and Paul Hastings LLP are the
acquirer’s legal advisers. Royal Bank of Canada is Belo’s
financial adviser, while legal advice is being provided by
Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  