-- Gays See U.S. Society Accepting as Many Keep Parents in Dark
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-06-13T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/gays-see-u-s-society-accepting-as-many-keep-parents-in-dark.html
Almost all gay U.S. adults say that
society is more tolerant than ever of their sexual orientation,
even as almost 40 percent have kept it hidden from their own
fathers, a poll found.  The  survey  released today by the Pew Research Center is the
most comprehensive study of lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender adults taken since 2007, when same-sex marriage was
legal only in  Massachusetts , according to the group.  Paul
Taylor , one of its lead authors, said the insight will help
inform debate as lawmakers confront the issue and the U.S.
Supreme Court is set to rule on it for the first time.  “For the LGBT population, these are the best of times, but
it doesn’t mean they are easy times or that their lives aren’t
complicated,” Taylor, executive vice president at Pew, said by
telephone from  Washington , where the organization is based.
“Many are still searching for a comfortable, secure place in
society, where acceptance is growing but still limited.”  While a majority of respondents said they still face
discrimination, the past decade has brought more change to the
gay community and its place in society than any other. In 2003,
gays couldn’t marry anywhere in the U.S. Now same-sex marriage
is legal in 12 states and the  District of Columbia , and
supported by 51 percent of the general public. That’s up from 35
percent in 2001, according to Pew. Gays can serve openly in the
military, and in many places same-sex couples raising children
are no longer an anomaly.  Slurs, Jokes  Ninety-two percent of respondents said society accepts them
more today than 10 years ago, and the same share said that trend
will continue in the next decade, the poll found. Seven in 10
attributed the change to more individuals knowing someone who is
gay. In a Pew poll of the general public released last week,
about 87 percent of respondents said they did.  One in five said the there is “a lot” of acceptance of
them in the U.S. today, and just over half said much
discrimination remains. Almost 60 percent reported being subject
to slurs or jokes based on their sexual orientation, while
smaller percentages said they had been rejected by a friend or
family member, were threatened or physically attacked, or been
made to feel unwelcome at a place of worship or business.  Telling Dad  Coming out to parents was difficult, most said. Thirty-four
percent still had not done so to their mothers, and 39 percent
to fathers. There was an eight-year gap between the median age
at which respondents first felt they may be something other than
heterosexual, age 12, and when they first shared the revelation
with a close friend or family member, age 20.  Tony Vedda, 53, said he first felt he was different from
his two straight older brothers when he was in high school in
 Albuquerque ,  New Mexico . Friends were supportive, though he held
off from telling his father until he was almost 30.  “I thought, well, he’s getting older, I don’t want him to
die not knowing who I am,” said Vedda, who presides over the
GLBT Chamber of Commerce in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. “I
didn’t want to say the word ‘gay’ because I was afraid after he
heard that, he wouldn’t hear anything else.”  His father, Angelo, first took the news “rough,” Vedda
said. Yet within a few years, it made their relationship better.  “It just took a little time for him to understand,” he
said.  Having Children  The Pew sample size of 1,197 was large enough to
distinguish differences among subgroups, Taylor said. More than
70 percent of gay men and lesbians said most people close to
them knew their sexual orientation, while just 28 percent of
bisexuals said the same. About half of lesbians had or wanted
children, while only 30 percent of gay men said that.  Gay men were less likely to be in committed relationships
than lesbians, and non-whites more likely than whites to say
their sexual orientation was very important to their overall
identity, the poll found.  Sixteen percent of respondents -- mostly bisexuals in
opposite-sex relationships -- were married, compared with about
half of the general population. Almost 40 percent said the focus
on legalizing same-sex marriage had distracted too much from
other issues important to the gay community. Ensuring equal
employment rights ranked as the top policy priority, with
marriage rights second.  The study found that, contrary to a common stereotype, gays
tend to have lower household incomes than the general public.
Taylor said that may be because openly gay people are younger
and less often live with a spouse or partner in a dual-income
household.  A plurality of the survey’s respondents, 40 percent, said
they were bisexual. Gay men made up 36 percent, lesbians 19
percent and transgenders 5 percent. Those numbers don’t
necessarily reflect the actual composition of the LGBT community
at large, which has been estimated to make up 3.5 percent to 5
percent of the general population, Pew said.  The poll was conducted online from April 11 to April 29.
Using the Internet rather than phone calls is likely to yield
more honest answers, Pew said. The margin of error was plus or
minus 4.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  