-- German SPD to Target Disaffected Voters in Bid to Oust Merkel
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-06-13T16:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/german-spd-to-target-disaffected-voters-in-bid-to-oust-merkel.html
German Social Democratic chancellor
candidate Peer Steinbrueck said he’ll rely on a get-out-the-vote
operation targeting disaffected voters in the final weeks of the
September election to defeat Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Germany ’s SPD has lost as many as 9 million voters since it
won the 1998 election, most of whom stayed away from polls
rather than turn to alternative parties, Steinbrueck said. He
aims to win them back in a voter-mobilization drive in the six
weeks before the Sept. 22 national election.  “Then we’ll be in a strategically interesting position,”
Steinbrueck told foreign journalists today in Berlin.  Steinbrueck’s SPD trails Merkel’s  Christian Democratic
Union  by more than 10 percentage points in most national polls,
having failed to gain resonance on a campaign of social justice
and tax increases as he confronts a popular leader. The SPD
politician fired his chief spokesman this week following a
series of campaign gaffes.  Steinbrueck, who was Merkel’s finance minister from 2005 to
2009, lashed out at what he called the chancellor’s absent
leadership and “one-dimensional”  crisis management  that’s
focused on budget cuts. He sounded campaign themes of tax
fairness, fighting  tax evasion , education and rent regulation.  The candidate predicted that the election campaign will
start in earnest by mid-August and the SPD’s objective will be
voter turnout. He cited the historically low turnout of 70.8
percent in 2009 as an element of the SPD’s misfortunes.  Volatile Voters  “Germany’s voting population is more volatile than ever
before,” Steinbrueck said. “Many decide in the last seven to
10 days whether they’ll vote and for whom.”  The SPD was 16 percentage points behind the CDU-led bloc in
a  weekly Forsa poll , at 24 percent to 40 percent. Neither party
had enough support to form a coalition with its favored partner,
with the SPD-allied Greens at 13 percent and Merkel’s current
partner, the Free Democrats garnering 5 percent. The poll
surveyed 2,501 people from June 6-7.  Steinbrueck’s candidacy has been hampered from early
revelations of speaking fees from banks after he left government
in 2009 and gaffes including his claim that the chancellor’s
annual 220,000 euro ($293,000) salary isn’t enough.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  