-- Germany Sees Immigration Surge From Southern Europe Amid Crisis
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-06-13T09:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/germany-sees-immigration-surge-from-southern-europe-amid-crisis.html
Immigration to  Germany  from southern
Europe surged over the past two years as the unemployed from
 Greece ,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Italy traveled north to seek work in
Europe’s largest economy, a report showed.  Net migration of foreigners into Germany almost doubled to
302,900 in 2011, the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  said today in its “International Migration
Outlook.” In the first three quarters of 2012, inflows were up
38 percent from Italy, 64 percent higher from Greece and almost
50 percent from Spain, the Paris-based OECD said.  “Immigration of citizens of European countries with high
unemployment increased considerably,” the OECD said, citing a
90 percent increase in flows from Greece and a 52 percent
increase from Spain in 2011, the last full year for which data
is available.  Unemployment has surged across southern Europe since the
onset of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis almost four years ago,
with the jobless rate reaching 27 percent in Greece and Spain,
and 17 percent in Portugal. In Italy, the rate reached a 36-year
high of 12 percent in April.  At the same time, Germany, benefiting from a labor-market
overhaul carried out a decade ago by then-Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder , has seen its  unemployment rate  plummet to about 5.4
percent, according to International Labor Organization
methodology.  ‘Hard Truths’  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  last month called on
Germans to face ‘‘hard truths” in accepting changes to
immigration and education policy to keep the nation’s economy
competitive even as its native population shrinks.  “It’s high time to start” tackling the generational
challenges, Merkel told an audience in Berlin on May 14.
Projections that Germany will have 6 million fewer working-age
people by 2025 mean that “we can surely do more to be open to
immigration,” she said.  Germany has for the past 40 years coupled one of the most
competitive economies in  Europe  with one of the region’s lowest
birth rates, leaving fewer workers to support an increasingly
aging population.  The OECD said that a German government program to promote
occupational mobility is helping to prepare unemployed and
skilled workers from other European Union countries to fill
vacant jobs in Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  