-- Glaxo Says Probe Finds No Evidence of China Unit Bribery
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-13T09:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/glaxo-says-probe-finds-no-evidence-of-china-unit-bribery.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  said it found no
evidence of wrongdoing after completion of a four-month
investigation into a whistle-blower’s claims of corruption and
bribery at the drugmaker’s  China  business.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier today that an
anonymous tipster made allegations that Glaxo’s sales staff in
China was involved in widespread bribery of doctors to prescribe
medication, in some cases for unauthorized uses, between 2004
and 2010.  “Glaxo takes all whistle-blowing complaints seriously and
will investigate any allegation,” the London-based company said
in a statement today. “Over the last four months, we have used
significant resources to thoroughly investigate each and every
claim from this single, anonymous source and have found no
evidence of corruption or bribery in our China business.”  The report comes amid efforts to repair any damage to its
reputation after London-based Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest
drugmaker, agreed last year to pay $3 billion to settle
allegations that it illegally promoted  prescription drugs  and
failed to report safety data in the U.S. Glaxo changed incentive
compensation programs for U.S. sales representatives in 2011,
eliminating the link between sales goals and bonuses.  Separately, Glaxo said earlier this week it has  fired  the
head of Chinese research and development after discovering that
a paper he helped write for the journal Nature Medicine
contained data that had been misrepresented. A second individual
has submitted his resignation and three others have been placed
on administrative leave, pending a final review, the company
said in a statement June 10 on its website.  The paper, published in 2010 and to be retracted from the
journal, was from preclinical, early stage research and didn’t
directly involve patients, Glaxo said. The paper is titled
“Crucial role of interleukin-7 in T helper type 17 survival and
expansion in autoimmune disease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  