-- Gold Bears Return as ETP Rout Extends to 17th Week: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-06-14T14:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/gold-bears-return-as-etp-rout-extends-to-17th-week-commodities.html
Gold traders turned bearish for the
first time in a month as investors reduced holdings in exchange-traded products for an unprecedented 17th consecutive week and
 India , the biggest buyer, announced curbs on imports.  Eighteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
fall next week, with 14 bullish and four neutral, the largest
proportion of bears since May 17. Investors sold 497.2 metric
tons valued at about $22 billion through ETPs since Feb. 8 and
the 2,117.96 tons left is the least they have held since March
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bullion is on track for the first annual drop since 2000 as
some investors lose faith in it as a store of value. While the
slump into a bear market in April hurt billionaire hedge fund
manager John Paulson and producer  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , it
spurred purchases of coins and jewelry worldwide. That demand
may be threatened in India after the nation raised gold import
taxes to contain a record current-account deficit.  “Sentiment is very bleak,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a
commodity strategist in London at VTB Capital, a unit of
 Russia ’s second-largest lender. “The Indian import tax hike is
concerning and it’s obviously not helping sentiment. Investors
are basically on the sidelines. They don’t want to do anything
and are still spooked.”  Gold Price  The metal fell 17 percent this year to $1,389.93 an ounce
and is trading 28 percent below the record $1,921.15 set in
September 2011. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities dropped 2.2 percent since January started and the
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 7.3 percent.
Treasuries lost 1.4 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  India raised the import duty to 8 percent from 6 percent on
June 5 and the central bank also further restricted shipments.
Overseas purchases slid to an average of $36 million a day in
the 14 business days through June 7, compared with an average
$135 million a day in the 13 days through May 20, Raghuram
Rajan, chief economic adviser in the Finance Ministry, said June
11. The All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Association has asked
the government for a discussion on reversing the tax increase.  The move to slow demand comes amid the worst drop in ETP
holdings since the first product was listed in 2003. Assets fell
for 17 weeks through June 7 and are down 17.9 tons so far this
week. Paulson, the largest investor in the SPDR Gold Trust, the
biggest ETP, had a 13 percent loss in his Gold Fund last month.
That takes the decline since the start of the year to 54
percent, according to a copy of a letter to investors obtained
by Bloomberg News.  Write Down  Gold’s plunge is also hurting producers already contending
with rising costs. Newcrest,  Australia ’s largest gold producer,
said last week it will write down the value of its assets by as
much as A$6 billion ($5.9 billion) after the slump. The 30-member Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index slid 37
percent this year.  Data released last week showed U.S. payrolls increased more
than forecast in May and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said last month that the central bank could curtail its
$85 billion monthly bond purchases if the economy improves. The
World Bank raised its 2013 U.S. growth forecast on June 12 to 2
percent, from 1.9 percent in January, even as it cut its
estimate for the global economy to 2.2 percent, from 2.4
percent.  U.S. Stimulus  Bullion rose 58 percent since 2008 as the Fed led a global
surge in money printing to boost growth. While the U.S. central
bank will slow purchases, it will still buy $65 billion a month
by October, the median of 59 economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg this month shows. The Bank of  Japan  restated its April
pledge this week to increase the monetary base by 60 trillion to
70 trillion yen ($742 billion) a year, and refrained from adding
extra policy tools to counter bond-market volatility.  “Global fundamentals, including accommodative monetary
policy, remain positive for gold,” said Adrian Day, who manages
about $135 million of assets as the president of Adrian Day
Asset Management in Annapolis,  Maryland . “The market is slowly
realizing that despite all the talk about tapering of bond
buying by the Fed, there will be no meaningful global tightening
any time soon.”  The surge in equities over the past three quarters, which
also damped demand for gold, is now partially reversing. The
MSCI All-Country World Index reached a seven-week low yesterday.
The U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against six currencies, slipped
to the weakest in almost four months.  Money Managers  Hedge funds  and other large speculators got more positive
in the past two weeks after reducing bullish bets to the lowest
in almost six years, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. They increased their net-long position by 60 percent
to 57,113 contracts in the two weeks to June 4.  There are still signs that lower prices are boosting
physical buying. The U.K.’s Royal Mint, which saw its gold-coin
sales triple in April, said last week the “steep increase” in
demand continued in the past several weeks. The U.S. Mint
predicted last week that its gold and silver coin sales may
reach a record in 2013, and the Austrian Mint said it expects
“quite good business” in the next couple of months.  Gold’s 60-day historical volatility reached 28.9 percent
today, the highest since December 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with an average of 20.6 percent in
the past five years.  In other commodities, six of 11 people surveyed expect raw
sugar to drop next week and two were neutral. The commodity slid
14 percent to 16.85 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York this year.  Grain Costs  Eighteen of 30 surveyed anticipate lower corn prices and
nine said the grain will gain, while 14 of 29 said soybeans will
rise and 13 expect lower prices. Eighteen traders predicted
declines in wheat and seven were bullish. Corn fell 24 percent
to $5.305 a bushel this year in  Chicago . The December contract,
which reflects supply after the U.S. harvest, is down 12 percent
this year. Soybeans lost 8.3 percent to $12.92 a bushel, as
wheat declined 13 percent to $6.7925 a bushel.  Seven traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to fall
next week, six were bullish and five were neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, slipped 11 percent to $7,098.25 a ton this year.  ‘Death Bells’  Citigroup Inc. said in May that this year will probably
signal “death bells” for the commodities super cycle, or
longer-than-average period of rising prices. Societe Generale SA
wrote in a June 12 report that it’s too early to call a near-term end to the super cycle because of expanding populations
with more disposable income and greater urbanization.  The Washington-based World Bank cut China’s growth outlook
to 7.7 percent, from 8.4 percent previously. The nation is the
biggest user of everything from copper to cotton to coal. Metals
and grains are among the worst-performing commodities this year.  “Our call has been for a bottoming in commodities prices
in the second-quarter,” said Bjarne Schieldrop, the Oslo-based
chief commodity analyst at SEB AB. “The reduced growth outlook
by the World Bank is shaking that confidence a little.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  