-- Google Is Projected to Expand Lead in Online-Ad Market
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-06-13T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/google-is-projected-to-expand-lead-in-online-ad-market.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the most
popular Internet search engine, is projected to control about a
third of the digital-advertising market this year, extending its
lead as mobile and video marketing gain ground.  The  Mountain View , California-based company may grab 33
percent of worldwide revenue from online ads, up from 31 percent
in 2012,  EMarketer Inc.  said. Social-network leader  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  will increase its share to 5 percent from 4.1 percent,
while Yahoo! Inc., the biggest U.S. Web portal, will take 3.1
percent, down from 3.4 percent, the researcher estimated.  While Google has bolstered revenue by selling marketers
space on its main Web-search business for desktop computers, the
company has stepped up efforts to expand advertising on tablets
and smartphones as well as through YouTube, its video-sharing
service. YouTube tripled ad sales on mobile devices in the past
half-year, the company said this month.  “Google continues to reign as not only the largest
beneficiary of digital ad spending in the U.S., but worldwide as
well,” EMarketer said in a statement. “This year, Google will
increase revenues faster than the overall market thanks to
continued monetization of YouTube and growing adoption of mobile
advertising.”  Google is projected to generate $8.85 billion in revenue
from mobile advertising in 2013, or 56 percent of the worldwide
market. That’s up from 52 percent in 2012 and 38 percent in
2011, EMarketer said.  Facebook Mobile  Facebook, which only began offering mobile-ad space last
year, will be No. 2, with 13 percent of the market, compared
with 5.4 percent in 2012. The  Menlo Park , California-based
social network will bring in $2.04 billion in mobile-advertising
revenue this year, a more than fourfold jump from 2012,
EMarketer projected.  Internet-radio provider  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  will take 2.5
percent of worldwide mobile-advertising revenue, and Twitter
Inc. is likely to bring in 2 percent, the researcher estimated.  “EMarketer’s forecast for digital-ad revenues at select
major publishers indicates that online ad spending, like mobile
advertising, continues to consolidate among a few major ad
sellers,” the researcher said in the report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  