-- Greek Banks Said to Lure Investors to Avoid Full State Control
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2013-06-13T15:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/greek-banks-said-to-lure-investors-to-avoid-full-state-control.html
National Bank of Greece SA  and
 Piraeus Bank (TPEIR)  SA have secured sufficient backing from private
investors for their capital raisings to enable the lenders to
avert complete nationalization, according to people with direct
knowledge of the transactions.  National Bank, the country’s biggest lender, received
orders from private investors for more than 975 million euros
($1.3 billion) in stock, the minimum required to avoid complete
state backing, said an official at the Athens-based bank, who
asked not to be identified in line with company policy. Bids
from investors exceeded 1.1 billion euros, enabling the bank to
avoid selling contingent convertible bonds, the official said.  Piraeus Bank also has enough orders for 500 million euros
of bonds that convert into stock and allows the bank to retain
some independence, according to a person with knowledge of the
sale, who asked not to be identified because the transaction is
private. Both transactions close today.  The nation’s four systemically important lenders are
seeking to raise 28.5 billion euros to restore their buffers
after the sovereign debt restructuring wiped out capital.
Investors buying stock now are betting on the lenders’ ability
to revive profit amid a recession and a threat of political
uncertainty after the Greek government shut the country’s public
broadcaster this week.  The government will take full control of banks that can’t
find private investors, an outcome already sought by  Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB) ’s management. Funds will be provided by the state-owned Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, which is backed by a 50
billion-euro package pledged by the euro area and  International
Monetary Fund .  Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA)  also raised sufficient funds from private
investors in a rights offering completed earlier this month.  Investors can order shares of Piraeus, the country’s
second-biggest bank, through June 25. Bank of America Corp.,
Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
managing the sale of exchangeable bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  