-- IBM U.S. Job Cuts Reach at Least 1,300, Employee Group Says
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-06-13T20:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/ibm-s-u-s-job-cuts-reach-at-least-1-300-employee-group-says.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider, has fired
at least 1,300 workers in a round of U.S. job cuts that began
yesterday, according to the employee group  Alliance@IBM .  The job reduction includes at least 222 people in marketing
for the software business and 165 in semiconductor research and
development, according to Lee Conrad, a coordinator for
Alliance@IBM, which is affiliated with the  Communications
Workers of America  union.  The move is part of a global restructuring plan that IBM
announced in April after releasing disappointing first-quarter
results. The cuts target employees with a range of seniority,
from executives to rank-and-file workers, said a person familiar
with the effort, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The restructuring will cost $1 billion
worldwide, including severance expenses.  “Just about every division at every location is being
impacted,” Conrad said, including IBM hubs near Raleigh,  North
Carolina ; Burlington,  Vermont ; Austin, Texas; and  New York ’s
Hudson Valley. “Everything’s getting hit.”  The Armonk, New York-based company posted profit of $3 a
share last quarter, missing the $3.05 predicted by analysts --
the first earnings shortfall since 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  European Cuts  IBM said at the time that the job reduction would be
concentrated overseas and mostly complete by the end of June. So
far, IBM has eliminated about 128 jobs in  Denmark , 250 in  Italy 
and 700 in  Germany , among other countries, Conrad said.  The company is probably cutting 6,000 to 8,000 jobs
globally, based on the $1 billion cost figure, said Laurence Balter, an analyst at Oracle Investment Research in Fox Island,
 Washington . That would represent less than 2 percent of IBM’s
 total workforce  of 434,246 as of Dec. 31.  “Change is constant in the technology industry and
transformation is an essential feature of our business model,”
IBM said yesterday in a statement, without giving specifics on
the job cuts. “Consequently, some level of workforce remix is a
constant requirement for our business. Given the competitive
nature of our industry, we do not publicly discuss the details
of staffing plans.”  IBM shares  gained 1.3 percent to $203.77 at the close in
New York, leaving them up 6.4 percent this year. The stock has
climbed 8.5 percent from a four-month low set in April following
the lower-than-projected earnings.  The $1 billion plan represents an increase over IBM’s job-cut efforts in recent years. The company spent $803 million on
workforce restructuring in 2012, up from $440 million in 2011.  IBM also has been cutting hours of contract workers.  CDI
Corp. (CDI) , a Philadelphia-based provider of staffing and outsourcing
services, told its staff working for IBM to limit their hours in
May, according to a memo obtained by Bloomberg. IBM at the time
said that the company relies on contractors to manage labor
costs on information-technology projects for clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  