-- Microsft Teams With Best Buy to Promote Windows Computers
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-06-13T18:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/microsft-teams-with-best-buy-to-promote-windows-computers.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is teaming up with
 Best Buy Co. (BBY)  to promote machines with its latest Windows 8
operating system as the software maker and electronics retailer
try to combat the worst personal computer slump on record.  Microsoft is setting up its own Windows stores inside 500
Best Buy outlets in the U.S. and 100 in  Canada , the companies
said in a  statement  today. Other Microsoft products including
the Windows Phone, Office software and Xbox gaming console will
also be featured as part of the alliance.  Windows 8, an overhaul of Microsoft’s flagship operating
system released in October to appeal to mobile users, has failed
to reignite the ailing PC market, where shipments plummeted by
their largest margin on record in the latest quarter, according
to research firm IDC. Best Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer, posted an $81 million first-quarter loss
amid mounting online competition.  As part of the agreement, Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft will train more than 1,200 Best Buy salespeople to
work in the dedicated Windows shops, which will occupy from
1,500 to 2,200 square feet. Space will be set aside to highlight
notebooks and PCs, as well as Microsoft’s Surface tablet.  The stores will also showcase how various Microsoft
products work together, a selling strategy that has been
effective for devices running  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS operating system
and Google Inc.’s Android software.  ‘Windows Experience’  “It’s the iOS experience, it’s the Android experience and
we want a shopping environment that really shows what we think
is the Windows experience,”  Chris Capossela , Microsoft’s chief
marketing officer, said in an interview.  Microsoft has been trying to generate more enthusiasm for
its products by opening its own retail outlets, a move that has
proved successful for Apple. Even before Windows 8 went on sale,
Microsoft had been struggling with the inability of outside
retailers to effectively display its products and ensure that
staff understood the technology.  Windows 8 made it even more important for Microsoft to
improve communication with consumers. Sales staff have to
articulate the difference between the main version of Windows 8
and Windows RT, a variation for tablets with ARM Holdings Plc-based chips, Tami Reller, Windows chief financial officer, said
an interview last month. Then, they also have to explain
Microsoft’s first foray into hardware, the Surface.  Samsung Mini-Stores  “If you look at Best Buy in the U.S., 70 percent of
Americans are within 10 minutes of a Best Buy,” Reller said in
an interview today on Bloomberg Television. “We see them
definitely going into Best Buy to take a look at the products,
test them, try them, see what makes most sense for them.”  Microsoft follows Samsung Electronics Co. in striking an
agreement with Best Buy, based in Richfield,  Minnesota . Hubert Joly, the retailer’s CEO, is working to lure more customers to
his more than 1,000 U.S.  locations  amid rising competition from
Amazon.com Inc. and other Web rivals.  The stores are 10 times the size of Apple’s stores inside
Best Buy and five times bigger than the Samsung ones, said
Capossela. Three pilot stores are opening today, and all of them
should be up and running by September, he said.  In April, Samsung started opening mini-stores in Best Buy
outlets staffed by its own employees with expertise to
demonstrate new features of its devices such as the Galaxy S4
phone. That’s an advantage for Best Buy compared to Internet
retailers that don’t have physical locations for consumers to
test gadgets, according to Joly.  Price Matching  Earlier this year, Best Buy made permanent its holiday
policy of matching Internet competitors’ prices, cutting down on
“showrooming” by consumers who visit the retailer’s outlets
and buy items cheaper online later, Joly said.  Samsung is spending a portion of its marketing budget to
generate traffic to Best Buy stores, he told analysts last
month. “We’re the only place of scale in the U.S. where they
can showcase the fruit of the billions of dollars of R&D
investment they make every year,” Joly said at a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. conference.  While Microsoft has sold more than 100 million licenses to
use Windows 8, the product has failed to gain more than a few
percentage points of market share in the tablet computers, a
challenge for Microsoft as customers avoid purchasing notebook
machines in favor of handheld devices like Apple’s iPad and
machines made by Amazon and Samsung.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  