-- IMF to Monitor Zimbabwe in First Agreement in More Than a Decade
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-06-13T16:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/imf-to-monitor-zimbabwe-in-first-agreement-in-more-than-a-decade.html
The  International Monetary Fund  will
oversee a program of economic policies undertaken by  Zimbabwe  in
a first step toward making the country eligible for external
borrowing.  The so-called staff-monitored program runs from April to
December and was approved by IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , the fund said in an e-mailed statement today. While it
doesn’t come with any money, it is the first agreement between
the lender and Zimbabwe in more than a decade, the IMF said.  “Zimbabwe remains unable to access IMF resources because
of its continued arrears to the fund,” the Washington-based
lender said in the statement. “А strong track record of
maintaining macroeconomic stability and implementing reforms,
together with a comprehensive arrears clearance strategy
supported by development partners, will be essential for
resolving Zimbabwe’s large debt overhang.”  The southern African nation has been in default to
international creditors since 1999. It entered recession and
inflation began to surge after President  Robert Mugabe  in 2000
backed an often violent program of seizing white-owned
commercial farms and redistributing them to black subsistence
farmers.  Finance Minister  Tendai Biti  told reporters last week that
the country has accepted the IMF-monitored plan to settle its
$10.7 billion debt and become eligible for new external
borrowing.  Zimbabwe has about $125 million of  arrears  to the fund,
according to the institution’s website.  The economy is recovering after Biti in 2009 abandoned the
Zimbabwean dollar and adopted foreign currencies including the
euro and  U.S. dollar  as legal tender to tame hyperinflation the
IMF estimates accelerated to 500 billion percent.  “The strong rebound seen after the end of hyperinflation
seems to have run its course,” the IMF said today. “Sustaining
high growth will require determined efforts at economic
reform,” it said, citing measures in the program including in
public financial management and financial industry regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  