-- Indian Stocks See Biggest 2-Day Foreign Outflow Since Nov. 2011
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-06-13T13:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/indian-stocks-see-biggest-2-day-foreign-outflow-since-nov-2011.html
Overseas funds  sold the most Indian
shares over a two-day period since November 2011, contributing
to a slide that has dragged the nation’s benchmark equity index
to its lowest level in two months.  Foreigners sold a net $319 million of local shares on June
11 and 12, the highest  since  the two days ended Nov. 25, 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The sales reduced this year’s
net inflows into stocks to $15 billion, the data show.  Global stocks have lost some $2.5 trillion of their value
since U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22
the authority may taper stimulus if the economy improves. While
India’s S&P BSE Sensex has dropped 7.2 percent from more than a
two-year high on May 17 and the rupee fell to an all-time low
earlier this week, equities in the  Philippines ,  Thailand  and
 Indonesia  slumped as foreign selling reached record levels.
Overseas funds sold a net $2.7 billion from the three markets
this month through yesterday, the biggest eight-day outflow
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1999.  “Overseas funds are selling Indian stocks and shifting to
less risky assets amid an atmosphere of uncertainty across the
globe,” R.K. Gupta, who oversees about $816 million as a New
Delhi-based managing director at Taurus Asset Management Co.,
said by phone. “A weak rupee can raise inflationary trends and
pressure margins. That is also a concern for foreigners.”  Overseas investors sold $179 million of local shares on
June 12, the most since Feb. 28, data from the regulator show.
The rupee slumped to a record low of 58.9850 per dollar on June
11, weighed down by  India ’s current-account gap, and dropped as
much as 1.3 percent today. The currency has slid 6.4 percent
this quarter, making it Asia’s worst performer.  Fitch Upgrade  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram today signaled
more policy changes to revive growth and said steps are being
taken to stabilize the currency, seeking to build on the boost
to sentiment from Fitch Rating’s move yesterday to upgrade the
nation’s outlook to stable from negative, citing a nine-month
reform push.  Indian equities may continue to attract foreign inflows,
Derek Bandeen, Citigroup Inc.’s global head of equities, said in
an interview with Bloomberg TV India today. This year’s net
inflows of $15 billion are the highest after  Japan  among Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg. Foreigners plowed $24.5 billion
into local shares in 2012.  “India is a place that captures people’s imagination; what
this economy can grow to be and what this country can become,”
he said. “It’s a natural place to put capital to work. You will
continue to see strong flows.”  Global Growth  India’s gross domestic product grew 5 percent in the year
ended March, the least in a decade. The global economy will
expand 2.2 percent this year, the World Bank said yesterday,
paring a January forecast of 2.4 percent.  India is “probably not growing as fast as it could, but I
don’t know whether anybody is,” Bandeen said. The nation’s
“great asset is the population; a large, educated and
aspirational middle class that’s really capable of delivering on
the global stage.”  Foreigners have been net sellers of Indian stocks in just
two of the past 13 years, based on data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 2000. Inflows climbed to a record  $29.3 billion  in
2010, making the Sensex the best performer among the world’s 10
biggest markets that year. The largest-ever outflow in 2008,
during the global financial crisis, triggered the biggest  annual
slump  in the gauge of 52 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  