-- India Correcting Factory Data Twice in Day Stokes Quality Worry
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-13T11:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/india-correcting-factory-data-twice-in-day-stokes-quality-worry.html
India  corrected its latest report on
industrial production twice just a day after publishing the data,
stoking concern over the quality of pivotal economic figures.  Output rose 2.3 percent in April from a year earlier,
higher than the 2 percent first reported, the Statistics
Ministry said today. A statement two-and-a-half hours earlier
put the expansion at 2.2 percent. Errors in electricity
production inputs led to the revisions, the ministry said.  Official data that are often incomplete or months out of
date contribute to a statistical fog that adds to the challenge
of assessing Asia’s third-largest economy.  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has  said  the nation’s policy makers
have to contend with both an uncertain future and an uncertain
past because of more frequent revisions than elsewhere.  “Industrial-production data quality was always suspect and
something needs to be done,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian,
an economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in
Mumbai. “Data quality in general needs to improve.”  The government must focus on getting factory- output (INPIINDY)  growth
reports right as they are a key input for working out initial
gross domestic product figures, he said.  The changed report shows industrial-production growth was
still slower than March’s 3.4 percent pace. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey was for an expansion of 2.4 percent.  In April last year, government revisions cut January 2012’s
factory-output growth to 1.1 percent from 6.8 percent after an
error was found in sugar output calculations.  “Macroeconomic statistics are adequate for surveillance,
but weaknesses remain in the timeliness and coverage of certain
statistical series,” the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
 report  in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ; 