-- Indonesia Completes Probe Into Freeport Grasberg Tunnel Accident
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-06-13T10:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/indonesia-completes-probe-into-freeport-grasberg-tunnel-accident.html
An independent panel probing a
tunnel accident at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s
Grasberg mine in Indonesia has completed the investigation and
may submit a report to the government as early as this weekend.  The findings will be presented to Energy and Mineral
Resources Minister Jero Wacik this weekend or early next week,
Ridho Wattimena, head of the government-formed panel, said in a
phone interview today. Freeport declared force majeure yesterday
on shipments from its Grasberg operations, the world’s second-largest copper mine, after the accident that killed 28 workers
last month halted operations.  The government has said the mine will remain shut until the
investigation into the accident is completed. Freeport is
waiting for approval from Indonesian authorities to restart
operations in phases, starting with open-pit mining and
processing activity, Phoenix-based Freeport said yesterday in a
statement. The stoppage is reducing output by about 3 million
pounds of copper (1,361 metric tons) and 3,000 ounces of gold a
day, the company said.  “Our task is to find the cause and how to avoid such
accidents from happening again in the future,” Wattimena said,
declining to give details of the findings. “The rest will be
decided by the government.”  Copper for three month delivery fell 0.8 percent to
$7,060.75 on the London Metal Exchange at 5:24 p.m. Jakarta
time. Futures rose as much as 1.4 percent yesterday after
Freeport declared force majeure on shipments from the mine in
Mimika, Papua province. Force majeure is a clause in a contract
invoked by commodity suppliers when they can’t meet obligations
because of circumstances beyond their control.  PT Freeport  Indonesia  hasn’t received results of the
investigation and is waiting for instructions from the
government, Vice President of Corporate Communications Daisy Primayanti, said in a mobile-phone text message.  Dede Suhendra, director of minerals at the energy ministry,
said he was in a meeting and can’t comment on the probe. Virgo Solossa, head of Mimika branch of All Indonesian Workers Union
in Chemical, Energy and Mining Sectors, didn’t answer two calls
to his mobile-phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  