-- Indonesia Unexpectedly Raises Rate for First Time Since 2011
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-06-13T09:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/indonesia-unexpectedly-raises-key-rate-for-first-time-since-2011.html
Bank Indonesia  unexpectedly raised
its key  interest rate  for the first time since 2011 as Governor
Agus Martowardojo accelerates efforts to support the currency
and cool inflation expectations. The rupiah pared losses.  The central bank increased the  reference rate  by a quarter
of a percentage point to 6 percent, it said in Jakarta today.
All 19 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expected no change.  The surprise increase comes after the central bank this
week raised the rate it pays lenders on overnight deposits and
said it’s ready to buy  government bonds  from the secondary
market to support the weakening rupiah.  Indonesia  joins emerging
markets such as  Brazil  in addressing an outflow of capital amid
concern that developed nations will scale back the liquidity
they have been pumping.  “Bank Indonesia deserves a pat on the back for this,”
said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Singapore. “They clearly are showing an intent to
try and stabilize the currency in a stronger way than I think
all of us anticipated.”  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,883 per dollar as of 4:07
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. It touched 9,925 earlier, the weakest level since
Sept. 15, 2009. One-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.1
percent to 10,125 after sliding as much as 1.3 percent. The
contracts traded at a 2.4 percent discount to the spot rate.  First Decision  Rupiah forwards rose the most in a year yesterday after
Bank Indonesia increased the deposit facility rate, also known
as the Fasbi, by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.25
percent. The Fasbi rate was last raised in August.  This is Martowardojo’s first rate-decision meeting after
taking over from Darmin Nasution last month, and he is
contending with slowing growth, while inflation is poised to
quicken as the government prepares to increase fuel prices.  His move to raise rates contrasts with that of central
banks in  New Zealand ,  South Korea  and the  Philippines , which
held borrowing costs today.  “This came in as a strong statement by the new BI
governor, particularly since some in the market had previous
doubts about his independence from the government,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
Singapore. There may be another 25 basis-point increase in the
benchmark rate in the next session, he said.  Capital Outflow  Brazil said yesterday it will eliminate a tax on currency
derivatives in a bid to arrest the decline of the real that is
at a four-year low. Overseas investors have pulled more than $2
billion from stocks and local-currency bonds in Indonesia in the
past two weeks, putting pressure on the rupiah as rising U.S.
Treasury yields lure capital from  emerging markets .  Bank Indonesia is studying plans to allow banks to sell
their rupiah term deposits to other lenders to ensure rupiah and
dollar stability in the market, Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo
told reporters in Jakarta today.  Thai Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today the
country should use its foreign reserves as a “cushion” to
prevent excessive movements in the baht. Bank of Thailand
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said the central bank has sold
“a certain amount of dollars” in the past week to smooth
volatility in its currency.  Global Outlook  The World Bank yesterday cut its global growth forecast for
this year after emerging markets from  China  to Brazil slowed
more than projected, while budget cuts and slumping investor
confidence deepened  Europe ’s contraction.  The Indonesian economy  grew  6.02 percent in the first three
months of 2013 from a year ago, after expanding 6.11 percent the
previous quarter. The government earlier lowered its GDP target
for 2013 to 6.3 percent from 6.8 percent, and predicts inflation
will quicken to 7.2 percent this year from an initial estimate
of 4.9 percent should fuel prices be raised.  Consumer prices rose 5.47 percent in May, with the pace of
gains slowing for a second month.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has made any boost in
fuel prices conditional on Parliament approving compensation
programs for the poor. Failure to lower subsidies in 2012 led to
a record current-account gap, hurting the rupiah as foreign
investors lost confidence.  The central bank is “moving toward a tightening bias” as
the planned fuel-price increase adds risks to inflation and
economic stability, Warjiyo said May 22. Raising the benchmark
rate would be the “most credible” response to damp price
expectations, Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah said in an
interview this month.  “Today’s BI rate hike and the Fasbi rate hike are steps in
the right direction and clear short-term positives for the
rupiah,” Standard Chartered Plc analysts Eric Sugandi, Jennifer
Kusuma,  Thomas Harr  wrote in a note. “We expect BI to become
more aggressive in its policy to manage inflationary pressures
and defend the rupiah.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  