-- Lionel Messi Used U.K. Company in Tax Fraud, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-13T15:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/lionel-messi-used-u-k-company-in-tax-fraud-prosecutor-says.html
Lionel Messi, the four-time world
soccer player of the year, directed revenue from advertising
deals through companies in the U.K. and Switzerland to evade 4.2
million euros ($5.6 million) in income tax, according to a
complaint filed by a prosecutor in Barcelona.  Messi and his father Jorge routed earnings through London-based Sidefloor Ltd. and Tubal Soccer Management GmbH in Zug
between 2007 and 2009 because the U.K. and Switzerland have
treaties with tax havens and allow the existence of companies
with “opaque” ownership structures, prosecutor Raquel Amado
said in a 13-page complaint.  The 25-year-old Messi, an Argentine who’s played for
 Barcelona  since 2003, denied wrongdoing in a post on his
Facebook page.  “It’s something that we are surprised about because we
have never committed any infraction,” Messi said. “We have
always fulfilled our tax obligations following the advice of our
tax consultants who will take care of clarifying this
situation.”  After 5 to 8 percent commission on Messi’s revenue from
companies including  Adidas AG (ADS) ,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Danone SA (BN)  was
retained by Sidefloor and Tubal Soccer, the income was
redirected to Jenbril SA in Uruguay, which is “technically a
tax haven,” according to the complaint. Messi also redirected
income to Belize, the complaint said.  Adidas Contract  Messi’s contract with Adidas to endorse the sport apparel
maker was worth 7.5 million euros, not counting bonuses, in
2007, according to the complaint, without saying for how many
years it was scheduled to run. Messi was soccer’s best-paid
player after David Beckham last year with 35 million euros of
salary and endorsements, according to France Football magazine.
Beckham, 38, quit pro soccer in May.  Messi routed a total of 10.2 million euros offshore from
2007 to 2009, with about one-third of that coming from
Barcelona, the complaint said. Spain’s tax agency allows foreign
soccer players to receive 15 percent of their team salary abroad
in image rights, according to Rodrigo Garcia, a lawyer at Laffer
Abogados whose clients include soccer players.  A judge in the Gava district of Barcelona where Messi lives
will hear witness statements from the player and his father
before deciding whether to charge them or drop the case, Jose
Miguel Company, a spokesman for the public prosecutor’s office
in Barcelona, said by phone.  The judge’s investigation could take between one and two
years, according to Company. Messi could avoid all punishment if
he pays the money that the public prosecutor said he owes in
unpaid taxes, Company added.  Hide Ownership  Sidefloor paid 161,947 euros tax in the U.K. on revenue of
17.4 million euros for the year to Feb. 29, 2012, according to a
filing at Companies House.  It’s common for foreign companies to route revenue to tax
havens via the U.K. because it’s “easy” to set up a company,
hide ownership and pay relatively little withholding tax,
Richard Murphy, author of  “Over Here and Undertaxed,”  a book
about tax avoidance by Google Inc. and other corporations in the
U.K., said by telephone.  Sidefloor is controlled by Bedford Nominees (UK) Ltd. and
doesn’t mention Messi in its annual accounts or ownership
structure, according to Companies House filings. Bedford’s
parent company is West England Trust Ltd., a financial planning
company, according to the complaint.  Filings for Zug-based Tubal Soccer couldn’t immediately be
obtained. The effective average corporate tax rate in the Swiss
canton, a hub for commodity trading, was 13 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  