-- Lira Heads for Highest This Month as Protests Subdued in Turkey
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-13T14:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/lira-heads-for-highest-this-month-as-protests-subdued-in-turkey.html
The lira gained for a third day, set
for its highest level this month, and bonds rose as calm
returned to Istanbul’s Taksim Square after two weeks of clashes
between anti-government demonstrators and riot police.  The Turkish currency strengthened 0.6 percent to 1.8635 per
dollar by 5:06 p.m. in Istanbul, poised for its highest since
May 29. Yields on two-year benchmark notes fell for a second
day, dropping six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
6.74 percent.  Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the target of
protesters’ anger over what they say is his autocratic style,
met late yesterday with a group said to represent the
demonstrators’ concerns. Several thousand protesters went to
Taksim late yesterday, chanting slogans against the government
as riot police deployed around the square looked on.  Turkey ’s
central bank sold dollars two days ago and tightened funding by
halting its one-week repo auctions at its policy rate for the
first time in more than a year.  “The political tensions have eased and the Turkish central
bank has used the tools at its disposals,”  Murat Toprak , the
London-based head of European, Middle East and Africa currency
strategy at HSBC Holding Plc, said in e-mailed comments. “The
combination of tighter lira liquidity and selling dollars has
had a positive impact on the lira.”  Turkish  stocks  extended gains, with the main index adding
0.9 percent in Istanbul, paring its loss this month to 9.8
percent.  Currency Volatility  Turkey’s central bank is obligated to intervene in extreme
currency volatility, Governor Erdem Basci said at a conference
in Giresun province yesterday. The lira’s volatility for the
past three months rose for a fifth day to the highest since Oct.
9. The central bank sold $250 million in five currency auctions
two days ago, after the lira reached its weakest level since
December 2011 a day earlier.  “The central bank is giving a strong message that it would
do whatever it takes to stabilize the currency and prevent a
currency crisis that would lead to a further loss of confidence
amongst international investors,” Bernd Berg, a global
emerging-market foreign-exchange strategist with Credit Suisse
Group AS in Zurich, said in e-mailed comments.  At least four people have died in clashes, which spread
nationwide after May 31, and the Turkish Medical Association
says more than 4,000 people have been treated at hospitals. The
demonstrators say Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted government is
increasingly unwilling to countenance dissent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  