-- Iranians Vote for President Who May ‘Make or Break’ Republic
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-06-14T18:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/iranians-vote-for-president-who-may-make-or-break-republic.html
Iranians headed to the polls today
to elect a replacement for President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , with
the winner set to inherit an economy crippled by inflation and
falling oil exports.  Voters want the next president to secure the lifting of
sanctions imposed to halt  Iran’s nuclear program , according to
opinion polls. Israel has threatened military action to ensure
the Islamic republic doesn’t obtain nuclear weapons should
diplomacy fail, and the U.S. has also signaled it’s ready to use
force.  “The biggest change in the context for whomever succeeds
Ahmadinejad is the dramatic intensification in Iran’s
international isolation over the course of the past four
years,” said Suzanne Maloney, a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution’s Saban Center for Middle East Policy . “Iran’s next
president will be poised to make or break the future of the
Islamic Republic.”  Amid domestic difficulties and diplomatic tensions, 73-year
old Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei had signaled he wanted a low-key
contest among loyalists. In the final days of campaigning there
were signs that a surge by reformist candidate Hassan Rohani may
change the dynamics of the race, galvanizing some of the
momentum for change that swept the country four years ago.  After that election, hundreds of thousands of protesters
took to the streets to challenge the legitimacy of Ahmadinejad’s
re-election over a reformist candidate. The demonstrations were
crushed with dozens of people killed and thousands detained.  Khamenei Votes  Voting ended across the country amid high participation,
according to the  Interior Ministry . Ballots opened at 8 a.m.
local time and were extended until 11 p.m. Results “will be
announced with more attention and transparency than previous
times, and faster as well,” said Interior Minister Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar without giving details, according to the state-run  Fars  news agency.  Khamenei cast his ballot earlier today in Tehran. “I chose
one person among these gentlemen and haven’t told anyone” who
it was, he said in comments shown on state television.  The supreme leader also referred to U.S. criticism of the
voting procedures. “To hell with those who don’t recognize
Iran’s election,” he said. “If Iranians were waiting for what
you approve and what you like, they would be lagging behind
now.”  Real Race  Last month,  Iran ’s Guardian Council, the election watchdog
that vets candidates, eliminated former president Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, narrowing the field of 686 hopefuls to eight
candidates of a similar hue. Two have since dropped out. More
restrictive television debate formats reinforced the message
that this year’s election was to be less divisive than 2009.  Instead, there are signs of a real race. Two former
presidents, Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami, joined forces to
back Rohani, 64, a former nuclear negotiator during Khatami’s
time in office. Two opinion polls have showed Rohani in a tie
with the conservative candidate Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf, the
mayor of Tehran.  The Mehr public opinion survey center in Tehran says
Qalibaf, a former Revolutionary Guards air force commander, is
the front-runner with 17.8 percent support, with Rohani next on
14.6 percent.  Another organization, U.S.-based  IPOS  (Information and
Public Opinion Solution), which is polling people in Iran by
telephone, reports that Rohani’s rating has climbed to 38
percent from 14.6 percent in the past three days, while Qalibaf
is at 24.6 percent. IPOS is a private group headed by Iranian
sociologist and pollster Hossein Ghazian.  Preferred Candidate  Iran’s current chief nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili, who
is perceived to be Khamenei’s preferred candidate, is trailing
in both polls. So is Ali Akbar Velayati, a former foreign
minister and now a senior adviser to the supreme leader.  If no candidate wins 50 percent of votes there will be a
run-off between the leading two, though that has only happened
once in recent elections, when Ahmadinejad first won in 2005.  Rohani has become the default reform candidate, having
worked with both Rafsanjani and Khatami, regarded as the leader
of the movement. Both ex-presidents are known to favor
engagement with the West and have expressed sympathy with the
2009 opposition, known as the Green Movement.  Conservatives connected to Khamenei control nearly every
major political institution in Iran and they are unlikely to
allow reformists to win the presidency, said  Karim Sadjadpour , a
senior associate at the  Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace  in  Washington .  ‘Notoriously Unfree’  “Iranian presidential elections are notoriously unfree,
unfair, and unpredictable,” said Sadjadpour. “The big question
mark is, whose vote will prove more decisive, that of the people
or that of the Supreme Leader?”  While all candidates have backed Iran’s right to a civilian
nuclear program, Rohani and others say technological progress
shouldn’t come at the expense of public wellbeing. That has been
eroded by the sanctions squeezing the economy.  Inflation in April was 32 percent, and a quarter of all
Iranians aged 15 to 29 were unemployed in the last Iranian year
ending March 20, according to official figures. Oil exports
declined 40 percent in 2012 to 1.5 million barrels a day and
production is at the  lowest level  since the 1980s. The Iranian
rial, which lost half its value last year, is being targeted by
the U.S. under a new round of sanctions authorized by President
 Barack Obama  and set to enter force.  Global Community  “The economy has been experiencing a negative growth rate
for over a year, with Iran being continuously pushed further and
further from the international financial institutions,” said
Nader Entessar, a professor of political science at the
 University of South Alabama .  The new president will have to engage with the West if he
wants to reverse the slide, because “the Iranian economy cannot
change without being part of the global community,” Entessar
said.  Khamenei, the final decision-maker on affairs of state,
shows few signs of accepting that argument. This week he has
urged Iranians to vote en mass to demonstrate their support for
the Islamic Republic and resistance against U.S.-led pressure. A
“powerful presence” at the ballot box “will make the enemy
desperate and cause it to ease its pressure and follow an
alternative path,” he said.  To win, Rohani, who has spoken in favor of increased
freedoms and negotiating with the West, may need to convinced
disillusioned voters. He’s urging his supporters, who include
many young, middle-class urban Iranians, to overcome their
frustration and turn up at the ballot box.  Many Iranians have expressed skepticism that the election
can bring any changes.  “I won’t vote for anybody,” said Reza Torbati, 30, a gift
shop owner in the holy city of Qom. “Because candidates just
make promises and they soon forget about what they said, when
they become president.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  