-- Iran’s Last Presidential Campaign Day Drives Voters Into Streets
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-06-13T12:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/iran-s-last-presidential-campaign-day-drives-voters-into-streets.html
Iranians took to the streets and
main squares of Tehran in an unprecedanted show of support for
their candidates before presidential elections tomorrow.  Thousands of people stayed out all afternoon yesterday and
into the evening, in a late display of engagement in a race that
started with little enthusiasm. Candidates are not allowed by
law to campaign the day before a vote, though spontaneous
gatherings could take place later today.  After the last presidential election in 2009, activists
accused authorities of using ballot fraud to deny a reformist
victory. Having witnessed the subsequent crackdown on
protesters, many Iranians polled in recent weeks said they had
no interest in voting this time. About 50.4 million people are
eligible to cast ballots, including 1.6 million first-time
voters, the Interior Ministry says.  Several thousand supporters of Hassan Rohani, the candidate
most in favour of social and political reforms, gathered in
Haft-Tir square. Rally organizers distributed purple bracelets
and posters of Rohani bearing slogans of the same color. Some
people wore purple scarves and coats.  Rohani’s campaign picked up this week after he was endorsed
by former presidents Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mohammad
Khatami, whom Iranians refer to as “the father of reforms.”
Rohani has vowed to ease economic sanctions on his nation by
seeking a more constructive dialogue with the West.  “Fellow citizens under sanctions, support us, support
us!” chanted some of Rohani’s backers. “The epic of Khatami
must be repeated,” others called out, referring to Rohani as
“the sheikh of reforms.”  Other Contenders  Rohani is one six candidates and the only cleric. Other
main contenders are the chief nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili ,
and Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf, for whom support was
also visible last night in Tehran.  As many as 3,000 of Qalibaf supporters gathered in
Palestine Square, making their way up to the Vanak roundabout.
Posters, including head-to-toe pictures of the mayor, cover the
entire sides of some buildings in the capital.  Qalibaf has cited his work in the 12-million-people city as
proof of his managerial skills and efficiency. He’s seen as a
front runner in a local survey by the Mehr Center for Opinion
Polling.  The police force was conspicuous during the rallies, though
there was no sign of tensions or conflict between security
forces and voters.  No Majority  About 51 percent of Iranians are undecided or said they
will not vote at all, Akbar Torkan, the deputy head of Rohani’s
campaign headquarters said two days ago, citing local polls.  According to two local polls cited by state-run Mehr and
Fars news agencies, none of the six candidates will win a
majority of votes this week. Qalibaf will place first with 17.8
percent while Rohani will come in second with 14.6 percent,
according to the Mehr Center for Opinion Polling’s survey.
Jalili will trail with 9.8  percent, it showed. Qalibaf and
Jalili will lead votes and Rohani will come in third, according
to another survey Fars cited two days ago.  If no candidate gets a majority in the first round, the top
two will compete in a June 21 runoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net 
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  