-- Israeli Defense Minister to Take First Ride in V-22 Plane
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-06-13T22:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/israeli-defense-minister-to-take-first-ride-in-v-22-plane.html
Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon on his visit to the U.S. tomorrow will fly for the first
time in a V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor airplane, which the Jewish
state is considering buying.  Ya’alon will fly about 37 miles (60 kilometers) from the
Pentagon to the Marine Corps Base in Quantico,  Virginia , where
he and his team will be briefed and get a demonstration of the
plane before flying back to the Pentagon, Defense Department
spokesman Carl Woog said in a phone interview.  The U.S. has offered a fleet of V-22s, and  Israel  is
considering them as well as other weapons, including aerial
refueling planes, precision anti-radar missiles and air-defense
radar. The Osprey, an airplane that takes off and lands like a
helicopter, could improve Israel’s ability to conduct commando
and rescue operations.  If Israel buys the planes, it will be the first export of
the V-22 Osprey made by Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Providence,
Rhode Island-based  Textron Inc.’s (TXT)  Bell Helicopter unit.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Ya’alon will discuss the
arms package, Woog said. The two officials considered the
weaponry when Hagel visited Israel in April and said the
equipment was part of “an iron-clad pledge” by President
 Barack Obama ’s administration to ensure Israel’s military edge
against its enemies such Syria and  Iran .  The value of the arms package will depend in part on how
many V-22s Israel wants and what configuration and weapons its
military forces want, a U.S. official who spoke on the condition
of anonymity to discuss bilateral negotiations said last month.  The plane has overcome design, safety and reliability
setbacks, including two crashes in 2000 that killed 23 Marines.  Japanese residents of the island of Okinawa protested the
U.S. deployment of the V-22 there last year after two accidents
involving the aircraft in Florida and Morocco. In September,
Japanese officials declared the V-22 safe for deployment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  