-- Israel Says Russian Missiles for Syria Threaten All Its Flights
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-06-13T12:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/israel-says-russian-missiles-for-syria-threaten-all-its-flights.html
Russia ’s delivery to Syria of S-300
anti-aircraft missiles would threaten all military and civil
flights in Israel, Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Zeev Elkin
said in Moscow today.  “In an unstable situation, you never know whose hands they
may end up in,” Elkin said. “The weapons change the rules of
the game in the Middle East.”  Syria is embroiled in a two-year-old conflict that has
evolved into civil war and spilled over Syria’s borders in
recent months. The  United Nations  said today that at least
93,000 people have been killed and that the real number is
“potentially much higher.”  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said June 4 that his
country hadn’t delivered the missiles to Syria to avoid
upsetting the regional balance of power. The U.S. has told
Russia the missiles would be “destabilizing” for Israel’s
security, Secretary of State  John Kerry  said on May 9.  Elkin said Israel has asked Russia to at least suspend the
sale “until the situation in Syria clears up.” Israel’s
Haaretz newspaper reported last month that Israeli National
Security Adviser Yaakov Amidror told European Union ambassadors
his country would prevent the missiles from becoming operational
on Syrian soil if delivered.  Elkin also said Israel was discussing with Russia the
Russian government’s offer to station peacekeepers on the Golan
Heights as part of United Nations force after Austria decided to
withdraw its soldiers.  The UN has said permanent members of its  Security Council ,
such as Russia, can’t participate in the force. Russia has
proposed revising the guidelines governing the force, created in
1974 to supervise the cease-fire between Syria and Israel on the
 Golan Heights . Israel captured the southern section of the Golan
from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  