-- J.C. Penney to End Johnson-Era Sales Force Hide-And-Seek
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-06-13T20:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/j-c-penney-to-end-johnson-era-sales-force-hide-and-seek.html
Best Buy Co.’s sales force wears
blue shirts. Apple Inc. “specialists” are garbed in branded
tees.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  associates can wear whatever they want.  The un-dress code is a legacy of ousted Chief Executive
Officer Ron Johnson, the former Apple retail chief who espoused
a hipper, less formal vibe for J.C. Penney. The strategy has a
flaw evident to anyone who has shopped at the department-store
chain lately: You can’t tell the sales workers from everyone
else. That made it hard to ask for assistance and pay for
purchases because Johnson also removed many cash registers and
put checkout devices in the hands of hard-to-find store workers.  As Johnson successor Mike Ullman tries to reverse a sales
collapse at the century-old department store chain, he’s
restoring some basic ABCs of retailing -- tenets he became
familiar with during his previous stint at J.C. Penney. Before
the back-to-school shopping season next month, store workers
will be outfitted with red branded lanyards, Ullman said. The
company also is considering changing the relaxed dress code.  “We want to make sure there is no doubt who works for
us,” Ullman, 66, said in an interview in New York.  In his bid to transform J.C. Penney into a fashion
destination, Johnson encouraged store employees to wear designer
jeans and graphic t-shirts. Customers already alienated after
Johnson killed discounts and several popular brands found in the
camouflaged store workers another reason to shop elsewhere.
Sales last year plunged 25 percent, leading to a net loss of
$985 million.  While shares of the Plano, Texas-based chain have rebounded
14 percent since Ullman returned on April 8, they remain down 43
percent from Johnson’s first day as CEO on Nov. 1, 2011.  Store Tours  “It didn’t take long to figure out” why shoppers couldn’t
find the store workers, said Ullman, who toured stores shortly
after his return.  When Johnson introduced mobile checkout devices much like
the ones used at  Apple (AAPL)  stores, customers thought “we took
registers off the floor and didn’t have a lot of places to check
out,” Ullman said. “We actually had a lot more places to check
out than the customer gave us credit for because they didn’t
know where they were.”  When shoppers did find a salesperson packing an iPod-based
checkout device they often didn’t trust the security of a
wireless technology that is still rare at U.S. retailers. They
also balked at handing over a charge card to a person that often
didn’t look like an employee.  Customers must “feel comfortable giving their credit card
to someone who is wearing the proper uniform,” Ullman said.  Bag Storage?  The dearth of cashiers created more challenges: where to
fold and bag clothing? Where would bags be stored? What if the
customer wanted a printed receipt instead of an e-mailed one?
None of this created headaches at Apple, where tech-savvy
customers typically buy one or two boxed items per visit and
long ago embraced mobile checkout.  Ullman’s solution: putting 2,800 wheeled carts in about 700
of J.C. Penney’s largest stores that can be rolled to the
busiest departments. Some will have a fully functioning cash
register and all of them will give store workers a place to fold
clothes, store bags and print receipts.  The 20 or so store workers packing checkout devices in each
store will now wear a gray sash that serves as a holster. The
chain is also adding signs explaining how to check out.  The company is scurrying to get these tweaks ready for
back-to-school. With good reason. Children’s apparel accounts
for 12 percent of sales. It’s also the first major shopping
event since Ullman’s return and a key chance to show progress.  “Back to school, that’s our Olympics” for the youth
business, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  