-- Jakarta Governor Says Indonesia President Bid Hinges on Megawati
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-06-13T18:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/jakarta-governor-says-indonesia-president-bid-hinges-on-megawati.html
Jakarta Governor Joko Widodo, who
leads popularity polls for  Indonesia ’s presidential election
next year, affirmed his allegiance to the party of former leader
Megawati Soekarnoputri and said she would decide if he runs.  Widodo, known locally as Jokowi, topped Prabowo Subianto of
the Greater Indonesia Movement party as the number one choice
for president in a survey conducted last month by the Centre for
Strategic and International Studies. Megawati’s Indonesian
 Democratic Party  of Struggle, known as PDI-P, is the country’s
biggest opposition party.  “PDI-P is my party,” Widodo, 51, said in an interview in
Jakarta yesterday, adding that Megawati as chairwoman is
authorized to pick the 2014 presidential candidate. “So you ask
direct to Bu Mega, not to me,” he said, referring to the former
leader by her nickname.  Widodo’s surge in popularity after winning the Jakarta
governor race in September has fueled speculation he may run for
the presidency in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy. Since
candidates need support from parties that win at least 20
percent of seats in the  House of Representatives  in April
parliamentary elections, either Megawati or Widodo would likely
run with PDI-P’s backing.  “They are a serious contender this time around because
there are no other serious candidates besides Prabowo,” said
Mohamed Nawab Mohamed Osman, research fellow at  Singapore ’s S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies, referring to PDI-P.
“There will be pressure within her party for her to step aside
because she has not been able to deliver the presidency.”  President’s Daughter  Megawati -- the daughter of Sukarno, the country’s first
president -- became Indonesia’s first female leader in 2001
after President Abdurrahman Wahid stepped aside in the middle of
his term. She lost the past two elections to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, including a crushing defeat in the 2009 poll
when she captured about a quarter of the votes compared with
more than 60 percent for Yudhoyono.  The CSIS poll last month of prospective presidential
candidates found that if Widodo ran he would win 28.6 percent of
the vote, compared with 5.4 percent for Megawati, the Jakarta
Post  reported . Subianto would win 15.6 percent, while  Aburizal
Bakrie , chairman of Golkar, the second-biggest party in
parliament and a member of the ruling coalition, would win 7
percent, it said.  Pramono Anung, a former PDI-P secretary-general who is now
deputy House Speaker and a close friend of Megawati’s family,
didn’t respond to calls to his mobile phone.  Senior members of Yudhoyono’s ruling Democrat party said
they would welcome Widodo to participate in a primary scheduled
for next month, the Jakarta Post  reported  on May 31, citing
deputy chairwoman Nurhayati Ali Assegaf. The Democrat party
holds 148 seats in the 560-member parliament, compared with 94
for PDI-P, and has yet to circle around a serious candidate for
next year.  ‘Discreet’ Approaches  Asked whether any parties have approached him to run,
Widodo laughed and said: “Discreet.”  “I don’t think about the presidential election, or the
vice president,” he said at his office. “I’m still focused in
my job.”  Widodo said he’s concentrating on fixing the two biggest
problems in the city of 9.6 million people: Floods and traffic
jams. Construction of a mass rapid transit system in Jakarta,
first proposed in the 1980s, would start in September, he said,
adding that this month he plans to make a decision on building a
monorail.  Pressure from political and economic interests prompted
both projects to be delayed for years before he took office,
Widodo said.  “For me, I ask the document, and when the document is
ready, I just decide,” he said when asked how he was able to
get the stalled projects moving. “If we heard from here, from
here, from here, it’s difficult to decide.”  Mass Transit  Sumitomo Mitsui Construction Co. and a group of companies
won a 3.6 trillion-rupiah ($364 million) contract last month to
build an underground tunnel for the mass rapid transit system.
The network’s first phase of 15.7 kilometers (9.8 miles) will be
completed in 2017, Widodo told reporters on May 2.  Bank Indonesia yesterday unexpectedly raised its key
 interest rate  for the first time since 2011 as Governor Agus
Martowardojo sought to support the currency and cool inflation
expectations. Yudhoyono’s government earlier lowered its 2013
economic growth target to 6.3 percent from 6.8 percent, and
predicted inflation will quicken to 7.2 percent this year from
an initial estimate of 4.9 percent should fuel prices be raised.  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,883 per dollar as of 4:07
p.m. yesterday in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 9,925 earlier, the weakest
level since Sept. 15, 2009.  Yudhoyono has made any boost in fuel prices conditional on
Parliament approving compensation programs for the poor. Failure
to lower subsidies in 2012 led to a record current-account gap,
hurting the rupiah as foreign investors lost confidence in the
country.  Widodo owes his popularity to regular visits to the city’s
poorer areas, some of which extend until midnight. That enables
him to quickly react when issues arise, he said.  “The politician must know what the people want, what the
people need -- not only come to the people around them,” Widodo
said. “It’s better to go direct to the people and ask them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  