-- Japanese Stock Futures Rally as U.S. Shares Halt Global Slide
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-06-13T22:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/japanese-stock-futures-rally-as-u-s-shares-halt-global-slide.html
Japanese equity futures rallied,
after the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average entered a  bear market , as
U.S. shares halted a global slide amid better-than-forecast
economic data and growing speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
signal plans to maintain record-low  interest rates .  Futures on the Nikkei 225 expiring in September jumped 3.8
percent to 12,870 as of 3 a.m. in  Osaka . The Japanese equity
benchmark has fallen 20 percent, crossing the threshold
investors define as a bear market, after reaching a five-year
high on May 22. The broader Topix index slid 4.8 percent
yesterday, its seventh move of at least 1 percent in the past 10
sessions.  Japan’s stock market “had quite a rout last night, but it
seems as though investors are thinking they will follow the
U.S.,” Thomas Garcia, head of equity trading at Santa Fe, New
Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which manages
$80 billion, wrote in an e-mail. “Japan has been extremely
volatile this year. There’s been lots of big moves in both the
stock market and the currency.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.5 percent to
1,636.36 in New York yesterday, snapping a  three-day  losing
streak, after data showed faster-than-forecast growth in retail
sales and a drop in jobless claims. The MSCI All-Country World
Index increased 0.3 percent, reversing an earlier 0.9 percent
retreat.  U.S. equities extended gains after the Wall Street Journal
reported that the Fed may “push back” on market expectations
of higher interest rates. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
repeatedly said a reduction in the bank’s $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases wouldn’t mean an end to record easing.  Global Concern  Concern central banks around the world will decide levels
of stimulus are too high erased more than $2.5 trillion of stock
value globally since May 21. Declines yesterday came after the
 World Bank  cut its global growth forecast as emerging-market
economies led by  China  slow.  Japanese stocks have fallen amid a strengthening yen,
disappointment about Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s delay in
implementing a growth strategy and concern that the Fed will
scale back stimulus. The Nikkei 225 is still up for the year,
with a gain of 20 percent.  The yen retreated 0.4 percent to 95.71 per dollar at 5:46
p.m. in  New York , snapping a three-day rally of 3.4 percent, its
biggest since May 2010. The yen yesterday touched its highest
level since the BOJ unveiled a plan in April to buy more than 7
trillion yen ($74 billion) of bonds every month in an attempt to
secure 2 percent inflation.  U.S.-listed shares of Japanese companies rose yesterday,
with the Bank of New York Mellon Japan ADR Index adding 2.1
percent. American Depository Receipts of  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) , the
world’s No. 1 carmaker, climbed 1.8 percent to $121.30. ADRs of
Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage, increased 3.5
percent to $7.92.  “It speaks very strongly to the strength of the U.S.
market that it ignored what occurred in Japan,”  Hank Smith , who
oversees $7 billion as chief investment officer at Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co., said by telephone. “The
Japanese market got ahead of itself this year. That trend
couldn’t continue. There was a lot more speculative money
driving that move and so you’re seeing some of that get
unwound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  