-- Jason Kidd Rejoins Nets as Coach After Ending NBA Playing Career
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-13T04:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/jason-kidd-hired-as-nets-coach-after-ending-nba-playing-career.html
Jason Kidd has been hired as coach
of the  Brooklyn  Nets, nine days after ending a 19-year playing
career during which the former point guard established himself
as one of the National Basketball Association’s most successful
on-court leaders.  Kidd, 40, compiled 12,091 assists and 2,684 steals --
trailing only Hall of Famer John Stockton in each category --
and was selected as an All-Star 10 times. He spent six seasons
with the Nets, helping lead the team to back-to-back NBA Finals
appearances in 2002-03, and won a championship with the Dallas
Mavericks two years ago.  “Jason Kidd has a long and legendary history with the Nets
and with the city of New York,” Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov 
said last night in a statement on the team’s website. “He has
the fire in the belly we need and has achieved as a player
everything the Brooklyn Nets are striving to achieve. We believe
he will lead us there.”  Kidd becomes the 18th head coach in the franchise’s history.  “Jason is a proven winner and leader with an incredible
wealth of basketball knowledge and experience,” General Manager
Billy King said. “This will be a natural transition for him to
move into the role of head coach as he embodies the tough, smart
and team-first mentality that we are trying to establish in
Brooklyn.”  Johnson’s Lead  Kidd replaces interim coach P.J. Carlesimo, who was fired
last month after the Nets were eliminated in the first round of
the playoffs, their first postseason appearance since 2007.
Carlesimo had a 35-19 record after replacing Avery Johnson, who
was fired when the Nets started 14-14 in their first season at
the $1 billion Barclays Center in Brooklyn following a move from
 Newark , New Jersey.  Kidd follows the lead of Johnson, who also took over as a
head coach at the age of 40 in his first season after retiring
as a player. Johnson became coach of the Dallas Mavericks during
the 2004-05 season after Don Nelson stepped down. Nelson had
brought in Johnson as his successor.  “This is a tremendous opportunity,” Kidd said.
“Championship teams are built on being prepared, playing
unselfishly and being held accountable, and that’s how I expect
to coach this basketball team.”  June Retirement  In addition to the Nets, Kidd played with the Mavericks and
Phoenix Suns before retiring June 3 following one season with
the New York Knicks. He averaged career lows of six points and
3.3 assists per game last season.  Kidd was the No. 2 pick in the 1994 NBA draft, behind Glenn Robinson, and had career averages of 12.6 points, 8.7 assists,
6.3 rebounds and 1.9 steals per game.  Dallas  traded Kidd to the Suns during his third NBA season
and he played four more years in Phoenix. In 2001, he joined the
Nets, who lost in the NBA Finals in 2002 to the Los Angeles
Lakers and the following year against the San Antonio Spurs.
After being traded back to the Mavericks during the 2007-08
season, Kidd won his only NBA title in 2011.  The Nets missed the playoffs for five straight seasons
after Kidd’s departure, going 126-268 during that span, before
making a resurgence in Brooklyn.  The Nets, bought by Russian billionaire Prokhorov for $200
million in May 2010, spent more than $330 million on contracts
to re-sign center Brook Lopez,  All-Star point guard Deron Williams and defensive specialist Gerald Wallace and to add All-Star guard Joe Johnson. The Nets went 49-33 this season,
finishing second to the Knicks in the Eastern Conference’s
Atlantic Division, before losing to the Chicago Bulls in the
playoffs.  A two-time Olympic gold medalist for the U.S., Kidd was an
All-NBA First Team selection five times and an All-Defensive
First Team pick after four seasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  