-- Jefferies Said to Hire High-Yield Trader Zucker From Barclays
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-06-13T17:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/jefferies-said-to-hire-high-yield-trader-zucker-from-barclays.html
Jefferies Group LLC is hiring high-yield  bond  trader Brian Zucker from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  as the
investment bank acquired by  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  seeks to
bolster its credit unit.  Zucker left the  New York  office of Britain’s second-biggest
bank earlier this month, said three people familiar with the
move who asked not to be identified because it hasn’t been
announced. Richard Khaleel, a Jefferies spokesman, Brandon Ashcraft of Barclays and Zucker, reached on his mobile phone,
declined to comment.  Jefferies is building its share of the U.S. speculative-grade underwriting market as the biggest banks seek to meet new
risk-curbing regulations by reducing staff and paring  holdings 
of corporate debt. With junk-bond issuance at a record pace this
year, the New York-based firm has risen to 11th place from 13th
in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index has
lost 1.95 percent since the end of April as concern mounts that
the Federal Reserve will curb stimulus that has bolstered demand
for riskier assets. The debt, ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , had
returned 129 percent from the end of 2008 through April 30.  Before joining Barclays in 2009, Zucker worked at  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according to records
maintained by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Jefferies hired former Deutsche Bank credit salesman Michael Curry in April as a managing director, people said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  