-- Jet Airways Hires Former Air New Zealand CEO to Lead Carrier
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-06-14T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/jet-airways-hires-former-air-new-zealand-ceo-to-lead-carrier.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  named Gary Kenneth Toomey as its chief executive officer to succeed Nikos
Kardassis, who resigned less than two months after the carrier
agreed to sell a stake to Etihad Airways PJSC.  Toomey, 58, previously was the CEO of Air New Zealand Ltd.
and Airlines of Papua New Guinea Ltd., Mumbai-based Jet Airways
said in a statement yesterday. Chief Operating Officer Hameed Ali will continue as acting chief executive till the Australian
national’s appointment is approved by regulators, it said.  The new CEO will face rising competition as  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) ,
the region’s biggest discount carrier, enters Indian market
later this year. Jet Airways Chairman Naresh Goyal in April
agreed to sell a 24 percent stake to Abu Dhabi’s Etihad as he
seeks funds following six years of losses at his company.  Toomey’s experience in domestic and international airline
operations will help in the “next phase of our development,”
Goyal said in the statement. Toomey also worked as deputy chief
executive officer and chief financial officer at  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN) , according to the statement.  Jet Airways rose as much as 7.9 percent to 464.80 rupees
and changed hands at 452.40 rupees at 9:23 a.m. in Mumbai. The
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex advanced 0.9 percent.  Kardassis, who became Jet Airways CEO for a second time in
October 2009, resigned with effect from June 5. Jet Airways
didn’t give a reason for his resignation.  Aviation Rules  Jet Airways in April agreed to sell its stake to Etihad
after  India  eased aviation investment rules in September to
allow foreign carriers to own as much as a 49 percent stake in
local airlines. In March, AirAsia formed a venture with Tata
Group to set up a local low-fare airline. The Malaysian company
aims to start its Indian operations in September.  Jet Airways plans to order more aircraft in an effort to
regain market share from discount carriers. The company is
considering an order for Boeing Co. 737 planes, K.G. Vishwanath,
the carrier’s vice president of commercial strategy, told
analysts in a conference call May 27.  The carrier last month posted a wider-than-estimated
fourth-quarter loss of 4.96 billion rupees ($85 million) because
of higher aircraft lease costs and a one-time expense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  