-- Joan Jett Sues Hot Topic for Trademark Infringement
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-06-13T20:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/joan-jett-sues-hot-topic-for-trademark-infringement.html
Rock star Joan Jett’s Blackheart
Records Group Inc. sued mall-based retailer Hot Topic Inc. for
trademark infringement, claiming the chain is selling its own
line of women’s clothing under the Blackheart brand.  Blackheart, named for Jett’s band, said in a filing dated
June 12 in  Manhattan  federal court that consumers would be
confused by apparel being sold by the retailer under that name.  According to the complaint, Hot Topic approached Blackheart
in February 2010 to design and distribute clothing and other
merchandise featuring the brand. Hot Topic later announced its
“new test retail concept, Blackheart.” Hot Topic, based in
City of Industry,  California , said in a statement yesterday that
it operates five Blackheart stores.  “After experimenting with legitimate and illegitimate
items that use and or are sold under the Blackheart family of
marks, defendants commenced their own line of clothing under
their own new Blackheart brand,” according to the filing.  Hot Topic describes itself as a mall and web-based
specialty retailer offering apparel and other items influenced
by music and pop culture. There are 618 Hot Topic stores in the
U.S.,  Canada  and  Puerto Rico .  “This is a surprise to us, and we are confident in our
rights to use the Blackheart brand name,” the company said in a
statement e-mailed by spokeswoman Jennifer Vides. “We have 11
different registered trademarks with the U.S. Patent & Trademark
Office for the use of the Blackheart brand for retail stores,
apparel, lingerie, accessories, cosmetics and more.”  Sycamore Purchase  Sycamore Partners LLC, a New York-based private-equity
firm, said yesterday it completed the acquisition of Hot Topc in
a deal valued at $600 million. The five Blackheart stores offer
“an expanded collection of dark, edgy, sexy lingerie,
accessories and beauty products,” according to a statement.  “Blackheart Records has for years abandoned trademark
filings for the use of the Blackheart name on apparel and
accessories, and when we contacted them a year ago about
acquiring the Blackheart URL, they never indicated a problem
with our use of the brand name,” Hot Topic said in the e-mailed
statement. “We would have preferred that Ms. Jett contact us
directly to address any issues with our stores.”  Jett formed the all-female band the Runaways in 1973 at the
age of 15. In the late 1970s, she and Kenneth Laguna started
Joan Jett & the Blackhearts, which had a chart-topping hit with
“I Love Rock ‘n Roll.’’ They formed Blackheart Records to
market music and other merchandise. The Blackheart design
received a federally registered trademark in 1985, according to
the suit.  The case is Blackheart Records Group Inc. v. Hot Topic
Inc., 13-cv-04054, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  