-- JPMorgan to Barclays Ushering Bond Buyers Into Equities
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-06-13T14:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/jpmorgan-to-barclays-usher-bond-shift-to-stocks-credit-markets.html
Wall Street’s biggest bond dealers
are telling clients to shift from most fixed-income markets into
U.S. stocks as deepening concern the  Federal Reserve  will pare
unprecedented stimulus fuels the worst debt losses since 2011.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the most-active underwriter of
corporate bonds since 2007, last week joined  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. in
recommending stocks over most bonds as equity returns outpace
company notes by the most since at least 1997. The Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Index’s 0.73
percent loss this year through June 11 compares with a 15.1
percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Securities from Treasuries to  junk bonds  are showing their
vulnerability to a potential pullback from Fed actions that have
pumped more than $2.5 trillion into the financial system since
2008. Debt “remains most tied up with the search for yield”
and faces more volatility than equities as  interest rates  rise,
JPMorgan strategists led by Jan Loeys said in a June 7 report.  “We’ve now seen a little bit of a rotation out of bond
funds,” said Hans Mikkelsen, head of U.S. investment-grade
credit strategy at Bank of America in  New York . “You could see
a very quick change in asset allocation on the retail side that
the institutional side can’t keep up with it.”  Volatility Surge  Dollar-denominated bonds of companies from the most to
least creditworthy plunged 2.2 percent through June 11 from May
22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress the central
bank could slow stimulus efforts during its next few meetings if
the economy shows signs of sustained improvement. The  S&P 500 
lost 1.7 percent in the same period.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index has soared 68 percent to 82.3, from a
2013 low of 48.87 on May 9. The gauge is based on prices of
over-the-counter options on Treasuries maturing in two to 30
years. In the equities market, the  Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index (VIX)  rose 40 percent in the period.  The market response to “mere talk” of the Fed slowing its
bond purchases provides “an idea of where the vulnerabilities
are to an actual reversal in monetary policy,” said the
strategists at JPMorgan, which had the top-ranked fixed-income
team by Institutional Investor magazine in 2012. “To be
overweight equities to broad fixed income is the most obvious
implication.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of 85.2 basis points
as of 10:41 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, decreased 0.9 basis point to 16.1 basis
points as of 10:42 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as company debentures and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Citigroup Bonds  Bonds of Citigroup Inc. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 4 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 10:46 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The  Bloomberg Global Investment Grade Corporate Bond index 
has gained 0.32 percent this month, paring the  decline  for the
year to 1.45 percent.  Barclays  asset-allocation  strategists recommended investors
be “overweight” U.S. and Japanese stocks “over the medium-term, as we anticipate a gradual migration out of expensive
bonds,” according to a May 28 report. Overweight allocations
mean investors hold more of the assets than their benchmarks.  Morgan Stanley said for the first time in March that it
preferred stocks over debt in a March global strategy outlook.  BofA, Goldman  Bank of America generally favors equities over bonds and
moved to “underweight” investment-grade corporate notes in
their total-return asset allocation recommendations in February,
Mikkelsen said in a telephone interview. Goldman Sachs favors
stocks over both a three- and 12-month period, is bearish on
 government bonds  and forecasts “close to zero” returns for
corporate credit, its strategists said in a May 21 report.  “You can’t run away from bonds, but equities are
cheaper,” said  Andrew Feltus , a  money manager  who helps oversee
$36.7 billion in U.S. fixed-income assets at Pioneer Investment
Management Inc. in  Boston .  Corporate bonds globally have gained an average 10.1
percent annually since 2008, when the Fed embarked on an
unprecedented program of buying bonds and holding its interest
rate target near zero to ignite economic growth. That compares
with annual gains of 16.7 percent for the S&P 500.  Companies have since  sold  $5.7 trillion of notes as
relative yields on dollar-denominated debt plunged 5.7
percentage points to 2.31 percentage points through June 11,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index and Bloomberg data show.
JPMorgan, Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are
among the six most-active underwriters of the debt.  ‘Fire Drill’  Speculation has mounted since Bernanke’s comments last
month that the Fed will soon start scaling back its stimulus
efforts.  San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said last week
that a “modest adjustment downward” in the asset purchases is
possible as “early as this summer.”  “We do not see these warnings as simply loose talk that
costs lives, but more a kind of fire drill for risk managers on
what the end of easy money could do to financial markets,”
JPMorgan credit strategists said June 7 of the talk by Fed
officials. “In our model portfolios, we added to our overweight
of equities, and have greatly reduced the credit overweight
versus safe debt to a small position, focused on shorter-duration credit.”  The global economy is “in the early stages of the recovery
of the equity culture and perhaps the end of a 30-year growing
love affair” with bonds, said  Jim O’Neill , former chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management in a June 11 interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Investors yanked a record $4.8 billion from U.S. high-yield
bond funds last week and pulled $850 million from investment-grade funds, the first weekly redemption since December,
according to a Bank of America report on June 6.  U.S. private pension funds and insurance companies pushed
their allocation to equities to 45 percent in the first quarter,
the highest proportion since 2007, as they bought $13 billion of
stocks while selling $10 billion of bonds, JPMorgan data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  