-- Junk Bonds Set to Strain Apollo Tyres Following U.S. Deal
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-06-14T04:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/junk-bonds-set-to-strain-apollo-after-u-s-deal-corporate-india.html
Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY) , which lost a
quarter of its market value yesterday after announcing the
biggest takeover by an Indian company in the U.S., will sell
 junk bonds  to fund the $2.5 billion purchase, prompting analysts
to warn the debt will strain the tiremaker’s finances.  High-yield bonds in the U.S. carry a coupon of about 6.75
percent to 9.5 percent and Apollo Tyres’ planned offering would
be in this range, Chief Financial Officer Sunam Sarkar, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. The tiremaker opted to finance
its purchase of Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. using bonds “because
it gives us great flexibility,” Sarkar said.  The borrowing will more than double Apollo Tyres’  debt to
equity , a measure of leverage, to 1.9, Sarkar said. The funding
plan for the acquisition, which the company says will help it
access the largest automobile markets in  China  and the U.S. and
negotiate better deals on raw material purchases, prompted
analysts at Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. and Prabhudas
Lilladher Pvt. to put their  ratings  on the stock under review.  “We believe Apollo might have bitten more than what it
could chew,” Surjit Singh Arora, a Mumbai-based analyst at
Prabhudas wrote in a report to clients. “We are concerned about
the huge debt burden, which could strain the balance sheet of
the combined entity.”  Record Slump  Apollo Tyres, based in Gurgaon,  India , slumped a record 25
percent in Mumbai yesterday, wiping 11.8 billion rupees ($204
million) from its market value. The  stock  changed hands at 69.90
rupees, or up 2 percent, as of 9:39 a.m. local time.  Cooper Tire (CTB) 
shares surged 41 percent in  New York  on June 12 after Apollo
Tyres said it will pay $35 a share, or 43 percent more than the
previous day’s closing price, to the Findlay, Ohio-based
company’s shareholders.  The deal gives the Indian tiremaker access to customers in
China and North America, markets where it didn’t have a
presence, Sarkar said. Cooper Tire made  69 percent  of its $4.2
billion revenue in North America last year and said last month
it’s focused on expanding the supply of light vehicle tires in
China as a key part of the company’s international strategy.  “One of the great synergies of this deal is the sheer
scale,” Sarkar said. “Our purchasing power becomes that much
better than it was as two independent companies.”  Apollo Tyres opted to fund the deal through bonds instead
of bank loans because bonds are “covenant light,” Sarkar said.
The company’s European unit and Cooper Tires will together raise
about $2.1 billion through the bond sale, while the Indian
parent will separately borrow $450 million and use the money to
buy into Cooper Tire’s equity, he said.  ‘Bullet Repayment’  “We only service the interest,” Sarkar said. “The bullet
repayment is at the end of the tenure of these bonds, which are
7-8 years.”  The cost of insuring the  debt  of Cooper Tire using 5-year,
credit-default swaps rose June 12 to the highest since November
2012, CMA prices showed.  “If the bonds are secured against the company’s U.S.
assets and offer a higher coupon, then the deal should sail
through,” Hemant Dharnidharka, Bangalore-based head of credit
research at SJS Markets Ltd., said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “In past acquisitions, companies have opted for a
bridge loan for financing transactions, which is subsequently
refinanced through a bond sale.”  In March 2008,  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  agreed to purchase Jaguar
and Land Rover from Ford Motor Co. for $2.4 billion, funded
through a $3 billion bridge loan it took from banks for 15
months. The loan and the subsequent increase in debt led
 Standard & Poor’s  to cut Tata’s credit rating at the time.  In the year ended March, Jaguar Land Rover contributed 72
percent of Tata Motors’ revenue and 88 percent of the company’s
operating income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Mix  India’s largest tiremaker,  founded in 1972 , reported a 49
percent increase in profit to 6.13 billion rupees in the year
ended March 31. The company derived 65 percent of its revenue
from the domestic market, while  Europe  accounted for 23 percent
of sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fact that we now have access to markets like  North
America  and China, Europe, India,  Latin America , is broad-basing
the risk profile,” said Sarkar. “So if one or two markets go
through their own challenges, there are other markets which the
company can still rely upon. It’s a mix of growing markets and
developed markets with good margin profile.”  Annual car sales in India fell 6.7 percent to 1.89 million
units in the 12 months ended March, the biggest decline since
2001 as slowing economic growth and high  interest rates  kept
buyers from showrooms. The European auto market is contracting
for a sixth consecutive year to a two-decade low amid a
recession in the countries using the euro.  China Growth  In contrast, growth in China’s total vehicle market,
including trucks and buses, will probably accelerate this year
and surpass 20 million for the first time on a rebound in
economic growth and urbanization, according to estimates by the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers in January, while
U.S. sales continue on a pace for the best year since 2007.  “We see the decision to acquire CTB as highly strategic
and of great significance for Apollo Tyres,” Ambrish Mishra and
Himanshu Sharma, analysts at  JM Financial Ltd. (JM)  in Mumbai, wrote
in a report yesterday. It gives Apollo “immediate access to
large U.S. and China tire markets, which otherwise would have
been tough to penetrate.”  The acquisition of Cooper Tires would make Apollo Tyres the
world’s seventh biggest tiremaker with as many as 30,000
employees worldwide, the company said. India would account for
22 percent of Apollo Tyres’ sales post the purchase, from 65
percent presently, Vice Chairman Neeraj Kanwar told reporters at
a briefing on June 12.  “There is perfect complementarity between the two
companies, in terms of markets that we address, in terms of
brand positioning, in terms of product portfolio,” Sarkar said.
“Just because it’s a time of gloom and doom in different
markets around the world doesn’t mean we should cease planning
and investing in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  