-- Kasowitz, Sullivan & Cromwell, Jones Day: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/kasowitz-sullivan-cromwell-jones-day-business-of-law.html
Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman
LLP is opening a Washington office with the hire of Clarine Nardi Riddle, former chief of staff to retired U.S. Senator
 Joseph Lieberman , who joined Kasowitz Benson last week as senior
counsel in New York.  Riddle joins the firm as counsel and will lead the
government affairs practice, where she will focus on expanding
the firm’s  Capitol Hill  presence and advising clients on a
regulatory and public policy issues.  “Clarine’s extensive political and legal experience will
be an invaluable asset to our clients who seek counsel in
navigating a range of matters involving the intersection of
business and government,”  Marc Kasowitz , the firm’s founding
and managing partner, said in a statement. “We look forward to
developing our government affairs practice under her guidance,
and also underscoring the importance of strong women leaders at
the firm.”  Riddle was Connecticut’s 22nd attorney general from 1989 to
1991, the only woman who has held the position. She was also the
first female attorney general to appear before the U.S. Supreme
Court, successfully arguing in Martin W. Hoffman v. Connecticut
Department of Income Maintenance, the firm said.  Her position as chief of staff to Lieberman, a Connecticut
independent, involved participating in and leading congressional
staff delegations to Europe, Asia and the  Middle East  as well as
organizing Senate bipartisan chiefs of staff meetings. She has
also been a judge at the Connecticut Superior Court,
Connecticut’s highest trial court of general jurisdiction, and
special counsel to Lieberman, as well as his deputy and counsel,
when he was attorney general of Connecticut.  “I am eager to apply my knowledge and experience to help
companies and individuals advocate for legislative and policy
changes that protect and expand their businesses,” Riddle said
in a statement.  Kasowitz Benson has more than 375 lawyers, primarily
focusing on complex commercial litigation. The firm has nine
U.S. offices.  Epstein Becker Scales Real Estate Services in Atlanta Office  In an effort to keep its focus on health care and labor and
employment law, Epstein Becker Green PC, is scaling back its
Atlanta office, the firm said in a statement.  “Several years after it was opened, the firm’s Atlanta
office grew outside of the firm’s core areas of expertise, with
a heavy concentration in real estate, and a predominantly
regional client base which was out of sync with the firm’s
strategic direction,” the firm said in a statement.  Epstein Becker also said in the statement that its focus on
health care and labor and employment law, with complementary
litigation, corporate, benefits and immigration support, has
created an important niche for the firm and resulted in its
recognition for those core practices.  The firm declined to comment further or answer questions
about how many lawyers will remain in the office or whether
lawyers will be departing the firm or relocating to other
offices. The firm has 10 members listed as resident in the
Atlanta office and four additional lawyers, according to its
website.  The firm opened the Atlanta office in 2000. In 2009, it
added a team of six lawyers from Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell
LLP that included business and real estate lawyers. The firm
said in a statement at that time that real estate was one of its
five core practice areas.  With the Atlanta office, the firm has 11 U.S. locations
with about 275 lawyers.  Moves  Baker Donelson Adds Government Regulatory Actions Partner  Carol Owen joined Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell, &
Berkowitz PC as a shareholder and a member of the firm’s
government regulatory actions group in the Nashville office. She
was previously at Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis, LLP.  Owen concentrates her practice in complex litigation and
operations/risk management. She has experience in environmental
and financial services litigation, the firm said.  Baker Donelson has more than 650 attorneys and public
policy advisers at 18 U.S. offices.  Occupational Health Team Joins Fasken Martineau  Fasken Martineau LLP announced that a team of lawyers and
advisers specializing in occupational health and safety
practice, including partner Norm Keith, joined the firm in
Toronto from Gowlings Lafleur Henderson LLP.  Keith’s practice is in employment, regulatory and criminal
law, with an emphasis on regulatory and corporate crime,
occupational health and safety, workers’ compensation and
workplace risk management litigation, the firm said.  “We are delighted to welcome Norm and team to our firm,”
Martin Denyes, regional managing partner for Ontario, said in a
statement. “Norm is recognized as one of the country’s leading
OHS lawyers and his joining our firm dramatically increases our
capabilities in this area and will add tremendous value for our
clients.”  The additional members of the team include an associate,
who joins the firm in the labor, employment and human rights
group, along with four consultants in the occupational health
and safety practice.  Fasken Martineau has more than 770 lawyers with offices in
Vancouver, Calgary, Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, Quebec City,
London, Paris and Johannesburg.  Business Lawyer Joins Edwards Wildman From Cadwalader  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP announced that Susan E. D.
Neuberg has joined the firm as a partner in its business law
department in the New York and Washington offices. She was
previously at Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP.  Neuberg has experience in real estate and structured
finance matters as well as knowledge of capital markets issues,
particularly in the areas of commercial securitization, CMBS
portfolio management, pooling and servicing agreements, transfer
of servicing rights, and related rating-agency matters, the firm
said.  In addition to structuring complex debt and equity
transactions for financial institutions, investors and their
advisers, she represents special servicers, senior lenders and
members of the capital stack in a broad range of transactions.  Edwards Wildman has more than 600 lawyers at 15 offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  News  USTP Releases New Guidelines for Attorneys’ Fees and Expenses  The  Justice Department ’s U.S. Trustee Program unveiled new
guidelines for reviewing fee requests in larger Chapter 11
bankruptcy reorganizations,  Bloomberg News ’s Bill Rochelle
reports.  U.S. Trustees around the country will use the revised
guidelines when analyzing fees in bankruptcies where assets and
debt exceed $50 million. The new guidelines will become
effective Nov. 1.  The most controversial feature of the new guidelines
requires lawyers to tell the court more than the firm’s posted
hourly rates. Instead of basing fees entirely on the firms’
sticker prices, professionals must disclose how much they
actually billed or collected from other clients in the prior
year.  “Outside of bankruptcy, clients are asking for -- and more
times than not getting -- concessions” on hourly rates,
according to Nancy B. Rapoport, acting dean at the University of
Nevada Las Vegas Law School.  Rapoport, an expert on bankruptcy ethics, explained in an
interview that the U.S. Trustees want clients to have rates in
bankruptcy they would be given outside of bankruptcy.  Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer from Louisville, Kentucky,
said disclosing actual billing rates or collections “will drive
everybody bonkers, because you’re telling all your clients what
your blended hourly rates are.” As result, other clients will
ask, “Why aren’t I getting those rates?” Bowles said in an
interview.  When disclosing fees charged to or collected from other
clients, the calculation must exclude billings or collections by
bankruptcy professionals. Consequently, the guidelines may block
professional firms from charging more for their bankruptcy
lawyers than for people in other specializations.  Much in the guidelines reflects how U.S. Trustees and
courts already review fee requests. The U.S. Trustees are the
Justice Department’s bankruptcy watchdogs. Their assignments
include forming creditors’ committees, appointing trustees to
serve in individual cases, objecting to fee requests, and taking
positions in court even when no one else objects.  Budgets are another controversial feature of the new
guidelines. The U.S. Trustees will require professionals at the
outset of a case to establish a budget and staffing plan,
“either with the consent of the parties or by court order as
soon as feasible after the commencement of the case.”  Bowles said that some professionals are worried that the
budgets will tip off adversaries about strategies or faults the
lawyers anticipate in their own cases. As an example, Bowles
said, “Barclays would have liked to have known the staffing and
budget of Lehman’s lawyers in their litigation.”  Rapoport said that the U.S. Trustees received “a whole lot
of pushback on budgets” from lawyers who said “we can’t
possibly predict what will happen in a case.”  The new guidelines require sometimes minute details
describing how professionals spend their days. For instance,
billings must be in increments of tenths of an hour, and work on
different projects can’t be lumped together. When the
professionals file their fee requests, the work must be broken
down into at least 22 different categories.  For more, click here.  Snowden Seeks Legal Help in Hong Kong, Oriental Daily Reports  Edward Snowden, the 29-year-old U.S. contractor who says he
leaked details of an electronic surveillance program, may be
seeking legal help in Hong Kong after checking out of a hotel in
the Chinese city on Monday.  Snowden is trying to contact Hong Kong-based human rights
organizations and lawyers for help, the Oriental Daily News, a
Hong Kong-based Chinese language newspaper, reported yesterday,
without naming its sources. Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor has
not received any message from Snowden, the paper said.  He left the Mira Hotel in Hong Kong’s Kowloon district at
lunchtime on Monday, according to the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper
June 11, which reported that he is thought to be in a safe
house. The city’s immigration department has no record of him
departing, according to another Hong Kong newspaper  Apple Daily ,
which cited unidentified sources.  Hong Kong’s Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, currently on
an official visit to New York, declined June 11 to  answer 
questions by reporters about how his government would handle the
case.  The American identified himself as the source of reports in
the Guardian and the Washington Post about the U.S. surveillance
program, prompting U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  to call him
“a traitor” whose disclosure “put Americans at risk.”
Boehner spoke on ABC News’s “Good Morning America.”  Snowden was a former technical assistant for the Central
Intelligence Agency and had worked for the  National Security
Agency  in the past four years for contractors including  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , according to the Guardian and the
Washington Post. Booz Allen, his most recent employer, said
Snowden has been fired.  Deals  S&C, Jones Day Advise Apollo and Cooper on $2.5 Billion Deal  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Amarchand & Mangaldas & Suresh
A Shroff & Co. were legal advisers to  Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY) , India’s
second-biggest tire maker by market value, which agreed to
acquire  Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  for about $2.5 billion for
greater access to the U.S. automotive market.  Jones Day  was
legal adviser to Cooper Tire.  Sullivan & Cromwell’s team included partners Scott D. Miller and Jay Clayton, corporate/mergers and acquisitions;
Scott D. Miller and Presley L. Warner, financing; and Juan Rodriguez, competition.  The Jones Day deal team advising Cooper was led by
Cleveland mergers and acquisitions partners Lyle Ganske and
Peter Izanec. The deal team also included partners James
Dougherty, mergers and acquisitions; Brett Barragate, banking
and finance; Manan Shah and Dan Hagen, employee benefits and
executive compensation; and Stan Weiner, labor and employment.  Apollo Tyres, based in Gurgaon, India, agreed to pay $35 a
share to stockholders of Cooper Tire. That’s 43 percent higher
than the June 11 closing price of $24.56.  Apollo Tyres, which last month agreed to sell most of its
South African operations to  Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd. (5110)  for
$60 million, is looking to expand beyond India and Europe to
meet its goal to be among the top 10 tire makers in the world by
2016. Automobile demand in both India and Europe has slowed amid
weaker economic expansion. Deliveries in the U.S., the second-biggest auto market, are on pace for its best year since 2007.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Rothstein Funds in Firm Account Not Subject to Forfeiture  Funds held in bank accounts of convicted Ponzi schemer
Scott Rothstein’s bankrupt law firm can’t be forfeited to the
government, a federal appeals court said.  The money in the law firm accounts, mixed with receipts
from clients at the time Rothstein was charged, isn’t subject to
forfeiture, the Atlanta-based  U.S. Court of Appeals  said
yesterday, reversing the lower court and handing a victory to
the trustee of the law firm’s Chapter 11 proceeding.  The funds are so intermingled that it’s difficult to
determine which money is from the  Ponzi scheme  and which is from
the legitimate business of now-defunct Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler PA, which included billings
from 70 attorneys, the court ruled.  “The government, standing in Rothstein’s shoes, may appear
in the Chapter 11 proceeding and lay claim to Rothstein’s share
of law firm assets that survive bankruptcy,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Gerald B. Tjoflat wrote for the appellate panel.  Rothstein is serving a 50-year sentence for selling
investors stakes in sex- and employment-discrimination cases
that turned out to be non-existent. The scheme imploded in the
fall of 2009. He pleaded guilty to five counts of  money
laundering , fraud and racketeering in 2010.  Creditors started an involuntary bankruptcy against
Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler just before prosecutors indicted
Rothstein, who co-founded the firm.  As part of criminal forfeiture proceedings, prosecutors
claimed law firm bank accounts, contending they contained
proceeds from the scheme. Prosecutors acknowledged that the
accounts contained funds of the firm not tainted with fraud that
were comingled with fruits of the Ponzi scheme.  After the federal district court sided with the government,
the law firm’s Chapter 11 trustee, Herbert Stettin, appealed.  Tjoflat said yesterday that proceeds of fraud used to
acquire other property can be forfeited only when they can be
traced.  The appeal is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA (U.S. v.
Rothstein), 11-10676, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit
(Atlanta). The Chapter 11 case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt
Adler PA, 09-bk-34791,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District
Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Pfizer Receives $2.15 Billion From Teva, Sun Over Protonix  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (SUNP)  will pay $2.15 billion to  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and a
partner to settle litigation over unauthorized sales of the
heartburn drug Protonix.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drug maker, will receive 64
percent of the settlement while partner Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. will get the rest, New York-based Pfizer said in a statement
yesterday. Teva will pay $1.6 billion, including $800 million
this year and the rest in 2014, according to a company
statement. Sun said it will pay $550 million.  “We are pleased with today’s settlement, which recognizes
the validity and value of the innovation that led to Protonix,”
Amy Schulman, Pfizer’s general counsel, said in the statement.  Teva and Sun began selling generic versions in 2008 only to
lose a challenge to a patent on the medicine two years later.
Pfizer’s Wyeth unit was seeking $2.7 billion from Teva and Sun,
saying it was entitled to a share of the revenue from those
generic versions, as well as compensation for sales it lost to
the copycat.  A trial over Pfizer’s claims began June 3 in federal court
in Newark, New Jersey.  “We are pleased to put this matter behind us as we
continue to focus on delivering safe and affordable medicines to
patients around the world,” Richard Egosi, Teva’s chief legal
officer, said in the statement.  The case marked a rare instance in which a brand-drug
company was seeking compensation for the early release of a copy
of its medicines. Typically, generic-drug makers wait until the
patents expire or they get a court ruling that clears the way.
Teva has undertaken more than a dozen such at-risk market
entries, betting that it would eventually win the case. It
usually did.  At the trial in Newark, Pfizer attorney William Lee told
jurors that Teva and Sun were unwilling to wait until the patent
expired on Protonix before they began selling their cheaper
copies.  “They decided to take a risk,” said Lee in his opening
statement on June 4. By starting generic sales, the market for
branded versions of the drug was “destroyed,” he said.  “Teva and Sun in 2007 had a choice,” said Lee of
WilmerHale LLP in Boston. “They couldn’t wait until January
2011 and launch. If they had, we wouldn’t be here today.”  The case is Altana Pharma AG v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA
Inc., 04-cv-02355, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 