-- Kawasaki Heavy Admits to Merger Talks as President Fired
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-06-14T07:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/kawasaki-heavy-removes-president-as-merger-talks-with-mitsui-end.html
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012) ,
Japan’s second-biggest maker of heavy equipment, fired Satoshi Hasegawa as president and said it ended talks to merge with
 Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding Co. (7003) , two months after denying
the two companies had entered discussions to combine.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange said today it asked Kawasaki Heavy
to explain why it revised its April 22 filing, which had said
reports of merger talks weren’t true. The company yesterday
appointed Shigeru Murayama, head of its aerospace business, as
the replacement for Hasegawa.  The conflict over and collapse of the merger talks hampers
government efforts to reduce the number of Japanese shipbuilders
to better compete with lower-cost rivals from  China  and  South
Korea . While the breakdown of merger talks between Kawasaki
Heavy and Mitsui Engineering is “probably down to the
individual assessments at each company,” the government will
continue to push for consolidation across industries as a way to
boost Japan’s competitiveness abroad, Economy Minister Akira Amari said in Tokyo today.  Hasegawa’s removal from the top executive’s post follows
internal disputes over the way the proposed merger with Mitsui
Engineering was handled, Murayama told reporters in Tokyo
yesterday. The merger talks were led by Hasegawa, Senior
Executive Vice President Mitsutoshi Takao and Senior Vice
President Masahiko Hirohata, Murayama said. All three were
demoted to director level and will quit after a shareholder
meeting on June 26.  “False Statements”  “We felt distrust in the manner in which they were pushing
forward with the merger,” Murayama said. “We had to make a
tough decision.” He said the three executives had “made false
statements” on the merger talks.  Calls to the office of Hasegawa, president since June 2009,
last night went unanswered. A spokesman for Kawasaki Heavy
declined to connect calls to his office today.  Kawasaki Heavy’s directors disagreed over the potential
synergies to be created by the proposed merger, Murayama said.
The deal would have created a company with combined revenue of
1.9 trillion yen ($20 billion), narrowing the gap with Japan’s
top maker of heavy machinery,  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)   In a statement to reporters yesterday, Kawasaki Heavy said
it asked the TSE to change its April 22 filing, which had read:
“There is no truth” to reports of a merger with Mitsui
Engineering, to: “There are negotiations, but nothing has been
decided.” The Nikkei newspaper first reported the two were
considering a combination.  Merger Option  Mitsui Engineering said today in a statement filed to the
TSE that a merger with Kawasaki Heavy had been considered. The
company had also said on April 22 that there was no truth to
reports of merger talks.  “In the future, a merger is one option to consider given
that there are too many companies in this industry,” Kawasaki’s
Takao told reporters in  Tokyo  on April 25. He said the company
hadn’t entered into talks with Mitsui Engineering and that a
merger wasn’t discussed at the company’s board meeting earlier
in the day.  Kawasaki Heavy closed up 4.3 percent to 319 yen in Tokyo
after rising as much as 8.8 percent earlier. Mitsui Engineering
fell 5.5 percent to 137 yen.  “The market saw this potential merger as a bailout of
Mitsui Engineering,” Toru Nakahashi, an analyst at JPMorgan
Securities Co. in Tokyo, said. The decision not to go ahead is
positive for Kawasaki Heavy, which should prioritize
shipbuilding outside of Japan and not add to domestic capacity,
he said.  Ninja Bikes  Kawasaki Heavy has focused its shipbuilding business on
joint ventures with  China Ocean (81)  Shipping Group, or Cosco, which
produce vessels in  Asia ’s biggest economy. The maritime unit
accounted for 8.3 percent of the company’s 42.1 billion yen in
operating profit last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The shipbuilding business brought in half of Mitsui
Engineering’s operating income of 31.4 billion yen last year,
the data show. The Tokyo-based company makes its ships in Japan.  Kawasaki Heavy, the maker of Ninja motorbikes, earns most
of its profit from airplane parts and helicopters, gas turbines
and other equipment for  power plants  and precision machinery.  Incoming president Murayama is likely to have a more
“objective” view of the company’s condition and potential,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Takahiro Mori said in a
report to clients yesterday. “We expect an unprecedented level
of restructuring.”  Earnings Improvement  Mori said he expects Kawasaki Heavy to post an earnings
improvement to 24.5 yen a share in the fiscal year ending March
31, 2014, from 18.5 yen last year. The company hasn’t matched
the 21.1 yen a share it earned in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and made a loss in 2010.  Heavy-industry companies involved in shipbuilding should
team up with domestic competitors and consolidate into three
groups to boost scale, Hidenori Imade, director of the
shipbuilding unit at  Japan ’s Maritime Bureau, said May 10,
without identifying any potential combination.  “As an analyst, I should say that Japan’s shipmaking
industry needs to accelerate its consolidation,” JPMorgan’s
Nakahashi said. “The reality is, however, it will take some
time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  