-- Kenya Plans to Sell Inaugural Eurobond to Finance Infrastructure
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-06-13T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/kenya-plans-to-sell-inaugural-eurobond-to-finance-infrastructure.html
Kenya  plans to sell its first
Eurobond by the end of September to help finance the budget
deficit and invest in transport and energy infrastructure,
Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich said.  The budget shortfall may reach 7.9 percent of gross
domestic product, or 329.7 billion shillings ($3.9 billion), in
the 2013-14 fiscal year, Rotich said yesterday in his budget
statement in Nairobi, the capital, without providing a year
earlier figure. The fiscal gap including grants will be 6.7
percent in 2012-13, according to the Finance Ministry’s website.  “Getting money offshore will give a favorable difference
in price compared to domestic borrowing,” Robert Bunyi,
managing director of Nairobi-based Mavuno Capital, said
yesterday by phone. “But the deficit is still worrying.”  President Uhuru Kenyatta, 51, was brought to power in March
with a promise to accelerate the pace of economic growth to as
much as 10 percent by 2015, create a million new jobs a year,
ensure every Kenyan has access to electricity by 2020 and build
a new terminal and runway at the main airport in Nairobi.  Kenya’s plan to issue a sovereign bond, which has been
delayed since at least 2007, follows sales by other African
nations that were oversubscribed as governments in the world’s
poorest continent take advantage of record low interest rates.  Rotich didn’t divulge the amount Kenya is seeking to raise
on international debt markets.  Bumpy Recovery  “Global economic recovery is taking shape but the road
ahead is still bumpy,” Rotich, who took office in May, told
lawmakers. “We must grow our economy. We will continue to
invest in infrastructure particular the rail and ports.”  Zambia’s $750 million offering for 10-year sovereign debt
last year was 20 times oversubscribed, while  Namibia ’s sale in
2011 of $500 million in bonds due 2021 attracted 5 times more
bids than the amount for sale, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Rwanda , Nigeria,  Ghana , Gabon and  Senegal  are other sub-Saharan African nations that also sold overseas debt.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings’ credit assessment for
Kenya is B+, the fourth-highest non-investment grade level, on a
par with Zambia and Cape Verde, while Moody’s rates Kenya B1.  Gross domestic product in East Africa’s largest economy
will probably expand by 5.8 percent this year and 7 percent in
the medium term from 4.6 percent in 2012, Rotich said.  The government will allocate 78 billion shillings for
renewable energy projects and 22 billion shilling for the
construction of a railway from the Indian Ocean port of  Mombasa 
to the western city of Kisumu, Rotich said.  Domestic Borrowing  State spending in 2013-14 will be 1.6 trillion shillings
and the target for domestic borrowing is 106.7 billion shillings
from 165 billion shillings this year, Rotich said.  Debt yields in Kenya have fallen as the central bank eases
monetary policy to spur the economy. Yields on 91-day Treasury
bills fell to 4.74 percent at a sale yesterday from 5.42 percent
last week and compared with 8.14 percent in January.  “Kenya’s deficit to GDP of 7.9 percent is on the high side
of expectations,” Razia Khan, head of African economic research
at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in an e-mail. Kenya
will need “to control the pace of spending growth, in order to
create more comfortable buffers and reassure investors on
Kenya’s public debt profile,” she said.  Kenya is a member of the five-nation East African
Community, a customs union whose governments, with the exception
of  Burundi , deliver their annual budget speeches on the same
day. Burundi, the smallest economy in the region, runs on a
calendar year.  External Loans  Tanzania plans to spend 18.2 trillion shillings ($11.1
billion) next year, rising from 15.2 trillion shillings, and it
will seek 1.2 trillion shillings in non-concessional, external
borrowing, Finance Minister William Mgimwa told lawmakers
yesterday. The process to obtain a sovereign debt credit rating
should be completed by the end of June 2014, said Mgimwa.  The country is moving ahead with projects that include
building a gas pipeline from Mtwara to the commercial capital of
Dar es Salaam, Coordination Minister Stephen Wasira said
yesterday in parliament in the capital, Dodoma. Its offshore
fields contain East Africa’s second-largest natural gas
reserves.  Uganda expects to get external financing of 2.7 trillion
shillings ($1 billion) and collect 10.5 trillion shillings from
domestic sources including the sale of securities, in the fiscal
year from July 1, said Finance Minister Maria Kiwanuka.  The economy may expand 6 percent in 2013-14 from 5.1
percent a year earlier, she said. Budget support will decline by
84 percent to $19.4 million over “governance issues,”
according to budget documents. Uganda in January committed to
refund stolen aid after donors slashed funding.  Oil Start  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , based in London, expects oil production to
start in Uganda next year from fields it estimates contain 3.5
billion barrels of crude. The government will seek to “fast
track” the development of pipelines to Kenya and Rwanda in the
next fiscal year, Kiwanuka said.  Rwanda’s budget will climb to 1.65 trillion francs ($2.5
billion) in 2013-14 from 1.55 trillion francs a year earlier,
Elias Baingana, director-general of the national budget, said in
a statement handed to reporters in Kigali, the capital. The
country plans to raise 658.6 billion shillings from external
sources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  