-- Kidd Says Nets Will ‘Grow Together’ in His Rookie Year as Coach
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-14T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/kidd-says-nets-will-grow-together-in-his-first-year-as-coach.html
Jason Kidd begins his new job with
the  Brooklyn  Nets understanding he has plenty to learn about
coaching in the  National Basketball Association .  Kidd was hired by the Nets nine days after ending a 19-year
playing career during which he was selected as an All-Star 10
times and compiled the second-most assists and steals in NBA
history.  The 40-year-old said he was excited to take over a veteran
team that he called “championship caliber.” Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov  declared when he bought the team in 2010 that it would
win an NBA title by the end of the 2014-15 season.  “My message is going to be simple: You have to play hard
and you have to play defense,” Kidd said yesterday in his
introductory news conference. “We’re going to grow together and
that’s what’s going to make it special.”  Kidd spent six years with the Nets, helping lead the team
to the playoffs every season including back-to-back NBA Finals
appearances in 2002-03. He won a championship with the  Dallas
Mavericks  in 2011 and finished his playing career this season
with the  New York Knicks .  Hall of Fame guard  Magic Johnson , who coached the  Los
Angeles Lakers  for 16 games in the 1993-94 season, said he found
coaching more demanding than playing and that Kidd’s biggest
challenge will involve being patient with his players.  “He’s going to have to understand that guys are not going
to be able to play like him, maybe be dedicated like he was,”
Johnson told reporters on a conference call. “And then make
sure he gets great assistants -- probably former coaches -- that
can help him because game-planning is also tough because he has
not been doing that.”  Replaces Carlesimo  Kidd replaces interim coach P.J. Carlesimo, who was fired
last month after the Nets were eliminated in the first round of
the playoffs, their first postseason appearance since 2007,
Kidd’s final year playing for the team. Carlesimo took over for
 Avery Johnson , who was fired when the Nets started 14-14 in
their first season at the $1 billion Barclays Center in Brooklyn
following a move from  Newark ,  New Jersey .  Johnson also was 40 when he took over as head coach the
season after retiring as a player, which he accomplished in the
2004-05 season with the Dallas Mavericks.  More than a dozen NBA players, including three-time scoring
champion Kevin Durant and Nets All-Star point guard  Deron Williams , congratulated Kidd via Twitter.  “Excited to work under our new head coach,” Williams
said. “Great leader and great basketball mind.”  Kidd said yesterday that he will look to Williams to play a
role similar to the one he did as a player, and praised Brooklyn
center Brook Lopez and guard  Joe Johnson . He said his coaching
style will be up-tempo, with an emphasis on ball movement and
team defense.  Rare Route  “We want to be a team that wins 50 games on a regular
basis,” Kidd said. “My job is to put guys in a position to be
successful and also guys need to be patient and listen, because
I was a player and felt like I knew everything.”  Kidd is taking a rare route to becoming a head coach,
according to former Phoenix Suns General Manager  Steve Kerr , who
won five NBA titles as a player and now works as an analyst for
TNT.  “The inexperience will be a factor early,” Kerr said
yesterday. “He just has to get the right staff and get his feet
wet and roll with it.”  Kidd’s 12,091 assists and 2,684 steals trail only Hall of
Famer John Stockton in each category. A two-time Olympic gold
medalist for the U.S., he was an All-NBA First Team selection
five times and an All-Defensive First Team pick after four
seasons.  ‘Learning Curve’  Nets General Manager Billy King acknowledged there is a
risk associated with hiring a first-year coach, much as there is
a risk with any coach. He said the team did not start its search
looking for Kidd, but that he impressed them during interviews.  “Does he have a learning curve? Yes,” King said. “But if
you know Jason, he doesn’t take something and just say he wants
to be good at it. He wants to be great.”  -- With assistance from Erik Matuszewski in  New York . Editors:
Rob Gloster, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  