-- Kinder Shuts Only Pipeline Carrying Canadian Crude to West Coast
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-06-13T18:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/kinder-shuts-only-pipeline-carrying-canadian-crude-to-west-coast.html
Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) , the largest U.S.
pipeline operator by market value, shut the only line that
carries Canadian crude to the West Coast after discovering a
spill of light crude in a remote region of British Columbia.  Workers found the 12-barrel spill from the Trans Mountain
Pipeline yesterday while performing routine maintenance, Andy
Galarnyk, a Calgary-based spokesman for Kinder, said by e-mail.
The company shut the 300,000-barrel-a-day line, which carries
both light and heavy oil, and is making repairs.  The Trans Mountain line is the only system in North America
that transports oil and refined products to the West Coast,
Kinder Morgan said on its website. The pipeline transports
liquids from  Edmonton ,  Alberta , to central British Columbia,
 Vancouver  and the Puget Sound area in  Washington .  Canada  exported 51,200 barrels a day of  heavy crude  and
92,400 barrels a day of  light crude  to Anacortes, Washington, in
January, according to data compiled by the Canadian National
Energy Board.  Canadian heavy crude weakened on the spot market after the
shutdown trapped barrels in Alberta, underscoring how rising oil
production in western Canada has outpaced pipeline construction.
The discount of Western Canada Select to the U.S. benchmark West
Texas Intermediate widened to a record $42.50 in December.  WCS on the spot market weakened for the first time since
May 21, as its discount to WTI widened by $2.25 to $11.50 a
barrel at 1:50 p.m. East Coast time, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Market Anticipation  “Every day is 300,000 barrels, so the market may be
anticipating a two- to three-day outage or longer pending
approval from the regulators to restart,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Houston-based Lipow Oil Associates LLC. “There’s
simply a lack of information in the market regarding downtime.”  Kinder Morgan proposes expanding the capacity of Trans
Mountain by installing a new pipeline parallel to the existing
one. The proposed twinned line would be able to carry about
540,000 barrels a day of heavy crude and the existing line could
transport 350,000 barrels a day of lighter crude and refined
products, Tammy Sauer, quality control supervisor for the
company, said June 6 at a Crude Oil Quality Association
conference in Seattle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  