-- Kiwi Slides After RBNZ Holds Rates Steady, Warns of Intervention
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-06-13T01:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/kiwi-slides-after-rbnz-holds-rates-steady-warns-of-intervention.html
The New Zealand dollar fell against
all 16 major peers after the nation’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged at a record low to avoid re-igniting
demand for the currency.  The kiwi slid from the highest this month against the
Aussie dollar after  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler reiterated his willingness to intervene to curb the
“overvalued” currency. A report today will probably show
 Australia ’s jobless rate rose to match the highest since
September 2009.  The RBNZ was “a little more dovish than what the market
expected,” said David Croy, a Wellington-based researcher at
ANZ National Bank Ltd. “The bank left its interest rate
projections for the period through to the first quarter of 2015
unchanged, which probably caught some people by surprise.”  The New Zealand dollar dropped 0.3 percent to NZ$1.1912
versus the Aussie as of 11:03 a.m. in Sydney from yesterday,
when it touched NZ$1.1862, the highest since May 30. The kiwi
slumped 0.4 percent to 79.59 U.S. cents. Australia’s dollar was
little changed at 94.82 U.S. cents.  The RBNZ today maintained its forecast that the three-month
bank bill yield will rise to 2.8 percent in the second quarter
next year from an estimated 2.7 percent in the current quarter.
The outlook, which is seen as a guide to the direction of the
Official Cash Rate, suggests no increase in the benchmark until
mid-2014.  Intervention Warning  “Despite having fallen over the past few weeks, the  New
Zealand dollar  remains overvalued,” Wheeler said in a statement
in Wellington today after leaving the cash rate at 2.5 percent.  “If we see the opportunity to try, for example, to take
the tops off any exchange rate peak then we may exercise
intervention,” Wheeler said at a briefing after the
announcement.  The currency has declined about 5 percent against the
greenback since Wheeler first said on May 8 he was intervening
to weaken it. He sold a net NZ$256 million ($204 million) in
April, according to central bank data. In a May 30 speech,
Wheeler said he was prepared to step up his efforts.  Traders are  pricing  in 36 basis points of interest rate
increases by the RBNZ within 12 months, according to a Credit
Suisse AG index based on swap contracts. They  see  33 basis
points of rate cuts by the  Reserve Bank of Australia .  The  Australian Bureau of Statistics  will probably say the
 unemployment rate  rose to 5.6 percent in May from 5.5 percent
the month before, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That would match the highest since
September 2009, when the rate was 5.7 percent.  The Australian dollar has rebounded 1.8 percent against the
greenback after touching the lowest since September 2010 on June
11. It has fallen 9 percent this quarter.  “In the last few days, the Aussie seems to have found a
temporary base,” said  Andrew Salter , a currency strategist at
ANZ in Sydney. “What that means in terms of trading the
currency over this release is that it’s going to be more
difficult to see continued downside momentum than it will be to
see an extension to the upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  