-- Koruna Weakens as Police Raids Pressure Premier: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-06-13T14:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/koruna-weakens-as-police-raids-pressure-premier-prague-mover.html
The koruna weakened the most among
the world’s major currencies as police arrested several people
in raids, including at government offices, which put Prime
Minister Petr Necas under pressure from the opposition.  The Czech currency depreciated as much as 0.6 percent and
traded 0.4 percent weaker at 25.679 per euro by 4:01 p.m. in
 Prague , compared with a 0.9 percent advance for  Hungary ’s forint
and a 0.5 percent gain for  Romania ’s leu, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows. The cost of credit-default swaps insuring the
government’s bonds rose to a two-month high.  One of Necas’s aides was among several people detained in a
raid last night by the police’s organized crime unit, the
Prague-based iDnes.cz news website reported today, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the case. Police action, which
included raids at government offices and at the  Defense
Ministry , started last night and still continues, Pavel Hantak,
a spokesman for the organized crime unit, told reporters in
Prague today. Hantak declined to say who was detained.  “Some market players may be concerned about the possible
new elections and a change of direction of the government,”
David Sykora, chief currency trader at CSOB AS in Prague, said
by phone today. “The impact will be limited. In a longer term,
the market doesn’t care who’s in charge, and the koruna will
continue to be driven by global sentiment.”  No-Confidence Motion?  The lower house of parliament adjourned deliberations and
will reconvene at 9 a.m. in Prague tomorrow, when Necas will
attend, Miroslava Nemcova, the chamber’s head, said in a
statement. The  Social Democrats , the largest opposition party
that leads in opinion polls a year before elections, will meet
at 6 p.m. to decide whether to initiate a no-confidence motion
against Necas. The Communist Party has called on him to resign.  The koruna is 1.4 percent stronger than on May 21, a day
before the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled readiness to scale down
its economic stimulus, driving investors to the world’s safest
assets. The gain is the biggest during the period among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Czech bonds have the highest credit ratings in emerging
 Europe , on par with Estonia, and are the cheapest to insure with
credit-default swaps in the region. The contracts, which rise as
perceptions of creditworthiness worsen, increased four basis
points today to 61, the highest since April 12. The price
compares with 72 basis points for higher-rated  France .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  