-- N.Y. Gasoline Gains on PBF Delaware City, PDVSA Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-06-13T21:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/n-y-gasoline-gains-on-pbf-delaware-city-pdvsa-demand.html
New York  gasoline strengthened after
a boiler was shut on a coker unit at  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF) ’s  Delaware 
City, Delaware, refinery and on speculation demand for U.S. East
Coast exports is growing.  The  premium  for reformulated, 84-octane gasoline, or RBOB,
in the New York Harbor region widened 0.08 cent to 0.43 cent a
gallon versus futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
3:43 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Conventional
gasoline for ethanol blending, or CBOB, increased 1.12 cents to
a discount of 13.13 cents.  PBF said the boiler would be offline until tomorrow at the
182,200-barrel-a-day Delaware City plant. U.S. East Coast
exports may climb on higher demand from  Petroleos de Venezuela
SA , operator of the Amuay refinery, said Carl Larry, president
of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston.  “PDVSA is looking for spot barrels of reformate and that’s
more than likely causing the rift in gasoline,” said Larry, who
is based in Houston. “Delaware City is probably more sensitive
to distillates.”  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  was unchanged at 0.25 cent a gallon
above Nymex futures, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Jet fuel in New York strengthened 0.63 cent to a 7.5-cent
discount.  PDVSA may be seeking more barrels after Venezuela oil union
leader Ivan Freites said a 100,000-barrel-a-day distillation
unit remained offline due to furnace problems at the company’s
Amuay refinery. The work, which began two weeks ago, should take
about four weeks, he said in a June 10 interview.  Tanker Charter  An oil-products tanker owned by Prime Marine Management
Inc. was chartered today to the Caribbean from Philadelphia, for
loading on June 18, according to fixture data compiled by
Bloomberg.  U.S. Atlantic Coast exports may already be getting a boost
from increased  refinery inputs , according to a research report
from shipbroker Charles R. Weber in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  Refineries on the U.S. East Coast, known as PADD 1,
processed  1.18 million barrels  a day of crude and other
feedstock in the week ended June 7, the highest seasonal level
since 2010, U.S. Energy Information Administration data showed
yesterday. Gasoline stockpiles in the region were  63.8 million 
barrels and distillates  35.6 million .  About 23 cargoes were fixed from the Atlantic Coast in May,
compared with a year-to-date monthly average of eight, Charles
R. Weber said.  The 3-2-1 crack spread in the New York Harbor, a rough
measure of refining margins for gasoline and diesel fuel based
on Brent oil in  Europe , gained 44 cents to $16.80 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  