-- Apple, Google Meet With N.Y. on Phone-Theft ’Epidemic’
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-06-13T22:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/n-y-s-schneiderman-announces-smartphone-anti-theft-intiative.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  met with
the  New York  Attorney General about thefts of smartphones as law
enforcement officials demand that phone manufacturers take steps
to protect consumers.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and San
Francisco District Attorney  George Gascon  today announced an
initiative with officials around the U.S. to encourage the
smartphone industry to deter thefts and eliminate the market for
stolen phones.  “It is totally unacceptable that we have an epidemic of
crime that we believe can be eliminated if the technological
fixes we believe are available are put into place and
smartphones are equipped to be disabled,” Schneiderman said at
a press conference.  Representatives of Apple, Google, Samsung Electronics Co.
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  met with the attorney general’s office today
about the issue. Officials want the industry to make stolen
phones useless, possibly with a “kill switch” that would
permanently disable a phone.  About 113 smartphones are stolen or lost each minute in the
U.S., according to the attorney general’s office.  Megan Boken , 23, was killed last year in St. Louis for her
phone while talking on it with her mother, her family said
today. Smartphone manufacturers profit from the sale of stolen
phones and have the ability to make phones inoperable, her
father, Paul Boken, said.  “The creators of these magnificent devices have the
brainpower to figure this out,” he said.  IPhone Feature  Apple, maker of the iPhone, said it has helped customers
protect lost or stolen phones since 2009 with the “Find My
iPhone” feature, which allows users to track the location of
their devices and erase personal data.  This week, the Cupertino, California-based company
announced a security enhancement called activation lock that
requires an Apple identification and password to reactivate a
phone. It will be available on its new operating system.  “With Activation Lock, Find My iPhone gives customers even
more control over their devices and serves as a theft deterrent
by requiring an Apple ID and password to turn off Find My
iPhone, erase data or reactivate a device,” Apple spokeswoman
 Kristin Huguet  said in a statement.  Representatives of the other companies couldn’t be reached
or didn’t immediately comment.  The initiative announced by Schneiderman and Gascon today
includes attorneys general, district attorneys and police chiefs
around the country.  “The industry has a moral and has a social obligation to
fix this problem,” Gascon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  