-- Nascar Driver Jason Leffler Dies at 37 After Dirt Track Crash
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-13T14:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/nascar-driver-jason-leffler-dies-at-37-after-dirt-track-crash.html
Nascar driver Jason Leffler died
last night after crashing in a dirt track race at Bridgeport
Speedway in Swedesboro, New Jersey. He was 37.  “Nascar extends its thoughts, prayers and deepest
sympathies to the family of Jason Leffler,” Nascar said in
 statement . “For more than a decade, Jason was a fierce
competitor in our sport and he will be missed.”  Leffler, who went by the nickname “Lefturn,” was a two-time winner on the second-tier Nationwide Series, where he
finished in the top 10 in points five times. He also competed at
Nascar’s top level for both Joe Gibbs Racing and Chip Ganassi.
Leffler made his first Nascar start this season in a Sprint Cup
Series event on June 9 at Pocono Raceway, where he finished in
43rd place.  Leffler last night was participating in a sprint-car heat
at a 5/8-mile high-banked dirt track when he crashed. Drivers
were competing for a $7,000 top prize in the 25-lap main event,
according to Bridgeport Speedway’s  website . Racing was halted
for the evening after the accident.  “We are very saddened at the passing of Jason Leffler,”
Indianapolis Motor Speedway Chief Operating Officer J. Douglas
Boles said in a  statement . “He was one of the most versatile
race drivers in America, showing his talent by competing in the
Indianapolis 500 and the Brickyard 400 at the Indianapolis Motor
Speedway during his career.”  Leffler competed in the 2000 Indianapolis 500, IndyCar’s
marquee event, as well as Nascar, yet had his most success
racing midget cars, winning three  U.S. Auto Club  midget titles
from 1997-99 and a silver crown series championship in 1998.  “Such sad news tonight,” Nationwide rookie Kyle Larson, a
former sprint-car driver, said last night on Twitter. “Leffler
was a great person and even better dad. I am glad I got to know
him. Rest in peace.”  Leffler was a native of Long Beach,  California , according
to Nascar. His survivors include a young son, Charlie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  