-- NBA’s Robinson Jumps to Admiral as Dimon Calls Him Triple Threat
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-06-13T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/nba-s-robinson-jumps-to-admiral-as-dimon-calls-him-triple-threat.html
The way hall-of-famer David Robinson
tells it, the atmosphere permeating the  San Antonio Spurs  wasn’t
always one of professionalism and accountability.  Back in 1989, when the U.S. Naval Academy graduate
nicknamed the Admiral joined the National Basketball Association
franchise that’s become synonymous with selflessness,
fundamentals and excellence, players routinely showed up for
practice reeking of booze.  “How much do you have to drink to sweat alcohol?” asked
Robinson, who after his NBA career co-founded Admiral Capital
Group and whose Wall Street friends and advisers include
 JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  and
Avenue Capital Group LLC CEO  Marc Lasry . “It was a bunch of
total foolishness.”  Back then, Robinson says, teammates didn’t know what to
make of the rookie who showed no inclination to join their
carousing. The other Spurs took to calling him L-7, which
Robinson at first thought was a term of endearment.  Laughing at how naive he was back then, Robinson makes an L
with his left thumb and forefinger, and then a 7 with his right,
his thumb at the top. He connects them to form a square.  “By the end of the week I realized they were making fun of
me,” said Robinson, whose Spurs lead the  Miami Heat  2-1 in the
best-of-seven National Basketball Association Finals, which
resumes tonight in  San Antonio . “If I was going to be here, the
culture was going to have to change.”  The 7-foot-1 Robinson these days marries philanthropy and
finance with New York-based Admiral, a real estate-focused
private equity fund with more than $250 million under
management. Ten percent of the firm’s profits go to community
projects, says Dan Bassichis, a former  Goldman (GS)  Sachs Group Inc.
banker who left that firm to co-found Admiral.  ‘Triple Threat’  “To use a basketball term, David’s approach to
philanthropy makes him a triple threat,” Dimon said in a
statement. “He’s passionate about making a difference, he’s
smart and thoughtful about finding innovative ways to tackle
tough social issues, and he’s humble enough to know he can
always learn from others.”  Robinson, 47, spent his entire NBA career, 1989-2003, in
San Antonio, ultimately winning two championships, a Most
Valuable Player Award and -- the accolade he values most -- a
universal admiration that Commissioner  David Stern  says is
rarely seen these days. Robinson honored a commitment to serve
two years in the Navy before beginning his basketball career.  “He’s everything you could want,” is Stern’s appraisal of
Robinson, who owns 2 percent of the Spurs, winners of four NBA
titles since 1999. “I would see David Robinson as conservative
and solid -- very, very reliable.”  Admiral, USAA  Admiral partnered with San Antonio-based USAA Real Estate
Co., which committed $50 million to become a major shareholder.
USAA, which offers banking, investing and insurance to members
of the military and their families, provides administrative
support for Admiral and advises on investments.  Admiral last year received $15 million to invest for the
Texas Teacher Retirement System under the fund’s emerging
managers program.  Spurs owner Peter Holt, who served in the U.S. Army, said
he intends to make an undisclosed investment in Admiral Capital.
Holt, who was awarded a  Silver Star , three Bronze Stars and a
Purple Heart for service in  Vietnam , said there’s one reason why
Admiral Capital -- and not some behemoth investment bank -- will
get his money.  “If David’s involved, I’ll invest,” said Holt, chief
executive of San Antonio-based Holt CAT, the largest Caterpillar
dealership in the U.S. “I don’t know those guys on  Wall Street ,
especially now when you trade 10,000 shares a minute.”  Financial Admirers  Robinson’s admirers span not only the owners’ suites in
professional sports but the C-suites at banks and  hedge funds .
Avenue Capital’s Lasry, for instance, called Robinson
“unique.”  “His desire to do good and his ability to bring disparate
people together and work toward a common goal or investment is
why Admiral Capital is successful,” he said in a statement.  Robinson cautions potential partners that he requires a
commitment to community if they’re to piggyback on his brand and
athletic fame for personal gain.  “I don’t mind signing a couple of balls,” he said, “but
this is not who I am or what I want to get accomplished.”  Robinson brings a community-improvement mindset to each
transaction. Admiral, for instance, partnered with Hilton
Worldwide Inc. to start a program that provides on-the-job
training for high-school students in lower-income schools.  Admiral Capital has an undisclosed stake in Centerplate
Inc., a  Stamford , Connecticut-based company that operates food
concessions at sports stadiums and convention centers. It’s
owned by Kohlberg & Co., the investment firm run by leveraged-buyout pioneer Jerome Kohlberg. Admiral is also working with KKR
& Co. LP’s Academy Ltd. to create opportunities in lower-income
communities.  Robinson Award  “David has set a standard that is hard for people to
reach,” says Kathy Behrens, the NBA’s executive vice president
for social responsibility and player programs, noting that each
year the league’s community assist award winner receives the
 David Robinson  plaque.  Robinson says he’s intent on helping people set a higher
standard, which is why he’s so passionate about children and
education.  Robinson has partnered with IDEA, a network of tuition-free
K-12 public  charter schools  that has sent 100 percent of its
graduates to college for six consecutive years. Robinson started
one school in San Antonio and wants to have 20 within five
years.  “Real success is being able to influence and make things
happen,” Robinson said. “I don’t have any tolerance for things
that don’t work.”  New Spurs  The Spurs of today work just fine, propelled to the
franchise’s first championship series since its 2007 title by a
workmanlike, limelight-eschewing crew that includes 37-year-old
 Tim Duncan , a two-time Most Valuable Player, as well as  Manu Ginobili  and  Tony Parker , a whirling-dervish of a point guard
whose shot-clock-beating basket sealed a Game 1 victory.  Much of the team’s no-nonsense culture, according to Holt,
traces back to Robinson, who says it helps to explain why around
San Antonio his fan base rivals that of even Parker.  “Tony has all the young, cute girls,” Robinson says. “I
have all the moms and grandmothers. People see me as
trustworthy, old faithful. I love that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  