-- Nigerian All-Share Index Drops Most 3 Years: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-06-13T15:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/nigerian-all-share-index-drops-most-3-years-lagos-mover.html
Nigeria’s  All-Share Index (NGSEINDX)  dropped
the most in more than three years on speculation that foreign
investors exited the world’s fifth-best rally this year on
concerns that global stimulus measures may ease.  The index of Africa’s biggest oil producer and largest
stock market after  South Africa  retreated 3.9 percent to
37,406.67 at the close in Lagos, the commercial capital, its
biggest decline since March 2010. The measure fell to the
world’s eighth-best performer, as 55 stocks fell, 14 rose and
137 were unchanged. Before today the index had risen 39 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging markets  from Brazil to India took steps to stem an
outflow of capital on concerns developed nations are close to
ending an era of unprecedented liquidity. The moves follow the
Bank of Japan’s decision this week to refrain from adding
stimulus and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s May 22 statement that
the U.S. Federal Reserve could scale back asset buying if it’s
confident of sustained economic growth.  “The Nigerian market is responding to a global trend,”
Pabina Yinkere, an equity analyst at Lagos-based Vetiva Capital
Management Ltd., said by telephone today. “Many foreign and
local investors want to cash out before a drastic fall hits the
market.”  Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) , the West African nation’s second
largest company making up 11 percent of the index, fell for a
fourth day, down 7.4 percent to 157.5 naira.  Nestle Nigeria Plc (NESTLE) ,
the third largest, slid 3.7 percent to 962.95 naira  “The foreign guys have just seen that Nigerian has been
very, very rewarding to them over the past few months” and
“they want to realize their gains,” Jude Fejokwu, managing
director of Thaddeus Investment Advisors & Research Ltd., said
by phone today from Lagos. “When they pull out it shakes the
market and they’ve put in a lot of money.”  Foreign investors accounted for 43 percent of trades in
March and 61 percent in all of 2012, according to the  Nigerian
Stock Exchange . Net foreign inflows into Nigerian equities
amounted to 29.3 billion naira ($182 million) in March, compared
with 93.8 billion naira in 2012, according to the bourse’s
figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  