-- Norwegian Minister Seeks a More ‘Open’ European Energy Market
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-06-13T12:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/norwegian-minister-seeks-a-more-open-european-energy-market.html
Norwegian Oil and Energy Minister
Ola Borten Moe called for a more “open” European market for
the industry as nations in the region debate future policy and
the Scandinavian country seeks to increase demand for its gas.  “I’d like to see a more open, transparent and well-functioning European energy market,” Borten Moe said yesterday
in an interview. “That means that you allow the mechanisms to
work, you allow without regulatory means the most effective
solutions to be implemented in the European economies.”  Europe is preparing to debate energy policy for the decade
after 2020, needed to remove uncertainty for investors. At the
same time  Norway  plans to boost exploration and recovery rates
in its gas reserves by cutting pipeline tariffs for producers.  How the region develops the market after 2020 when current
energy targets expire, is “one of the most important debates
that Europe has to have over the next few years,” Borten Moe
said in Oslo. “If you look at how the European energy markets
work today or in my opinion increasingly not work, it’s not good
news for Europe. If you do not have a well-functioning and
effective energy system, it’s bad news for the whole economy.”  The European Union has a binding goal to cut greenhouse gas
emissions 20 percent from 1990 levels, raise renewables’ share
of energy output to an average 20 percent and boost efficiency.  “Emissions are up, not good, infrastructure is old, not
good, and there are a lot of subsidies for very expensive
renewable energy solutions, it’s not good,” Borten Moe said.
“And increasingly the different countries are introducing
different means of securing their own national energy markets.”  Stable Provider  Norway, outside the EU, seeks to present itself as a stable
energy provider after disputes between  Russia  and Ukraine led to
European supply being disrupted twice since 2006 and as conflict
in the Middle East interrupts oil supplies. “It was not good
that the Russians shut down Ukraine and I think in a lot of
capitals they have the idea locked in their minds that the
Russians lack security of supply,” Borten Moe said.  Europe should diversify gas sources to North Africa, the
North Sea, the Barents Sea, Russia, Azerbaijan as well as
onshore developments in eastern Europe, the minister said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  