-- NYC Storm-Protection Proposals Issued by Buildings Group
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-06-13T19:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/nyc-storm-protection-proposals-issued-by-buildings-group.html
New York City’s buildings would be
required to provide drinking water in common areas and have
exterior plugs for temporary generators under proposals to make
homes and businesses more resistant to major storms.  Those were among 33  recommendations  made by the Building
Resiliency Task Force, a group of more than 200 landlords,
property managers, architects, attorneys, city officials and
consultants formed after last year’s  Hurricane Sandy  caused
widespread destruction and power failures. The task force,
managed by the Urban Green Council, urged actions ranging from
ensuring the safety of vulnerable residents to raising homes off
the ground and keeping toxic materials out of floodwaters.  “Another Sandy is inevitable, and New York isn’t ready,”
Russell Unger, executive director of the council, said in a
statement issued today by Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s office.
“But it can be. The task force recommendations are tangible and
economically achievable steps.”  The panel’s report came two days after the mayor proposed
spending billions of dollars on infrastructure improvements to
protect the city’s more than 500 miles of coastline. Sandy, the
biggest Atlantic storm in history, caused 43 deaths in the city
and left more than 1,000 of its people homeless, many of them in
beachfront communities in Queens and Staten Island. The Oct. 29
storm flooded transit tunnels and utilities and produced a
record surge that inundated lower  Manhattan , rendering dozens of
office and apartment towers temporarily uninhabitable.  Raised Homes  The task force recommended that buildings in the city’s
newly drawn 100-year flood zone be constructed above the flood
line. The group proposed a competition “to design a streetscape
of attractive raised homes” that would be also be accessible to
disabled people. Such homes were built in New Orleans’s
devastated Lower Ninth Ward following Hurricane Katrina.  While upper floors in an apartment building require an
electric pump for water service, natural pressure in the city’s
water mains can serve a common faucet below the sixth floor,
according to the panel, which urged that landlords be required
to retrofit their properties with such a faucet.  Toilets and sinks should be made to operate without being
connected to the electric grid, in case an extended blackout
poses a sanitation risk, according to the 37-page report.  While protecting commercial buildings “is fundamentally a
business decision for their owners,” the city has an interest
in avoiding business disruption, according to the report. The
panel recommended that buildings have valves to block sewage
from backflowing into basements, and that equipment be raised to
higher floors to prevent flood damage.  The task force also urged the city to require toxic
chemicals to be stored in flood-proof areas. Hazardous materials
“can turn floodwaters into a toxic soup,” the group said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent company of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  