-- Obama Said to Pick Atkinson as Key International Economic Aide
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-06-13T19:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/obama-said-to-pick-atkinson-as-key-international-economic-aide.html
President  Barack Obama  has selected
 Caroline Atkinson , a former spokeswoman at the  International
Monetary Fund , to serve as a top economic and national security
adviser and be his representative at global economic summits,
according to an administration official.  Atkinson, who is currently the senior Director for
International Economics on the National Security Council staff,
will replace Mike Froman, the president’s pick to be the next
U.S. Trade Representative, once he’s confirmed to the post by
the Senate, said the official, who asked not to be identified
discussing the matter prior to an announcement.  The Finance Committee on June 11 unanimously sent Froman’s
nomination to the full Senate, where a vote has yet to be
scheduled.  “It’s very important for the U.S. to have someone like
Caroline in this role,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Company, which manages
the world’s biggest fixed-income fund.  “We are going through a major global realignment, economic
interactions are changing, geopolitics is playing a much more
important role, and multilateral institutions are not keeping up
with the changes on the ground,” El-Erian, who has known
Atkinson since 1983, said in an interview.  Obama will make the announcement once Froman is confirmed,
the official said.  Economic Summits  As deputy national security adviser for international
economics, Atkinson, 61, will coordinate U.S. participation in
summits of the Group of Eight and Group of 20 countries. She’ll
be the president’s so-called sherpa in  Northern Ireland  next
week, where G-8 leaders will gather at the Lough Erne resort in
County Fermanagh to discuss topics including  tax havens  and
trade proposals.  Like Froman, who was a law school classmate of Obama’s and
a former executive at Citibank, Atkinson will be a member of
both the National Security Council and National Economic
Council.  Working alongside Froman, Atkinson has helped guide U.S.
responses to the European debt crisis, tumult in the Middle East
and Northern Africa, and market moves affecting emerging
economies. In the new role, she will also deal with trade,
 climate change , energy, aid and development issues.  “Caroline will have to broaden out from what she’s
principally been doing -- macroeconomic issues -- and taking
over the broader portfolio,” said  David Lipton , the IMF’s
deputy managing director. “She knows all the technical
subjects, she knows the world and she’s shown that she can
deliver.”  Hard-Nosed Negotiating  The job requires hard-nosed negotiating skills mixed with a
readiness to visit far-flung places where “sherpas,” as such
aides are known, work on the summits’ agendas. For example,
ahead of a G-8 gathering in Muskoka, Canada in June 2010, the
sherpas, seeking a bonding experience, went dogsledding in
Yellowknife, Canada, in minus-40 Celsius conditions.  At economic summits during Obama’s first term, the sherpas
frequently negotiated the final language of communiques, down to
the punctuation.  “Caroline is a seasoned veteran of the international
economic stage,” former Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
said in an e-mailed statement. “Deeply versed in the nuances of
policy and the craft of diplomacy, she will provide expert
counsel to the President in this new role.”  Treasury Stint  Atkinson was the IMF’s director of external relations from
November 2008 until July 2011, when she joined the White House.
Prior to that, she served as the fund’s deputy director for the
Western Hemisphere. Before joining the IMF in 2005, she had a
two-year stint as a senior director at investor consultancy
Stonebridge International LLC in Washington.  She served four years at the Treasury Department under
former president  Bill Clinton , as senior deputy assistant for
international affairs, and worked with Geithner when he was
undersecretary for international affairs. At the beginning of
Obama’s first-term, she was a candidate to become the Treasury’s
undersecretary of international affairs, though she pulled her
name out of consideration.  A one-time columnist for the  Washington Post (WPO)  newspaper,
Atkinson was a special adviser for financial stability at the
 Bank of England  from 1994 to 1996. She graduated with a
Bachelor’s degree in Philosophy and Economics from Oxford
University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  