-- Loblaw REIT IPO Offered at Bargain Amid Dividend Slump
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-06-13T13:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/loblaw-reit-ipo-offered-at-bargain-amid-dividend-slump.html
Loblaw Cos. (L) ’ real estate investment
trust, poised to be Canada’s largest REIT initial public
offering, is pitching itself as a bargain amid a slumping market
for the high-yield trusts.  Choice Properties REIT, created by Canada’s biggest grocery
chain, is targeting a yield of 6 percent to 6.5 percent in its
C$400 million ($392 million) IPO this month. That’s a higher
payout than peers including  RioCan REIT (REI-U) , and will be cheaper
than similar REITs, sale documents show.  Choice Properties is trying to build interest as rising
bond yields draw investors away from dividend-paying equity
instruments. The 14-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Capped REIT
Index plunged 13 percent from an April 30 peak, mirroring the 10
percent drop of the 299-member S&P Global REIT Index.  “On first blush and all else being equal, this looks like
a fairly attractive REIT,” Brian Huen, managing partner at
Toronto-based Red Sky Capital Management Ltd., which oversees
about C$220 million and is considering the IPO, said in a June
10 telephone interview. “Despite the current challenging
environment we’re in, I think they’re pricing this properly.”  With a C$10 unit price and yield of 6.25 percent, Choice
Properties would trade at 11.4 times funds from operations, or
 cash flow , based on estimates for the next 12 months. That’s
lower than the estimated 17.3 multiple for RioCan, Canada’s
largest REIT by assets, below the 15.4 for Calloway REIT and
13.8 for  Crombie REIT (CRR-U) , according to sale documents.  ‘Tougher Sell’  “It will certainly be a tougher sell than it would have
been six months ago,” Dennis Mitchell, chief investment officer
of Toronto-based Sentry Investments Inc., which manages C$10
billion and is considering the IPO, said in a June 11 interview.
“Having said that, the quality of the real estate in the
proposed REIT is much better than what we’ve seen in previous or
recent IPOs.”  REITs, which receive preferential tax treatment from the
government and pay out most of their income to investors through
unit distributions, invest in income-producing real estate such
as shopping malls and nursing homes.  Loblaw created the REIT to spin off about 75 percent of its
real estate. Choice Properties will use the proceeds of the IPO
to acquire 415 stores, one office complex and nine warehouses
from Brampton, Ontario-based Loblaw.  Concentration Risk  “Loblaw has been accumulating this real estate portfolio
for over 30 years, and management believes that it would be
extremely difficult to replicate this portfolio, given the
current real estate market dynamics in Canada,” according to
sale documents.  Two telephone messages with Kim Lee, vice president of
 investor relations  and financial planning and analysis for
Choice Properties, weren’t immediately returned.  The properties, spread across Canada, total about 35.3
million square feet of leasable area. In comparison, RioCan has
about 84 million square feet in Canadian and U.S. shopping
centers, while Calloway has 26 million square feet in retail
properties, and Crombie has 14.5 million square feet in shopping
centers and office buildings, according to company websites.  Crombie was created in 2006 when  Empire Co. (EMP/A) , parent of
grocery chain Sobeys Inc., spun off properties into a REIT and
raised C$204.8 million in an IPO. Sobeys agreed yesterday to buy
 Safeway Inc. (SWY) ’s Canadian stores for about C$5.8 billion, with
Crombie getting the rights of first offer for real estate sales
that come out of the transaction.  ‘One-Trick Pony’  The reliance on Loblaw as both the main tenant and dominant
owner of Choice Properties may give investors reason to pause.
Loblaw will occupy 88 percent of the REIT’s gross leasable area,
according to sale documents. Other tenants include  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ,
 Dollarama Inc. (DOL)  and Toronto-Dominion Bank, the documents show.  “Loblaw is really just a one-trick pony,”  John Kinsey ,
who helps manage about C$1 billion at Caldwell Securities Ltd.
in Toronto, said in a June 10 interview. “You’re looking at one
entity as opposed to a diversified portfolio like RioCan has.”  Choice Properties sites include 267 stand-alone stores
operating under Loblaw names including Real Canadian Superstore,
Extra Foods, No Frills, Maxi and Zehrs Markets, according to
sale documents. An additional 143 sites are anchored by a Loblaw
brand store and five other properties have only third-party
tenants.  Ontario has the most properties, with 165 sites, followed
by  Quebec , with 100, and  Alberta , with 45 locations, according
to the documents. About 57 percent of the properties are in
large cities including Toronto, Montreal and  Vancouver , while
almost 17 percent are in medium-sized cities and 26 percent are
in rural locations, the sale documents said.  RioCan REIT  RioCan owns and manages Canada’s largest portfolio of
shopping centers in cities including Vancouver, Calgary,
Winnipeg, Toronto, Montreal and Halifax, with tenants ranging
from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Canadian Tire Corp., a sporting
goods and automotive retailer, to  Target Corp. (TGT)  and grocery chain
Metro Inc. The Toronto-based REIT had 344 properties, including
50 grocery-anchored retail centers in U.S. cities including
Houston, Richmond, Virginia and Bridgeport,  Connecticut  as of
the end of March, the company said in a June 5 statement.  Still, the Loblaw name and the grocery chain’s geographic
diversification appeals to REIT investors such as Kinsey.  “Loblaw is pretty much across Canada and they’ve been
around a long time, so they’ve got good properties,” Kinsey
said. “We’ll certainly take a look at it.”  Less Liquid  Choice Properties may also be a less liquid stock, say
investors, given that Loblaw and parent  George Weston Ltd. (WN)  may
hold as much as a 90 percent stake in the REIT, which will have
an initial market value of C$3.6 billion to C$3.9 billion,
according to documents. Janet Craig, a spokeswoman for Loblaw,
didn’t immediately return a telephone message seeking comment.  Choice Properties plans to sell 40 million trust units to
the public in its IPO, according to sale documents. George
Weston will acquire an additional C$200 million of the REIT
units when the sale closes next month. The REIT is also selling
senior unsecured debentures.  Canada  has had six REIT IPOs this year that raised about
$783 million, representing 58 percent of the $1.36 billion in
initial sales in the country in 2013, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Milestone Apartments REIT’s C$200 million sale in
February and Agellan Commercial REIT’s C$134.6 million offering
in January were the biggest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  