-- Hochtief Plans $347 Million Buyback With Shares at Two-Month Low
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-06-13T21:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/hochtief-plans-347-million-buyback-with-shares-at-two-month-low.html
Hochtief AG (HOT) , the German builder
controlled by Spain’s  Actividades de Construccion & Servicios
SA , will buy back up to 260 million euros ($347 million) of
shares over the next five years after the stock closed at its
lowest in two months.  The buyback of 4.3 million shares represents about 5.6
percent of the Essen, Germany-based builder’s capital, it said
in a statement today. That will boost Hochtief’s stake in itself
to 10 percent.  “The board decided it was an opportune juncture to take
this step,” spokesman Bernd Puetter said by phone.  Hochtief decided to buy back shares after the stock
declined 10 percent in the past month. The company closed
earlier today at 48.87 euros, the lowest since April 8 and
valuing the company at 3.9 billion euros. Chief Executive
Officer Marcelino Fernandez Verdes is aiming to stabilize
profitability by focusing  Germany ’s largest construction company
on its main building business, reversing a decade-long strategy
of expanding into services.  Verdes, who assumed the CEO role in November after joining
from ACS initially as chief operating officer last March, last
month reached a 1.5 billion-euro deal to sell the airports
division and is also seeking to offload property development and
facility management units. ACS, based in  Madrid , currently owns
49.9 percent of Hochtief’s outstanding shares with 54.3 percent
of the  voting rights , according to the company’s website.  Pretax profit in the first quarter jumped to 123 million
euros from a year-earlier loss of 92 million euros, beating
analyst estimates. Hochtief predicts full-year pretax profit of
between 600 million euros and 680 million euros, excluding
earnings from the airports and one-time reorganization costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  