-- Odebrecht, Yankee Candle Said to Cancel Bonds as Yields Jump
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-06-13T22:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/odebrecht-said-to-postpone-bonds-as-emerging-market-yields-jump.html
Odebrecht SA, the Salvador, Brazil-based construction and engineering firm, postponed an offering
of benchmark bonds and Yankee Candle Co. Inc. terminated a $450
million deal as yields in the U.S. reached a 10-month high.  The Odebrecht transaction was delayed by market conditions,
according to a person with knowledge of the deal, who asked not
to be identified citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.
The company, through its Odebrecht Offshore Drilling Finance
Ltd. unit, proposed $1.9 billion of secured bonds due October
2022 that were preliminarily rated BBB by  Standard & Poor’s ,
according to a June 11 report.  Yankee Candle terminated its offering of five-year notes,
rated Caa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, and rescinded its offer
to redeem its notes due 2016 and 2017, the South Deerfield,
Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement. Proceeds
from the bond sale and from a new  term loan  were intended to be
used on the redemption, to pay a $187 million shareholder
dividend and to refinance an existing term loan, the company
said yesterday. The new term loan was also canceled, according
to a person with knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to
be identified citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.  Yields Surge  Yields on bonds from the riskiest to the most creditworthy
borrowers in the U.S. reached 3.91 percent yesterday, the
highest since August, and up from a record-low 3.35 percent on
May 2, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate & High Yield index.  Odebrecht “did not cancel any existing bonds that were
already trading,” the company’s press office said in an e-mailed statement. Odebrecht still intends to raise funds “and
is waiting for the market to stabilize,” the statement said.  A message left with Yankee Candle spokeswoman Karen Woods
wasn’t immediately returned.  Yields on dollar-denominated debt from borrowers in
 developing countries  climbed to 5.02 percent yesterday, the
highest since July, after reaching an unprecedented low of 4.04
percent Jan. 24, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S.  Emerging Markets  External Debt Sovereign & Corporate Plus
Index.  Warren Resources Inc. (WRES) , the New York-based oil and natural
gas company, postponed its debut issue of $200 million of eight-year bonds earlier this week, on the heels of similar moves by
 Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) , ZAO Russian Standard Bank and  China International
Marine Containers Co. (2039)  during the last four weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  