-- Mollusk-Eating Chinese Fuel Junk-Loan Trawl at Clearwater
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-06-13T17:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/mollusk-eating-chinese-fuel-junk-loan-trawl-at-clearwater.html
Clearwater Seafoods Inc. (CLR)  plans to
join Canadian peers borrowing more in the U.S. leveraged-loan
market to finance a 200-foot vessel to harvest clams for  China ’s
mollusk-loving middle class.  The Bedford, Nova Scotia-based company that has doubled
sales to  Asia  since 2008 is planning to issue about $335 million
of term loans by early July, said Tyrone Cotie, Clearwater’s
treasurer. While some of the money will be used to repay and
refinance debt, Clearwater plans to use the rest to build a ship
equipped with automated shucking machines to prepare the
bivalves for export, he said.  “We want to proactively take out maturing debt, we have an
investment opportunity in the clam vessel and the market seems
to be very receptive,” Cotie said by phone from Bedford.  Clearwater wants to exploit growing demand for floating-rate notes as U.S. lenders position themselves for a rise in
U.S. interest rates amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  plans
to begin scaling back more than four years of stimulus. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., the second-largest underwriter of the debt in the
U.S., this month recommended investors turn to leveraged-loans
to preserve income and hedge against volatility.  Canadian companies issued $4 billion of leveraged loans
into the U.S. so far this year, compared with $3 billion in the
corresponding period in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Quite Attractive’  “As rates start to rise, looking at term loans and
floating-rate notes begins to look quite attractive, so we’ll
see more of this,” Andrew Hamlin, portfolio manager at Aston
Hill Financial, said in a phone interview from Toronto. The firm
manages C$1.8 billion ($1.77 billion) in high-yield bonds.
“Clearwater does require a fair bit of capital as they increase
their fleet and that’s what the financing is for.”  The $335 million being sought consists of a $200 million
secured term loan B targeted at U.S. institutional investors; a
C$45 million delayed-draw term loan A and a C$30 million senior
secured-term loan A intended for Canadian banks and a C$60
million revolving-credit facility.  The average margin for leveraged loans of Clearwater and
its industry peers is 303 basis points, according to Bloomberg
data. Clearwater paid a margin of 550 basis points on a $134
million loan in June, 2012.  Cotie said the deal isn’t guaranteed. He declined to say
how much the company might save in lower  interest rates  because
it’s still being negotiated.  Bond Auction  Elsewhere in credit markets,  government bonds  rose, pushing
benchmark 10-year yields four basis points lower to 2.17
percent, as the price of the 1.5 percent debt due June 2023
gained 37 cents to C$94.08 at 1:49 p.m. in Toronto. The yield
touched 2.25 percent on June 11, the highest level since March
2012.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government increased one basis point from June 11 at 117 basis
points, or 1.17 percentage points, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. Yields were little changed at 2.98
percent.  In the provincial  bond market , relative yields were steady
at 69 basis points for a fourth day. Yields rose to 2.73
percent, from 2.72 percent, according to Merrill Lynch data.  Canadian corporate bonds have returned 1 percent this year,
compared with losses of 1 percent by the nation’s government
bonds and 0.8 percent by provincials, the data show.  Wild, Sustainable  Clearwater is targeting Asian consumers, who are expected
to boost annual seafood consumption by more than two kilograms
per person by 2020, the company  said , citing United Nations
data. While cheaper farmed fish will meet some of that demand,
rising Asian wealth means companies like Clearwater that offer
wild, certified-sustainable shellfish can charge a premium.  “There is an opportunity to expand consumption of clams in
China and that will provide a good solid platform of growth for
this third vessel,” Cotie said. “We believe we can grow the
market.”  Shares of Clearwater, which also harvests lobster, scallops
and shrimp, have climbed 72 percent in the past year. “All of
Clearwater’s species are certified sustainable and you can sell
on that, for sure,” said Michael Mills, an analyst at Beacon
Securities in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , who rates Clearwater a buy.
“We’re not talking farmed tilapia.”  Chief Executive Officer  Ian Smith  joined Clearwater in May,
2010 from  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  with a plan to diversify into Asia
where he had worked for the U.S. soupmaker. Sales from Asia
accounted for 35 percent of Clearwater’s total last year, up
from 16 percent in 2008.  Shrink-Wrapped Bands  Clearwater’s steps to brand its seafood and protect it
against Chinese fraudsters -- like putting shrink-wrapped bands
on the lobsters’ claws -- along with cutting costs, have lifted
the company’s profitability and lowered its debt-to-ebitda
ratio, a measure of creditworthiness, said Lori Harris, an
analyst with  Standard & Poor’s  in Toronto.  S&P last month revised its  outlook  on Clearwater to
“positive” from “stable” and gave the proposed $335 million
term loan a BB- rating.  “Smith has definitely had a very positive impact on the
business,” Harris said in an interview. “He’s brought a very
professional style of management to the business that they’ve
definitely benefited from.”  While the deal would improve Clearwater’s debt  profile , the
company competes in a commodity-driven industry and retains
significant debt, said Harris. The debt-to-ebitda ratio has
dropped to 3.8 but Clearwater remains “aggressively-levered,”
she said.  “You don’t have the same flexibility for errors when you
have a higher level of debt,” she said.  “Clearwater operates
in a commodity-oriented niche and the shift to the value-added
segment will take time to gain significant traction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  