-- Molson Coors CEO Sees Slowing Buyouts to Pay Debt
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-06-13T20:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/molson-coors-ceo-sees-slowing-buyouts-to-pay-debt.html
Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP)  Chief
Executive Officer Peter Swinburn said the company plans to hold
off on making new acquisitions as it focuses on paying down debt
from last year’s purchase of the Czech Republic’s StarBev LP.  While Molson Coors is keeping tabs on potential targets,
that work is “academic” for now as the brewer improves its
balance sheet, Swinburn said in an interview yesterday in New
York. Any possible deal would need to provide a certain level of
financial returns, he said, without providing the criteria.  “It could be small acquisitions for our international
business, so maybe a small brewery in a state in India,”
Swinburn said. “It could be a bigger acquisition.”  Molson Coors  is suffering deeper bond-market losses than
larger competitors such as  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and  SABMiller
Plc (SAB)  as it tries to reduce its leverage after the 2.65 billion-euro ($3.54 billion) takeover of Prague-based StarBev in June
2012.  Molson Coors’s $1.1 billion of 5 percent bonds due in May
2042 had declined about 11 cents on the dollar this year as of
today to 100.2 cents with a yield of 5 percent, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  “For the next one to two years, our  free cash flow  will be
focused primarily on paying down debt in order to return our
 leverage ratio  to the pre-StarBev acquisition levels,” Chief
Financial Officer Gavin Hattersley said yesterday during an
investor conference in New York. “An investment-grade rating is
important to Molson Coors, and we have plans in place with the
rating agencies to maintain it.”  Moody’s Investors Service rates the company’s debt Baa2,
the second-lowest investment grade, with a stable outlook, while
 Standard & Poor’s  rates it BBB-, its lowest investment-grade
designation, with a negative outlook.  Molson Coors, based in Denver, rose 0.5 percent to $49.84
at the close in New York. The shares have risen 16 percent this
year, compared with a 15 percent increase for the  S&P 500 Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  