-- Home Retail Sees Subdued Spending as Homebase Margin Narrows
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-06-13T07:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/home-retail-expects-subdued-spending-as-argos-sales-growth-slows.html
Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  said it
expects consumer spending to remain “subdued” this year after
sales slowed at the Argos catalog chain and higher promotions at
Homebase led it to cut profitability outlook for the unit.  Sales at Argos stores opened at least a year rose 1.9
percent in the 13 weeks ended June 1, the Milton Keynes,
England-based retailer said today in a statement. That’s less
than the median estimate of 3 percent from 9 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. Finance Director Richard Ashton said full-year
margins at the Homebase home-improvement chain will narrow by
0.5 percentage point. The stock fell as much as 7.4 percent  The retailer said last month it was more optimistic about
the summer as it expands online and mobile sales, adds more
products to its range like Habitat furniture and refurbishes
stores. Still, the retailer said today Homebase was “slightly
behind our expectations,” as cold weather hurt sales of
seasonal items while the Argos chain suffered from market
declines in video gaming and audio categories.  “Whilst we expect consumer spending to remain subdued, we
are on track with delivering our investment plans to drive the
long term development of both Argos and Homebase,” Chief
Executive Officer Terry Duddy said in the statement.  Same-store sales rose 1.4 percent at the Homebase home-improvement chain, compared with the 2 percent decline estimated
by analysts. The unit’s gross margin narrowed by about 2
percentage points, Home Retail said.  The stock traded 5.8 percent lower at 135.70 pence at 8:18
a.m. in  London  as the benchmark FTSE 100 Index declined 1.2
percent. The stock has climbed 7.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  