-- Hopewell Hong Kong Pulls $780 Million IPO as Stocks Slide
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-06-13T02:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/hopewell-hong-kong-pulls-780-million-ipo-as-stock-markets-slide.html
Hopewell Hong Kong Properties Ltd. ,
the owner of buildings in the Wan Chai business area including
Hopewell Centre, scrapped a $780 million initial public offering
in the city after stock markets tumbled.  The company, a unit of Gordon Wu’s Hopewell Holdings, cited
“significant deterioration in market sentiment” and “volatile
market conditions” as reasons for pulling the IPO in a
statement today. Hopewell Hong Kong had planned to raise as much
as $780 million and start trading on June 19, according to its
share-sale prospectus.  Hopewell Hong Kong’s IPO is the biggest to be scrapped in
the city since May last year, suggesting a rebound in first-time
share sales is losing steam as stock markets across Asia
decline. Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index has lost 9.5
percent  in the past month , curbing demand for new equity.  Companies have raised $5 billion through initial offers in
Hong Kong this year, up from $1.4 billion in the same period in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 20 companies
that completed IPOs on Hong Kong’s bourse since Jan. 1 are down
on average 2.2 percent from their offer prices, the data show.  China Harmony Auto Holding Ltd. (3836) , which raised $215 million
in an IPO last week, fell 15 percent at 10:13 a.m., heading for
the worst Hong Kong debut since February 2012. Sinopec
Engineering (Group) Co., which raised $1.8 billion last month in
the biggest Hong Kong IPO this year, has fallen 2.9 percent from
its offer price.  BOC International Holdings Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG,
Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Citigroup Inc. were
managing the IPO for Hopewell Hong Kong.  Philippine Casino operator Travellers International, which
operates Resorts World Manila, started gauging investor demand
for an IPO today, according to a term sheet obtained by
Bloomberg. The company, a venture of Alliance Global Group Inc.
and Genting Hong Kong Ltd., is seeking as much as 34.8 billion
pesos ($806 million) from the offering in  Manila , according to a
regulatory filing last month.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index slumped 4.6 percent
yesterday, the biggest loss since September 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  