-- Options Strangle Is BNP’s Lesser Evil for Trading Stable Crude
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-13T14:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/options-strangle-is-bnp-s-lesser-evil-for-trading-stable-crude.html
Selling crude options contracts to
lock in prices above and below current cost are a “relatively
safe bet,” as futures will probably remain bound in a $10-a-barrel range, BNP Paribas SA said.  Less volatile prices of West Texas Intermediate will cap
the value of both “call” options, used to lock in prices above
the cost of futures, and “put” options, which secure prices
below the cost of futures, BNP said in a report yesterday. This
creates an opportunity to profit by selling a “strangle,”
composed of puts and calls, for front-month deliveries of crude,
according to the bank.  “Lower volatility currently limits option trading
alternatives,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP’s head of commodity
markets strategy in London, said in the report. “Selling
strangles may be the least-worst option.”  While WTI will is set to advance by the end of the year,
the increase may not be sufficient to ensure profits from
betting that call options will appreciate in value relative to
puts, BNP said. Instead of this trade, selling an options
strangle may be the “lesser of evils,” according to the bank.  BNP advises a position that bets July WTI, trading at about
$95 a barrel in New York today, will remain in a range of $89 to
$98. To implement this, the bank recommends selling puts that
allow the user to sell the contract at $89 and also selling
calls that enable the user to buy July WTI at $98. The trade
would pay $1.82 for each standard 1,000-barrel lot, giving an
investor $1,820 per contract.  The bank advises trading options for July, the front month
contract on the Nymex, because their value will decline more
quickly than later-dated contracts, a concept described by
options traders as “time decay,” or “theta.” The diminishing
value helps investors to close their position more easily in the
event that swift movements in oil futures cause the value of the
options to appreciate.  -- Editors: Raj Rajendran, Lananh Nguyen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  