-- Morgan Stanley to UBS Cut China Growth Forecasts After May Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-13T09:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/morgan-stanley-to-ubs-cut-china-growth-forecasts-after-may-data.html
Morgan Stanley joined banks from UBS
AG and Barclays Plc in cutting estimates for  China ’s economic
growth after weaker expansion in exports, industrial output and
new lending last month.  Morgan Stanley lowered its estimate for an increase in 2013
gross domestic product to 7.6 percent from 8.2 percent,
economists led by Hong Kong-based Helen Qiao wrote in a note
today. UBS and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc this week pared
their forecasts to 7.5 percent while Barclays now sees 7.4
percent, which would be the slowest pace since 1990.  President  Xi Jinping  and Premier  Li Keqiang  have signaled a
tolerance for slower expansion since taking office in March as
they reduce the state’s role in the economy, give market forces
more power and curb pollution. Their room to loosen policies is
limited by rising financial risks, with Moody’s Investors
Service warning today that some local authorities who have taken
on too much debt may need to be bailed out.  “Policy makers see such short-term pain as the necessary
price to pay for reforms and growth sustainability in the long
term,” Morgan Stanley economists wrote in today’s report. The
lower growth forecasts reflect “the new government’s less pro-growth policy stance,” they said.  The bank also cut its estimate for 2014 expansion to 7.6
percent from a previous 7.9 percent and pared its  inflation 
forecast for this year to 2.6 percent from 3.5 percent.  Bearish Outlook  The  World Bank  lowered its projection for global growth
this year to 2.2 percent from 2.4 percent after a larger-than-forecast slowdown in  emerging markets  including China, according
to a report released yesterday in  Washington .  “While we remain cautious about growth, we are not getting
bearish,” Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist at Barclays
wrote in a June 9 note that cut the 2013 growth estimate from
7.9 percent. “Fundamentally China is going through a transition
period and pain is unavoidable as the economy experiences a
deflating of the global demand and domestic investment bubble,
while searching for new growth drivers.”  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  lowered its 2013
China estimate to 7.6 percent from 7.8 percent on June 9, the
same day the National Bureau of Statistics reported May economic
data that showed industrial production growth slowed to 9.2
percent from a year earlier, inflation eased to 2.1 percent and
factory-gate prices fell for a 15th month.  Also on June 9, People’s Bank of China data showed new
local-currency lending in May was 667.4 billion  yuan  ($109
billion), down from 793.2 billion yuan a year earlier. The
previous day, figures from the customs administration showed
export growth slumped to a 10-month low of 1 percent and imports
unexpectedly fell after a crackdown on fake trade invoices used
to circumvent  capital controls .  Structural Challenges  ANZ said a quarter percentage-point cut in  interest rates 
may be imminent while Haitong International Securities Co. sees
two or three cuts in banks’ reserve requirements, one rate cut
and approval of more infrastructure projects in the next several
months.  Daiwa  Capital Markets , which lowered its 2013 growth
estimate to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent and its 2014 forecast
to 7.5 percent from 7.7 percent on June 10, said the government
will not start any stimulus measures as it is “satisfied with
the pace of economic growth and willing to pursue economic
reforms to solve structural challenges.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  