-- Tornadoes, High Winds and Hail Delay Flights, Damage Buildings
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-13T03:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/tornadoes-high-winds-and-hail-delay-flights-damage-buildings.html
Several tornadoes, high winds and
hail brought down  power lines  and trees and damaged buildings
across the U.S. Midwest, even as the chance of a massive rare
storm dwindled, according to the U.S.  Storm Prediction Center .  The threat of dangerous weather was reduced to moderate
from high earlier in the day by the storm center, as various
thunderstorms sweeping the region had failed to merge into a
powerful wind storm known as a derecho.  Forecasters were “not as confident in the evolution of a
long-lived derecho per earlier outlooks,” according to an
outlook released last night by the center in Norman, Oklahoma.
“If or when these storms ultimately evolve into a squall line,
then the threat of damaging winds could increase markedly.”  The center has received at least 16 tornado reports in
 Iowa , Illinois and Ohio, along with 79 instances of hail from as
far west as Wyoming and as far east as Virginia. There were also
numerous reports of strong winds snapping trees, flipping boats
and tearing off roofs, including a Wal-Mart in Lake Delton,
 Wisconsin .  At least 528 flights in and out of Chicago’s O’Hare
International and Midway airports were canceled, according to
 FlightAware , a Houston-based airline tracking service.  At least 32,000 customers in Chicago and its suburbs were
without power as of 9:30 p.m. local time, Commonwealth Edison
Co. said on its website. An additional 34,500 outages were
reported in  Indiana , according to a statement from Northern
Indiana Public Service Co. in Merrillville, Indiana.  Flood Warnings  As of 10 p.m. New York time yesterday, tornado watches
stretched from Iowa to western  Pennsylvania  and Maryland,
according to the  National Weather Service . Flood watches and
warnings reached from Iowa to Massachusetts because the larger
storm system is expected to bring heavy rain storms along the
U.S. East Coast.  New York may still receive 2.5 to 3.5 inches of rain, with
some isolated areas getting as much as 5 inches, according to
the weather service.  Ground already saturated by earlier rains could easily
flood as more precipitation falls, according to a weather
service flash flood watch issued for Washington.  A smaller area from central  New Jersey  to northern
Virginia, including Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington, has
a 45 percent chance of high winds, hail and possibly tornadoes,
according to a storm center forecast.  Cool Winds  New York and  Boston  will probably be spared the worst of
the storms, said  Tom Kines , a forecaster at  AccuWeather Inc . in
 State College , Pennsylvania.  The New England states will benefit from cool onshore winds
that will help stabilize the atmosphere, keeping the severe
thunderstorms from forming, he said.  Forecasters had feared the thunderstorms would coalesce
into a derecho, which is characterized by winds of at least 58
miles (93 kilometers) per hour, creating a line of damage at
least 240 miles long. A derecho swept through the Midwest into
the mid-Atlantic  a year ago , knocking out power to 5 million
people from Chicago to the  District of Columbia  and killing 22,
according to government data.  Derechos are rare because they require a number of smaller
storms “to work together,” said Russell Schneider, a director
of the Storm Prediction Center. More than 75 percent of derechos
occur from May to August, and they’re most likely to happen
along an axis from the southern  Great Lakes  southwest into
Texas, according to the storm center.  Severe thunderstorms and the tornadoes that sometimes
accompany them caused $15 billion in insured losses in 2012 and
$25 billion in 2011, according to the  Insurance Information
Institute  in  New York .  From 1992 to 2011, thunderstorms and tornadoes accounted
for the second-highest amount of catastrophic loss in the U.S.,
$130.2 billion, topped only by hurricanes and tropical storms
with $161.3 billion, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  