-- Los Angeles Gasoline Gains on Tankers as Chevron Plans Repairs
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-06-13T22:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/los-angeles-gasoline-gains-on-tankers-as-chevron-plans-repairs.html
Spot gasoline and diesel in  Los
Angeles  advanced against futures as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s El Segundo
plant was said to be planning repairs on two crude units and
five tankers were scheduled to load fuel in the West for export.  Chevron’s 279,000-barrel-a-day El Segundo refinery, the
largest in California, will shut the No. 4 crude unit next month
for short-term repairs, a person familiar with the schedule said
today. The No. 2 crude unit will also be brought down in August
for a maintenance turnaround expected to last several weeks,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  BP Plc (BP/) , based in  London , chartered the Valle Bianca to load
clean products off the West Coast June 16 for delivery to  Chile 
and chartered the Eagle Express to load fuel on June 24 for
delivery to the South and Central America region, ship-fixture
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has scheduled the
Marlin Topaz to take fuel off the coast on June 22 to Chile. The
Atlantic Titan and the Nave Bellatrix were also chartered to
load products in the West this week for delivery to Chile, the
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles
advanced 4.5 cents against futures gasoline futures traded on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange to a premium of 29.5 cents a
gallon at 4:21 p.m. New York time, the fuel’s highest level for
this season in five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Prompt-delivery surged 9.62 cents to $3.1563 a gallon.  The  premium  for Los Angeles Carbob versus the same fuel in
San Francisco widened 4.5 cents to 8.5 cents a gallon, the most
in more than five weeks.  Diesel Spreads  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles jumped 1
cent against ultra-low-sulfur diesel futures to a premium of 3.5
cents a gallon, the highest in four days. CARB diesel in San
Francisco climbed 0.5 cent to 5.5 cents a gallon above futures.  Regular gasoline  at pumps in  California  slipped 0.2 cent to
$3.632 a gallon, according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the
nation’s largest motoring organization.  Spot, conventional gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
strengthened 0.75 cent against futures to a premium of 8.75
cents a gallon. Low-sulfur diesel  there  jumped 5.5 cents against
ULSD futures to a premium of 0.5 cent a gallon, the highest
level in more than two weeks.  Portland gasoline’s discount to Los Angeles Carbob widened
3.75 cents to 20.75 cents a gallon.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles gained 21 cents to
$26.28 a barrel. The spread, a rough measure of refining
profits, reached a three-month high earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  