-- Hot Money Ardor for Lira Debt Unfazed by Protests: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-14T14:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/hot-money-ardor-for-lira-debt-unfazed-by-protests-turkey-credit.html
Foreign investors in Turkish bonds
aren’t taking fright from the protests that began last month in
Istanbul’s Taksim Square.  Investors sold $25 million of bonds in the week after
demonstrations broke out on May 31, leaving this year’s inflows
at $3.3 billion, according to central bank data yesterday. The
yield on 10-year lira bonds has fallen 34 basis points this week
after climbing 61 basis points a week earlier, while similar-maturity Russian ruble notes jumped 16 basis points in the past
four days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The central bank stepped into the market on June 11 to
bolster the lira, triggering the currency’s biggest three-day
rally in 16 months.  Turkey , which offers the fourth-highest
yields for local-currency debt among major emerging markets,
said the same day that economic growth accelerated more than
analysts forecast.  “We just don’t think that the protests will have any
meaningful effect on the economy,” Dmitri Barinov, who helps
manage about $2.6 billion in emerging-European debt at  Union
Investment (BEABCAA)  Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments
yesterday. Turkey’s yields are “attractive” and the  money
manager  kept bond holdings during the demonstrations, he said.  The unrest, which spread nationwide after May 31, has
marked one of the biggest challenges to Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  since he came to power more than 10 years ago,
and sent Turkish markets plunging. At least four people died in
clashes, and the Turkish Medical Association says more than
4,000 people were treated at hospitals.  Foreign Holdings  Foreign investor holdings dropped to $65.2 billion in the
week ended June 7, the least since March, and down from a record
$71.8 billion on May 3, according to central bank data.  The absence of a big sell-off “is impressive,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
 London , said in e-mailed comments yesterday. The data “suggests
high-yield curves such as Turkey are in fact much more resilient
than what the markets believe.”  The lira strengthened 0.6 percent to 1.8505 per dollar at
5:09 p.m. in Istanbul today, after a 2.1 percent advance in
three days, the best performance since the period ended Jan. 27,
2012.  The  yield  on the two-year note fell for a third day today,
dropping 53 basis points, or 0.53 percentage point, to 6.21
percent. That reversed this week’s jump to a 34 basis points
fall after a 48 basis-point increase in the first week of
clashes between police and protesters.  ‘Fast Repricing’  “One of the reasons that might have affected investors’
minds is very fast repricing of the bonds,” Maxim Oreshkin,
chief economist for Russia and Turkey at VTB Capital in Moscow,
said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “Investors were suddenly
caught with a jump in yields to above 6.5 percent on benchmark
bonds” and it was too late to sell, he said.  The two-year yield has climbed 142 basis points from a
record 4.79 percent on May 17 as speculation grew that the U.S.
Federal Reserve will taper its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases. Even after the increase, the yield has fallen 295
basis points in the past 12 months, the biggest decline among
major  emerging markets .  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkish dollar
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points to 213
yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. That
compares with a one basis-point decrease to 323 for the
emerging-market average, the indexes show.  Default Risk  The cost to protect Turkish debt using credit-default swaps
declined 12 basis points to 155 today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The gap with higher-rated Russia narrowed to 10
basis points from 25 at the end of last month. The contracts,
whose prices fall as perceptions of creditworthiness improve,
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash equivalent should a borrower renege.  The central bank sold $250 million and refrained from
lending to banks at its benchmark 4.5 percent one-week repo rate
this week for the first time in a year, according to data on its
website. The bank also said it was performing additional
tightening measures to protect financial stability.  The central bank’s intervention this week sent a “nice,
very clear message” to investors, said Union Investment’s
Barinov. “They did the right thing and very timely, waited long
enough for some short-term money to get out and then stabilized
the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  