-- Toyota Judge Delays Final Approval of $1.1 Billion Accord
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2013-06-14T01:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/toyota-judge-delays-final-approval-of-1-1-billion-accord.html
Final approval of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s $1.1 billion settlement of claims that recalls for
unintended acceleration hurt the value of U.S. customers’
vehicles will be delayed, a judge said.  The settlement would resolve the economic-loss portion of
the Toyota sudden-acceleration litigation. Class, or group,
actions were filed on behalf of Toyota owners who contended the
company drove down the value of their vehicles by failing to
disclose or fix defects.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana ,
 California , who granted preliminary approval of the settlement
in December, today issued a tentative ruling that he couldn’t
grant a final endorsement. The tentative decision doesn’t become
effective until Selna issues a final order.  “The court believes that the proposed settlement is fair,
adequate, and reasonable,” Selna said in his order. “Certain
difficulties in the plan of allocation of the settlement funds
preclude the court’s final approval of the proposed settlement
at this time.”  Selna is scheduled to hear arguments over approval at a
fairness hearing tomorrow in federal court.  Celeste Migliore, Toyota spokeswoman, said the company
doesn’t comment on tentative rulings.  Selna’s tentative ruling won’t scuttle the settlement,
plaintiffs’ attorney  Steve Berman  said in an e-mail.  The judge is “overwhelmingly” in favor of the settlement
and “overruled all objections,” Berman said. “We just need to
formally present the amended distribution plan so as to get as
much to class members as possible.”  Pretax Charge  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , agreed last year to
settle, taking a $1.1 billion pretax charge against  earnings 
without specifying the amount going to economic-loss plaintiffs
in the cases before Selna.  The value of the settlement is more than $1.6 billion,
including non-cash benefits, plaintiffs’ lawyers said in an
April 23 filing seeking approval. The agreement includes $757
million in cash and $875 million in “non-monetary benefits,”
including installation of brake overrides in eligible vehicles,
the lawyers said.  Toyota and plaintiffs’ lawyers urged Selna in court papers
to approve the agreement.  “The settlement is fair, reasonable and adequate,”
plaintiffs’ lawyers said in their April 23 filing. The total
“constitutes a high percentage of recoverable damages,” they
told the court.  The plaintiffs took into consideration the risk of
continued litigation when settling, Toyota said in urging
approval.  ‘Powerful Defenses’  “Toyota had powerful defenses with respect to both the
merits of the claims and with regard to class certification,”
the company said in a June 3 filing.  While Selna agreed that the settlement was fair, he said
the final agreement didn’t precisely appear to address the cost
of administrating it. He also questioned whether more funds
should be allocated to class members and Toyota owners who
haven’t filed claims.  “The court needs to ensure that class members are
compensated to the maximum degree possible,” Selna said today.  Objections to the settlement filed with the court protested
the amounts available to individual plaintiffs and the size of
the potential award for attorneys’ fees. Selna said today the
objections were without merit and wouldn’t block final approval.  The proposed settlement includes $200 million in attorneys’
fees and $27 million in expenses, according to court papers.  The federal cases are combined as In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) 
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in federal court in  San Diego  at
 Callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  