-- Pandora Falls as Investors See Price Ceiling: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-13T11:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/pandora-falls-as-investors-see-price-ceiling-copenhagen-mover.html
Pandora A/S (PNDORA) , the Nordic region’s
biggest jewelry maker, fell to the lowest price in six weeks in
Copenhagen trading as investors speculate another share sale by
the company’s private equity owners may hurt the stock price.  Pandora fell as much as 4.3 percent to 173.70 kroner, the
lowest intraday level since May 1. The stock lost 3 percent to
176.1 kroner at 12:39 p.m. in the Danish capital, with trading
volumes at 52 percent of the three-month daily average.  Prometheus Invest ApS said on May 22 that it sold 13
million shares in Pandora to institutional investors at a price
of 200 kroner a share, the bottom of an indicated range. The
stock price of the Glostrup, Denmark-based jeweler plunged 11
percent on the day of the announcement and has since dropped
further,  losing an additional 12 percent .  “There’s a perception in the market that 200 kroner may be
a new ceiling for the share as the owners may step in and sell a
lot of their stock when the price gets close to that level
again,” Jonas Guldborg Hansen, an analyst at  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) ,
said by phone. “This so-called stock overhang is making Pandora
an investment that has limited upside potential.”  Prometheus, which is controlled by Copenhagen-based private
equity-fund Axcel and Pandora’s founding Enevoldsen family,
still has a 40.9 percent stake in the jeweler.  “We saw how the market reacted last time the owners sold
and they  still hold  a lot of shares,” said Guldborg Hansen, who
is based in Silkeborg,  Denmark  and has a reduce rating on the
stock. The analyst added that the share price has also been hurt
by the general decline in  global stock markets  this month.  Pandora on May 14 reported first-quarter profit and revenue
that beat analyst estimates. The company’s net income exceeded
the average net income estimate in nine of the last 10 quarters,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  