-- Pandora Media Taken to Court by Songwriter Rights Group
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-06-13T19:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/pandora-taken-to-court-by-songwriter-rights-group-over-rates.html
Internet radio company  Pandora Media
Inc. (P) , already suing performing-rights organization Ascap over
song-licensing rates, was taken to court by Ascap’s largest
competitor, which is seeking higher fees.  Broadcast Music Inc. said in a filing today in Manhattan
federal court that it proposed a “reasonable” blanket royalty
rate for songs played on Pandora, the largest Internet radio
service, and was rejected. BMI didn’t specify the proposed
royalty in the filing.  “ BMI  has proposed an increase in Pandora’s fees consistent
with market rates to reflect the explosive growth of the
Internet streaming marketplace,” New York-based BMI said in its
complaint. “We expect Pandora to claim that it is no different
than commercial broadcast radio. This contention is wrong.”  BMI licenses public performance rights to 7.5 million
musical compositions from more than 600,000 composers,
songwriters and publishers, according to the court filing. Its
repertoire includes compositions by  Michael Jackson , Eminem,
Lady Gaga and  John Adams .  Songwriters, publishers and the groups that represent them
have sought higher royalty rates from broadcasters for public
performances of their works at a time when royalties from the
sale of recorded music have declined.  Ascap Suit  Pandora sued the American Society of Composers, Authors and
Publishers in November to seek “reasonable” license fees to
play Ascap songs on its service. Oakland, California-based
Pandora has also been lobbying the  U.S. Congress  for lower
rates. This week it bought a radio station in  South Dakota  to
try to get the same rates that traditional AM/FM broadcasters
such as  CBS Corp. (CBS)  pay.  “Any shred of credibility Pandora had is gone,” David Israelite, the president of the National Music Publishers
Association, said after the radio station purchase was
announced. “They have waged war on songwriters,” he said at
the group’s annual meeting in  New York  yesterday.  A consent decree between broadcasters and performing rights
organizations requires them to seek license rate determinations
from the New York federal court if they can’t negotiate an
agreement.  “Disputes regarding the reasonableness of fees between BMI
and music users are adjudicated in federal court just as
disputes between Ascap and music users,” Pandora said in an e-mailed statement today. “We look forward to the court’s
oversight of this matter.”  Radio Music  The New York federal court has approved licensing rates
between the performing rights groups and the Radio Music
Licensing Committee, which represents terrestrial broadcasters
including CBS and  CC Media Holdings Inc. (CCMO) ’s Clear Channel. The
rates also cover the online stations those companies operate.  Internet radio companies have said the rates a CBS must pay
for its Web broadcasts are lower than what they have to pay. The
terrestrial broadcasters say they pay significant fees for the
music played over-the-air.  The performing-rights groups are challenged by the recent
withdrawal from them of Internet performance rights by large
music publishers, including EMI Music Publishing, which are
negotiating directly with online providers such as Pandora and
Spotify Ltd.  The case is Broadcast Music Inc. v. Pandora Media Inc., 13-cv-04037, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  