-- Paschi Seeks Investor Backing to Remove Voting Right Limit
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-06-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/paschi-seeks-investor-backing-to-remove-voting-right-limit.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
the bailed-out Italian bank embroiled in a fraud probe, proposed
removing a limit that caps voting rights at 4 percent as it
seeks to attract new investors to boost capital.  The bank’s board called an extraordinary shareholders
meeting for July 18 and July 19 to remove the rule that limits
all investors, except for its largest shareholder Fondazione
Monte dei Paschi di Siena, from accumulating voting rights of
more than 4 percent, according to a stock-exchange statement
yesterday. The bank proposed an age limit for board members.  Monte Paschi is reviewing the strategic plan approved last
year after it had to seek additional state aid to cover
undisclosed losses from derivatives carried out in previous
years. The lender, which received 4.1 billion euros ($5.47
billion) in February selling bonds to the government, has to
submit its plan to the European Commission by June 17.  The voting cap removal may allow Chief Executive officer
Fabrizio Viola and Chairman  Alessandro Profumo , appointed last
year to turn the company around, to attract more investors in a
planned 1 billion-euro capital increase for private investors.
The pair must return Monte Paschi to profit this year under its
rescue plan to avoid handing over a stake to the government.  The bank may double the capital increase to 2 billion
euros,  Huffington Post  reported on its Italian language website
yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  Stock fell 0.9 percent to 21.08 cents in Milan. The shares
have declined 6.6 percent this year, giving the bank a market
value of 2.46 billion euros. The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index  rose 3.7 percent in the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in  Milan (BMPS)  at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  