-- Peru Likely to Keep 4.25% Rate on Outlook for Growth Recovery
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-06-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-on-outlook-for-growth-recovery.html
Peru ’s central bank probably will
keep borrowing costs unchanged today for a 25th straight month
on expectations that the economy will rebound from a first-quarter slowdown.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will maintain the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, according to
all 15 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg, matching  Malaysia  for
the longest pause in  developing countries . The decision will be
announced at about 6 p.m. Lima time.  The $199 billion economy expanded 4.8 percent in the first
quarter, the slowest pace in more than three years, after metal
and manufacturing exports plunged amid weaker global demand.
Policy makers will keep rates on hold while they wait for
confirmation that growth rebounded in the second quarter, said
Juan Pablo Fuentes, an economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.  “The slowdown is only temporary,” Fuentes said by phone
from  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “ Monetary policy  is expansive
but not too expansive and that’s good for an economy that’s
growing close to capacity.”  Robust domestic demand has prevented a sharper deceleration
in the commodity-dependent economy, and will lead gross domestic
product to rise 6.4 percent in the second quarter, Velarde said
in Congress June 5.  Economic activity probably expanded 7.1 percent in April,
more than twice March’s 3 percent pace, according to the median
estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The statistics
agency will report April activity tomorrow.  Growth Drivers  “Construction, services and retail have been the main
drivers of growth in recent quarters and that’s going to
continue,” said Fuentes.  After raising  reserve requirements  five times since May
2012, the central bank set a 20 percent limit on the ratio for
lenders’ sol deposits from this month. In a June 6 interview,
Velarde said the move was “slightly expansive” and was
prompted by concern that the economy was slowing.  The move followed a deceleration in credit growth and
government measures to bolster flagging business sentiment.  Bank lending rose 14 percent in April, the slowest pace for
at least two years, as demand for dollar loans eased, according
to the central bank.  Trade Gap  The fact there were two more working days in April 2013
than the year earlier will boost growth that month, giving
policy makers more time to assess the risk of a potential
slowdown, Jorge Pastrana, an economist at Citigroup Inc., wrote
in a June 10 report.  Still, Pastrana said Banco Central de Reserva del Peru
probably will reduce its key rate by 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, to 3.75 percent this year. The timing depends
on when the slowdown “becomes evident.”  Peru posted a $378 million trade deficit in April as metal
exports declined, the national statistics agency said June 11.
The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey was for
a deficit of $301 million. The central bank last week cut its
forecast for 2013  trade surplus  by 83 percent to $485 million.  Copper prices are down 12 percent this year while gold has
retreated 17 percent. The metals account for half Peru’s
exports.  The Lima General stock index has plunged 24 percent this
year in local currency terms, the steepest decline among 94
primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Sol Slump  The sol has dropped 6.7 percent against the dollar this
year, while the yield on the country’s benchmark sol bond due
2020 rose to 5.26 percent on June 10, its highest in a year.  “Nervousness among foreign investors led to the correction
in bonds and the currency, but there’s no fundamental change in
the economy,” Diego Marrero, the deputy head of investments at
Credifondo, Peru’s largest mutual fund manager, said by phone
from  Lima . “I don’t see a dramatic slowdown in growth.”  Annual inflation has fluctuated between 2.3 percent and 2.6
percent for the past four months, and will end the year at close
to 2 percent, according to the central bank. Policy makers
target inflation of 2 percent plus or minus one percentage
point.  “Inflation is within the target range so that’s not a
cause for concern,” Marrero said. “The bank will keep
monitoring the data before making any decision to raise or
cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  