-- Peru Keeps Key Rate at 4.25% on Forecast Growth Will Quicken
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-06-14T00:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/peru-keeps-key-rate-at-4-25-on-outlook-for-growth-recovery.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 25th consecutive month on expectations the
economy will rebound after growing at the slowest pace in more
than three years in the first quarter.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching the
forecast of all 15 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The $199 billion economy expanded 4.8 percent in the first
quarter from the year before, down from 5.9 percent in the
fourth quarter, after metal and manufacturing exports plunged on
weaker global demand. The economy is growing at a pace close to
its potential and inflation will slow to the 2 percent mid-point
of the target, the central bank said in a statement accompanying
today’s decision.  “Activity indicators show growth of the Peruvian economy
is close to its long-term sustainable level,” according to the
statement. “Indicators tied to the external market still show a
weak performance, affecting export volumes and prices.”  Domestic demand has prevented a sharper deceleration in the
commodity-dependent economy, and will lead gross domestic
product to rise 6.4 percent in the second quarter, Velarde told
Congress on June 5.  Policy makers will keep rates on hold as they expect
domestic demand to refuel growth in the second quarter, said
Juan Pablo Fuentes, an economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.  Nothing Major  “The current policy rate is appropriate, it’s enough to
stimulate demand,” Fuentes said by phone from  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “The economy is slowing but it’s nothing major,
it’s only temporary so it’s better to keep the rate unchanged.”  Annual inflation has fluctuated between 2.3 percent and 2.6
percent for the past four months. Inflation will slow to the
center of policy makers’ target range of 1 percent to 3 percent
in “coming months,” according to the bank’s statement.  Economic activity probably expanded 7.1 percent in April,
more than twice March’s 3 percent pace, according to the median
estimate of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The statistics
agency will report April activity tomorrow.  “Construction, services and retail have been the main
drivers of growth in recent quarters and that’s going to
continue,” said Fuentes.  Slightly Expansive  After raising  reserve requirements  for soles five times
since May 2012, the central bank reduced the ratio for some
lenders this month by establishing a 20 percent ceiling. In a
June 6 interview, Velarde said the move was “slightly
expansive” and was prompted by concern that the economy was
slowing.  The move followed a deceleration in credit growth and
government measures to bolster flagging business sentiment.  Bank lending rose 14 percent in April, the slowest pace for
at least two years, as demand for dollar loans eased, according
to the central bank.  Jorge Pastrana, an economist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a
June 10 report that the slowdown may not be temporary and that
the central bank will cut its key rate 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, to 3.75 percent this year. The timing depends
on when the slowdown “becomes evident,” he wrote.  Peru posted a $378 million trade deficit in April as metal
exports declined, the national statistics agency said June 11.
The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey was for
a deficit of $301 million. The central bank last week cut its
forecast for 2013  trade surplus  by 83 percent to $485 million.  Copper Prices  Copper prices are down 13 percent this year while gold has
retreated 18 percent. The metals account for half Peru’s
exports.  The Lima General stock index has plunged 22 percent this
year in local currency terms, the steepest decline among 94
primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  The sol has dropped 6.6 percent against the dollar over the
same period, while the yield on the country’s benchmark sol bond
due 2020 rose to 5.26 percent on June 10, its highest in a year.  “Nervousness among foreign investors led to the correction
in bonds and the currency, but there’s no fundamental change in
the economy,” Diego Marrero, deputy head of investments at
Credifondo, Peru’s largest mutual fund manager, said by phone
from  Lima . “Inflation is within the target range so that’s not
a cause for concern. The bank will keep monitoring the data
before making any decision to raise or cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  