-- Pfizer’s Two New Top Pills Selling Slower Than Expected
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-13T17:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/pfizer-s-two-new-top-pills-selling-slower-than-expected.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s touted two new drugs
aren’t selling as fast as the company anticipated, a top
executive said today, though the drugmaker expects the pills
should still become blockbusters.  Eliquis, a blood thinner, and Xeljanz, a rheumatoid
arthritis medicine, were approved late last year and projected
to be the backbone of new sales growth at the world’s biggest
drugmaker. The pills are competing against well-entrenched
products, though, and Pfizer hasn’t been able to gain as much of
the market in the first months of sales as it had hoped.  “The trajectory isn’t what we would have liked it to have
been,” Geno Germano, who heads New York-based Pfizer’s
specialty drugs and oncology businesses, said of Xeljanz. With
Eliquis, he said, two competing pills have made early sales
harder. “I think some of the low-hanging fruit has been taken
by the entries that came before Eliquis,” he said.  Pfizer is counting on the new drugs and cancer treatments
and vaccines in development, to return the company to sales
growth after losing top product Lipitor to generic competition
in November 2011. Chief Executive Officer Ian Read has shed non-drug units to focus on developing new brand-name therapies.  Eliquis may generate $613 million in annual sales for
Pfizer by 2016, according to the average of three analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Xeljanz may have $1.6 billion
in sales by then, according to the analysts’ estimates.  Pfizer rose 1.5 percent to $28.85 at 1:07 p.m. New York
time. The stock gained 28 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday.  Blood Thinner  Eliquis is competing to replace warfarin, a generic pill
used to prevent strokes, and with Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s
Pradaxa, and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and Johnson & Johnson’s Xarelto. While
Eliquis is considered to have superior clinical data, its rivals
were approved earlier and have had time to establish themselves
with doctors and patients.  “I think some of us are a little bit surprised, given the
strength of the label, the strength of the field force,” said
 Jami Rubin , an analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Germano’s
comments came today at an investor conference hosted by Goldman.
“The trajectory of the launch is a little bit below what some
of us had expected,” Rubin said.  Pfizer is splitting promotion and sales of Eliquis with New
York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  A direct-to-consumer ad
campaign should begin soon, Germano said, without giving a
timeline.  “We think that ultimately, the profile will prevail,”
Germano said of Eliquis.  Sluggish Start  Rubin said Xeljanz’s first months of sales also were below
expectations. “From our perspective, it does look a little bit
lower than I would have thought,” she said.  Xeljanz is approved for use in rheumatoid arthritis. It
competes directly with  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) ’s Humira, an injection, and
is approved for use after patients fail a first-line therapy,
typically methotrexate. Germano said that about half of the
patients now taking Xeljanz had failed treatment on
methotrexate, and the other half were those who no longer
responded to Humira or related medications.  “Everything I see and hear is positive,” Germano said.
“Changing practice just takes a lot of work.”  Some health insurers and drug benefit managers were
limiting access to Xeljanz and forcing patients to try multiple
other therapies before getting access to the new drug, he said.  “These are issues for all of us. I’m not going to say we
don’t have those issues. But we don’t seem to have a pattern of
reimbursement that’s different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  