-- PGA Tour Seeks to Dismiss Singh Suit Over Antler Spray
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-13T19:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/pga-tour-seeks-to-dismiss-singh-suit-over-antler-spray.html
The PGA Tour asked a New York state
court to throw out a lawsuit by golfer  Vijay Singh  claiming he
was publicly humiliated by a suspension for using deer-antler
spray before he was cleared of wrongdoing two months later.  Singh, 50, the world’s top-ranked player in 2004 and 2005,
filed a complaint May 8 in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  accusing the PGA Tour of “reckless administration and
implementation” of its anti-doping program. Singh said in the
filing that he used the spray, which contains a substance
related to growth hormone, for knee and back problems and
checked its ingredients against the tour’s list of banned
substances to make sure it didn’t contain any of them.  The tour imposed an undisclosed penalty against Singh on
Feb. 19, about a month after he said in a Sports Illustrated
article he had used the spray. It cleared him in April after the
 World Anti-Doping Agency  said it was no longer outlawed.  The tour in a court filing yesterday asked a judge to
dismiss the golfer’s case, saying it “conducted itself
reasonably and responsibly in its treatment of Singh.” The tour
said it’s uncontested that Singh used the spray, that it
contained a banned substance, that the tour had the authority to
impose sanctions for the substance and that the golfer had the
chance to challenge his suspension.  ‘Undisputed Facts’  “On the basis of these undisputed facts, the tour’s
decisions under its own anti-doping program to impose discipline
on Singh and ultimately to rescind that discipline, can hardly
be described as illegal or having been taken in bad faith and
accordingly, as a matter of law, should not be second-guessed by
the court,” attorneys for the  PGA Tour  said in the filing.  Singh said he was suspended from the tour in February for
90 days. He was allowed to play pending an appeal of the
suspension, although the tour held in escrow about $100,000 of
his prize money.  There’s no test to determine excessive levels of IGF-1, a
substance found in deer antler spray that is naturally produced
by the human body and is related to growth hormone. On April 26,
the tour was told by the World Anti-Doping Agency, or WADA, that
it no longer considered the spray a prohibited substance without
a positive test, PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said April
30.  Blood Testing  While the tour’s five-year-old doping policy doesn’t
include blood testing, Finchem said the tour would probably
adopt it if there’s no other way to test for a particular
substance, such as IGF-1. The tour’s doping policy calls for
sanctions if a player admits using a substance on WADA’s banned
list even if the athlete hasn’t tested positive for it.  Sports Illustrated reported in January that Singh and
former Baltimore Ravens linebacker  Ray Lewis , who retired from
the  National Football League  this year after his team won the
 Super Bowl , used the spray. Lewis denied using it.  Singh said his caddie, Tony Shepherd, recommended that the
golfer use a product called  “The Ultimate Spray,”  which was
made by the company  Sports With Alternatives to Steroids , or
SWATS, according to the lawsuit.  Shepherd told Singh the spray was an “all-natural”
product that he had used and that he knew other professional
golfers were using, according to the suit. Singh said he used
the product for about a month during the off season, spraying it
into his mouth.  Growth Drugs  IGF-1 is an abbreviation for “Insulin-Like Growth
Factor-1,” a hormone naturally produced by the human body that
is needed for childhood growth, according to the suit. Children
suffering from growth failure may be prescribed a drug called
Increlex, which is a form of IGF-1 that is biologically active
and must be given through injection to be absorbed into the
body, according to the suit.  After the  Sports Illustrated  article was published, Singh
gave the tour a bottle of the spray and a urine sample that was
negative for any banned substance, according to the suit. The
tour submitted the bottle to the Olympic Analytical Laboratory
at the  University of California ,  Los Angeles , which found that
the material tested negative for “anabolic androgenic
steroids” while identifying one of the materials as IGF-1, he
said in the complaint.  The UCLA lab determined that the spray contains 60
nanograms of IGF-1, not enough “to be anything more than a
placebo,” according to the suit.  ‘Humiliated, Ashamed’  Singh said the tour hasn’t tried to discipline other
golfers who have used the spray.  Singh, a native of  Fiji , claimed the tour’s actions led him
to be “humiliated, ashamed, ridiculed, scorned and emotionally
distraught,” and led to harassment that compromised his
professional career. He is seeking damages, including punitive
damages, to be determined at trial.  Singh has won 58 tournaments, including 34 PGA Tour events,
and also won two other major tournaments, the 1998 and 2004 PGA
Championships, according to his suit. He is third on the PGA
Tour’s career money list with $67.5 million in earnings and
holds the title for the most wins after the age of 40.  He isn’t in the field at the  U.S. Open , the second of
golf’s four annual major tournaments, this weekend at Merion
Golf Club outside Philadelphia.  The case is Singh v. PGA Tour Inc., 651659/2013,  New York 
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  