-- Philippines Holds Rates as Capital Outflows Buffet Stocks
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-06-13T09:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/philippines-holds-policy-rate-as-capital-outflows-buffet-stocks.html
The Philippines held its benchmark
 interest rate  and refrained from adding to cuts on its special
deposit accounts as Southeast  Asia  battles capital outflows that
have pummeled stocks and currencies.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept the rate it pays lenders
for  overnight deposits  at a record-low 3.5 percent, according to
a statement in Manila today, as forecast by all 20 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . It also held the rate on all SDAs at
2 percent, as predicted by seven of 16 economists, with the rest
forecasting a cut.  “The risk of further SDA rate cuts has declined because of
recent market movements,” said Eugenia Fabon Victorino, a
Singapore-based economist at Australia &  New Zealand  Banking
Group Ltd. “With 12-month average  inflation (PHC2II)  at 3.1 percent and
7.8 percent economic growth, the central bank has enough room to
keep the key rate steady until end-2014.”  Capital outflows from Southeast Asia have increased after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month policy
makers could consider reducing stimulus. The Philippines joined
 South Korea  and New Zealand today in keeping monetary policy
unchanged, while  Indonesia  unexpectedly raised borrowing costs.  The Philippine benchmark index fell 6.8 percent at the
close before the decision today, the most since Oct. 2008. The
peso gained 0.3 percent to 43.10 per dollar after slumping to a
one-year low earlier this week. Overseas investors have pulled a
record $2.7 billion from Thai, Indonesian and Philippine stock
markets so far this month, the biggest eight-day outflow since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in March 1999.  Bubble Risks  The Philippines’ first investment-grade rankings from  Fitch
Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  earlier this year had lured
inflows, boosting the peso and prompting policy makers to
implement measures to avert asset-bubble risks. The central bank
cut the rate on SDAs thrice this year, banned access for mutual
funds and individually managed accounts, and relaxed curbs on
dollar purchases.  Philippine SDAs held 1.88 trillion pesos ($44 billion) as
of  May 24 , more than six times the 286 billion pesos in the
overnight facility. The accounts, which have tenors of one week,
two weeks and one month, offer higher rates than three-month
Treasury bills that the government sold at 0.9 percent last week.  Bangko Sentral is considering further curbs on property
loans to prevent a housing bubble, Governor Amando Tetangco has
said. Inflation held at a 13-month low of 2.6 percent in May.  “Keeping policy settings steady allows time to assess the
impact of recent fine-tuning in monetary operations,” the
central bank said in a statement today. “Recent global
financial market developments also support an unchanged policy
stance,” it said, adding that the inflation environment remains
benign and domestic growth is firm.  Many Options  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending to a record
this year while seeking more than $17 billion of investments in
highways and ports. Ayala Land Inc., DMCI Holdings Inc., and
Megaworld Corp. are among companies building homes and offices.  The World Bank yesterday cut its global growth forecast for
this year and said the recovery “remains hesitant and uneven.”
Philippine expansion last quarter was the fastest in Asia, with
gross domestic product rising 7.8 percent from a year earlier.  The central bank forecasts inflation to average 3.1 percent
this year and 3.6 percent next year, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said today. Its previous estimates were 3.2 percent
in 2013 and 3.4 percent in 2014.  Bangko Sentral’s exchange-rate regime is flexible and it
has “many options” to address outflows, Guinigundo said,
citing tools including the policy rate and reserve requirements.
“As inflation remains manageable, we will rely on prudential
measures,” he said, adding that the peso’s recent weakness is
not because of domestic factors and the stock-market drop is a
healthy correction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  