-- PNC Faces Decision Over $9.5 Billion BlackRock Stake
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-13T13:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/pnc-faces-decision-over-9-5-billion-blackrock-stake.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
the second-largest U.S. regional bank, faces the same decision
on its 21 percent stake in  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  that confronts many
individual investors: sell or hold?  BlackRock shares have  gained  30 percent this year and are
trading near an all-time high. The market value of PNC’s stake
in the world’s largest asset manager is $9.46 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, while the  Pittsburgh-based
lender carries the 18-year-old investment on its  balance sheet 
at $5.6 billion.  Selling the stock could allow the bank, led since April by
Chief Executive Officer Bill Demchak, 50, to return billions in
capital to investors and potentially boost its share price. By
retaining its position as BlackRock’s largest shareholder, PNC
maintains a steady earnings stream at a time when tepid loan
growth and low  interest rates  have squeezed lenders’ margins.  “How does any investor deal with that, especially one
that’s a publicly traded company?” said Terry McEvoy, an
Oppenheimer & Co. analyst. “Do you sell a business that is more
profitable? And then what’s the offset?”  PNC will “at some point” recognize the value and “do
something,” Chief Financial Officer Richard Johnson said at a
May 21 investor conference. Eight months earlier, former CEO Jim Rohr, 64, said he didn’t think PNC should sell the stake as
doing so would reduce the lender’s diversification.  Revenue Boost  “In this environment, BlackRock remains a good investment
for PNC, with strong returns from both an economic and
regulatory capital perspective,” Marcey Zwiebel, a PNC
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. BlackRock’s Lauren Post declined to comment.  The $9.46 billion investment was equal to about a quarter
of PNC’s $37.5 billion market capitalization as of yesterday’s
closing price. It’s also about the size of the market cap of
 KeyCorp (KEY) ,  Ohio ’s second-largest lender.  Some analysts and investors argue that PNC should hold onto
the shares, saying they provide a reliable source of revenue as
banks struggle to boost top-line growth. Combined revenue at the
four other biggest regional lenders -- U.S. Bancorp, Capital One
Financial Corp., BB&T Corp. and SunTrust Banks Inc. -- increased
4 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
rate in 15 months. PNC’s revenue rose 6 percent during the
period.  ‘Unique’ Avenue  “It does give them a unique growth avenue that a lot of
the other regional banks don’t have,” said Shannon Stemm, an
analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .  PNC earned  $395 million , or 13 percent of its profit, from
its BlackRock stake last year and 12 percent in 2011 and 2010,
according to company  filings . That includes dividends and
recording part of the asset manager’s earnings as its own net
income. PNC’s shares have gained 21 percent this year, the
eighth-best performer in the 24-company KBW Bank Index.  “The short answer is keep it,” said  Matt McCormick , who
helps oversee about $9 billion including BlackRock shares at
Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati. He doesn’t manage PNC shares.
“Whoever suggested doing this BlackRock deal is and should be
taking continued credit for it.”  Tax Considerations  If PNC sold the stake, the buyback potential would be
“limited” and subject to Federal Reserve approval through its
annual stress tests, Keith Murray, an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said in a note. The after-tax gain would be about $2.6
billion as of June 6, according to the note. Assuming PNC got
approval to repurchase stock, that sum would equate to 37
million shares, or “not a great trade-off versus losing 14
percent of earnings per share,” he wrote.  PNC acquired BlackRock in 1995 for about $240 million to
expand its asset-management business. Four years later, New
York-based BlackRock filed an initial public offering and
started trading at $14 a share. The company is now the world’s
largest money manager with $3.94 trillion in assets, and its
stock hit a  record high  of $291.69 last month.  Last year, London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  sold the 19.6 percent
stake it acquired in 2009 when BlackRock purchased  Barclays
Global Investors .  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest U.S.
lender, inherited a 34 percent stake with its 2009 takeover of
Merrill Lynch & Co. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
sold its remaining shares back to BlackRock in 2011. PNC also
previously reduced its stake, selling 7.5 million shares for
$1.22 billion in 2010.  ‘Not There’  BlackRock, co-founded in 1988 by CEO Laurence D. Fink, 60,
was largely a fixed-income manager until the mid-2000s. That’s
when it acquired State Street Research & Management Co. and
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment unit to add stocks and other
assets. BlackRock’s 2009 purchase of Barclays’s investment
division gave it iShares, the world’s biggest provider of
exchange-traded funds.  BlackRock’s stock may fall in the short run if PNC sells,
said Greggory Warren, a senior stock analyst at Morningstar Inc.
in  Chicago . The asset manager slid to a  six-month low  on May 22,
2012, the day after Barclays said it was selling its investment,
before gaining 75 percent in the next 12 months.  PNC has created a deferred tax liability by marking up the
investment. In the event of a sale, the bank would need to pay
$1.9 billion in cash to the federal government, according to the
company’s latest quarterly filing and a note from Nomura’s
Murray.  Capital Regulations  The lender would have to consider the “most tax-efficient” plan possible before taking any action, Johnson, the
bank’s CFO, said last month. “We clearly have to wait for time
when both parties are ready to sit down and actually make that
happen, and we’re not there today,” he said.  U.S. regulators are in the process of finalizing their
interpretation of global capital rules. The  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , which sets the rules, has said
“ significant investments ” in common shares of financial
institutions can’t exceed 10 percent of a bank’s common equity.  The question is whether BlackRock would be considered a
financial institution under the Basel rules, or if the committee
is trying to discourage large stakes in other levered banks,
said Richard Staite, an analyst in  London  with Atlantic Equities
LLP.  PNC has calculated its Basel III ratios assuming the
BlackRock stake would be treated as a financial institution,
Nomura’s Murray said. As of March 31, PNC estimated its Basel
III Tier 1 common capital ratio at 8 percent.  Returning Capital  Other U.S. regional banks have been using proceeds from
asset sales to return capital to shareholders. Cleveland-based
KeyCorp agreed in February to sell its investment-management
subsidiary and broker-dealer affiliate to a private-equity fund.
The Fed notified KeyCorp that it had no objection to the bank
using part of the proceeds to repurchase common shares, CEO Beth Mooney said during a June 11 investor conference.  Fifth Third Bancorp, Ohio’s largest lender, said last year
it would use after-tax proceeds from the sale of its Vantiv Inc.
stake to repurchase its own shares.  BlackRock also has said it plans to return capital to
shareholders. Fink told investors last month that he intends to
distribute “as much as we earn” in dividends and share
buybacks. The company’s per-share payout was $1.375 in 2011,
jumping to $1.50 in 2012 and $1.68 this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Where else are they going to go to get that type of
revenue stream?” asked Bahl & Gaynor’s McCormick. “I can’t see
getting it off of  car loans .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 