-- Poland’s LOT to Discuss Boeing Costs as 787 Makes Careful Return
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-13T13:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/poland-s-lot-to-discuss-boeing-costs-as-787-makes-careful-return.html
LOT Polish Airlines SA said it will
deepen discussions with  Boeing Co. (BA)  next week over compensation
for losses from the three-month grounding of the 787 Dreamliner,
with a sum of several million dollars being sought.  Talks about financial restitution have commenced and will
continue at the  Paris Air Show , which begins June 17, Chief
Executive Officer Sebastian Mikosz told reporters in Warsaw,
adding that the negotiations are unlikely to be completed then.  The Dreamliner’s return to service following battery fixes
should help cut operating costs at LOT, which reported daily
losses of $50,000 from the grounding when its first plane was
stranded in  Chicago  after the inaugural flight. The carrier has
three 787s in the fleet with two more due by August, though it’s
introducing the model with caution to avoid further disruption.  “We don’t plan to exploit the Dreamliners to the maximum
extent,” said Mikosz, whose airline is basing its long-haul
strategy around the model. “We want to have some margin in case
of teething problems with the planes, which is always a risk.”  The CEO, who is seeking “several dozen million zloty” of
compensation from Boeing, said a deal has been struck with
Polish tour operator Itaka for LOT to provide 787s for long-haul
winter charters. The deal, worth 32 million zloty ($10 million),
follows one with Rainbow Tours SA in May, he said.  Results Due  LOT, which hasn’t made a profit in five years, is also
poised to announce audited financial results for last year
confirming an operating loss in excess of 200 million zloty,
Mikosz said. The figures come as the Warsaw-based airline
prepares to submit a restructuring plan to the European
Commission on June 20 as part of a state-aid application.  Talks with the European Union regulator won’t be easy,
Mikosz said, although he expects them to be successful.  The Polish government is also easing state-ownership rules
that require it to hold a majority stake in LOT, as Polskie
Linie Lotnicze LOT SA is known, to ease a potential disposal.  “All scenarios are possible,” Mikosz said, adding that
LOT and discount unit Eurolot are both for sale, together with
two ground-services units. “I deeply believe that privatization,
along with the restructuring plan, is the best option for LOT.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  