-- Polish Inflation Drops to New Low to Give More Rate-Cut Room
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-06-13T12:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/polish-inflation-drops-to-new-low-to-give-more-rate-cut-room-1-.html
Polish  inflation  slowed to a new
seven-year low in May, leaving an opening for the central bank
to cut  interest rates  for the eighth time in less than a year.  Consumer prices advanced 0.5 percent from a year earlier,
the Warsaw-based statistics office said today, below the
median estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Annual
price growth was the lowest since March 2006. Prices fell 0.1
percent from April.  The Narodowy Bank Polski last week trimmed its benchmark
rate to a record 2.75 percent as policy makers seek to counter a
slump that may crimp this year’s economic growth to 1.5 percent,
the worst since 2002, according to government forecasts. While
July inflation projections from the central bank will determine
whether the easing cycle continues, the slowdown is “deeper and
more sustained” than policy makers had expected, Governor  Marek Belka  said June 5.  “ Poland ’s economy is stagnating and CPI will stay below 1
percent until the fourth quarter,” Jaroslaw Janecki, Societe
Generale SA’s chief economist for Poland, said in Warsaw before
the data were released. “The probability of another rate cut is
quite high.”  The zloty weakened to 4.2631 per euro at 2:16 p.m. in
Warsaw, erasing earlier gains and leaving the currency virtually
unchanged on the day. The yield on the  10-year government bond 
fell three basis points after the data to 3.818 percent,
extending its decline from yesterday to eight basis points.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy is suffering
as the continent’s debt crisis dulls demand for Polish exports
and limits government spending. The May inflation figures mean
price growth has stayed below the lower boundary of the central
bank’s 1.5 percent-3.5 percent tolerance range for four months.  “I would expect the zloty to continue to have a weakening
bias, reflective of the weak growth/inflation story,” Tim Ash,
chief  emerging markets  economist at Standard Bank Plc in  London ,
wrote in an e-mail after the data were released.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  