-- Portugal Recourse to OMT Would Aid Market Access, IMF Says
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-06-13T15:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/portugal-recourse-to-ecb-s-omt-would-aid-market-access-imf-says.html
Portugal ’s aim to regain sustainable
 market access  would be bolstered if the country could qualify
for the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying program, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  “Eligibility to the ECB’s Outright Monetary Transaction
program would also go some way in helping improve the monetary
transmission mechanism in Portugal and secure durable market
access,” the Washington-based lender said in a staff report
about the seventh review of the aid program for Portugal. “Of
course, OMT should not be seen as an alternative to market
financing, but at the same time the latter is not entirely
independent of OMT eligibility.”  Abebe Aemro Selassie, head of the International Monetary
Fund’s mission to Portugal, said in a call with reporters that
OMT is one of the options available.  “Whether it’s OMT or other steps they have taken, what we
want to see is the fragmentation and high lending rates in
Portugal being addressed as soon as possible,” Selassie said.
He referred to helping small and medium-sized companies’ access
to credit as “key.”  The ECB’s bond-buying program unveiled last year for euro-area nations willing to sign up to austerity conditions has
soothed debt markets without yet being triggered. The so-called
OMT wouldn’t apply to countries that are under a full adjustment
program until “full market access” is obtained, President
 Mario Draghi  said in October.  ‘Crisis Management’  “Portugal remains vulnerable to shocks stemming from the
other euro-area countries,” the IMF said. “Domestic efforts
need to be complemented by institutional reforms and strong
 crisis-management  policies at euro-area level to support
Portugal’s path toward a durable return to market financing.”  The lengthening of the maturities of the country’s aid
program loans will also support the government’s return to full
market financing during 2013, according to the report.  Portugal is in the third year of a 78 billion-euro ($104
billion) rescue by the European Union and the IMF. Last month,
it sold 10-year debt for the first time in more than two years
as yields on the country’s existing bonds were at the lowest
since 2010.  The  nation  pays 6.5 percent to borrow for a decade, down
from a 2012 average of 10.6 percent. The extra yield investors
demand to own Portugal’s 10-year bond rather than German bunds
has shrunk to 4.86 percentage points from a euro-era record of
16 percentage points in January 2012.  Requirements Met  The country is starting on the pre-financing for 2014 and
has already been able to meet its requirements for this year,
Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said on May 7. The Portuguese
bailout program ends in June 2014.  “Portugal’s debt trajectory remains sustainable under
baseline assumptions, but is vulnerable to plausible shocks,”
the IMF said. The fund forecasts debt to peak at close to 124
percent of gross domestic product in 2014. “The risk of a
higher still debt peak is high given the significant downside
risks to the current growth projections.”  The IMF said that scope to stray from the current fiscal
deficit path is minimal without raising debt sustainability
concerns.  The  Portuguese government  on March 15 announced less
ambitious targets for narrowing its  budget deficit  as it
forecast the economy will shrink twice as much as previously
estimated this year. Portugal in September had already been
given more time to narrow its budget gap after  tax revenue 
missed forecasts.  Social Tensions  The EU may consider extending the deadline for Portugal to
meet its deficit targets if economic conditions worsen, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, head of the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said on May 27. Dijsselbloem said the government hasn’t yet
requested another change of timetables and targets.  A deeper recession and higher unemployment levels are
“exacerbating social and political tensions and, in turn,
testing the government’s resolve to continue with adjustment
policies and reforms,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  