-- Posen Predicts BOE Will Do Fed-Style Forward Guidance by August
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-13T10:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/posen-predicts-boe-will-do-fed-style-forward-guidance-by-august.html
The Bank of England will soon start
providing forward guidance on monetary policy in a manner
similar to the U.S. Federal Reserve, former U.K. policy maker
 Adam Posen  said.  “What I’m pretty sure Carney and the Monetary Policy
Committee will do by August is some form of forward guidance,”
Posen told Francine Lacqua in an interview on “The Pulse” on
Bloomberg Television today in London. “It will be along the Fed
lines, what Charlie Evans led at the Fed.”  Mark Carney  will replace  Mervyn King  as governor at the BOE
on July 1, having expressed his support for giving investors an
outlook on the future path of policy. The measure is one that
the central bank may adopt after the government boosted the
flexibility it has to meet its inflation goals and spark an
economic recovery.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and colleagues have said they
will continue their $85 billion-a-month pace of asset purchases
until the labor outlook improves “substantially.”
Evans, the president of the Chicago Federal Reserve, has said
along with Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  that they want to
see the  U.S. economy  add 200,000 jobs a month before scaling
back stimulus.  Posen said that the MPC will introduce an intermediate
target or threshold, as the U.K. Treasury has “clearly” said
that’s what it wants.  “I’m not sure how much difference that will make unless
people have been pricing in a premature rate rise,” said Posen,
who served on the panel for three years until Aug. 31. “I view
in general that this is cheap talk.”  ‘Disappointing’ Program  The  Bank of England ’s Funding for Lending Scheme to boost
credit “has been disappointing,” because it was trying to use
the current banking system, “which is totally damaged,” Posen
said. He said the other option for officials is to do credit
easing by buying securities other than gilts.  The bank has held its bond-purchase program at 375 billion
pounds ($587 billion) since July. With six of the nine-member
panel having resisted King’s push to expand quantitative easing,
a revival of that stimulus tool isn’t probable, Posen said.  “The very likely outcome is that they don’t do much,” he
said. “They’re not going to reverse just because the new
governor has come in. QE as we know it in standard form by
buying gilts is on hold.”  Posen also said the pound isn’t seen by members of the MPC
as an instrument of policy. Sterling has risen 4.5 percent on a
trade-weighted basis since March 12.  “The pound really is not a major factor in MPC
decisions,” he said. “Broadly speaking the pound’s been very
stable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  