-- Prada Slides on Slower Quarterly Profit Growth: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2013-06-13T09:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/prada-plummets-most-in-a-year-on-slower-growth-hong-kong-mover.html
Prada SpA (1913) , the Italian luxury-goods
maker,  fell  the most in three weeks in  Hong Kong  trading after
reporting first-quarter profit growth that decelerated to the
slowest pace in at least a year.  Prada  dropped  3.7 percent, the most since May 23, to close
at HK$70.55.  Net income  rose 14 percent to 138.2 million euros
($184 million) in the three months ended April, Milan-based
Prada said in a statement on June 11. Hong Kong’s markets were
closed yesterday for a public holiday.  The maker of $3,500 pony-skin totes followed  PPR SA (KER)  in
posting revenue that missed analyst estimates amid a weak
European economy, after PPR’s Gucci posted its weakest quarterly
growth in more than three years. Prada said it will focus on
cost control as it opens more stores.  “We see limited upside for the share price,” Barclays Plc
analysts led by Candy Huang said in a report yesterday, lowering
their share-price estimate on Prada to HK$75 from HK$80. Risks
to the company include a failure to execute its expansion
strategy and a weaker global economy, Barclays said.  Prada’s net income fell short of the 143 million-euro  mean 
of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed
14 percent to 782.3 million euros, compared with the average
estimate of 790.3 million euros.  Volatile, Uncertain  The international economic environment “remains extremely
volatile and uncertain,” Prada Chief Executive Officer Patrizio Bertelli said in the earnings statement.  Today’s decline extended Prada’s loss this year to 4.6
percent,  compared  with a 7.8 percent retreat for the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  Prada plans to open as many as 80 stores this year as it
seeks to sell more $310 sunglasses and $750 wedges, particularly
in  Asia . The company, which wants to grow without making
acquisitions, remains confident of a high single-digit
percentage increase in like-for-like sales this year, Finance
Director Donatello Galli said on a June 11 call. Sales on that
basis advanced 8 percent in the quarter, Prada said.  Sales in the company’s own stores advanced 19 percent in
the quarter. Sales via third-party distributors declined about 9
percent. Prada expects wholesale revenue to decline by a high
single-digit percentage this year, Alessandra Cozzani, an
investor relations director, said on the call.  Sales in the Asia-Pacific region increased 25 percent, with
stores open at least a year posting 6 percent growth. In  Greater
China , sales gained 24 percent. European sales advanced 7
percent, dragged down by weak domestic demand in  Italy , while
sales in the Americas advanced 23 percent.  Prada expects gross  margin , which widened to 73.6 percent
in the quarter from 72.3 percent, to increase 50 basis points to
100 basis points in the full year, Cozzani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  