-- Preferred Shares ETF Drops as Yields Rise on Fed Speculation
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-06-13T17:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/preferred-shares-etf-drops-as-yields-rise-on-fed-speculation.html
An  exchange-traded fund  that mimics
a basket of preferred shares is suffering the worst four-day
stretch in 20 months amid deepening concern the  Federal Reserve 
will pare unprecedented stimulus.  The  iShares S&P U.S. Preferred Stock Index Fund  has dropped
5.7 percent from an almost five-year peak on May 8, in the worst
four-day rout since October 2011.  Perpetual preferred stocks, whose fixed dividends mean they
trade like bonds, have lost 5.6 percent as of yesterday since
peaking on May 8, compared with the 1.2 percent drop in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , according to data compiled by Bank
of America Merrill Lynch and Bloomberg.  Investors in securities from  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  to emerging-market
debt have been rattled as the Fed weighs a pullback from
policies that have poured more than $2.5 trillion into the
financial system since 2008. Yields on dollar-denominated bonds
from the most to least creditworthy borrowers jumped to 3.91
percent yesterday, from a record low 3.35 percent on May 2, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Because the asset class is ranked below subordinated debt,
“as senior debt got cheap, it got hit,” Peter Tchir, founder
of hedge-fund adviser TF Market Advisors, said in an e-mail.
“The crowded trade syndrome where  outflows  hit” sparked price
declines, he said.  Investors pulled a record $4.8 billion from U.S. high-yield
bond funds last week and $850 million from investment-grade
funds, the first weekly redemption since December, according to
a Bank of America Corp. report.  Companies have issued $21.1 billion of preferred stock this
year, compared with $18.5 billion in the same period of 2012,
Bloomberg data show.  The U.S. Corporate & High Yield Index lost 2.6 percent
through yesterday since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
Congress on May 22 the central bank could slow stimulus efforts
during its next few meetings if the economy shows signs of
sustainable improvement. The  S&P 500   fell  3.4 percent in the
same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  