-- RBS Joins Rabobank in Structured Products Exit Citing Costs
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-06-13T16:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/rbs-joins-rabobank-exiting-structured-products-on-cost-grounds.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
became the third European bank to close its structured products
business for retail investors since March, citing high capital
costs and expenses for the securities.  The closure is part of Edinburgh-based RBS’s attempts to
pare its investment bank’s balance sheet by a fifth to 80
billion pounds ($125.3 billion) by the end of 2014. Britain’s
biggest government-owned lender is seeking to cut costs,
withdraw from less profitable businesses and has started to
eliminate 2,000 jobs.  Dutch lender Rabobank Groep said it was closing its equity
derivatives unit in March because new regulations for selling
structured notes to wealthy individuals involve increased costs.
 Switzerland ’s  Basler Kantonalbank (BSKP)   said  last week it will issue
no more structured products because rules governing the products
reduced their profitability.  “If you want to have a structured products business you
have to be all in, you have to commit,” said Russell Catley,
co-founder of London-based structured investment consulting firm
Catley Lakeman Securities and former head of equity derivatives
for U.K. and Ireland at Citigroup Inc. “Like Rabobank recently,
although for different reasons, RBS probably saw the business as
a distraction and not core to its operations.”  ‘Capital Intensive’  “We will de-emphasise some of the more complex structured
products that are capital intensive or costly to run,” Peter Nielsen and Suneel Kamlani, co-CEOs of RBS’s markets business,
said in a statement.  RBS’s equity derivatives and structured products businesses
could be sold and the bank will maintain its obligations on
outstanding securities, acccording to the statement.  Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are seeking to increase
transparency for structured products after they came under
scrutiny following the financial crisis in 2008 for being opaque
and overly complex. Rules requiring banks in the European Union
to provide concise information outlining the characteristics and
risks of the products they sell could be in place by the end of
2014, according to the European Commission.  RBS said its decision to shutter its equity derivatives
business is designed to protect its fixed income business, which
includes its foreign exchange and asset-backed products.  The bank has about  50,000 structured products  outstanding
tied to commodities, currencies, equities,  interest rates  and
proprietary indexes, according to its website. Martijn van Pieterson, RBS’s global head of derivative products and
solutions and counterparty exposure management, ran the
businesses that will be closed.  Adam Durchslag, a spokesman for RBS in  London , declined to
comment on jobs losses related to the closure of its businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  