-- Republicans Pick Female Lawmaker to Manage Abortion Bill
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-06-13T20:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/republicans-pick-female-lawmaker-to-manage-abortion-bill.html
U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn
will replace Representative Trent Franks to manage debate on a
bill to ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy after he
questioned whether many pregnancies are caused by rape, said
House Republican leadership aides.  The decision to replace Franks, an  Arizona  Republican,
comes a day after Democrats pounced on his comment in a House
Judiciary Committee meeting that “the incidence of rape
resulting from pregnancy is very low.”  Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, will be floor manager
for the bill when the House brings it up for a vote next week,
said two aides who asked not to be identified to discuss a
decision that hasn’t been officially announced.  “Marsha would be a wonderful person to speak to it on the
floor,” Franks said in an interview today. “We do that many
times where we have different people speaking to different
bills. I think she would be a wonderful candidate for for
that.”  Franks declined to say whether Blackburn was the official
choice. Still, the six-term lawmaker said he will play whatever
role he is assigned.  “I’m a policy guy, I just want the right thing to happen
and if there are better voices than mine, then bring them on,”
Franks said.  Franks’s measure, H.R. 1797, was approved yesterday by an
all-male Republican majority in the House Judiciary Committee.  Remark ‘Astonishing’  During the panel’s debate yesterday, Democratic
Representative Zoe Lofgren of  California  called Franks’s remark
“astonishing.” She said the “the idea that the Republican men
on this committee can tell the women of America that they have
to carry to term the product of rape is outrageous.”  The Judiciary Committee’s 20-12 vote to approve the bill
“provides the Democrats with an abundance of message
opportunities to solidify their very strong position with female
voters,”  Ross Baker , a political science professor at  Rutgers
University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview.  Franks’s comments had political reverberations in
 Massachusetts , where Gabriel Gomez, the Republican candidate in
a June 25 special election for a Senate seat, sought yesterday
to disassociate himself from the remarks.  “He’s a moron and he proves that ‘stupid’ has no specific
political affiliation,” Gomez told ABC News. He is running
against Democratic Representative Ed Markey for the seat
previously held by Secretary of State  John Kerry .  Distorted Meaning  Franks accused Democrats of distorting his meaning.
“Unfortunately, I perhaps assisted a little bit in the
phraseology that allowed them to do it,” he told reporters.  The six-term lawmaker said during the debate on a
Democratic amendment to provide an exception for rape victims,
he was trying to state that “pregnancies from rape that result
in the mother deciding to abort after the sixth month begins are
very, very rare.”  The Democratic amendment was rejected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  