-- Trichet Says ECB’s Monetary Transactions Perfectly Legal
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-06-13T01:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/trichet-says-ecb-s-monetary-transactions-perfectly-legal.html
The  European Central Bank ’s Outright
Monetary Transactions program is “perfectly legal,” and the
German  Constitutional Court  should recognize that it is crucial
for both  Germany  and  Europe  as a whole, former ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said.  Germany’s top court is reviewing suits by political groups,
professors and lawmakers who argue the ECB’s OMT program and the
European Stability Mechanism violate European laws and the
constitutional principle of democracy. A ruling is expected
later this year.  “What has been done by the ECB is legal, perfectly
legal,” Trichet said yesterday in an interview at the
International Economic Forum of the Americas in Montreal. “It
could also be demonstrated to the Constitutional Court that it
was certainly an important element for the sake of Europe as a
whole, and in particular for the sake of Germany. So I don’t
think that there is really a case to consider that the ECB
Governing Council didn’t do what it had to do.”  The as-yet-unused OMT foresees potentially unlimited
purchases of bonds of debt-stricken countries that sign up to
adjustment programs. Conceived as yields on Spanish and Italian
10-year bonds exceeded 7 percent, OMT has helped the cost of
borrowing for nations like Spain and  Italy  fall to levels not
seen in more than two years.  The judges last year in a preliminary order allowed Germany
to ratify the 500 billion-euro ($667 billion) ESM bailout
facility and the EU fiscal pact while ruling the measures must
include provisions that the country won’t be forced to assume
higher liabilities without its consent.  ‘Tail Risk’  OMT’s creation provided investors with “an element of
additional confidence, alleviating considerably the tail risk of
the explosion of the euro area,” Trichet said.  What’s more, he said, “all European democracies have
confirmed individually and collectively that they wanted to
preserve the European Union and were not accepting the
dismantling of the euro area.”  Improving public finances have contributed to better
investor sentiment, Trichet said. Governments in countries
“that have been under stress” have reined in spending and cut
current account deficits.  Still, the former central banker said, “this is no time
for complacency. We must encourage all the European countries to
go further in the direction of a more achieved economic and
fiscal federation.”  Necessary reforms include allowing “more flexibility” in
services and  labor markets , Trichet said. A single European
market for services “is very far from being achieved,” he
said.  Government Spending  In Trichet’s view,  government spending  in some European
countries should be “optimized,” which he said meant “a
diminishing of public spending as a proportion of GDP through
improvements in effectiveness and efficiency.” He didn’t
elaborate, or name the countries he was referring to.  With Europe in recession, Trichet said the central bank has
done all it could to foster growth. ECB policy makers left the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low 0.5 percent last week.  “At the present moment the ECB has concentrated in the
crisis on ensuring all banks in Europe would have access to
liquidity without any problems,” Trichet said. “The central
bank has also demonstrated it could intervene on the secondary
market of treasuries, which is also something which has been
very important.”  GDP in the euro zone fell 0.2 percent in the first quarter,
a  sixth consecutive contraction . The euro-zone economy is
forecast to stagnate in the second quarter before gross domestic
product returns to growth, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists published May 9.  “It’s clear that a lot depends now not necessarily on the
central bank, but on the various countries concerned to embark
resolutely on the structural reforms,” Trichet said.
Governments in the most indebted countries must “embark
resolutely on re-establishing confidence for those that had lost
an appropriate level of confidence,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  