-- Riverstone’s Hackett to Balance Divinity With Energy
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-06-13T18:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/riverstone-s-hackett-to-balance-divinity-with-energy.html
Jim Hackett, the former energy CEO
joining Riverstone Holdings LLC’s investment business, said his
“primary duty” will be completing a degree at Harvard Divinity
School as he seeks to merge faith with leadership.  Hackett will be co-leader of New York-based Riverstone’s
Houston office, according to a company statement today. Hackett
was the former chief executive officer of  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and stepped down as chairman of the oil and natural gas
producer last month.  In an interview, Hackett said Riverstone will allow him to
remain involved in energy while commuting to  Massachusetts  for
Harvard classes.  “It’s a way to still stay in touch with a business I love
as a principal, but to do it very much in light of my primary
duty, which is to go back to school,” Hackett, 59, said today.  The new Riverstone partner said he’ll pursue a master’s of
theological studies at Harvard, completing the two-year degree
program over the next four years.  After the scandals involving fraud at Enron Corp., which
collapsed into bankruptcy in 2001, Hackett said he began
thinking more about balancing business with spiritualism. He’s
wanted to study theology more formally since he was 20 years
old, he said, as his thinking on faith and philosophy spurred
his interest in comparative religions even as it solidified his
Catholic beliefs.  Now, Hackett said he’d “love to spend at least half my
time on Riverstone and half my time on school.” The most
successful enterprises don’t “punch clocks,” and they instead
see what value a person adds, Hackett said.  Reverend Watts  Also in the mix will be his chairman role at Baylor College
of Medicine and spots on boards at such companies as  Fluor Corp. (FLR) 
and  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  He said he’s ending some
commitments, such as  Rice University ’s board, to better manage
his time.  Hackett isn’t the first energy CEO to take a religious
path. Philip Watts, who was ousted as chairman of what’s now
Royal Dutch Shell Plc in 2004 amid an accounting scandal, has
since become a priest for the Church of England, posted at the
Waltham St. Lawrence parish in the U.K.  Riverstone, founded in 2000, has about $24 billion of
equity capital raised across seven investment funds, according
to its website. It has invested in such companies as  Cobalt
International Energy Inc. (CIE) ,  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  and
Coastal Carolina Clean Power LLC.  Energy Investors  Riverstone works with oil and gas producers and funds
independent operators, contributing to the production of energy
the world needs, Hackett said. The position at Riverstone will
help him avoid competing directly with Anadarko, he said.  James David, a spokesman for Riverstone, declined to
comment on Hackett beyond the company’s statement today.  “Jim will work closely with our existing investment team
and portfolio companies while helping us continue to source,
build and manage new investment opportunities on behalf of our
limited partners,” David M. Leuschen and Pierre F. Lapeyre,
Jr., co-founders of Riverstone, said in the statement. Hackett
also will be charged with identifying and attracting top-quality
energy management teams, Riverstone said.  Hackett called his chances of running a company again
“really remote,” since he’d have stayed at Anadarko if that’s
the kind of work he wanted to do. He joined Anadarko as CEO in
December 2003 and held that position until May 2012. He retired
from The Woodlands, Texas-based company this month.  Political Future?  He remains interested in politics, and said bad government
damages progress in the U.S. A chance to make a difference in
government, surrounded by the right people, is something he’d
consider, he said.  “If that opportunity became available some day, remote as
it might be at this stage in my life, I’d be very interested in
trying to serve,” he said.  First, though, he’s determined to finish school, he said.
Hackett said he’ll probably focus on writing and teaching after
Harvard.  “It’s really simply to be able to write with more
credibility, to be able to teach and to be able to speak about
faith and leadership,” Hackett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  