-- Rubber Slumps to Nine-Month Low on Stronger Yen, Demand Concerns
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-06-13T07:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/rubber-falls-to-nine-month-low-on-stronger-yen-demand-concerns.html
Rubber slid to a nine-month low,
heading for a fifth weekly drop, as a stronger Japanese currency
cut the appeal of yen-based futures and the  World Bank  trimmed
its global growth forecast.  The contract for delivery in November lost 3.7 percent to
231.3 yen a kilogram ($2,459 a metric ton) on the  Tokyo 
Commodity Exchange, the lowest settlement since Sept. 7. Futures
have lost 6 percent this week, extending this year’s drop to 24
percent.  The world economy will expand 2.2 percent in 2013, less
than a January forecast of 2.4 percent and slower than last
year’s 2.3 percent, the World Bank said in a report. The yen
climbed to the strongest level in two months against the dollar
after government data showed Japanese investors were net sellers
of overseas bonds and stocks for a fourth straight week.  “The decline is driven by a strong yen and concerns over
the global economic slowdown,” Gu Jiong, an analyst at
commodity broker Yutaka Shoji Co., said by phone from Tokyo.
“Investors are keeping an eye on a meeting between top
producers but don’t expect any strong measures.”  Thailand ,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia  will discuss measures to
limit supply and reduce price volatility, Suwit Chaikiattiyos,
deputy director-general at Department of Agriculture, who is a
Thai representative in International Tripartite Rubber Council,
said June 6.  Thai rubber free-on-board dropped 1.1 percent to 86.50 baht
($2.80) a kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand.  Rubber for delivery in September on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange lost 3.2 percent to 17,750  yuan  ($2,890) a ton. The
market was closed from Monday through Wednesday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  