-- Ruble Rallies on Pension Bets as Bonds Climb First Day in Six
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-06-13T12:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/ruble-rallies-on-pension-bets-as-bonds-climb-first-day-in-six.html
The ruble rebounded from a one-year
low and local bonds rose for the first time in six days as
investors speculated the government will use a windfall oil fund
to cover the pension shortfall.  The ruble strengthened 0.9 percent against the central
bank’s dollar-euro basket to 36.8760 by 2:59 p.m. in Moscow. The
yield on OFZ ruble bonds due 2027 declined 18 basis points to
7.67 percent, the sharpest drop since Jan. 9.  The government must decide to what extent the $87 billion
National Wellbeing Fund can be used to cover the pension
deficit, President Vladimir Putin said in an annual budget
address in the Kremlin today. The shortfall is estimated at 943
billion rubles ($29 billion) this year, according to the Pension
Fund. Crude oil,  Russia ’s main export earner, pared declines to
trade down 0.2 percent at $103.27 a barrel in  London .  For Russia to tap the wealth fund “they must sell their
foreign currency assets, for example, foreign AAA-rated
government bonds, get foreign currency and sell it for rubles,”
Vladimir Miklashevsky, strategist at Danske Bank, said in e-mailed comments.  The currency appreciated 1 percent versus the dollar to
32.0760 with three-month volatility falling to 10.55, 68 basis
points below the highest level this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Bloomberg  Composite Index (BEM)  of emerging market
dollar-denominated debt rose 0.25 basis points to 131.894. The
index is down 5.6 percent from its high on May 2.  ‘Appealing’ Levels  “Both OFZs and other EM bonds are stabilizing in the last
couple of days,” Vladimir Kolychev, head of research at OAO
 Rosbank (ROSB) , said in e-mailed comments. “It’s too early to talk of
a turnaround, but clearly the levels are already very
appealing.”  Concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will taper its bond buying
program curbed appetite for riskier emerging-market assets,
driving the yield on the 2027 OFZ bond to the highest since
October on June 11.  “There are still many foreign investors who can keep
liquidating their longs out of quantitative-easing concerns,”
Kolychev said.  Outflows from Russia-dedicated bond funds accelerated to
$93 million in the week to June 5 from $24 million, OAO
Gazprombank said June 7, citing EPFR Global data. Net outflow
from emerging-markets bond funds, where Russia’s weight is about
10 percent, totaled $1.65 billion in the week to June 5.  Longer-maturity OFZ bonds look attractive, even after
increased foreign access to the debt in February fanned
volatility, according to Vladimir Potapov, chief executive
officer of VTB Capital Investment Management, which manages 190
billion rubles, including over 100 billion rubles in fixed
income funds.  Inflation, which reached 7.4 percent in annual terms in
May, is set to peak, allowing the central bank to lower its main
short-term interest rates, which have been unchanged for nine
months, Potapov said in a Bloomberg interview June 11.  Bank Rossii, which reports intervention data with a lag,
bought rubles on the market equivalent to about $200 million on
June 10, according to a  website  statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  