-- Truck Crash Sensors May Yield $3.1 BillionBenefit: Report
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-06-13T17:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/truck-crash-sensors-may-yield-3-1-billionbenefit-report.html
Crash-avoidance technology that
engages truck brakes automatically before an impending crash may
prevent almost 300 fatalities a year and yield $3.1 billion in
economic benefits, according to a U.S. Transportation Department
report.  The U.S.-funded study, conducted by University of Michigan
Research Institute and posted to the  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration website , is part of the agency’s review as
it decides whether to issue a regulation later this year.  Crash-avoidance technology , already on the road in small
numbers, is made by Meritor WABCO, a joint venture between Troy,
Michigan-based  Meritor Inc. (MTOR)  and  WABCO Holdings Inc. (WBC)  of
Piscataway,  New Jersey , and Bendix, an Elyria, Ohio-based unit
of German manufacturer  Knorr-Bremse AG .  “When you have a technology like this that can immediately
produce results, it helps with safety and it helps
economically,” said Jon Morrison, president of  Meritor WABCO ,
whose OnGuard technology was evaluated for the study.  The system, built on anti-lock brakes and electronic
stability control, uses radar, software algorithms and tactile
warnings to get the driver to react if an imminent crash is
sensed.  If that doesn’t happen, brakes are automatically engaged.  About 24 percent of fatalities in applicable crashes could
be avoided with widespread use of collision-mitigation systems
like the ones Meritor WABCO was selling a few years ago,
according to the study. An improved system, like one sold
starting in 2013, reduces fatalities by 44 percent.  Future systems may save as many as 57 percent of the
fatalities, the study found.  ‘Significant Investment’  The economic benefits range from $900 million for older
technology on only heavy-duty tractor-trailers to $3.1 billion
assuming future improvements are applied to medium-sized
straight trucks as well as big rigs, the study said.  Large fleets are Meritor WABCO’s biggest customers for its
systems, which cost $2,300 to $2,500 per truck, Morrison said.
About 10,000 systems were sold last year, and about 15,000 are
projected to be sold this year, he said.  About 35,000 trucks with OnGuard are currently on the road,
he said.  “This is a significant investment,” Morrison said of his
trucking-fleet customers. “They continue to reorder year after
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  