-- Rupee Drops as World Bank Forecast Undermines Local Intervention
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-13T04:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/rupee-drops-as-world-bank-forecast-undermines-local-intervention.html
India’s rupee weakened after the
 World Bank  cut growth forecasts and on concern global central
banks will pare monetary stimulus, countering local policy
makers’ steps to boost dollar supplies.  The global economy will expand 2.2 percent in 2013,
compared with a January forecast of 2.4 percent, the World Bank
said yesterday. The  Reserve Bank  of India intervened June 11-12
to prevent the rupee falling to 60 per dollar, said two people
with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named as the
information isn’t public. Losses will be limited after some
foreign investors were allowed to buy more debt and because the
RBI will sell dollars, according to  Mizuho Corporate Bank  Ltd.  “Our base-case scenario is the RBI will come in hard, and
it will come in fast,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at
Mizuho Corporate Bank in Singapore. “However, in the medium
term, the outlook is more dependent on dollar strength.”  The rupee depreciated 0.6 percent to 58.1325 per dollar as
of 9:07 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched an all-time low of 58.9850 on June 11. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange
rate used to price options, fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 11.30 percent.  Long-term investors, including sovereign-wealth funds,
multilateral agencies and global central banks, can buy $5
billion more Indian sovereign debt, the central bank said in a
statement yesterday. The cap now stands at $30 billion, compared
with $25 billion earlier.  Policy Steps  The RBI’s policy is to intervene in the  currency market 
only to smooth volatility, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last
month. The central bank doesn’t comment on daily market
movements, Alpana Killawala, Mumbai-based spokeswoman for the
RBI, said by telephone on June 11.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram will address the
media at 10 a.m. in New Delhi today. Policy makers are weighing
steps including a debt offering to Indians living abroad to
attract investment and offset a record  current-account  deficit,
 Raghuram Rajan , the top adviser at the  finance ministry , told
reporters on June 11.  Fitch Ratings  revised India’s credit-rating outlook to
stable from negative yesterday. The move “reflects the measures
taken by the government to contain the  budget deficit ” and
“some, albeit limited, progress in addressing some of the
structural impediments to investment and economic growth,” the
company said.  Dollar Debase  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee meets next week
after the Bank of Japan this week left its lending program
unchanged. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 the monetary
authority could scale back stimulus efforts should employment
show “sustainable improvement.” The $85 billion of bond
purchases each month debases the dollar and contributes to
inflows to emerging markets.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.1 percent to
58.78 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 0.5 percent to 59.15.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  