-- Russia’s Wellbeing Fund May Be Needed in Pension Fix, Putin Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-13T12:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/russia-s-wellbeing-fund-may-be-needed-in-pension-fix-putin-says.html
Russia may need to dip into its $87
billion  National Wellbeing Fund (RUWFUSD)  to help cover a pension deficit
and must finish a delayed overhaul of the retirement system,
President Vladimir Putin said.  The government must determine the extent to which the fund
can be used to cover the shortfall based on its pension revamp
while ensuring a “long-term balance,” Putin said today in the
Kremlin, during his annual budget address. The new system should
be simple to use for all participants, he said.  “The formula should be fair, stable, transparent, and
above all, understandable for the worker and the employer,”
Putin said. “You’ve almost reached a solution to this problem,
and the work on it must be completed.”  Russia is trying to close a gap in pension obligations
after increases to help protect retirees during the global
financial crisis in 2008 and 2009. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said last month that balancing the budget by 2015 was
no longer feasible because of the worsening economic outlook.  The  ruble  appreciated after Putin’s remarks on speculation
Russia would have to sell foreign-currency assets held in the
Wellbeing Fund, one of two funds the state uses to safeguard
windfall oil revenue, to buy rubles and pay pensions. It rose
0.9 percent to 36.8934 against the dollar-euro basket as of 3:47
p.m. in Moscow.  The government last year transferred 1 trillion rubles ($31
billion) from the  federal budget  to cover the state Pension
Fund’s deficit. The gap will contract to 942.8 billion rubles in
2013, according to the fund’s estimate.  Putin also ordered his ministers not to rely on higher
taxes to make up the shortfall. The overhaul, under which
workers with longer employment histories and higher wages would
receive greater pensions, musn’t increase the burden on
entrepreneurs or hinder economic growth, Putin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  