-- Russia to Push For Larger IMF Quotas at G-20 Summit in September
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-06-13T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/russia-to-push-for-larger-imf-quotas-at-g-20-summit-in-september.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin
will step up demands by emerging powers for a bigger say in the
leadership of the International Monetary Fund at a G-20 summit
that he’s chairing in September.  The BRICS group of emerging economies, comprising  Russia ,
 China ,  Brazil ,  India  and South Africa, and other rising powers
need a greater say in how the Washington-based lender operates
so the IMF can meet today’s global challenges, Putin said in an
interview with state news service RIA Novosti.  “The most important thing is to revise the IMF quotas and
voting system,” he said, according to an e-mailed transcript of
the interview. “We will apply maximum effort to convince our
partners to find compromises and find acceptable solutions at
the G-20 summit in St. Petersburg.”  While the BRICS nations pledged $75 billion to bolster the
IMF’s capacity to fight Europe’s debt crisis a year ago, Russia
said they wanted sufficient voting power to “influence key
decisions” in return. The IMF’s executive board agreed in
January that gross domestic product should remain the most
important variable in calculating the quota shares that
determine a nation’s strength within the lender.  Emerging nations have also urged an end to the convention
of naming the IMF’s head from Europe and World Bank presidents
from the U.S. Christine Lagarde, a former French finance
minister, was appointed to the IMF job in 2011 after Frenchman
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  quit the post.  The IMF was formed after World War II to help stabilize the
currencies and economies of member states and lends to countries
in financial strife.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  