-- TSA Mission Left Muddy After Backtrack on Pocket Knives
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-06-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/tsa-mission-left-muddy-after-backtrack-on-pocket-knives.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration ’s plans to loosen rules in place since 2001
appear stalled even as lawmakers, airlines and the public want
changes in an approach the agency calls one-size-fits-all.  Administrator  John Pistole ’s decision last week to reverse
himself and continue screening for pocketknives signals the
agency’s difficulty in shifting to more risk-based screening
from a system put in place after the Sept. 11 attacks.  The knives decision followed an inspector general’s report
questioning the effectiveness of TSA’s behavior-detection
program, which tries to spot threats by observing mannerisms in
airports and led to accusations of racial profiling.  “How is TSA going to be allowed to make risk-based
decisions if every time they do, either Congress or special-interest groups build up enough pressure to reverse the
decision?” said Jeffrey Sural, a TSA assistant administrator
under President  George W. Bush . “That’s a serious concern.”  Pistole has said the TSA needs to spend less effort
scrutinizing people who aren’t terrorism risks. Patdowns of
senior citizens and young children have been persistent themes
in a series of hearings in Congress.  In announcing in March that he would end the pocketknives
ban, Pistole said the TSA’s mission was to prevent a
catastrophic downing of an airplane, not confiscate items at
checkpoints that experts didn’t consider threatening.  ‘Screwed Up’  Sural said that was consistent with the agency’s stated
purpose during his tenure. Still, Pistole’s pronouncement didn’t
 sit well  with airline executives, lawmakers, the agency’s
screeners and air marshals, and especially flight attendants.
Some reminded him that the Sept. 11 hijackers were armed with
box cutters.  Opposition grew to the point that the U.S. House voted, as
part of the Homeland Security Department’s budget, to block
funding to end the knife ban -- after Pistole had already
backtracked. The intent was to prevent Pistole from changing his
mind again.  “He screwed up on that one,” Republican Representative
Michael McCaul of  Texas , chairman of the House Homeland Security
Committee and initially a supporter of Pistole’s move, said
after the reversal was announced. “The flight attendants have a
legitimate complaint.”  By picking an item associated with the Sept. 11 attacks,
Pistole may have “picked the wrong fight,” said Jeff Price, an
aviation security consultant and instructor at  Metropolitan
State University of Denver .  Different Mission  The agency at first consulted few outside people before
making its March announcement. More extensive discussions with
its  Aviation Security Advisory Committee  -- which includes
representatives of flight attendants, air marshals, airlines and
consumers -- came after opposition began to mount.  The TSA has tended to use the group to communicate final
decisions rather than to seek input before they’re made, said
Paul Hudson, a former panel member.  Pistole’s explanations “smacked of arrogance,” Hudson
said.  Pistole’s background as a former FBI official gave him
strong law-enforcement and anti-terrorism credentials when he
came to the TSA in 2010. The TSA works with the public more
directly than the FBI does, making its message critical, and the
agency’s stance on knives came across as uncaring, said Sural,
now a lawyer with  Alston & Bird LLP  in  Washington .  “At the FBI, you’re out front chasing down the bad guys,”
Sural said. “At TSA, you’re literally manhandling innocent
people before they get on airplanes. That’s a little different
interface with the government.”  Expanding PreCheck  The agency “strongly values the input of our partners and
the traveling public, and appreciates the varying points of view
shared throughout the review process,” TSA spokesman  David Castelveter  said in an e-mailed statement in response to written
questions.  The agency will continue to expand efforts “to implement a
layered, risk-based security approach to passenger screening
while maximizing resources,” Castelveter said. That means
focusing more on people the agency knows the least about, he
said.  With changes to its prohibited-items list made politically
difficult, the TSA’s efforts to lessen scrutiny of low-risk
people may revolve around expanding PreCheck, its less intrusive
screening process for ultra-frequent fliers and selected others
who pass background checks.  PreCheck is popular with the public and Congress, said
Stewart Verdery, a former assistant secretary for policy at the
Homeland Security Department.  Pilot Program  Since last year, the agency has been identifying groups of
travelers, such as active-duty service members, who are deemed
safe. It’s testing whether to employ companies such as Alclear
LLC, which operates an expedited screening program called Clear
at five U.S. airports, to increase PreCheck membership by
conducting security checks on travelers willing to pay a fee.  Pistole has also touted a pilot program at the Indianapolis
and Tampa airports, known as managed inclusion, that uses
trained dogs and behavior-detection officers to divert travelers
from the normal screening lines into underused PreCheck lanes.  Flight attendants are pushing for a law that will force the
TSA to keep knives out of airplane cabins, said Sara Nelson,
international vice president of the  Association of Flight
Attendants .  “We should be able to do both,” Nelson said. “We should
be able to protect people in the cabin and protect against a
catastrophic failure.”  Body Scanners  The agency recently finished removing body scanners made by
 OSI Systems Inc. (OSIS) ’s Rapiscan unit after concluding they couldn’t
be altered to make images less revealing, as Congress had
demanded.  Whatever changes it tries in the future, the agency won’t
be able to implement them based solely on its own view of
security needs, Verdery said.  “You have to have a buy-in,” said Verdery, now a
principal with the Monument Policy Group LLC in Washington.
“You have to have people beside you when you’re announcing
these kinds of things. It can’t be TSA alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  