-- San Bernardino Judge Bars Law Firm From Bankruptcy Case
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-13T22:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/san-bernardino-judge-bars-law-firm-from-bankruptcy-case.html
National Public Finance Guarantee
Corp., the bond insurer fighting the biggest U.S. pension fund
in two  California  municipal bankruptcies, must find a new  law
firm  to represent it in San Bernardino’s case, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Meredith Jury granted a request by
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  to ban
Winston & Strawn LLP from representing National Public in the
Chapter 9 case. Jury agreed that Winston & Strawn had a conflict
that couldn’t be resolved because the firm hired an attorney who
worked for Calpers in the bankruptcy cases.  Winston & Strawn argued in court papers that it should be
allowed to continue representing National Public because the
firm had established internal policies to prevent the attorney
from sharing information about Calpers.  “No matter how good the ethical wall is, there will always
be a sense that there is a fox in the henhouse,” Jury said
during a hearing in  U.S. Bankruptcy court  in Riverside,
California. Jury is overseeing the bankruptcy of San Bernardino,
where Calpers and National Public have taken opposing positions.  The Winston & Strawn attorney had been employed in the
Charlotte, North Carolina, office of K&L Gates, the law firm
representing Calpers in the Stockton and San Bernardino
bankruptcies.  National and other creditors have complained that Stockton
officials were trying to force them, but not Calpers, to take
less than they are owed. The same disputes will have to be
resolved in the San Bernardino case, the pension fund said.  San Bernardino was the third California city to file for
bankruptcy last year. The city of about 209,000 people, about 60
miles (100 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , said a fiscal
emergency, brought on by a $46 million budget shortfall, forced
it to stop paying some creditors and seek court protection.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-bk-28006, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  