-- Scottish Defense Suppliers Risk Exclusion in Independence
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/scots-defense-suppliers-risk-exclusion-after-independence.html
Scottish suppliers to the 34
billion-pound ($53 billion) U.K. defense industry risk being
excluded from contracts should the country vote next year to
pursue independence, according to the British government.  Companies might be unable to bid for work that falls under
the national procurement procedure, including on warships, the
government said in response to a report by a  committee  of
lawmakers examining the consequences of independence. That
procedure allows a country to be exempted from European Union
fair-competition rules when it’s a matter of security.  “We believe that integrated defense is best for all of the
U.K., including  Scotland ,” the government said in its statement
published in London today. “However, the current industrial
structure and outlook may be affected should Scotland become
independent.”  Defense is a key element of the debate over Scottish
independence in the run-up to a referendum next year. As well as
the future of lucrative contracts, the U.K. has stored its
nuclear weapons in western Scotland for 44 years and could be
faced with finding the missiles in a foreign country should
Scottish nationalists win their bid for full autonomy.  A “yes” vote on Sept. 18, 2014, will lead to the removal
of the submarines and warheads, according to the Scottish
National Party, which runs the semi-autonomous administration in
Edinburgh.  The U.K. government in  London  is opposed to independence
and has so far focused on the economic effects, also when it
comes to defense. Lawmakers said in a report in January that
Scotland’s shipyards would lose contracts and be “doomed” if
the country votes to leave the U.K. after three centuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  