-- Senecas to Vote on Ending $600 Million Dispute With N.Y.’s Cuomo
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-06-13T15:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/senecas-to-vote-on-ending-600-million-dispute-with-n-y-s-cuomo.html
Seneca Nation President Barry Snyder
is gathering tribal council members to vote on a settlement that
could end a more than $600 million dispute with New York state
and keep the city of Niagara Falls solvent.  The vote may come as soon as today, he said in a telephone
interview. Snyder, who heads the state’s largest Indian tribe,
was in Albany yesterday meeting with officials in Governor
 Andrew Cuomo ’s administration. The Senecas stopped paying the
state its 22 percent share of slot-machine revenue in 2009 after
nontribal lottery terminals were allowed inside a 10,500-square-mile (27,200-square-kilometer) exclusion zone.  “I’m gathering them all together, making sure we have all
the information necessary, and I’ll put it on the table,”
Snyder said. “Hopefully, in the near future we’ll have some
agreement.”  He declined to provide details on negotiations with the
state. Rich Azzopardi, a Cuomo spokesman, declined to comment on
any deal.  Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, has already lined up
agreements with two New York Indian tribes that run casinos
before a legislative vote expected this month on a bill that
would bring nontribal Las Vegas-style casinos to upstate  New
York  if voters approve a constitutional amendment in November.
Cuomo has said he wants to create at least three casinos as an
economic stimulus.  No Guarantee  The deals with the Oneidas in central New York and the
Mohawks near the Canadian border leave the Senecas as the last
holdout. There’s no guarantee that the tribal council will agree
to a settlement, with some members holding out for an
arbitration panel to rule on the dispute, according to Snyder.  A settlement could bail out Niagara Falls. The city may run
out of cash by November, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report last month when it cut the city of 50,000 to one step
above junk. The city, a tourist mecca named after the nearby
cascade that separates New York and  Canada , may get a
speculative rating if it doesn’t get any of the $60 million it’s
owed as part of the state’s compact with the tribe. The Senecas
operate a casino in downtown Niagara Falls.  The city’s distress is reflected in the extra money
investors want to buy related debt.  The Niagara Falls Public Water Authority plans to issue
about $33 million of tax-exempt bonds today in its first sale 
since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The agency is 
coming to market as investors demand the highest yield in 
almost a year on some of its securities.  A tax-exempt water authority bond maturing in 2034 traded
last week at an average yield of 5.09 percent, the highest since
June 25, 2012, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  