-- Shinsei Bank to Quadruple Project Financing Loans in Three Years
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e   a n d   T a k u   K a t o
-- 2013-06-13T05:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/shinsei-bank-to-quadruple-project-financing-loans-in-three-years.html
Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303)  plans to increase
 project financing  fourfold in the next three years to take
advantage of higher spreads for infrastructure loans and reduce
reliance on regular corporate lending amid rising competition.  Outstanding loans for projects will climb to as much as 200
billion yen ($2.1 billion) in the year to March 2016, from about
50 billion yen last fiscal period, said Tsukasa Makizumi, a
general manager at the bank’s specialty finance division in
 Tokyo . The lender will expand its 30-person specialty finance
division to about 40 people over that time to meet the goals,
Makizumi said.  Shinsei Bank in March a mid-term  business plan  calling for
an increase in specialty lending, which includes loans for LBOs,
cross-border acquisitions and development projects, to 400
billion yen in three years, from 215 billion yen last fiscal
year. Project financing is a method of funding whereby debt
repayments are sourced primarily from the forecast cash flows of
a venture and security is limited to its assets.  Shinsei, partially owned by J.  Christopher Flowers , chief
executive officer of U.S. private-equity firm J.C. Flowers &
Co., joins domestic regional banks in focusing on higher-yielding infrastructure loans as  interest rates  hover near
record lows. The Bank of  Japan ’s unprecedented doubling of bond
purchases left the country’s lenders with a record 185 trillion
yen in excess cash in May, BOJ data show.  Higher Margins  Project finance loans can command spreads of some 200 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate, according to
Makizumi. That’s about 2.27 percent based on  three-month Libor 
yesterday and compares with the 0.98 percent  average  on new
long-term loans by domestic banks in April, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The financing will account for as much as half of the
bank’s specialty lending, compared with less than a quarter now,
according to Makizumi. LBO funding operations, which accounted
for about 80 percent of the division’s 215 billion yen balance
as of March 31, have seen “more deals with difficult terms,”
he said.  Since opening its project finance office a year ago, the
bank has arranged loans to solar projects in  Hokkaido  and
 Ibaraki , north of Tokyo, and has provided financing for a gas-fired plant in  Chiba . With lending for alternative energy
projects in Japan typically less than 10 billion yen per
transaction, Shinsei plans to widen its focus to overseas
projects.  The bank was part of a group of lenders that provided $20
billion to  Inpex Corp. (1605)  last year to finance the Ichthys
liquefied natural gas project in western  Australia . Shinsei also
took part in the financing for Idemitsu Kosan Co.’s Nghi Son
refinery in  Vietnam , Makizumi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  