-- Shirai Says BOJ May Be Too Optimistic on Prices as Stocks Plunge
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-06-13T03:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/shirai-says-boj-may-be-too-optimistic-on-prices-as-stocks-plunge.html
Bank of Japan  board member Sayuri Shirai said an April forecast for inflation may prove too
optimistic, as stocks plummeted and the yen strengthened to a
two-month high.  Prices in the year through March 2015 “could be lower than
projected by the bank,” Shirai  said  today, citing the danger
that a  sales-tax  increase may encourage companies to limit price
increases driven by other causes. The BOJ  estimate , the median
of board members’ forecasts, is for a 1.4 percent gain in the
benchmark gauge, excluding the sales tax.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid today to 20 percent lower
than a May 22 high, underscoring the risk that investors and the
public will lose confidence in efforts by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the BOJ to revive the world’s third-biggest economy. The
central bank’s communications are complicated by divergent views
among policy makers on how quickly a 2 percent inflation target
can be achieved.  “While they are currently undergoing corrections, the
trend of rising stocks and a weakening yen is bringing positive
impacts to the economy,” Shirai said in a  speech  in Asahikawa,
Hokkaido, northern  Japan  today. On the price forecast, “the
risks are tilted somewhat to the downside,” she said.  The yen touched a two-month high of 94.45 per dollar today,
trading at 94.69 as of 12:17 p.m. in Tokyo. The Nikkei was down
5.3 percent with the broader Topix index 4.1 percent lower.  The central bank this week  restated  its April  pledge  to
increase the  monetary base  by 60 trillion to 70 trillion yen
($738 billion) per year, and refrained from adding extra policy
tools to counter bond-market volatility.  Shirai, 50, earned a Ph.D in economics at  Columbia
University . In March, she proposed starting open-ended asset
purchases immediately and combining two bond buying programs,
policies adopted at Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s first meeting in
April.  Japan’s benchmark inflation gauge excludes fresh food. In
April, the  measure  fell 0.4 percent from a year earlier, the
sixth straight decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  