-- Sobeys’ Debt-Fuelled Safeway Buyout Puts Rating at Risk
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-06-13T20:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/sobeys-investment-grade-rating-under-threat-from-safeway-buyout.html
Sobeys Inc.’s investment-grade
 ratings  are at risk after  Canada ’s third-largest supermarket
chain agreed to buy  Safeway Inc. (SWY) ’s Canadian stores using C$2.63
billion ($2.58 billion) in debt.  The deal will push leverage, or debt as a ratio of cash
flow, to 4 times from 2.2 times, and beyond the limit of what
 Standard & Poor’s  would typically consider investment-grade,
Andrew Calder, a credit analyst at Royal Bank of Canada in
Toronto, wrote in a note to clients. Sobeys has the lowest
investment-grade rating of BBB- from S&P.  “They will fight tooth and nail to stay investment
grade,” said David Stonehouse, a fixed income fund manager with
AGF Investment Management Inc., which oversees C$37.6 billion of
assets including Sobeys’ bonds. “For them to retain investment
grade status they really have their work cut out for them.”  Relative yields on the company’s C$100 million of notes due
February 2018 surged 40 basis points to 175 basis points,
according to Royal Bank of Canada data. On average, investment-grade rated companies pay a yield of 117 basis points more than
government benchmarks on debt maturing in five years, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Sobeys parent company, Stellarton, Nova Scotia-based  Empire
Co. (EMP/A) , agreed to acquire Safeway’s Canadian stores yesterday for
C$5.8 billion. It has arranged a C$1.825 billion  term loan  with
Bank of  Nova Scotia  and plans to issue C$800 million of bonds.  ‘Done Prudently’  “We are committed to an investment grade rating,” Empire
Chief Executive Officer Paul Sobey said in a phone interview.
“This investment has been done prudently with the right
insertion of capital.”  DBRS Ltd., which rates Sobeys higher than S&P at BBB, said
yesterday it’s reviewing the rating for downgrade and that a cut
would remain limited to one level, citing the company’s
deleveraging plan.  “Where I have virually 100 percent confidence is they’ll
be able to throw up  cash flow ,” Stonehouse said. “And their
stated priority will be directed to bondholders first so I’m
very comfortable on that score. Even with the backup in the last
little while, it’s pretty attractive -- we won’t be letting go
of it.”  S&P has indicated Sobeys has “some latitude” within its
investment-grade rating for “acquisition-driven” debt
increases, RBC’s Calder said.  “A lot of other people can speculate, we can’t,” S&P
analyst Donald Marleau said. He declined to comment further,
citing the firm’s disclosure policy.  “They are leveraging their balance sheet for this
acquisition and that inevitably makes the credit riskier for any
bond investor and the spreads are reflecting that,” Roshan Thiru, a  money manager  at Manulife Asset Management Ltd., said
in a phone interview from Toronto. “While a downgrade by S&P to
sub-investment grade is possible, I think it is also possible
that the rating agency might give Sobeys some leeway and time to
delever.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  