-- Sorouh, Aldar Surge as They Seek Merger in June: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-06-13T10:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/sorouh-aldar-surge-as-they-seek-merger-in-june-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  and  Aldar
Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  rallied after the biggest developers in Abu
Dhabi sought to complete their merger this month, helping the
benchmark index rebound from losses.  Sorouh climbed 8.3 percent to 2.99 dirhams, the highest
since November 2009, while Aldar advanced 4.3 percent to 2.42
dirhams, the strongest since January 2011. They were the most-traded stocks on the benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , which pared
losses to close little changed.  Aldar and Sorouh, which plan to create a developer with $13
billion in assets, said today they expect the proposed merger to
take effect between June 20 and June 30 after approval from the
Abu Dhabi Executive Council and a ministerial resolution. Aldar
is offering 1.288 shares for every Sorouh stock in an all-share
transaction. Sorouh won’t be halted before the merger takes
effect, the companies said today.  Sorouh shares rose on “news that the merger will be
effective by end of the month, and the shares will not be halted
from trading during that period,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner
at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  About 79 million Sorouh shares were traded, or 4.3 times
the three-month daily average, compared with 176 million for
Aldar, almost five times the average for the same period. Sorouh
has more than doubled in value this year and Aldar gained 91
percent.  Four  analysts  recommend investors buy Sorouh while two say
hold and two say sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with four buys,  three holds  and one sell for
Aldar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  