-- Spain Recession Seen Ending by 2014 as Austerity Eases
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n d r e   T a r t a r
-- 2013-06-13T12:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/spain-s-recession-seen-ending-by-2014-bloomberg-survey.html
The  Spanish economy  will shake off
its recession and growth will accelerate through 2015 as
European Union officials ease demands for budget cuts,
economists said.  Economic output in Spain will increase for the first time
since 2011 in the first quarter of 2014 and expand by 0.5
percent over the year, according to the median of 32 forecasts
in the Bloomberg monthly survey. That compares with a previous
estimate for a 0.3 percent expansion next year. The economy will
grow by 0.9 percent in 2015, the survey showed.  “There is an expectation that the fiscal consolidation
will be less of a drag than before,”  Luigi Speranza , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  last month persuaded the
European Commission to push back the deadline for bringing the
Spanish  budget deficit  into line with EU limits by two years to
2016 to help support demand. European policy makers have reined
in their deficit-cutting vigor and the  International Monetary
Fund  issued a  mea culpa  for its role in policy measures that
helped knock 17 percent off Greek output since 2008.  Spain’s budget deficit will narrow to 5.6 percent of gross
domestic product next year from 6.5 percent this year, according
to the survey. Last month’s poll showed a 5.2 percent deficit
for next year.  ‘Unproductive’ Spending  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said June 9 he expects
Spain’s economy to surpass consensus forecasts this quarter and
renewed the government’s pledge to reverse income tax hikes
before 2015 when the next election is due. The government will
begin cutting income tax next year, Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said in a radio interview today.  House prices  in Spain fell at the fastest pace on record in
the first quarter. Home values dropped 6.6 percent from the
previous three months, data showed today.  Last week de Guindos rejected calls by European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  for the government to cut
“unproductive” spending to increase the room for tax cuts to
spur growth. De Guindos said Spain’s decision to deliver about
30 percent of its  deficit reduction  through tax increases was
endorsed by the European Commission and the ECB.  “What matters is what the ECB thinks as an institution,”
he said on June 7 when asked about Draghi’s comments.  The ECB raised its 2014 growth forecast for the single-currency area to 1.1 percent from 1 percent last week even as it
projected a deeper contraction this year of 0.6 percent.  Euro Region  In a separate Bloomberg survey of 50 economists, the median
estimate forecast for the euro area was for a 0.6 percent
contraction this year. Their forecast for 2014 is for 1 percent
growth, the survey shows.  In the ECB’s monthly bulletin released today, officials
wrote that underlying euro-region price pressures are “expected
to remain subdued” and that accommodative monetary policy and
an improvement in financial markets should support prospects for
an economic recovery later this year.  Rajoy is urging Draghi to introduce a program to channel
credit to small and medium-sized companies in  Spain , Italy and
Portugal to provide an additional stimulus to economic activity.
Those companies haven’t benefited from  record low interest rates 
because many banks are rebuilding their balance sheets,
restricting the amount of credit available.  “The issue for the periphery remains that monetary and
financial conditions are tight,” Speranza said.  U.K. Economy  Economists raised their forecast for U.K. growth in the
current quarter, predicting expansion of 0.3 percent instead of
0.2 percent, another survey shows. They see GDP rising 0.9
percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2014, both an increase of
0.1 percentage point from last month’s results.  The average inflation rate in the U.K. will exceed the  Bank
of England ’s 2 percent target through 2015, according to the
survey. For this year as a whole, the economists predict a rate
of 2.7 percent, followed by 2.4 percent in 2014 and 2.2 percent
the year after that.  Elsewhere today, Australia unexpectedly boosted payrolls in
May and unemployment declined as the job market withstood a
weaker domestic outlook.  New Zealand  and South Korea kept
 interest rates  unchanged, while  Indonesia  unexpectedly raised
its  reference rate  to 6 percent from 5.75 percent.  In the U.S., retail sales increased in May by 0.6 percent,
in May, the most in three months. The median forecast of 83
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.4 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Tartar in London at 
 atartar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  