-- Speedy U.S. Review of Gas-Export Applications Pledged by Moniz
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-06-13T17:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/speedy-u-s-review-of-gas-export-applications-pledged-by-moniz.html
U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz
pledged to speed reviews of applications to export natural gas
and told lawmakers he supported development of all types of
power, including from alternate sources.  Moniz, confirmed by the  U.S. Senate  a month ago, defended
 government spending  on clean-energy projects that Republicans
have faulted, saying  climate change  is a risk and the
investments would give the U.S. an advantage in a burgeoning
global  renewable-energy  market.  Federal spending has “laid the foundation for a new
technology enterprise in this country,” Moniz said today during
his first appearance before the House Energy and Commerce
Committee as secretary.  Moniz, a physics professor at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  when he was nominated, faced some of the same
Republican complaints about clean-energy spending as his
predecessor, Steven Chu, although lawmakers today pledged to
work with the department. Chu, also a physicist, was criticized
by Republicans as a cheerleader for clean-energy investments,
which critics said wasted taxpayer money. Lawmakers attacked the
program after solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC went bankrupt two
years after winning a half-billion dollar U.S. loan guarantee.  Gas Exports  Moniz said the department would expeditiously act on
requests from producers to export natural gas. The department is
reviewing about 20 applications from companies including
 Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  to sell liquefied natural gas to nations
without free-trade agreements with the U.S., a reflection of how
rising gas production from hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
has shifted the energy debate.  Issues stemming from fracking for oil and gas in shale
formations can be managed, and most of the risks tied to the
drilling technique stemmed from poor well design, Moniz told
lawmakers.  “We know what to do,” Moniz said.  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the committee, said the president’s budget for the
department “doubles down” on “failed policies” that haven’t
delivered the promised new jobs.  The budget includes $2.8 billion for the Office of Energy
Efficiency and Renewable Energy, a 56 percent increase from this
year’s budget, according to a House Republican staff memo.  Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and
chairman of the energy and power subcommittee, urged the
administration to devote resources into fossil-fuel research.  Referring to a comment Chu made before he became energy
chief, Whitfield said the U.S. doesn’t need an energy secretary
who considers coal to be “his worst nightmare.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  