-- Sportech Falls as U.K. Tax Agency Appeals Ruling: London Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-06-13T15:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/sportech-falls-as-u-k-tax-agency-appeals-ruling-london-mover.html
Sportech Plc (SPO) , a U.K. sports-betting
company, fell the most since November 2009 after saying
Britain’s tax authority won permission to appeal a judgment
requiring it to refund levies to the company.  Sportech declined 10.2 percent to 88 pence in  London 
trading, the biggest fall since Nov. 23, 2009, after saying an
appeal by Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs will probably be heard
in the early to middle part of next year. The company, with its
operational base in Liverpool and registered office in Glasgow,
 Scotland , said in March that it had a won a claim that may
result in the payment of more than 80 million pounds ($125
million) in overpaid tax and interest.  “It does remove any chance of an early settlement and that
in itself is disappointing and frustrating,”  Nick Batram , an
analyst at Peel Hunt LLP, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
a setback on a bad day in the market and that is why I think you
have seen the shares hit as hard as they are.”  Sportech’s claim is that it overpaid  sales tax  on a betting
game between 1979 and 1996. The company, which handled more than
$13 billion in bets last year around the world, rose 19 percent
on March 8 after saying a tax tribunal had found in its favor.  Batram cut his price target on the stock to 116 pence from
125 pence after the announcement. He kept his buy rating, saying
he ultimately expects Sportech to win the claim.  About 118,400 shares traded in London, the equivalent of 80
percent of average daily trading over the past three months. The
stock has climbed 25 percent this year, even after today’s fall,
valuing the company at 175 million pounds.  “We are surprised by such a swift response,” analysts
including Simon French at Panmure Gordon & Co., wrote in a
report today. “Nevertheless, we maintain our view that the
original decision will be upheld.”  Panmure reiterated its  buy  recommendation today saying that
it expected good progress in the company’s U.S. business and
“solid  cash flow ” in the U.K. when Sportech issues six- month
results at the end of August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  