-- Spreadtrum Leads ADRs Rally on U.S. Data: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-13T21:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/spreadtrum-leads-adrs-rally-on-u-s-data-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose for the first
time in three days in  New York , led by  Spreadtrum Communications
Inc. (SPRD) , as better-than forecast U.S. economic data outweighed
concern that a slowdown in  Asia ’s biggest economy will deepen.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. advanced 0.8 percent to 87.96,
rebounding from the lowest level since April. Spreadtrum jumped
the most in four months after the Shanghai-based mobile-chip
designer boosted its sales forecast, while  China Southern
Airlines Co. (CEA)  traded at the highest premium over  Hong Kong  stock
in a year.  China Eastern  Airlines Corp. rose after a four-day
slump, while 21Vianet Group Inc. surged to a seven-month high.  Retail sales in the U.S.,  China ’s largest export market in
2012, rose 0.6 percent last month, the biggest increase in three
months, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday. That
compared with a 0.4 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley yesterday lowered its
estimate for China’s 2013 gross domestic product growth to 7.6
percent from 8.2 percent, joining UBS AG, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and Barclays Plc in lowering the forecasts.  “The U.S. economic recovery is good news for China as well
as the global economy,” Tan Chiheng, an analyst at Granite
Point Capital Inc. in  Boston , which invests in Chinese equities,
said in a telephone interview. “Chinese stocks traded in Hong
Kong may open higher because of the U.S. optimism today.”  ETF Climbs  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 1 percent to $34.94,
rebounding from the lowest level since September. The Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index surged 1.5 percent to 1,636.36, rising for
the first time in four days.  Spreadtrum said second-quarter sales will rise as much as
61 percent from a year earlier to $278 million, raising its
forecast from $228 million, according to its statement
yesterday. The company also expected gross margins to improve.  The higher revenue estimate was “due to the continuing
strong demand throughout the quarter for low-cost smartphones,”
Chief Executive Officer Leo Li said, according to the statement.  Spreadtrum’s American depositary receipts jumped 11 percent
to $20.97, the biggest advance since February. Its ADRs had
dropped 7.7 percent this quarter before yesterday’s rally, as a
May 20 data release from China Mobile Ltd. showed the nation’s
biggest phone company added fewer third-generation subscribers
in April.  Selloff ‘Unwarranted’  The selloff triggered by concern that China Mobile’s
subscriber growth may be slowing was “unwarranted,”  Jay Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC in New York,
wrote in a note yesterday. “Spreadtrum’s raising guidance for
the second quarter suggests otherwise.”  China Southern, Asia’s biggest carrier by passenger
numbers, surged 4.4 percent to $22.21, jumping the most since
April 16. Its ADRs, each representing 50 underlying shares in
the Guangzhou-based company, traded 4.2 percent above stocks
traded in Hong Kong, the widest premium since June 2012.  China Eastern, the nation’s second-biggest carrier, climbed
3.4 percent to $15.74 for the steepest gain in two months.  Total passengers increased 8 percent in May from a year
earlier, compared with a 5.9 percent growth in April, according
to data from the Shanghai-based company yesterday.  21Vianet, operator of the largest private Internet-data
center in China, climbed 3.3 percent in its ninth day of gains,
the longest stretch of advances on record. It reached $11.35,
the highest level since Nov. 2.  Phoenix New Media, a Beijing-based Internet, TV and mobile-news provider, tumbled 12 percent to $5.10 for the largest daily
loss since November 2011. The company had the biggest decline on
the China-US gauge.  A 11-day slump in the Hang Seng China enterprises Index in
Hong Kong, the longest in 17 years, sent it to the lowest level
since Sept. 26. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  tumbled 2.8 percent
to 2,148.36 for the biggest loss in three months as trading
resumed after a public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  