-- State Spending at Highest Level Since U.S. Recession
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-06-13T03:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/state-spending-at-highest-level-since-u-s-recession.html
U.S. states are set to increase
spending this year to the highest levels since the recession as
rising tax collections provide funding for programs cut when the
economy faltered.  Revenue is exceeding forecasts in 30 states this budget
year, ending this month in most states, according to a report
released yesterday by the National Governors Association. That’s
helping lift spending to a record $699.2 billion, surpassing the
previous high in 2008, as the recession took hold.  The report shows how states are rebounding from the 18-month recession, which ended in June 2009. The shrinking economy
had prompted them to cut budgets and dismiss workers as revenue
tumbled.  “Things are getting a little better for states,” Dan Crippen, the executive director of the Washington-based National
Governors Association, said in an interview. “It’s a
comfortable moment.”  The stability could be upset by federal spending cuts,
rising health-care costs and bills for employee pensions that
continue to put pressure on state budgets, Crippen said.  Income tax collections increased 18 percent during the
first three months of this year, according to the Nelson A.
Rockefeller Institute of Government, based in  Albany , New York.
That was driven in part by federal tax increases that kicked in
this year, causing some taxpayers to sell investments last year
to avoid paying higher taxes.  ‘Nice Bump’  “Unfortunately, this nice bump in income taxes is not
something that’s going to continue,” said Scott Pattison, the
executive director of the National Association of State Budget
Officers, a Washington-based group that helped compile the
report.  With additional money coming in, more than a dozen states
adjusted their budgets this fiscal year to add $8.6 billion in
spending, largely for schools and health care, according to the
report. Many may finish the year with surpluses.  Minnesota  lifted spending on schools by $1.6 billion, while
Texas increased education spending by $2.1 billion and directed
another $4.5 billion to Medicaid, the joint federal and state
health-care program for the poor. New York,  Illinois , and
Washington state also increased spending in the middle of the
year.  During the next budget year, states are projected to boost
spending by 4.1 percent to $728 billion, the fourth straight
increase, according to the report. While that’s little changed
from the pace of the last three years, it’s slower than the
average 5.5 percent increase in state spending since 1979.  Revenue Projection  Revenue is projected to increase at a slower pace, at 2.8
percent, compared with a 4.2 percent gain in the current year.  “This has been a very difficult time financially for
states,” Pattison said. “You’re still seeing a fairly moderate
recovery.”  States’ ability to spend more on education and other
programs likely will be constrained by rising Medicaid costs,
Crippen said.  More residents who currently qualify for the program, and
aren’t enrolled, are expected to sign up to meet deadlines for
obtaining coverage under the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act, Crippen said. While the federal government will pay
for those who are newly eligible next year as the program
expands, states will have to pay part of the cost for the newly
enrolled who already qualify.  “States have begun to get a little more fiscal relief,”
he said. “But I think that’s very temporary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  