-- Statoil Sees Limited Upside in Sverdrup ‘Basement’ After Well
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-06-13T09:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/statoil-sees-limited-upside-in-sverdrup-basement-after-well.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s largest oil
company, said it sees limited potential for raised estimates in
the lower levels of its giant Johan Sverdrup discovery after
drilling a dry well.  A sidetrack well failed to find oil at the Cliffhanger
South area as well as in a secondary target in the “granitic
basement,” the Stavanger-based company said today in a
statement on its website.  “The core samples from this section contained oil shows,
but were confirmed to be non-producible,” Statoil said. “The
findings reduce the possibility for upside potential in the
basement section in the Johan Sverdrup area.”  The Sverdrup discovery, which could hold as much as 3.6
billion barrels according to operators Statoil and  Lundin
Petroleum AB (LUPE) , has rekindled interest in the Norwegian North Sea,
where crude production from maturing fields has dropped by half
since peaking in 2000.  “Statoil still sees potential in the Cliffhanger North
area,” said Gro G. Haatvedt, Statoil’s senior vice president
for exploration in Norway, in the statement. The company plans
another well in the coming months, she said.  Statoil also drilled a second well in the western part of
Sverdrup, which contained an 82-meter oil column with test
production of about 6,000 barrels a day. Statoil and its
partners at license 265 found flow properties in the upper part
of the reservoir ‘exceptional,” the company said.  The well is the largest oil column in the field to date,
according to Statoil.  Statoil slipped 1 percent to 125.9 kroner as of 11:16 a.m.
in Oslo. The benchmark OBX index slid 0.9 percent.  The company has a 40 percent stake in license 265, while
 Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR)  holds 20 percent, Petoro AS, which
manages Norway’s direct stakes in its oil and gas, has 30
percent. Lundin Petroleum holds the remaining 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo on  at
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  