-- Stockton Retiree Group Accepts $5 Million Settlement
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-13T17:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/stockton-retiree-group-accepts-5-million-settlement.html
Stockton,  California , the biggest
U.S. city to file for bankruptcy, will pay retirees as much as
$5.1 million to compensate them for having their health benefits
cut when the city sought court protection last year.  Under an agreement between a committee of retirees and the
city, the payment will resolve all claims related to the group’s
lost medical benefits. The money will be split among retirees
after Stockton wins court approval of a plan to adjust its debt.  “The liability for retiree medical benefits is estimated
by the parties to be in the hundreds of millions for the 1,100
retirees with bankruptcy claims,” the city said in a statement.
Stockton has been negotiating with creditors, including the
retirees, on how to handle claims filed in the bankruptcy.  The city of 296,000, an agricultural center about 80 miles
(130 kilometers) east of  San Francisco , is among three bankrupt
municipalities that have said they will try to force creditors,
including bondholders, to take less than the principal they are
owed. The others are San Bernardino, California, and Jefferson
County, Alabama.  Stockton rode a surge in new-home construction in the 2000s
before the housing crash set off a wave of foreclosures that
sapped tax-revenue gains.  Last year, the judge overseeing the city’s bankruptcy,
Christopher Klein in  Sacramento , California, rejected a request
by retirees to prevent Stockton from cutting their medical
benefits while the city was under court protection.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-bk-32118,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  