-- Strategic Rises to 7-Month High on Report It’s for Sale
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-06-13T21:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/strategic-rises-to-7-month-high-on-report-it-s-for-sale.html
Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE) , the
owner of luxury lodgings including the Ritz-Carlton Half Moon
Bay in  California  and Manhattan’s  JW Marriott Essex House New
York , jumped the most in seven months following a report that
the company may put itself up for sale.  Strategic, based in  Chicago , hired brokerage Eastdil
Secured LLC to help explore selling the firm, Reuters reported
today, citing two sources familiar with the matter that it
didn’t identify. The move comes after the resignation of Chief
Executive Officer Laurence Geller in November.  Geller’s departure from the Chicago-based owner of resorts
run by the Four Seasons and Ritz-Carlton chains may open the
door for potential buyers, Will Marks, a San Francisco-based
analyst at JMP Securities LLC, said at the time. Geller is
barred under the terms of his separation agreement from making
his own bid for the company for 18 months.  The stock gained 9.5 percent to $8.44, the most since Nov.
5. The shares have climbed 32 percent this year.  Strategic holds stakes in luxury hotels such as the Four
Seasons Jackson Hole in  Wyoming  and Four Seasons Silicon Valley
in California. In September, Strategic bought Essex House, an
80-year-old hotel on Central Park South in  Manhattan , for $362.3
million. Strategic formed a partnership with KSL Capital
Partners LLC to fund the acquisition.  Strategic Hotels Chief Financial Officer Diane Morefield
and Megan Hakes, a spokeswoman for the hotelier, didn’t
immediately return telephone messages seeking comment on a
possible sale. Lawrence Wolfe, an Eastdil senior managing
director, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  