-- Zimbabwe’s Tsvangirai Rejects Election Date for July 31
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-06-13T14:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/tsvangirai-rejects-july-31-zimbabwe-election-date-set-by-mugabe.html
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe’s
decision to set the election date for July 31 is “unlawful and
unconstitutional,” Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai said.  Presidential and parliamentary elections will held on July
31, with a runoff if necessary on Sept. 11, Mugabe said today in
the country’s official Government Gazette. The proclamation was
made to comply with a court-set deadline, Mugabe said in a
separate letter to Tsvangirai.  “I cannot and will not accept this,” Tsvangirai told
reporters in Harare today.  Mugabe’s  Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front
and Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change party share
power under a 2009 agreement brokered by a regional political
bloc following disputed elections.  The Constitutional Court on May 31 ruled that Mugabe must
set elections by the end of July. Leaders from the 15-nation
Southern African Development Community are scheduled to meet in
 Mozambique  on June 15 to discuss Zimbabwe’s elections.  “SADC has the responsibility of ensuring that they call
the president to order,” Tsvangirai said. “The government has
no money for elections.”  Tsvangirai said he’s instructed lawyers to file an urgent
court application to oppose Mugabe’s decision.  No Time  Zimbabwe can’t comply with the court’s ruling without
violating the constitution, David Coltart, a Zimbabwean senator
and secretary for legal affairs for the MDC, said on June 6.
There isn’t enough time to register voters and nominate
candidates for Parliament 30 days before the vote as the
constitution stipulates, he said.  There are “too few days between now and July 31 to meet
constitutional requirements,” Tsvangirai said in a separate
phone interview today.  SADC leaders must address  “laws that impact on how
elections are held, access to the media and the behavior of
police and military forces,” he said. “Without reforms,
Zimbabwe is heading to another contested, predatory and
illegitimate election.”  The Constitutional Court ruling is being challenged by
Nixon Nyikadzino, a manager at the Crisis in Zimbabwe Coalition,
a grouping of human rights and legal activists.  NI AFRICA
NI AFRICAX
NI AME
NI EM
NI SADC
NI ZIMB  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  