-- Swiss Stocks Decline for Third Day to Near Seven-Week Low
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-13T13:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/swiss-stocks-decline-for-third-day-to-near-seven-week-low.html
Swiss stocks  fell, with the Swiss
Market Index heading for its lowest close in seven weeks, as
Japanese equities entered a bear market and speculation grew
that central banks may scale back stimulus measures.  Nestle SA (NESN)  lost 1 percent, contributing the most to declines
in  Switzerland . Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of the
Cartier brand, slid 2 percent to a four-week low. Holcim Ltd.
lost 2.2 percent as shares of European cement makers dropped.  The SMI dropped 0.6 percent to 7,612.7 at 3:51 p.m. in
Zurich. The gauge trimmed an earlier slide of as much as 1.7
percent as U.S. retail sales increased more than forecast. The
equity benchmark is heading for a fourth week of declines, the
longest stretch of losses in a year, and has pared this year’s
advance to 12 percent.  “The main fear is still that central banks are going to
pare stimulus and print less money, which has been the main
driver for equity markets,” said Urs Beck, a portfolio manager
for Swiss equities at Zuercher Kantonalbank AG, which oversees
about 191.4 billion Swiss francs ($207 billion). “The market
has become more vulnerable and volatile lately, and now a  bear
market  has been called in  Japan .”  The number of shares changing hands on SMI-listed companies
today was 20 percent higher than the average of the past 30
days, Bloomberg data show. The broader  Swiss Performance Index (SPI) 
slid 0.6 percent.  Japan Rout  Japanese stocks plunged, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
sliding more than 20 percent from its May 22 high, as the yen
rose to its strongest level against the dollar in two months.  In the U.S.,  retail sales  rose 0.6 percent last month, the
biggest increase in three months, Commerce Department figures
showed today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.4 percent advance.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, Labor Department data showed.  The  Federal Reserve  will hold its two-day policy meeting
next week, with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  scheduled to speak
after the central bank’s decision on June 19. The SMI has
tumbled 9.5 percent since May 22 as Bernanke said the central
bank may scale back its bond-buying program if the U.S. labor
market “improves in a real and sustainable way.”  The  VSMI index , which measures the cost of options hedging
against price swings in Swiss shares, climbed 1.5 percent to
20.03, a third day of gains.  “On days of high volatility, you might try to hide in
higher quality defensive Swiss stocks,” Beck said. “Still,
these stocks are the most liquid in Switzerland and even
defensives don’t behave defensive on days like today.”  Nestle Falls  Nestle, which makes up 22 percent of the  SMI (SMI)  by  weight ,
lost 1 percent to 61.6 francs. Exane BNP Paribas cut its price
target on the stock to 72 francs from 74 francs, saying weakness
in emerging-market currencies may hurt earnings. UBS also
reduced its price target by 2 percent to 65 francs.  Richemont, the world’s largest luxury jewelry maker, slid 2
percent to 80.5 francs. Swatch Group AG, the biggest maker of
Swiss watches, declined 1.9 percent to 528 francs, the lowest
price in two weeks.  Holcim fell 2.2 percent to 67.85 francs. The shares have
lost 7.1 percent so far this week, which would be the biggest
decline since November 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  