-- Dubai Shares Gains as MSCI Outweighs Global Outlook; Egypt Rises
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-06-13T13:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/u-a-e-shares-drop-as-global-outlook-trumps-msci-egypt-declines.html
Dubai’s shares rose for a third day,
reversing losses as  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s upgrade for the United Arab
Emirates outweighed a revision in global growth forecasts that
triggered drops in Asia and Europe.  Egypt  shares also rose.  The benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , the world’s third-best
performer this year among 94 gauges tracked by Bloomberg, gained
0.2 percent, taking its three-day advance to 2.3 percent. It
fell as much as 1.6 percent earlier. Abu Dhabi’s measure was
little changed after losing as much as 1 percent, while Egypt’s
EGX 30 Index, which tumbled into a bear market yesterday, rose
1.2 percent amid increased buying this month by foreigners.  “At first people reacted negatively because global markets
and Asian markets were down,” Mohab Maher, a senior manager at
Mena Corp Financial Services, said by phone. “They still have
confidence in the market that there will be cash inflow coming
sooner or later following the MSCI’s decision.”  MSCI promoted the U.A.E., a federation of seven emirates
including the capital Abu Dhabi and Dubai, and Qatar to
emerging-market status after five years of review. Emerging-market stocks fell to the lowest level in 10 months after the
World Bank cut its global growth forecast to 2.2 percent from
2.4 percent and investors weighed the prospects for reduced
monetary stimulus.  Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI) , the Middle East’s biggest no-frills
airline, was the largest advancer in Dubai, increasing 2.7
percent.  Egypt ‘Oversold’  In Egypt, Commercial International Bank Ltd., the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, rose 1.4 percent, helping boost
the benchmark EGX 30 along with 22 other stocks as of the 2:30
p.m. close in Cairo. The index dropped 5.2 percent yesterday
after MSCI said it may review the nation’s emerging-market
status if a foreign-currency shortage worsens.  “Yesterday’s drop may have signaled to some investors that
the market is oversold,” Hassan Kenawi, equities trader at
Cairo-based HC Brokerage, said by phone. “The market’s overall
decline remains due to the political tension that is building
toward the end of the month, so today’s gain won’t likely be
sustained.”  Anti-government activists are preparing for nationwide
demonstrations at the end of the month.  Elsewhere in the Middle East,  Israel ’s benchmark  TA-25
Index (TA-25)  dropped 0.5 percent to 1,222.13. Oman’s MSM30 Index fell
0.9 percent and  Kuwait ’s gauge declined 0.5 percent. Qatar’s QE
Index slid 0.4 percent. Saudi Arabia’s market is closed today
for the weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  