-- U.K. Wheat Crop May Be Better Than Expected Amid Drier Weather
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-06-13T13:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/u-k-wheat-crop-may-be-better-than-expected-amid-drier-weather.html
The wheat crop in the U.K., the
European Union’s third-largest grower, may be bigger than
previously expected after drier weather in the past two months
allowed plant development to accelerate.  Wheat production may be about 12 million metric tons in the
2013-14 harvest, which starts in July, said Jack Watts, a senior
analyst at the Agriculture & Horticulture Development Board.
That compares with an estimate of as  low  as 9.9 million tons in
March. Output is expected to be almost 10 percent less than the
previous season’s harvest of 13.3 million tons, after excess
rain prevented farmers from planting some winter crops last
September and October, he said yesterday.  “Crop prospects in the last two months have improved,”
Watts said in an interview at the Cereals conference in
Lincolnshire, England. “The weather has been relatively kind to
the wheat crop. The industry crop estimates are heading toward
12 million tons, which is lower than last year, but still it’s
an improvement from what people were thinking before.”  Feed wheat futures rallied to a record on NYSE Liffe in
 London  last year as the country saw its second-wettest year on
record, Met Office data show. Global production slid 6 percent
last year amid dry weather in areas of  Russia  and eastern
Europe.  In March, the AHDB said production in the 2013-14 season
would be between 9.9 million tons and 13.3 million tons. Many
industry analysts were expecting output would fall toward the
lower end of that range, before weather conditions started
improving in recent weeks, Watts said.  Less Planting  U.K. farmers may have planted wheat for the 2013-14 harvest
on an area 29 percent smaller than a year earler, and crop
development remains as much as two weeks behind the normal pace,
the National Farmers Union said yesterday. The country had its
 coldest  spring this year since 1962, with temperatures in March,
April and May averaging about 6 degrees Celsius (43 degrees
Fahrenheit), according to the Met Office.  “We’re looking at below-normal yields because of the late
drilling, cold winter, cold spring and lack of sunshine,” said
Dennis Tabor, who estimates that wheat yields at his farm near
Braintree,  England , may be 60 percent to 75 percent lower than
last year. “The east side of the country has been just about
the coldest, and we had six or eight weeks with really cold
winds in March and April.”  Still, weather this spring has been drier than in 2012,
with rainfall in March, April and May estimated at 92 percent of
normal, Met Office data show. Precipitation was below average in
March and April and above normal in May, it said.  The quality of the U.K.’s wheat crops may also improve,
said Andrew Watts, the NFU’s combinable crops chairman. Last
year, rain eroded grain weights, reducing the amount of flour
yielded from every kernel, the AHDB has said.  “Certainly we’re in a better place than we were eight
weeks ago,” Watts said at a press conference yesterday.
“There’s no question things look better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  