-- U.K. Stocks Little Changed, Paring Earlier Losses
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-06-13T16:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/u-k-stocks-slide-to-lowest-since-april-as-rbs-retreats.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed,
recovering from the lowest level in almost two months, as shares
of mining companies advanced and U.S. retail sales topped
economists’ forecasts.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. Plc led a gauge of London-listed commodity producers higher after  China  abolished import
licenses for  iron ore .  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell 3.3
percent after saying Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  will
step down.  Home Retail  Group Plc dropped the most in 13 months
after predicting subdued  consumer spending  this year.  The FTSE 100 Index rose 5.18 points, less than 0.1 percent,
to 6,304.63 at the close of trading in  London , recovering from
an earlier slide of 1.5 percent. The gauge has lost 7.8 percent
since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that
the central bank could pare stimulus if the U.S. labor market
“improves in a real and sustainable way.” The broader FTSE
All-Share Index fell less than 0.1 percent and Ireland’s ISEQ
Index both slipped 0.2 percent.  “Markets pared losses after the strong U.S. retail sales
and jobless claims data,” Stephane Ekolo, chief European
strategist at Market Securities in London, wrote in an e-mail.
“We may assume that there were some market participants who
were waiting for a better entry point in to the market and when
we reached those levels, they bought.”  U.S. retail sales in May rose more than forecast, data
showed today. The 0.6 percent increase was the biggest in three
months and followed a 0.1 percent gain in April, Commerce
Department figures showed. The median forecast of 83 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.4 percent advance. Data
from a separate report indicated fewer Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week.  Commodity Producers  ENRC gained 3.2 percent to 240.7 pence.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s largest mining company, added 1.8 percent to 1,793
pence. Rio Tinto Group, the second biggest, climbed 2.6 percent
to 2,759.5 pence.  A gauge of  commodity producers  rose 1.8 percent, its
biggest increase in three weeks. An industry official said China
has scrapped the import-licensing system for iron ore. The
decision will benefit small and medium-sized trading companies,
said Wang Chunsheng, head of iron-ore trading at Shougang Group
and a former vice-secretary general of the China Iron and Steel
Association.  Vedanta Resources Plc gained 3.1 percent to 1,185 pence
after Konkola Copper Mines, majority owned by the Indian metals
producer, said it doesn’t owe tax payments to the Zambia Revenue
Authority. The  Zambia Daily Mail  had earlier this month reported
that KCM owed $26 million.  Evraz Plc, the largest Russian steelmaker by output,
climbed 5.1 percent to 119.5 pence, its biggest gain since May
7.  Consort Medical Plc advanced 5 percent to 778 pence, for
its biggest gain this year. The U.K. medical-device maker posted
a full-year pretax profit of 19.6 million pounds ($31 million)
and announced a dividend of 12.71 pence a share.  RBS CEO  RBS lost 3.3 percent to 315 pence after saying Hester will
leave later this year as the state-controlled British bank
prepares for privatization.  “The resignation of the RBS CEO ahead of the privatization
was a surprise for the markets as he was well regarded and
investors would have been keen to have him stay until the
process of the privatization was well advanced,” Ekolo said.  Home Retail (HOME)  plunged 9 percent to 131.1 pence, its largest
drop since May 2012. The retailer’s Argos stores chain posted
first-quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates. Home Retail
said it expects consumer spending to remain subdued this year
and that full-year profit margins at its Homebase home-improvement chain will narrow by 0.5 percentage point.  Elan Corp., the Irish drug maker, fell 5.2 percent to 9.29
euros, the biggest drop in four months, after Royalty Pharma, an
investor in intellectual-property revenue streams from
pharmaceuticals, said it may be forced to end its bid to
takeover the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  