-- U.K. Honeybee Colony Losses in Winter Were Highest on Record
-- B y   D a n   W e e k s
-- 2013-06-13T11:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/u-k-honeybee-colony-losses-in-winter-were-highest-on-record-1-.html
The U.K. lost a third of its
honeybee colonies during the winter of 2012-13, the highest rate
since an annual survey began, after adverse weather last year
prevented bees from leaving hives to seek pollen.  The average loss rate jumped to 33.8 of every 100 colonies
from 16.2 a year earlier, the Stoneleigh Park, England-based
British Beekeepers Association  said  today on its website.
Conditions may have deteriorated since the survey period ended
March 31 because spring was delayed, it said.  Pollination, mainly from honeybees, makes possible an
estimated one-third of all food and beverages, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency said this month in a  statement .
2012 was the U.K.’s second-wettest year on record and the
rainiest ever for  England , according to the Met Office, the
national weather forecaster.  “The poor summer of 2012 meant honeybees were regularly
prevented from gathering pollen and foraging,” the association
said. “When they could go out, there was a general scarcity of
pollen and nectar throughout the season. Virgin queens were
unable to mate properly, leading them to become drone-laying
queens, causing those colonies affected to die out.”  The honeybee is the only bee variety to maintain colonies
throughout winter, depending on stored honey to survive when
temperatures are too low to forage or no food is available, the
association said.  The group examined data from 846 survey forms returned by
members chosen at random to compare colony numbers as of Oct. 1
and March 31, according to the statement. The latest winter’s
loss rate was the worst since at least 2007-08, the statement
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Weeks in London at 
 dweeks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  