-- U.K. House Prices Rise to Record as Mortgage Market Loosens
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/u-k-house-prices-rise-to-record-as-mortgage-market-loosens.html
House prices  in England and Wales
rose to a record in May as government measures to ease credit
strains improved the  availability of mortgages .  The average cost of a home rose 0.4 percent from April to
233,061 pounds ($365,000), Acadametrics and  LSL Property
Services Plc (LSL)  said in a monthly report published in London today.
Prices were up 2.7 percent from a year earlier.  The government has offered assistance to prospective home
buyers and cheap finance to banks to aid the  property market .
Critics of the latest initiative, designed to help people
struggling to raise a deposit, say the plan risks fueling
another property bubble.  Government efforts “have acted like a steroid injection
for the mortgage market and made it markedly stronger than last
year,”  David Brown , commercial director of LSL Property
Services, said in the report. “The only real solution is a
sustained improvement in the wider economy which will help
increase the supply of mortgage finance and improve demand for
it.”  Seven of the 10 regions tracked by Acadametrics showed an
average annual increase over the last three months, led by a
10.1 percent pickup in London. Wales had the biggest drop of
three regions showing declines, at 1.3 percent. The average
price was 151,821 pounds, down 10.8 percent from a peak reached
in October 2007.  North/South Divide  A “North/South” divide in property prices persisted as
foreign purchasers continue to be drawn to London while other
parts of the country suffer from government spending cuts, the
report said.  “The red hot London market is giving the property market
as a whole a deceptively healthy glow,” Brown said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King  last year announced a Funding for
Lending plan to give banks that improve lending cheap access to
finance. Data so far show that net lending still hasn’t turned
positive, though some mortgage rates have dropped.  “More needs to be achieved to help banks lend to new
buyers, as a strong improvement in first-time buyer lending is
the crucial catalyst for a full market recovery,” Brown said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  