-- Donald Leads Mickelson by One Shot as U.S. Open Resumes Play
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-14T11:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/u-s-open-golf-at-merion-club-is-suspended-by-approaching-storms.html
Luke Donald holds a one-shot lead
over Phil Mickelson as first-round play resumed this morning at
golf’s U.S. Open, the season’s second major championship.  Donald was among 78 players in the 156-man field unable to
complete the opening round yesterday at Merion Golf Club in
Ardmore,  Pennsylvania , after play was halted twice by
thunderstorms that moved through the Philadelphia area.  Donald, a 35-year-old Englishman, had completed 13 holes.  Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy and Adam Scott -- the three top-ranked golfers in the world -- resumed play on the 11th hole
this morning, with Woods sinking a par putt of less than five
feet. Woods moved to 3-over this morning when he bogeyed the
12th.  Yesterday’s first weather suspension interrupted
Mickelson’s morning round and lasted about 3 1/2 hours, while
the second halted play for 45 minutes while Woods and his group
were on the course after teeing off at 4:44 p.m. Play was
stopped for the night at 8:16 p.m.  It was the 13th of 24 U.S. PGA Tour events that’s had some
sort of delay this season.  Friday Forecast  The forecast for today calls for a high of 73 degrees (23
Celsius) with a 30 percent chance of showers, according to the
National Weather Service.  Yesterday’s rain further softened a course that was already
soaked by storms that dumped about six inches of water at Merion
in the week leading up to the tournament.  Scott, the reigning Masters champion, also took advantage
of yesterday’s favorable afternoon conditions and birdied his
final hole of the day to get to 3 under through 11 holes.  Scott was playing with McIlroy and Woods, a three-time U.S.
Open winner. McIlroy is 1 under par.  Defending Champ  Defending U.S. Open champion  Webb Simpson  was 2 under after
completing eight holes. Mathew Goggin and Alistair Presnell of
 Australia  are also on the course at 2 under, each with six holes
completed.  Of the 78 players who started in the morning and finished
the first round, only two were under par.  Mickelson opened his round with a three-putt bogey on the
par-4 11th hole and then made four birdies, including one of
about 30 feet on the 237-yard, par-3 ninth hole, to climb atop
the leaderboard. Mickelson, 42, also opened with a 3-under 67 in
the 1999 U.S. Open in Pinehurst, North Carolina, where he had
the first of his five second-place finishes.  The past three years, Mickelson started the U.S. Open with
rounds of 76, 74 and 75.  “It’s the best U.S. Open setup I’ve ever seen,” Mickelson
told reporters. “They moved the tees back on the more difficult
holes, which made it even tougher pars. I love that because if
you’re playing well you’re going to be able to make pars and
you’re going to be able to separate yourself from the field by
making pars. But on the easy holes they didn’t trick them up and
take away your birdie opportunities.”  Tough Scoring  Seventy-one of yesterday’s 78 early starters shot over par
at the 6,996-yard course, the shortest U.S. Open venue since New
York’s Shinnecock Hills played at the same yardage in 2004.  “You can’t really be aggressive on the greens,” said
Nicolas Colsaerts of  Belgium , who at 1 under was the only player
other than Mickelson to finish the first round below par.
“They’re not the fastest, but fast enough to get you in trouble
at times.”  Charl Schwartzel and Tim Clark of South Africa opened with
even-par rounds of 70, as did Jerry Kelly and  Rickie Fowler  of
the U.S. and Australia’s Jason Day.  Sergio Garcia of Spain, who last month apologized for a
racial comment directed toward Woods, shot a 3-over par 73.
Garcia had one eagle, four birdies, three bogeys, a double-bogey
and a quadruple-bogey 8 at the par-4 15th hole.  While some fans were heard criticizing Garcia, he said the
comments weren’t distracting.  “There were a couple here and there, but I felt that the
people were very nice for the whole day,” he said. “I think
that almost all of them were behind me and that was nice to
see.”  Brandt Snedeker, the U.S. PGA Tour’s 2012 FedEx Cup
champion, shot 74, while Keegan Bradley, the 2011 PGA
Championship winner, opened with a 77. Bradley has yet to shoot
below par in five career U.S. Open rounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Ardmore, Pennsylvania at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  