-- U.S. Doctors May Order Office Workers Out of Their Chairs
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/u-s-doctors-may-order-office-workers-out-of-their-chairs.html
Sitting in front of a computer
monitor all day may soon be officially against doctors’ advice.  The  American Medical Association , which represents  225,000
doctors  in the U.S. and recommends ways to improve public health
and medical care, will consider whether to recognize the dangers
of sitting all day -- at work, in the car or at home -- at its
annual policy meeting. The proposed resolution is among about
150 to be debated at AMA’s meeting starting June 15 in  Chicago .  The resolution cites a 2006 study of 222,000 Australians
that found sitting for more than four hours a day, often at
work, caused 6.9 percent of deaths. That was after controlling
for things such as obesity and physical activity. Other research
has determined that sitting or being sedentary most of the day
can raise the risk of  heart disease , obesity, diabetes, cancer
and low sperm count in men.  “Many individuals are forced to spend numerous hours each
day sitting at work or in the classroom without available
alternatives,” said the doctors, members of the California
Medical Association, in the  resolution  they are sponsoring.  The doctors call for work breaks, standing work stations,
use of isometric balls instead of chairs and other ways of
making time spent at a work desk less harmful to long-term
health.  One 2011 study found that among professional workers in
Minneapolis, many spend about half their entire work day sitting
down.  Obesity Resolution  Other resolutions to be considered will decide whether to
declare obesity a disease, clarifying it from what the proposal
calls a mix of definitions. The groups sponsoring the proposal,
including the  American College of Cardiology  and the American
College of Surgeons, compared obesity as a health threat with
 lung cancer  caused by smoking.  More than two-thirds of U.S. adults are overweight or
 obese , according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Obesity-related health costs are more than $168
billion annually, according to a Feb. 20 study in JAMA-Surgery.  There are now medical methods to treat obesity, the group
 said , and it should be managed and recognized accordingly. That
includes drugs, bariatric surgery and lifestyle changes.  Another proposal would recommend banning the marketing of
energy drinks, such as those made by  Red Bull  GmbH and  Monster
Beverage Corp. (MNST)  Coca-Cola Co. is the world’s biggest maker of
carbonated beverages, and along with  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and Red Bull
dominate the market for sport and energy drinks.  The organization will also weigh in on genetic information
and discrimination and labeling alcohol content in over-the-counter drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  