-- U.S. Surveillance Court Won’t Stop Secret Ruling Release
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/u-s-surveillance-court-won-t-stop-secret-ruling-release-1-.html
The secret U.S. court that rules on
surveillance requests from intelligence agencies said it won’t
stand in the way of an activist group’s lawsuit seeking the
release of one of its nonpublic opinions.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton , in his capacity as
presiding judge of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court,
ruled June 12 that copies of the opinion in the possession of
the government being sought by the Electronic Frontier
Foundation are subject to review under the Freedom of
Information Act, FOIA.  “There is nothing anomalous in the conclusion that the
rules of this court do not prohibit the government from
disclosing the copies of the opinion,” Walton said in the
ruling. “It is fundamentally the executive branch’s
responsibility to safeguard sensitive national security
information.”  The ruling, which left it up to the court hearing the FOIA
case to determine whether the document would be disclosed, comes
amid new debate over the government’s surveillance powers after
a former National Security Agency contractor admitted leaking
classified documents about secret programs that scoop up
Americans’ phone and Internet records.  Fourth Amendment  The San Francisco-based Electronic Frontier Foundation sued
the Justice Department on Aug. 30 in federal court in  Washington 
after the government refused to turn over a court opinion in
which a judge found that some of the surveillance being carried
out by intelligence agencies was unreasonable under the  Fourth
Amendment  or circumvented the spirit of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act.  The surveillance court’s opinion was mentioned in a July
2012 letter from Kathleen Turner, director of legislative
affairs for the Office of Director of National Intelligence to
Senator  Ron Wyden , who sought a classification review of three
statements he sought to publicly make about surveillance
efforts.  On at least one occasion the surveillance court held that
some of the data collection was unreasonable under the Fourth
Amendment, according to the foundation’s lawsuit citing the
letter.  The lawsuit was put on hold while Walton considered the
Justice Department’s argument that the intelligence court’s
rules prevented the opinion from being disclosed.  The foundation said in a blog post that its victory was ’’a
modest one.’’  “The court didn’t order disclosure of its opinion; it just
made clear, as EFF had argued, that the FISC’s own rules don’t
serve as an obstacle to disclosure of the opinion.”  Andrew Ames, a  Justice Department  spokesman, said in an e-mail that the department was reviewing the decision.  The FOIA case is Electronic Frontier Foundation v.
 Department of Justice , 12-cv-01441, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 