-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Rise for a Sixth Straight Week
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-06-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/u-s-mortgage-rates-rise-for-a-sixth-straight-week.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  rose for a sixth
week, extending a surge in interest costs spurred by speculation
that the Federal Reserve will scale back stimulus efforts.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage climbed to
3.98 percent, a 14-month high, from 3.91 percent last week,
McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  said in a statement. The
average 15-year rate increased to 3.1 percent from 3.03 percent.  Borrowing costs have jumped in past month, pushing buyers
to lock in deals before rates climb even further. Home-loan
applications increased for the first time in five weeks, the
 Mortgage Bankers Association  said yesterday. The group’s
 refinancing  index gained 5 percent in the period ended June 7,
while the  purchase  gauge advanced 4.7 percent.  “Mortgage applications for home purchases have built a
bottom and are grinding higher,”  John Herrmann , director of
U.S. rate strategy at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. in New
York, said yesterday in a note to clients. “Sales to investors
and all-cash deals have accounted for a significant portion of
home sales over the past two years. Going forward, the true
recovery in housing needs to be led by households purchasing
homes on margin.”  At the current 30-year average, monthly payments for a
$300,000 loan would be about $1,429, up from $1,322 in early
May, when borrowing costs hovered near record lows.  Housing Expectations  Rising demand for a tight  supply  of listings is fueling
price gains. U.S. home prices in April jumped 12.1 percent from
a year earlier, the most since February 2006, according to
CoreLogic Inc., an  Irvine , California-based data provider.  While increasing rates may damp home sales temporarily,
“we do not think it will derail the recovery,”  Michelle Meyer ,
a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York,
wrote yesterday in a note to clients. “A powerful counter to
rising rates is the improvement in expectations about the
housing market, as well as low inventory.”  Mortgage rates have been following a surge in 10-year
Treasury  yields , which touched an almost 14-month high on June
11 amid concern that the central bank may slow purchases of  U.S.
government debt  as the economy improves.  The record rate for a 30-year loan is 3.31 percent, reached
in November, according to  Freddie Mac . The 15-year average fell
to a record-low 2.56 percent last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  