-- UBS Investment Bank Names Sara Ferrari to Emerging Markets Role
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-06-13T10:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/ubs-investment-bank-names-sara-ferrari-to-emerging-markets-role.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  said Sara Ferrari will
coordinate the development of the  emerging markets  business
within the investment bank as the biggest Swiss wealth manager
expands in those regions, according to an internal memo.  Ferrari will take on the role in addition to her position
as the head of strategy at the investment bank reporting to
 Andrea Orcel , the chief executive officer of the division,
according to the memo from the unit’s executive committee today.
A UBS official confirmed the memo’s contents.  “Emerging markets is an area where we need to refine and
focus our strategy,” UBS said in the memo. “We also need to
enhance our coordination in this area across the investment bank
and with  wealth management  and wealth management Americas.”  The investment bank hasn’t had anyone responsible for
emerging markets recently. Yassine Bouhara, a former co-head of
equities at UBS who was supposed to become the head of emerging
markets in 2011, resigned before assuming that post in the
aftermath of a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading.  By creating positions such as Ferrari’s, UBS plans to
promote cooperation within different businesses of the
investment bank and between the division and UBS’s other units.
The bank said in April David Soanes, who headed  investment
banking  in  Europe , would assume a new role as the global head of
financial institutions and sovereign wealth fund coordination.  Maximizing Collaboration  UBS said today it will also seek to maximize collaboration
across other businesses within its corporate client solutions
and investor client services units at the investment bank. The
areas are cash equity capital markets and cash equities,
strategic equity solutions and equity derivatives, debt capital
markets and investment grade, leveraged finance and high yield,
corporate real estate and commercial mortgage-backed securities.  UBS last week appointed Brendan Connolly to replace Rajeev Misra as global head of financing solutions at the investment
bank as it integrates the group into its corporate client
solutions unit.  The bank is also creating a management advisory group that
will meet regularly to discuss strategic issues, with
invitations to the group dependent on the persons’ contribution
to the company rather than just rank and responsibility,
according to the memo.  “We are making excellent progress,” the company said in
the memo. “We are confident that by continuing to work
passionately together we will create unrivaled value for clients
and will establish UBS investment bank as a clear new benchmark
in our industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  