-- Mulberry’s Guillon Sees Profit Revival Without Creative Head
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-06-14T07:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/mulberry-s-guillon-plans-profit-revival-without-creative-head.html
Mulberry Group Plc (MUL)  Chief Executive
Officer Bruno Guillon has some catching up to do.  After cutting forecasts twice in his first year at the
helm, the 47-year-old CEO is pledging to return the British
luxury-goods maker to growth in the next 12 months, even without
the help of Mulberry’s celebrated creative director.  Guillon agrees with Barclays that  pretax profit  will rise
12 percent to 29 million pounds ($45 million) in fiscal 2014, he
said in an interview yesterday. While the Somerset, England-based company’s dependence on  Europe  for 80 percent of  revenue 
is “dangerous” given the region’s economic struggles, new
stores in  Asia  and the U.S. mean the worst should be behind the
maker of 2,500-pound ostrich leather bags, Guillon said.  “We need to be cautious, but we are still confident in the
future because we continue to take the steps that will give us
the global expansion that we are looking for,” the CEO said by
phone after Mulberry posted a 28 percent drop in 2013 profit.
“It’s a necessity for us to go and make sure we can be
successful in the U.S. and Asia” where the company will open
most of the 15 to 20 new stores it plans this year, he said.  Mulberry follows luxury-goods makers including Milan-based
 Prada SpA (1913)  in increasing prices and expanding outside of Europe
as domestic demand weakens in the region. Prada, which raised
prices by less than 10 percent in three months through April,
plans to open as many as 80 stores in 2013, including in Asia.  Reduced Spending  “Our belief that Mulberry can move from a domestic U.K.
brand to a global brand remains high, providing significant
long-term growth potential,” said Barclays analyst Helen Norris, who has an equal-weight  recommendation  on the shares.  While Guillon cooled fiscal 2013 earnings expectations in
March, partly because of reduced tourist spending, he couldn’t
prepare investors for this week’s announcement that creative
director Emma Hill wants to quit. The news wiped 87 pence, or
8.2 percent, off Mulberry’s share price.  The  shares  fell a further 2 percent to 930 pence yesterday,
extending their decline in the past year to 54 percent. They
gained 0.9 percent to 938 pence at 8:15 a.m. in  London  today.  Hill, 42, is credited with driving Mulberry’s growth over
the past six years with bags such as the  Alexa , costing 2,500
pounds in deer brown hair calf, and Del Rey, 1,100 pounds in
textured lizard print. She disagreed with Guillon’s decision to
move the brand upscale, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be named because the matter is private.  That’s surprising because Hill helped set the strategy,
Guillon said yesterday.  ‘Not Uncommon’  “When I came on board there were already a lot of ideas on
the table,” said the CEO, who joined in March 2012 from Paris-based  Hermes International SCA. (RMS)  “It’s not uncommon that a
creative director is leaving after nearly six years in the same
company to take new challenges.”  Hill, who according to Women’s Wear Daily is among
candidates to succeed Reed Krakoff as creative director at U.S.
bagmaker  Coach Inc. (COH) , doesn’t have another job lined up, said the
person familiar with her plans. Mulberry declined to make Hill
available for an interview.  The company is looking both internally and externally for
her replacement, Guillon said. Mulberry’s 20-person accessories
and ready-to-wear designer team can cope without her, he said.  “While there is likely to be some short-term disruption,
the group has a strong design team,” said Barclays’ Norris.  Mulberry yesterday reported a drop in full-year pretax
profit to 26 million pounds on revenue that fell 2 percent to
165.1 million pounds. It added 17 international stores in the
year, bringing the total to 115, and invested in a second U.K.
factory that opened this month.  Bayswater Bag  While raising prices 12 percent in November opened a new
price point from 1,000 pounds to 1,500 pounds, more than 60
percent of Mulberry’s bags still cost clients less than 1,000
pounds, Guillon said. The increase, which the CEO attributed to
higher charges for top-quality leather, didn’t affect consumer
demand in November and December, he said. A 1,500-pound version
of the company’s best-known Bayswater bag made with more
expensive leather sold out in two weeks, he said.  “There is a potential for us to go bit a higher,” he
said. “But at the same time we are reinforcing the base and
core business. There is absolutely no revolution here.”  Retail revenue climbed 9 percent in the 10 weeks through
June 8, rising 6 percent on a like-for-like basis. Mulberry
expects “modest” growth in wholesale sales for the full year,
it said. Responses to the fall-winter 2013 and spring-summer
2014 collections have been “good,” Guillon said.  “It’s not going to be easy in the U.K.,” he said. Still,
“we are confident.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  