-- Lululemon Plans Men’s Stores by 2016 in Bid to Maintain Growth
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-06-13T18:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/lululemon-plans-men-s-stores-by-2016-in-bid-to-maintain-growth.html
Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , having won
over millions of women with its high-priced yoga gear, wants to
keep growth going by chasing men.  The chain will start opening standalone men’s stores by
2016, Chief Executive Officer Christine Day said today in a
presentation at a William Blair & Co. conference in  Chicago . Her
comments followed an announcement earlier this week that she’s
retiring from the Vancouver-based company once the board finds a
successor.  While Day said Lululemon’s existing menswear has sold well,
brands associated with women have struggled to reach men in the
past.  Deckers Outdoor Corp. (DECK) ’s Uggs brand enlisted New England
Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  to make the case that wearing the
furry boots was OK for males; the results were less than
spectacular.  If Lululemon is going to win men over, the chain will
“need to jump in the game and make a commitment to a men’s-oriented experience,” Eli Portnoy, chief executive officer of
CultureRanch LLC, a Miami-based brand strategy consulting firm,
said in a phone interview.  Lululemon’s clothing for men include golf polos for $98 and
underwear for $48. Day said one polo top sold out in less than
48 hours online. Men’s apparel accounts for a “mid- to high-teen” percentage of the company’s sales mix, Betty Chen, a San
Francisco-based analyst for Wedbush Securities, Inc. said in a
phone interview.  Men’s same-store sales have been higher than the rest of
the business “in general,” John Currie, chief financial
officer, said on Lululemon’s earnings conference call June 10.
He didn’t provide specific figures.  Since Lululemon said Day was leaving, the shares have
plunged. While they  rose  3.8 percent to $66.75 at 2:26 p.m. in
 New York , they had fallen 16 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 13 percent rise in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  