-- UN Climate-Talks Collapse Piles Pressure on November Summit
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-06-13T15:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/un-climate-talks-collapse-piles-pressure-on-november-summit.html
United Nations talks on reforms to
emissions-market rules stalled this week after members rejected
a proposal to reconsider the body’s decision-making rules,
putting additional pressure on a climate summit in November.  The loss of two weeks’ negotiating time means that items
that were due to be discussed in Bonn from June 3 through June
14 may now be revisited at the UN’s annual  climate conference  in
Warsaw at the end of the year, adding to an already-packed
agenda that may not be fully addressed, according to a project
developers’ group.  “Countries have between now and the beginning of the UN
 Climate Change  Conference in Warsaw to unblock the situation so
that relevant decisions can be taken at the meeting,” Tomasz Chruszczow, chairman of the Subsidiary Body on Implementation,
or SBI, said June 11 in a  UN statement . “It is essential that
the time is used for discussions at the highest political level
on how to resolve the issue so that this body can take forward
its important work.”  The SBI, one of three tracks of negotiations taking place
in Bonn, had been due to discuss a variety of issues including a
review of the rules governing UN carbon offset projects and
proposals to address loss and damages resulting from the effects
of climate change.  ‘Procedural Violations’  The request to discuss rules of procedure came after last
year’s climate summit in Doha was brought to a close over the
objections of  Russia  and Ukraine. The countries opposed a
decision restricting their ability to sell surplus Kyoto permits
in the eight years to 2020. Oleg Shamonov, Russia’s chief
climate negotiator, said he was “highly disappointed in both
the procedural violations and the conduct of business,” in an
interview at the end of the December climate talks.  Despite appeals from the U.S., the European Union,  China 
and  India , the three countries refused to accept a compromise
solution, and Chruszczow closed the session June 11. Talks will
resume under Polish guidance in Warsaw Nov. 22.  “I see my role as a guardian of the process, and not a
Roman emperor who gives a thumbs-up or thumbs-down to decide who
to slay,” Chruszczow said yesterday in an interview in Bonn.
“This is the attitude the Polish presidency will have; nobody
in the Polish presidency will replace the rule of law with the
rule of force.”  Time Loss  The loss of two weeks’ negotiating time may mean that a
review of UN offset market rules may not be completed by the end
of the year, said  Gareth Phillips , chairman of the Project
Developers’ Forum, a group representing investors and developers
of clean energy projects that generate carbon credits.  “We’ve lost a massive amount of time,” Phillips said
today in an interview in Bonn. “Parties were already in two
minds over whether they could complete the review of the CDM in
Warsaw, so now it looks very unlikely we can conclude the work
by then.”  The delay may give emerging market mechanisms being
discussed valuable time to advance and gain exposure,
threatening the future flow of funds to the Clean Development
Mechanism, Phillips said.  “It’s bad news for the CDM, as it gives other new
mechanisms time to get established and increases the likelihood
that buying parties will look at these mechanisms before the
CDM,” he said.  Record Low  Prices for UN offsets plunged as much as 99 percent from
their peak in July 2008 to an April 17 record low of 20 euro
cents on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . Credits for
December were unchanged at 46 cents at 3:01 p.m. today.  The suspension of one of the three negotiating strands in
Bonn is unlikely to affect wider talks aimed at crafting a
global agreement on climate action by 2015, according to Ruth
Davis, political director of Greenpeace U.K.  “You really can’t expect there to be a negotiation at the
seriousness of this one, which is about transforming the whole
global energy economy, without there being hurdles and
obstacles,” she said today in an interview in Bonn.  The collapse of the talks led one of the key participants
in the negotiations over the  Kyoto Protocol  in 1997 to call for
Chruszczow to resign.  In an open letter dated June 11, Raul Estrada-Oyuela, a
retired Argentinian diplomat who led the final negotiations over
the Protocol in  Japan  more than 15 years ago, said the
“frustration of an important political meeting” would have a
“political cost.”  Serious Issue  Speaking by phone from  Buenos Aires  yesterday, Estrada-Oyuela said the halt of the talks was a serious issue.
Chruszczow declined to comment on the letter when contacted
today through his spokeswoman Lidia Wojtal.  The UNFCCC drafted a  set of rules  in 1995 governing its
processes, including decision-making, that haven’t been formally
adopted at any meeting since then. The draft rules call for
decisions to be taken by consensus which, Estrada-Oyuela said,
is binding on the UNFCCC, not on  member states .  “Consensus is not defined in writing,” he said. “It’s a
legal opinion drawn up for the legal services of the UN.”  The abrupt end to the discussions in Bonn this week
reflected “business as usual,” Chruszczow said yesterday.  “We have the rules of procedure, they’re not perfect,
they’re not fully agreed, but they’re being applied,” he said.
“If consensus is to be the rule then we have to respect our own
decisions, otherwise we are just taking everything back to the
Middle Ages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  