-- Thunderstorms Threaten East With Flight Delays, Floods
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-13T13:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/thunderstorms-threaten-east-with-flight-delays-floods.html
A line of thunderstorms that touched
off tornadoes, knocked out power to thousands and grounded
hundreds of flights across the Midwest is bringing rain and
potential flooding to the East Coast, including  Washington  and
New York.  Rain falling in New York during the day will become more
intense overnight and into tomorrow, according to the  National
Weather Service . Two to 3 inches (5 to 8 centimeters) may fall,
with some locations receiving more.  “Low pressure will intensify as it approaches from the
Ohio Valley today and pass south and east of Long Island tonight
through Friday morning,” said a weather service flood watch for
New York. “This system is expected to produce heavy rain at
times.”  Just before 7 a.m. New York time, planes were being held at
their origin airports for flights to New York LaGuardia, New
Jersey’s Newark Liberty, Philadelphia, Baltimore-Washington
International and Washington’s Reagan National and Dulles
International because of “weather/thunderstorms,” according to
the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration ’s travel website.  Delays on inbound flights to LaGuardia averaged 94 minutes,
said FlightAware.com, a Houston-based tracking service.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , which had 100 flights delayed or
diverted by the storm in Chicago yesterday, expects to see more
delays in Baltimore and Philadelphia, said  Whitney Eichinger , a
spokeswoman for the Dallas-based airline.  American Airlines Inc. (AAMRQ) 
has dropped a “handful” of flights today and doesn’t expect
widespread cancellations, said  Matt Miller , a spokesman based in
Fort Worth, Texas.  Storm Damage  The system spawned tornadoes across Iowa, Illinois and Ohio
yesterday, damaging buildings, snapping trees and downing  power
lines , according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,
Oklahoma. Large hail and gusts as intense as 72 miles (116
kilometers) per hour were reported across the region.  At least 593 flights into and out of Chicago’s O’Hare
International and Midway airports were canceled yesterday,
 FlightAware  said.  More than 66,000 customers in Chicago and northern  Indiana 
were without power yesterday, according to utility reports. An
additional 58,000 customers lost power in Pennsylvania and Ohio.  Flood warning and watches stretch today from Massachusetts
to  Virginia . An area from central  New Jersey  to northern
Virginia, including Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington, has
a 45 percent chance of high winds, hail and possibly tornadoes,
according to a storm center forecast.  Meteorologists had feared yesterday’s thunderstorms would
coalesce into a derecho, characterized by winds of at least 58
miles (93 kilometers) per hour, creating a line of damage at
least 240 miles long. A derecho swept through the Midwest into
the mid-Atlantic  a year ago , knocking out power to 5 million
people from Chicago to Washington and killing 22, according to
government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  