-- Uruguay Denies Targeting Currency as Peso Plunges Most in World
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-13T16:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/uruguay-denies-targeting-currency-as-peso-plunges-most-in-world.html
Uruguay isn’t targeting a specific
 exchange rate  even as it deters capital inflows and overhauls
its monetary policy regime to help domestic industry, central
bank President Mario Bergara said.  Uruguay last week imposed a 50 percent reserve requirement
on foreigners’ purchase of peso bonds and said it was ditching
the use of a single policy rate in a bid to curb inflows that
have eroded competitiveness. Portfolio investment has been
flooding Uruguay over the past 18 months as growth in Brazil has
slowed and  interest rates  there touched a record low, making
assets in Uruguay, which has been raising  interest rates  to
fight inflation, more attractive, said Bergara.  “If only a small share of capital that went to  Brazil 
would now come to Uruguay, it would create a massive capital
inflow,” Bergara said in an interview at a banking conference
in Dubrovnik,  Croatia .  Uruguay’s measures, enacted even as Brazil removes barriers
to foreign investment amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
taper its stimulus efforts, may exacerbate inflation and
undermine the bank’s credibility, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
June 10 report. Uruguay’s peso has been the world’s worst-performing currency since the measures were unveiled June 6,
declining 2.6 percent, while its investment grade-rated bonds
are the worst-performing among  emerging markets  this year,
falling 11.9 percent.  Policy Tool  On July 1, the central bank will begin managing the  money
supply  instead of using a single policy rate as its main tool to
fight inflation, reintroducing a system it used prior to 2007.
Bergara said the decision to abandon the five-year-old regime
will allow the bank to better fulfill its twin mission of
ensuring  price stability  along with economic growth.  The changes, including a widening of the bank’s inflation
target to 3 percent to 7 percent from a current 4 percent to 6
percent range, doesn’t “imply a more expansionary stance for
the monetary policy at all,” Bergara said. Inflation in May
fell for the third straight month to 8.06 percent.  “We are fundamentalist in our objectives and in our
responsibility in keeping the macroeconomic scenario stable,”
he said. “But we are more pragmatic in terms of tools.”  Uruguay’s success in stabilizing its economy --  Standard &
Poor’s  raised the country to investment grade last year -- and a
hunt for higher yields in emerging markets have created greater
distortions than in bigger economies such as Brazil, whose
economy is more than 50 times larger.  In 2011, only 2 percent of Uruguay’s peso-denominated debt
was in foreign hands compared with 50 percent currently, Economy
Minister Fernando Lorenzo said while announcing the measures
last week.  High Yields  One reason for the strong inflows is an economy that
Bergara says will expand at a “reasonable” 3 percent to 4
percent pace this year, faster than the 2.53 percent economists
forecast for Brazil. The country’s 9.25 percent benchmark rate
also exceeds Brazil’s, though the differential has narrowed
since policy makers there began raising the Selic rate in April.  While a weaker exchange rate won’t resolve all of Uruguay’s
competitiveness problems, it will help address some of the
misalignments without compromising the government’s record of
having market-friendly policies, Bergara said.  “We don’t have any specific target, because we think that
the exchange rate flexibility is one of the corners of our
economy policy strategy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  