-- TVA Will Cut 530 Jobs at Stalled Alabama Nuclear Plant
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/tva-will-cut-530-jobs-at-stalled-alabama-nuclear-plant.html
Less than a week after another
utility announced it will give up trying to restart a pair of
nuclear reactors, the  Tennessee Valley Authority  said it will
shelve a project in northeastern  Alabama  and eliminate 530 jobs.  TVA, the largest U.S. government-owned power company, will
cut 495 contractor jobs and 35 employees supporting work at the
Bellefonte plant in Hollywood, Alabama, according to a  statement 
yesterday from the Knoxville, Tennessee-based authority. It will
also cut $116 million in spending as it focuses on completing
another reactor in  Tennessee .  “Over the past few months, TVA has been looking across the
company, including at our nuclear construction projects, to
determine the work that is most important to perform,” Mike Skaggs, the TVA senior vice president for nuclear construction,
said in the statement. “Hard decisions are necessary.”  The U.S. nuclear industry is wrestling with competition
from a glut of natural gas, which has lowered its price and made
the fuel more attractive for electric utilities. At the same
time, U.S. regulators are writing safety rules following a
triple meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in 2011.  Reactor owners including Rosemead, California-based  Edison
International (EIX)  are permanently shutting operating reactors.
Edison announced June 7 it will shut its San Onofre plant near
 San Diego , bringing to four the number of U.S. reactors to be
removed from service this year. That’s the most in any year
since the nation embraced nuclear energy.  Budget Cuts  President  Barack Obama  in his 2014 budget proposed selling
all or part of the TVA. The deal would raise as much as $35
billion as the administration seeks to reduce the national debt.
The U.S. created the authority during the Great Depression to
bring electricity to rural communities.  The TVA will cut spending for Bellefonte to $66 million in
the year ending Sept. 30, 2014, from $182 million this year, as
it seeks to complete its Watts Bar Unit 2 reactor, about 60
miles (97 kilometers) southwest of Knoxville.  The spending cuts are unrelated to Obama’s sale proposal,
Duncan Mansfield, a TVA spokesman, said in a phone interview.
The power authority is seeking to cut consumer rates as it
focuses on completing the Watts Bar unit, scheduled to be in
operation by the end of 2015, he said.  About 140 employees and contractors will remain at
Bellefonte in 2014 for work including maintenance and security,
according to the TVA. The authority will seek work within the
corporation for some of the displaced workers, Mansfield said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  