-- Vaccine-Maker Litha Won’t Pay Dividends as It Looks for Buys
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-06-13T05:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/vaccine-maker-litha-won-t-pay-dividends-as-it-looks-for-buys.html
Litha Healthcare Group Ltd. (LHG) , the
worst performer on South Africa’s small-cap index this year,
won’t pay dividends for 2013 as the maker of flu and hepatitis
vaccines looks for acquisitions.  The  stock  lost  28 percent  this year after climbing 25
percent in 2012. The FTSE/JSE Africa Small Cap Index gained 7.6
percent in 2013, beating the 1.3 percent rise in the bourse’s
all-share index. Litha advanced 0.8 percent yesterday to 2.60
rand for a market value of 1.4 billion rand ($140 million).  “There probably won’t be prospects of dividends in the
short to medium term, because we see a lot of opportunity out
there in terms of consolidation in our pharmaceutical
division,” Chief Financial Officer Martin Kahanovitz said by
phone from Johannesburg yesterday. “We can possibly make
further acquisitions whether it be on a product basis or a
business basis.”  Litha offered investors 3.90 rand a share in February as
part of a transaction to include black investors that would’ve
seen the company taken private and delisted from the
 Johannesburg Stock Exchange . Talks ended after terms weren’t
agreed on, Litha said May 9, spurring a 16 percent slide in the
stock since then.  “With that deal falling away, obviously there was big
disappointment which was reflected in the sharp fall in the
share price,” Jean Pierre Verster, who helps oversee $800
million at 36ONE Asset Management, said by phone yesterday from
Johannesburg. Investors would have expected a premium to the
share price being paid to delist Litha, he said.  Montreal-based  Paladin Labs Inc. (PLB)  holds a 44.5 percent stake
of the company following Litha’s acquisition of Paladin’s
Pharmaplan Proprietary Ltd. for 590 million rand in cash and new
shares last year. Initial buyout targets will probably include
drugs registered with  South Africa ’s Medicines Control Council,
Verster said.  “We can utilize that cash better by just building further
scale in our pharmaceutical division,” Kahanovitz said.  Litha’s 14-day  relative strength index  fell as low as 13 on
May 29 and was at 31 yesterday, trading above the 30 level
deemed as oversold for the first time in five days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  