-- Vodafone Said to Weigh Fastweb Purchase in Internet Push
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-06-13T18:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/vodafone-said-to-eye-fastweb-as-it-maps-out-expansion-options.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which has
approached Germany’s  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  about a
takeover, is also considering an eventual acquisition of Fastweb
SpA in Italy to expand its fixed-line and Internet assets,
people familiar with the matter said.  The U.K. company has Fastweb, a unit of  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , on a
list of potential targets as it considers options to add faster-growing investments in Europe, said the people, declining to be
identified as the deliberations are private. For now, Vodafone
is focused on completing a takeover of  Kabel Deutschland , a deal
worth at least $9 billion, they said.  Vodafone, the world’s second-largest wireless company, is
mapping out possible deals as it explores how to use proceeds
from the eventual sale of its 45 percent stake in U.S. mobile
company  Verizon Wireless , a transaction that may reap more than
$100 billion. Fastweb, Italy’s third-largest retail broadband
operator, has 1.9 million customers, the company said last
month, and a book value of 2.9 billion euros ($3.9 billion).  Vodafone made two informal approaches for Fastweb this year
and in 2011 that were rejected by Swisscom, two of the people
said. Vodafone spokesman Simon Gordon declined to comment on the
company’s interest in Fastweb. Swisscom spokesman Carsten Roetz
declined to comment on any possible transaction.  Swisscom shares closed up 1.2 percent at 406.70 Swiss
francs in Zurich after gaining as much as 2 percent earlier.
Vodafone stock fell 1.3 percent to 178.70 pence in  London .  Fastweb Cuts  Swisscom acquired Fastweb in 2007 to counter slowing growth
in the Swiss market. It had to report a writedown on the value
of the unit in 2012 amid intense competition in Italy and a
weakening euro.  Swisscom said it would cut costs at Fastweb by 120 million
euros through 2014 through “bad-debt management, organizational
optimization and targeting the number of managers,” Chief
Executive Officer Carsten Schloter said in 2012.  Still, Fastweb doubled its net customer gains in 2012 from
2011 as it bundled TV and broadband packages in a partnership
with Sky Italia Srl, the company said in February. Last year,
Fastweb signed an  agreement  with  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  to develop
broadband infrastructure together. Fastweb generated 398 million
euros in revenue in the first quarter and 97 million euros of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
it said last month.  Kabel Deutschland  Vodafone is looking for acquisitions and partnerships
across Europe as it works to expand the services it can offer
customers. Increasingly popular bundles of television, phone and
 Internet service  raise total monthly bills and may provide a way
for the company to grow in an otherwise saturated market.  Newbury, England-based Vodafone said yesterday that it’s
interested in acquiring Kabel Deutschland to expand services in
Germany. Vodafone contacted Kabel Deutschland to discuss an
offer in the past week, people familiar with the matter said.  Telecommunications companies have commanded a 27 percent
takeover premium in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, based on the average of 27 acquisitions
valued at more than $1 billion.  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s pending deal
for  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  would be the largest this year. The
Japanese company’s latest offer for Sprint is $21.6 billion for
a 78 percent stake.  The telecommunications industry has been involved in $83.8
billion in transactions this year, according to data from 244
deals compiled by Bloomberg. It’s followed by the real-estate
industry, which has accounted for $64.1 billion spent.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  wants to dissolve its joint
venture Verizon Wireless with Vodafone this year to win full
control over the biggest U.S. wireless provider, people familiar
with the matter have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  