-- White House Talks on Syria Intensify Before Obama Heads to G-8
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-13T20:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/white-house-talks-on-syria-intensify-before-obama-heads-to-g-8.html
The worsening situation in  Syria  has
accelerated deliberations inside the Obama administration about
the next steps for the U.S. ahead of next week’s Group of Eight
Summit with world leaders.  “We’re fully aware about the worsening situation in Syria
and are assessing options in light of that,” White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters today.  The U.S. is “concerned by the involvement of outside
actors in trying to prop up” Syrian President Bashar al-Assad,
Carney said. At the same time, the Syrian opposition “has
strengthened and has become more sophisticated” and the U.S.
has “worked more directly with them and developed stronger
relationships with leaders within the opposition.”  Carney’s comments came a day after top U.S. national
security officials met at the White House to discuss options
that may include arming the Syrian rebels, and after former
President  Bill Clinton  said at an event yesterday that President
 Barack Obama  should act more forcefully in Syria.  The Syrian rebellion will be a leading topic when Obama and
other world leaders meet next week at the G-8 summit in  Northern
Ireland . The group is composed of leaders from the U.S.,  France ,
U.K.,  Germany ,  Italy ,  Japan ,  Canada  and  Russia .  Clinton, according to a report published by Politico, said
that aid to the Assad regime from Russia as well as Iran and
Hezbollah raises the question of whether the U.S. should “do
something to try to slow their gains and rebalance the power so
that these rebel groups have a decent chance.” Hezbollah is
considered a terrorist group by the U.S. and  Israel .  Asked to respond to Clinton’s critique, which was made in a
closed event at the McCain Institute for International
Leadership in  New York , Carney said that Obama welcomes advice
from “people who have expertise in this matter” while taking a
long-view approach.  White House Meeting  Secretary of State  John Kerry , Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, were among participants yesterday at the White
House meeting on Syria policy, according to a U.S. official.  Kerry canceled plans for a trip to the  Middle East  this
week to participate in the talks including discussions about
what the U.S. can do to aid rebel forces opposing Assad’s
regime. The official asked not to be identified because the
meeting wasn’t publicly announced.  Obama didn’t attend as he was traveling for political
events in Massachusetts and Florida.  “We’re meeting to talk about the various balances in this
issue right now,” Kerry told reporters yesterday, speaking
about deliberations over Syria policy in general and not about
the White House meeting. Assad is “making it very difficult”
for the U.S. and allies to find a peaceful solution to the
conflict, he said.  Helping Rebels  “I have nothing to announce about that at this point, but
clearly the choice of weapons that he has engaged in, across the
board, challenge anybody’s values and standards of human
behavior,” Kerry said at a joint news conference with U.K.
Foreign Minister  William Hague . “We’re going to have to make
judgments for ourselves about how we can help the opposition to
be able to deal with that.”  Obama’s administration is under pressure from allies and
critics in Congress, such as Republican Senator  John McCain  of
Arizona, to provide arms to the Syrian opposition, which has
said it won’t participate in peace talks proposed by Kerry until
the U.S. does so. McCain has said Assad has no incentive to come
to peace talks if he is winning on the battlefield.  The administration has refrained from sending arms, in part
because of concern that the weapons could make their way into
the hands of radicals within the opposition.  Homs Focus  Last week, Assad’s regime captured the strategically
located city of al-Qusair, giving government forces control of
the road that leads from Damascus to Lebanon. The opposition
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , based in the U.K., said
Syrian forces have shifted their focus to the city of Homs, a
rebel stronghold 30 kilometers (19 miles) northeast of Qusair.  In a move to increase support for the rebels, the U.S.
yesterday waived restrictions on some exports to opposition-held
areas of Syria to help people there survive and rebuild.  The waiver by the administration allows U.S. companies to
avoid sanctions for the export of commodities, software and
equipment to opposition-held territories in farming,  food
processing , power generation, oil and gas production,
construction, engineering and transportation.  The aim is to help Syrians get by and rebuild shattered
cities, said a second official, who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity. The waiver was prompted, in part, by
companies asking to export goods such as water-purification
systems to rebel-held areas, the official said.  U.S. Waiver  The waiver was announced by e-mail as Kerry and Hague were
speaking at the State Department. The British diplomat cited a
need to tip the scales in favor of the opposition.  “We will have to be prepared to do more to save lives, to
pressure the Assad regime to negotiate seriously, and to prevent
the growth of extremism and terrorism if diplomatic efforts are
going to succeed,” Hague said.  Kerry and Hague stressed their desire for a political end
to the conflict and their certainty that weapons alone aren’t
the solution.  “It’s not a question to me whether or not the opposition
can, quote, win,” Kerry said. “It’s a question of whether or
not we can get to this political solution.”  Israel’s concerns that anti-aircraft weaponry could be used
against them are weighing on U.S. decision-making, said David
Ottaway, a senior scholar at the Wilson Center, a Washington
policy group.  Saudi Disappointment  Officials in Saudi Arabia and Qatar, which are providing
weapons to Syrian rebels, have been frustrated by U.S.
insistence that they not send anti-aircraft weaponry, said
Ottaway, who recently returned from the Saudi kingdom.  “They’re very disappointed in the U.S. attitude,” Ottaway
said in a phone interview. “Not only are we not providing arms,
we’re preventing the arms the Syrian rebels most need -- the
anti-aircraft missiles -- from going to them, mostly because of
Israeli concerns that they could get into the hands of
extremists who could target Israeli aircraft.”  In a report yesterday, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon recommended increasing the number of peacekeeping troops
in the Golan Heights, monitoring a 40-year cease-fire between
Syria and Israel, to 1,250 from a dwindling 900-person force. He
also said the peacekeepers’ mandate should be extended by six
months.  The recommendation comes as countries including Croatia and
Austria are pulling out of the force as the area becomes
increasingly dangerous due to spillover from the two-year Syrian
conflict.  “The ongoing military activities in the area of separation
continue to have the potential to escalate tensions between
Israel and the Syrian Arab Republic and to jeopardize the cease-fire between the two countries,” Ban said in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  