-- Williams Says Injuries After Fire at Louisiana Plant
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-06-13T16:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/williams-says-injuries-after-fire-at-louisiana-plant.html
Williams Cos. (WMB)  said an explosion and
fire at its chemical plant in Geismar, Louisiana, caused
injuries and unspecified damage at the facility, which accounts
for 2.1 percent of U.S. ethylene capacity.  The explosion occurred about 8:37 a.m local time and the
fire was “greatly diminished” as of 10 a.m., Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Williams said in an e-mailed statement today. The extent
of injuries and damage isn’t known, Sara Delgado, a company
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  The Geismar plant makes about 1.3 billion pounds a year of
ethylene, a flammable, colorless gas used in products ranging
from plastics to antifreeze. It also makes 90 million pounds of
polymer-grade propylene, used in plastics and textiles.  Damage to the plant may tighten markets and boost prices,
Andrew Cash, an Atlanta-based analyst at Suntrust Robinson Humphrey, said in a note today. Other major U.S. ethylene
producers include  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) 
and  Westlake Chemical Corp. (WLK)   The Louisiana Department of Health & Hospitals was unable
to confirm any injuries or deaths, Christina Stephens, a
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  Williams sold its stake in the plant for $2.26 billion last
year to  Williams Partners LP (WPZ) , a partnership it controls.
Williams Partners is building a $270 million expansion expected
to increase ethylene output 50 percent by year-end, according to
an Oct. 31 company statement. The effect of today’s explosion on
the expansion isn’t known, Delgado said.  Williams Partners declined 2 percent to $48.70 at 12:33
p.m. in New York after touching $47.65, its lowest intraday
price since Dec. 31. Williams, which also reached its lowest
since Dec. 31, dropped 0.7 percent to $33.80.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  