-- Williams Chemical Plant Blast Kills 1, Scores Are Wounded
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-06-13T21:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/williams-chemical-blast-leaves-2-dead-louisiana-official-says.html
One person died and scores were
injured by an explosion and fire at a  Williams Cos. (WMB)  chemical
plant in Louisiana, Governor  Bobby Jindal  said.  Seventy-three people were sent to hospitals for treatment,
including eight who were flown by helicopter, Jindal said at a
news conference today held near the plant in Geismar, 60 miles
(97 kilometers) northwest of  New Orleans . More than 300 people
were evacuated from the site and all employees have been
accounted for, the governor said.  “There’ll be further investigations afterwards to
determine what happened so this won’t happen again,” Jindal
said. “Right now, our focus is on the recovery and the rescue
efforts within the plant and to make sure folks outside in the
surrounding community are safe.”  The incident comes eight weeks after an explosion at a
fertilizer plant in West, Texas, killed 14 people and prompted
calls for tighter regulation of the  chemical industry .  The cause of the explosion at Geismar, which occurred at
8:37 a.m. local time, isn’t known, according to Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Williams. The plant was undergoing routine maintenance at
the time of the blast, Jindal said. No dangerous levels of toxic
chemicals were detected and shelter-in-place orders for the
public were lifted by 2 p.m., he said.  Four plants within a two-mile radius sheltered workers and
scaled back operations and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  shut
supply lines to the plant, Jindal said.  ‘Compliance Issues’  About 10 people are still on site at a plant safe room to
complete the shutdown of operations, the governor said.  The facility has previously had “no major events but they
have had some compliance issues,” Cheryl Nolan, assistant
secretary of  Louisiana ’s Department of Environmental Quality,
said at the news conference. “My staff is going to be looking
at that.”  The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration is
investigating today’s explosion, the Department of Labor said in
an e-mail.  The plant makes 90 million pounds (40 million kilograms) a
year of polymer-grade propylene, used in plastics and textiles.
The fire was fueled by propylene, “a very intense, high burning
flammable” substance, said Michael Edmonson, superintendent of
the Louisiana State Police.  The plant also makes about 1.3 billion pounds a year of
ethylene. That’s equal to 2 percent of U.S. production capacity
for the flammable, colorless gas used in products ranging from
plastics to antifreeze.  Capacity Expansion  Damage to the plant may tighten markets and boost prices,
Andrew Cash, an Atlanta-based analyst at Suntrust Robinson
Humphrey, said in a note today. Other major U.S. ethylene
producers include  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) 
and  Westlake Chemical Corp. (WLK)   Williams sold its stake in the facility for $2.26 billion
last year to  Williams Partners LP (WPZ) , a partnership it controls.
Williams Partners is spending $270 million on an expansion that
will increase ethylene output 50 percent by year-end, according
to an Oct. 31 company statement.  Williams Partners declined 2.5 percent to $48.43 at the
close in New York, the lowest price in three months. Williams
dropped 1 percent to $33.70.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  