-- Won Recovery Seen on BOJ’s Stimulus Reluctance: Market Reversal
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-06-13T16:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/won-recovery-seen-on-boj-s-stimulus-reluctance-market-reversal.html
South  Korea ’s won is poised to
rebound from its lowest level in two months versus the dollar as
Japan’s reluctance to expand stimulus measures reduces the
threat of more interest-rate cuts, trading patterns show.  The currency came within 0.03 percent of breaking the upper
limit of the dollar-won Bollinger band on June 11, which would
imply an imminent reversal. Options traders are paying the
highest premium in two months to sell the won, 25-delta risk
reversal rates show. What’s known as a Z-score of 2.2 percent of
the measure means the premium is more than two units of standard
deviation from the 20-day average.  The Bank of Korea, which unexpectedly cut borrowing costs
on May 9 to help keep the nation’s exports competitive as the
yen tumbled, held its benchmark rate today after the Bank of
Japan left policy unchanged on June 11. The won, the fourth
worst-performing major currency this year, is getting squeezed
by the yen and speculation the Federal Reserve will pare its own
stimulus, boosting the greenback at the expense of higher-yielding rivals.  “The won was robbed because of fears that it had to stay
competitive,”  Win Thin , the global head of emerging-markets
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, said in a
June 11 telephone interview. “The big fundamental change is
that yen weakness had been turned for now, which will allow
Korea to claw back some competitiveness back with its exports.”  Turning Points  The South Korean currency fell 0.1 percent to 1,134.4 per
dollar in Seoul, and is down 6.2 percent in 2013. The won’s 14-day relative strength index against the dollar rose to 61.3,
approaching the 70 threshold that signals a currency has fallen
too far, too fast.  The won is testing the upper boundary of its 20-day
Bollinger band, indicating that it is due for a reversal. The
bands, developed by John Bollinger in the 1980s, are used by
technical analysts to identify the turning point in an asset’s
trajectory.  South Korea will continue policy efforts to support growth
in the second half of the year as the country’s economic outlook
remains uncertain amid stimulus measures undertaken by major
economies, including  Japan , Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said
before a June 11 meeting with economists in Seoul.  Hyun said May 31 that the yen’s 16 percent decline versus
the dollar during the past 12 months is having a “negative
impact” on Asia’s fourth-biggest economy. Exports, which
account for more than 45 percent of South Korea’s  gross domestic
product , are being hurt by the yen slide, he said in a
presentation to investors. Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board
kept the key seven-day repurchase rate at 2.5 percent today as
forecast by all 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Exports Rise  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda held back this week from
extending the maturity of loans to banks as part of monetary
stimulus that has weakened the yen. The Japanese currency has
strengthened 4.7 percent to 94.36 per dollar since June 10,
paring its decline this year to 8.1 percent.  Korea’s  exports  unexpectedly rose 3.2 percent in May from a
year ago, compared with a 0.4 percent gain in April and the
median  forecast  for a drop of 0.9 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  Overseas sales of wireless telecommunication devices jumped
62.5 percent in May from a year ago, official data showed. The
report signals South Korea is weathering the yen’s loss against
the dollar during the past year.  “It would remain hard for Japan to inflict a major dent in
Korea’s exports as, given the products that they are competing,
it would take more than just lower prices for Japan to make
significant headway,”  Nizam Idris , head of fixed-income and
currency strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in Singapore, said in a
June 12 interview. “The demand curve for these products,
especially electronics exports, will be less elastic than the
market is currently fearing.”  Supplementary Budget  The government unveiled a 17.3 trillion won ($15.2 billion)
supplementary budget in April to support exporters pressured by
a weaker Japanese currency and spur an economy that expanded
last year at the slowest pace since 2009. South Korea’s low-growth phase may continue with declines in consumption and
investment, the Finance Ministry said in a June 11 statement.  The won fell to a two-month low against the dollar on June
11 after foreign funds sold $1 billion more South Korean shares
than they bought this month through June 10, exchange data show.  South Korea’s short-term overseas  debt , or securities due
in a year, declined 36 percent to $122.2 billion in the first
quarter after touching an all-time high of $189.6 billion in
2008, according to the latest central bank data. The nation has
reported an average current-account  surplus  of $4.2 billion per
month during the past year, Bloomberg data show.  Asset Cushion  “Current-account surplus and relatively low short-term
liabilities provide the nation a cushion in case of any
acceleration in fund outflows,” Lim Ji Won, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Seoul , said in a June 12 interview.  Lim forecasts the won will strengthen to 1,080 by year-end.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 the U.S. central
bank could taper its $85 billion a month of bond purchases if
it’s confident of a sustained improvement in the U.S. economy.
The won has declined 2.1 percent versus the greenback since the
comments, which also negatively affected other higher-yielding
currencies.  Brazil ’s real has slipped 4.9 percent since Bernanke hinted
at tapering, while the South African rand fell 3.8 percent and
 Mexico ’s peso depreciated 3.4 percent.  “The biggest risk to the won is that the dollar continues
to rally,” Nick Verdi, a currency strategist at Barclays
Capital in  Singapore , said in a June 12 interview. “Higher U.S.
yields will make emerging-market currencies come under further
pressure. It’s a premature to predict the won will turn
around.”  Biggest Gainer  As emerging-market currencies have led decliners since
Bernanke’s comments last month, the yen has been the biggest
gainer out of 17 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
appreciating 9 percent versus the dollar.  Traders are forecasting wider currency swings as central
banks adjust policy measures. Three-month implied volatility in
the won, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used
to price options, touched 11.38 percent today, the highest in
almost a year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A medium- to long-term trend for the won’s appreciation
remains intact, although the global strength of the dollar
increases volatility on the currency in near-term,” JPMorgan’s
Lim said. “The won is still undervalued. The market has been
over-reacting to chances of the exit plan by the Fed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  