-- World Needs More Hardheads Like Benjamin Lawsky
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-06-13T22:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/world-needs-more-hardheads-like-benjamin-lawsky.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph in column published June 14 to
say a shell’s assets might consist only of letter of credit
guaranteed by parent insurance company.)  Why can’t more financial regulators
be like Benjamin Lawsky?  At a time when so many government agencies have been
captured by the industries they oversee, it’s hard not to notice
when someone like Lawsky comes along and stirs things up. Since
2011, the 43-year-old former prosecutor has been superintendent
of the  New York  State  Department of Financial Services , which
oversees banks and insurers. And this may be his most
significant hour yet.  This week, after an 11-month investigation, Lawsky released
a  report  that said 17 New York-based life-insurance companies
had used $48 billion of “shadow insurance” transactions to
shift liabilities for policy-holder claims onto weakly
capitalized shell companies that they controlled. This is
“likely to be just the tip of the iceberg nationwide,” it
said. The maneuvers decreased the parent companies’ capital
requirements, freeing up money for other purposes, such as
paying bigger management bonuses or shareholder dividends.  In short, the insurers set up  captive  subsidiaries and had
them reinsure existing blocks of policy claims. Often the new
units were in lightly regulated jurisdictions -- everywhere from
 Vermont  to the  Cayman Islands . The problem, as Lawsky  explained ,
is that the parent company is still on the hook if the shell
company can’t make good on its obligations. Sometimes the
shell’s assets might only consist of a letter of credit
guaranteed by the parent, as opposed to liquid assets that can
be sold to pay claims. If the shell can’t pay, the parent
probably is in deep trouble, too.  Loose Rules  Some U.S. states seem to compete to write the loosest rules
governing the types of assets that captive reinsurers can hold.
The industry’s jargon is full of cheeky names such as “hollow
assets” and “naked parental guarantees.” Lawsky called it a
“ regulatory race to the bottom ” that puts policy holders and
the broader financial system at risk.  “There’s no real danger today or tomorrow,” he said in an
interview. “It’s thinking about our system over the next decade
or even two decades.” With captives, “you see massive amounts
of risk being moved around in a way that is often not
transparent and is designed at least in part to juice the
numbers of the companies. And when you put those two things
together, we’ve learned that can be a recipe for disaster over
the long haul.”  Lawsky’s bona fides were evident even before the report was
released. Citing his probe as “an important factor,”  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  last month  said  it would combine an offshore reinsurer with
three U.S. life-insurance units. (A reinsurer is an insurance
company for an insurance company.) Lawsky at the time said
MetLife’s move was a “step in the right direction.”  The Department of Financial Services was  formed  in 2011
when New York state abolished its banking and insurance
regulators and combined their functions under one roof. Lawsky,
who serves at the pleasure of New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
has shown an ambitious, independent streak from the outset. He
made his bones last year when he threatened to strip the U.K.’s
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  of its state banking license after
accusing it of laundering money for  Iran .  The feds were moving too slowly for his tastes, so Lawsky’s
office filed its own claims.  Standard Chartered  complained
bitterly in the press, as did Lawsky’s counterparts in
 Washington . However, the bank quickly agreed to a $340 million
deal with the state, which proved to be more than what the feds
later got in their own  settlement . Lawsky was  vindicated . He
hadn’t gone rogue, as some critics claimed. He had done just
what he was supposed to do -- hold a bank that he oversees
accountable for its actions.  Guess What  And you know what? The banking and insurance industries
take Lawsky and his agency  seriously  now. Just try to think of
the last time that the  Federal Reserve  publicly threatened to
strip a huge bank of its license to do business, or published a
white paper exposing some hidden accounting ruse. (I’ll bet you
can’t.) Other initiatives by Lawsky have included a  crackdown  on
 force-placed insurers , in which mortgage lenders required
homeowners on the brink of financial disaster to buy overpriced
policies, while the lenders took kickbacks from the insurance
companies.  Lawsky this week made clear he wants to shame other state
insurance regulators into bringing about a change in the
industry’s practices. He called for a nationwide moratorium on
approving shadow-insurance transactions and recommended that the
 National Association of Insurance Commissioners  develop uniform
disclosure requirements for such deals around the country.  They might be wise to follow his lead. It’s good to have an
aggressive financial regulator worth paying attention to again.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  