-- WTI Falls for Third Time in Four Days as World Bank Cuts Outlook
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-13T12:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/wti-falls-for-third-time-in-four-days-as-world-bank-cuts-outlook.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for the third time in four days as speculation that fuel demand
will decline outweighed concern that Middle Eastern exports may
be disrupted by political unrest.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent after the  World Bank 
yesterday cut its forecast for global economic growth.
Presidential elections will be held tomorrow in  Iran , holder of
the world’s fourth-largest oil reserves. Protesters returned to
Istanbul’s Taksim Square a day after Turkish police used tear
gas and water cannons to halt two weeks of anti-government
demonstrations. U.S.  crude stockpiles  rose last week, government
data showed.  “Investor sentiment is mixed between hopes for the
economic recovery on the one hand and disappointing economic
data on the other,” said Hans van Cleef, energy economist at
ABN Amro Bank in Amsterdam. “Economic growth will increase
somewhat in the second half, but nonetheless it will remain very
modest and that will keep a lid on  oil prices ,”  WTI for July delivery dropped as much as 86 cents to $95.02
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $95.51 at 12:29 p.m. London time. The volume
of all futures traded was 13 percent below the 100-day average.
The contract climbed 50 cents to $95.88 yesterday, the highest
settlement since June 7.  Demand Outlook  Brent for July settlement, which expires today, declined as
much as 74 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $102.75 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The more actively
traded August future was down 32 cents at $103.24. The European
benchmark grade was at a premium of $7.80 to WTI for the same
month compared with $7.61 yesterday.  The global economy will expand 2.2 percent this year, down
from a January projection of 2.4 percent, the World Bank said in
a report released in  Washington . The bank lowered its outlook
for developing economies and estimated the euro region’s gross
domestic product will shrink 0.6 percent. It increased forecasts
for the U.S. and  Japan .  Demand for oil from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries in the second half of the year will be weaker than
earlier projections amid signs of slowing growth in  China , the
 International Energy Agency  said yesterday.  OPEC will need to supply an average 29.8 million barrels a
day, the IEA said in its monthly report, reducing its previous
assessment by 200,000 barrels. That would require the group to
cut output by 1.1 million barrels from the 30.9 million it
pumped in May, according to the report. The agency kept its
global oil-demand estimates for this year unchanged.  U.S. Supplies  U.S. crude stockpiles gained by 2.5 million barrels in the
week ended June 7, the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, said yesterday. A median
1.5 million-barrel decrease was forecast by 11 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline inventories  rose by 2.7 million barrels, exceeding
an estimated increase of 500,000 barrels, the data showed.
Distillate-fuel supplies, including heating oil and diesel,
dropped by 1.2 million barrels. They were projected to climb by
1.5 million.  Brent has technical support along its 50-day moving
average, around $102.90 today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Front-month futures yesterday reversed an intraday drop to
settle above that indicator for the fourth time in five days.
Buy orders tend to be clustered around chart-support levels.  Taksim Square  Six candidates are vying to succeed  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  as
president of Iran in the first round of elections to be held
tomorrow. If no candidate gets a majority in the initial stage
of the contest, the top two will compete in a June 21 runoff.
The U.S. and its allies are restricting Iran’s oil exports, the
country’s largest revenue source, to pressure the Islamic
Republic to stop enriching uranium.  Several thousand protesters gathered at Taksim Square
yesterday, chanting anti-government slogans as groups of police,
deployed around the square, looked on. The unrest in  Turkey ,
which spread nationwide after May 31, has marked one of the
biggest challenges to Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  since
he came to power more than 10 years ago.  The Turkish Mediterranean port of Ceyhan is the export
terminal for crude transported via pipeline from northern  Iraq ,
OPEC’s second-largest producer. It also receives Azeri Light
blend via through the 1,100-mile (1,770-kilometer) Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipe.  Farther to the northwest, an estimated 2.9 million barrels
a day of oil, most of it from  Russia , flowed through the Turkish
Straits in 2010, according to the EIA, which designates the
waterway as “one of the busiest and most dangerous  choke points 
in the world supplying Western and Southern Europe.”  The straits, including two narrow waterways of the Bosporus
and the Dardanelles, connect the Sea of Marmara with the  Black
Sea  on one side and the Aegean arm of the  Mediterranean Sea  on
the other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  