-- Yen to Resume Slide Against Dollar on Easing, Banking Group Says
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-06-13T08:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/yen-to-resume-slide-against-dollar-on-easing-banking-group-says.html
The yen, which surged to a two-month
high against the dollar today, will resume its slide over time
because of differences in monetary policies between the two
economies,  Japan ’s biggest bank lobby said.  Japan’s currency and stocks will remain unstable “for a
while,” Japanese Bankers Association Chairman Takeshi Kunibe
said at news briefing in Tokyo today after shares plunged. At
the same time, yields on  government bonds  “have settled to a
considerable extent,” he said.  The  Bank of Japan  is deepening monetary easing at a time
when U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers debate a reduction in
monthly bond purchases. Kunibe said he expects central bank
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda to stick with his policy of buying
bonds to end more than a decade of deflation.  Japan’s economic recovery is “getting on a firmer
footing,” Kunibe said, even after the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) 
entered a  bear market  today, sliding more than 20 percent from a
May 22 high.  The yen touched 93.79 per dollar, the highest since April
4, before trading at 94.19 as of 5:39 p.m. in  Tokyo . The Nikkei
225 closed down 6.4 percent. Yields on benchmark 10-year
government  bonds  fell 1.5 basis points to 0.855 percent.  Kunibe said he expects bond yields to increase gradually as
the economy improves.  Natural Rise  “It’s natural for yields to gradually rise in reflection
of an economic recovery,” said Kunibe, who is president of
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest
bank by market value. “As we go through this normalization
period we have to bear in mind the risk that yield moves become
excessively unstable and increase risks of holding JGBs.”  Volatility in the Japanese government bond market since
April has raised concerns among investors and analysts that
lenders may incur unrealized losses on their  holdings . Banks
have been trying to reduce their exposure to JGBs by trimming
their stockpiles and holding shorter-term notes.  Ten-year yields swung between a record low of 0.315 percent
on April 5, the day after Kuroda unveiled his plan to double the
monetary base, to as high as 1 percent last month.  The central bank this week refrained from expanding its
tools to address bond-market volatility, leaving unaltered a
one-year, fixed-rate loan facility it tapped seven times since
April.  “The BOJ is continuously making efforts to stabilize the
JGB market through communication and operations,” Kunibe said.  In the U.S., Treasury yields have jumped in the past month
as some Fed officials have said the central bank could slow its
asset purchases. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 that
the Fed could consider reducing its monthly bond purchases
within “the next few meetings” if officials see signs of
sustained improvement in the labor market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  