-- Yen Rises After BOJ Minutes Indicate Monetary-Stimulus Limits
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-06-14T21:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/yen-falls-versus-majors-as-stocks-advance-on-better-u-s-data.html
The yen strengthened against most of
its 16 major counterparts after minutes from the Bank of Japan’s
latest meeting showed one policy maker advocated restricting
stimulus to a two-year period.  Japan’s currency advanced for a fourth day versus the
dollar as the International Monetary Fund said it sees the
Federal Reserve maintaining monthly bond purchases until at
least the end of this year. The greenback rose versus the euro
as a report a report showed wholesale prices increased more than
forecast last month while industrial production was unchanged
and June  consumer confidence  fell from a six-year high. The
pound weakened from a four-month high versus the dollar as April
construction data declined.  “The rebound in the yen has been going for a few weeks now
and all the positions have been shaken out,” said Greg Anderson, head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of
Montreal, by phone from New York. “The economic data out this
morning was a little bit dollar-positive. We’ll probably get a
bit of a dollar uplift into the weekend.”  The yen strengthened 1.1 percent to 94.31 per dollar at 5
p.m. in New York, extending its advance this week to 3.3
percent. Japan’s currency appreciated 1.5 percent to 125.60 per
euro after rising 0.4 percent yesterday. The dollar gained 0.2
percent to $1.3347 per euro.  Futures Positions  Futures traders increased their wagers the Australian
dollar will decline against its U.S. counterpart to the most
ever, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers
on a decline in the so-called Aussie compared with those on an
increase -- so-called net shorts -- was 63,277 on June 11,
compared with net shorts of 58,550 a week earlier.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index rose to 11.43
percent yesterday, the most since June 2012. The gauge has
climbed from 7.05 percent in December, which was the lowest
since July 2007, and was at 10.6 percent today.  The pound weakened against the dollar after advancing to a
four-month high yesterday. Sterling dropped 0.1 percent to
$1.5707 after climbing to $1.5738 yesterday, the highest level
since Feb. 11. The pound fell after the Office for National
Statistics said U.K. construction volume fell 6.5 percent in
April from a month earlier.  Pound Patterns  “There is a consolidation today in the pound after
reaching critical levels yesterday,” said John Hardy, head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in  London . Sterling
“was not being able to take out the 200-day moving average at
just above $1.57, so it’s come off that. That is one of those
levels people definitely follow.”  The Turkish lira gained for a fourth day against the dollar
after the prime minister met with protesters to try to end more
than two weeks of unrest. The lira gained 0.1 percent to 1.8592
per dollar after sliding to 1.9092 on June 11, the weakest since
December 2011.  South Korea’s won rose the most in two months as Asian
equities rebounded. The won rose 0.7 percent to 1,126.25 per
dollar.  One-month implied volatility of the dollar-yen currency
pair reached 18.9 percent yesterday, the most since March 2011,
and was at 16.1 percent today.  Central Bank  The BOJ should specify a two-year limit for its
unprecedented monetary easing to help quell bond-market
volatility, according to one of the central bank’s board members
cited in the minutes of the May 21-22 meeting released today.  The central bank could state that easing “should be
restricted to about two years” and then be reviewed “in a
flexible manner,” the board member said, according to the
record of the meeting.  “For a Bank of  Japan  board member to advocate restricting
the quantitative-easing program to just two years is a concern
to the market,” said Alvin Tan, a director of foreign-exchange
strategy at Societe Generale SA in London. “Yen strength can
continue while we don’t get clarity out of Japan on this. We
believe that the Fed’s exit will be tentative and drawn out.”  The yen has slumped 6.4 percent this year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as the Bank of Japan
embarked upon unprecedented stimulus to spur growth. The euro
gained 3.8 percent and the dollar added 2.4 percent.  Dollar Gains  The dollar strengthened versus most of its major peers as
producer price index rose 0.5 percent in May, according to a
Labor Department report released today in  Washington . The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 76 economists projected the
index would gain 0.1 percent.  Unwinding a policy of record-low interest rates and $85
billion in monthly bond-buying known as quantitative easing will
be challenging even though the Fed has “a range of tools” to
withdraw the stimulus, the IMF staff wrote in its annual
assessment of the U.S. economy.  While the IMF report will likely be taken with a “grain of
salt” by the market, “it’s at least one argument towards
keeping quantitative at least through the end of year,” said
Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, by phone from
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Fed policy makers next meet on June 18-19 after Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said on May 22 the central bank could reduce its
monthly purchases of $45 billion of Treasuries and $40 billion
of mortgage-backed securities, known as quantitative easing, if
the employment outlook shows sustainable improvement.  “People perceive the idea that the Fed is itching really
to remove QE, not really because the data has changed, but
because the costs related to QE are seen as too high to bear at
this point,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group  of 10
foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank in a interview with
 Tom Keene  and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance.”  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trade partners, dropped 0.2 percent to 80.617 after falling to
80.500 yesterday, the lowest since Feb. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  