-- Zebo to Make Lions Rugby Debut as Wallabies Duo Boosts Waratahs
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-13T06:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-13/zebo-to-make-lions-rugby-debut-as-waratahs-boosted-by-wallabies.html
The British and Irish Lions picked
Simon Zebo to make his debut and named his Ireland teammate
 Jonathan Sexton  at fly-half for the combined rugby team’s fifth
tour game against the New South Wales Waratahs in two days.  Zebo, who only arrived in Australia this week after fellow
Irishman  Tommy Bowe  broke a bone in his hand, will play on the
left wing. The team will be led by squad captain Sam Warburton,
who will make his second appearance on the Lions’ 10-match trip.
Full-back Rob Kearney was named as a replacement after missing
the first four games with a hamstring injury.  With two matches left against Super Rugby teams before the
best-of-three series against Australia starts June 22 in
Brisbane, Lions head coach Warren Gatland included seven players
in his starting lineup for Sydney who featured in the series-opener against South Africa four years ago.  “It would be great to remain unbeaten and take that
momentum into the first Test,” Gatland said in a statement.
“More importantly, we are looking to finalize key playing
combinations and strengthen our patterns of play during the next
two matches.”  In four games so far the Lions have amassed 214 points and
allowed 37, prompting speculation they may not be sufficiently
match-hardened for the opener against the third-ranked Wallabies
in nine days. Their toughest test so far came from the
Queensland Reds on June 8, when they trailed 7-3 before grinding
out a 22-12 victory.  Not ‘Undercooked’  Jamie Roberts , who will start at inside center for the
second straight game, said after the 64-0 shutout of Combined
Country two days ago that there’s no danger of the Lions being
“undercooked” for the Tests. Having previously worked with
Gatland during the New Zealander’s time as Wales coach, Roberts
said training will be cranked up if the coach decides that the
tuneup games lack the required physicality.  “If he doesn’t feel that we are getting to that intensity,
he will certainly replicate it in training leading up to the
first Test,” Roberts told reporters.  New South Wales is typically one of Australia’s strongest
provincial teams, though coach Michael Cheika had been trying to
put together a squad having lost 10 players to the Wallabies and
another three internationals to injuries.  Flanker  Dave Dennis  and center  Rob Horne  were released from
the Wallabies’ training camp today to bolster the Waratahs
lineup. They’ll join fly-half Bernard Foley and scrum-half Matt
Lucas, who were yesterday released from Australia’s national
Sevens team. Cheika will name his team tomorrow.  Wallabies head coach  Robbie Deans  is also making prop Scott
Sio and utility forward Peter Kimlin available for the ACT
Brumbies’ June 18 game against the Lions in Canberra.  Backline Cover  England center Billy Twelvetrees, who was called into the
Lions squad overnight to provide backline cover, will arrive
tomorrow and can expect to start against the Brumbies, Gatland
said at a news conference.  Brian O’Driscoll ,  George North  and
Manu Tuilagi will sit out the Waratahs match to keep them fresh,
he added.  “We’ve got a few knocks in the backs at the moment,”
Gatland told reporters. “We need to make sure that we rest a
few players because the whole priority is making sure that we
arrive in Brisbane next Saturday fresh and ready to go.”  Twelvetrees joins Zebo and props Alex Corbisiero and Ryan
Grant in being added to the original 37-man roster that left
London on May 27.  LIONS TEAM TO FACE WARATAHS: 15. Leigh Halfpenny, 14. Sean
Maitland, 13.  Jonathan Davies , 12. Jamie Roberts, 11. Simon
Zebo, 10. Jonathan Sexton, 9.  Mike Phillips , 1. Mako Vunipola,
2. Tom Youngs, 3.  Adam Jones , 4. Alun Wyn Jones, 5. Paul
O’Connell, 6.  Tom Croft , 7. Sam Warburton (captain), 8.  Jamie
Heaslip .  Replacements: 16. Richard Hibbard, 17. Alex Corbisiero, 18.
Dan Cole, 19. Geoff Parling, 20. Dan Lydiate, 21. Ben Youngs,
22. Owen Farrell, 23. Rob Kearney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  