-- L.A. Dodgers, Time Warner Cable Will Create SportsNet LA
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-01-28T19:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/l-a-dodgers-time-warner-cable-will-create-sportsnet-la-network.html
The  Los Angeles  Dodgers and  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  will create a network to televise the baseball
team’s games, a deal designed to help the pay-TV company absorb
rising costs for sports programming.  SportsNet LA will be available throughout  Southern
California  and Hawaii on Time Warner Cable for the 2014 Major
League Baseball season, according to a statement today. While
the companies didn’t disclose financial terms, a person familiar
with the contract said it was worth about $7 billion. The deal
will last 25 years, said another person, who asked not to be
named because details are private.  The increasing cost of sports helps propel pay-TV
programming fees almost 10 percent higher each year.  DirecTV (DTV) ,
the largest U.S. satellite TV operator, has begun charging a
separate monthly fee to customers in regions with large numbers
of regional sports networks, including Los Angeles, to account
for the added expenses.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS plans
to start charging new customers $2.42 a month for the channels,
Heather Wilner, a Verizon spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “We all know the costs of sports are going up,” Melinda Witmer, Time Warner Cable’s executive vice president and chief
video and content officer, said in an interview. “We want
access to this content for a long time and want some control
over our economic destiny. This gives us some cost certainty
where we can sustain manageable rates of increase.”  Leaving Fox  The agreement wrests away the Dodgers’ TV rights from their
current partner,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports. The team’s games and
related programming will begin airing on the new network after
the Fox contract ends in 2013. The channel will be available to
customers of other pay-TV providers, which will license it from
New York-based Time Warner Cable.  Time Warner Cable owns the TV rights to basketball’s  Los
Angeles Lakers , carried on a separate channel,  Time Warner Cable
SportsNet . The company has sold distribution for that network to
other carriers including DirecTV and  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse. Time
Warner Cable will have a similar plan with the Dodgers, Witmer
said.  “The network belongs to the Dodgers,” Witmer said. “It’s
very important to the Dodgers that there’s as much distribution
as possible. Time Warner Cable isn’t looking to buy sports
rights to keep them away from competitors, but we want to make
sure others don’t take the rights and make them exclusive from
us.”  Spanish Broadcasts  The Dodgers ownership group has created a new company,
American Media Productions LLC, to begin the network. AMP is
evaluating producing and airing games in Spanish, although there
are no plans to create a second network, Witmer said. Dodgers
and Lakers programming will remain on different networks, said
David Rone, president of Time Warner Cable Sports, in an
interview.  “We concluded last year that the best way to give our fans
what they want -- more content and more Dodger baseball -- was
to launch our own network,”  Mark Walter , chairman of the
Dodgers, said in the statement.  The agreement with Time Warner Cable is subject to closing
conditions, the companies said.  Bloomberg News  first reported on
the creation of the new network on Jan. 22.  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable company
after Comcast Corp., rose 0.5 percent to $101.11 at 2:29 p.m. in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  