-- ‘Kafkaesque’ Trial of Dead Hermitage Lawyer Starts in Moscow
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-01-28T08:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/-kafkaesque-trial-of-dead-hermitage-lawyer-starts-in-moscow.html
A Moscow court opened the posthumous
trial of Sergei Magnitsky, a lawyer for Hermitage Capital
Management Ltd. who died in prison, in a case condemned by
Amnesty International as “Kafkaesque.”  The state is appointing lawyers for Magnitsky and Hermitage
head William Browder for the next hearing, set on Feb. 18,
Alexandra Berezina, a spokeswoman for the Tverskoi District
Court, said today. Judge Igor Alisov will decide whether the
trial will be open to the public, she said.  Magnitsky’s mother Natalia is boycotting the proceedings
and urged lawyers to refuse to act as court-appointed counsel.  Magnitsky died in November 2009 at the age of 37 while in
pre-trial detention after alleging the biggest known tax fraud
in  Russia , a theft of $230 million from the national treasury.
The case has sparked a diplomatic row, with the U.S. imposing
sanctions on Russian officials accused of playing a role in
Magnitsky’s death and Moscow retaliating by barring American
citizens from adopting Russian orphans.  Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, who as president from
2008-2012 made the fight against corruption a priority, last
week defended Magnitsky’s prosecution for tax evasion.  Magnitsky was “not a truth-seeker,” Medvedev said in an
interview in Davos, Switzerland with Bloomberg Television on
Jan. 23. “He was a corporate lawyer or accountant, and defended
the interests of the people who hired him.”  Visa Bans  Browder is being tried in absentia on the same tax evasion
charges as Magnitsky, and has denied any wrongdoing by either of
them. He has lobbied for U.S. and European legislation targeting
60 Russian officials who he says are responsible for Magnitsky’s
death with visa bans and asset freezes. Hermitage was once
Russia’s biggest foreign equity investor.  The Prosecutor General’s Office said Nov. 29 that Browder
and Magnitsky are accused of evading taxes of 522 million rubles
($17 million). Browder, a British citizen, is refusing to take
part in the proceedings and the U.K. authorities aren’t
cooperating in the case, the prosecutor’s office said.  Alisov and two prosecutors declined to comment on the
hearings as they entered the courtroom today for a closed-door
hearing.  The trial of Magnitsky is an “attempt to deflect the
attention from those who committed the crimes he exposed,”
Amnesty International said in a  statement  posted on its website
on Jan. 24.  Rubber Batons  “The Russian authorities’ intention to proceed with the
criminal prosecution of Sergei Magnitsky violates his
fundamental rights even in death, in particular the right to
defend himself in person,” John Dalhuisen,  Europe  and Central
Asia director for the London-based human rights organization,
said in the statement.  In 2011, a human rights council, under then-President
Medvedev, called for officials to be prosecuted for Magnitsky’s
death. The council said he was bludgeoned with rubber batons
after being denied medical care during almost a year of pre-
trial detention on trumped-up tax evasion charges.  The lack of a single conviction of officials implicated in
the case is a symbol of the Russian government’s failure to
tackle corruption, Christopher Granville, managing director of
Trusted Sources, a London-based emerging-markets research group,
said by phone on Jan. 9. The only official to face trial over
Magnitsky’s death, a prison doctor, was acquitted in December.  Hermitage said it has traced $134 million through bank
accounts and shell companies in at least 17 countries. Hermitage
has accused government officials of stealing from taxpayers.  Russia kept its ranking as the most corrupt of any Group of
20 nation, according to Transparency International’s 2012
Corruption Perceptions Index published in December, placing it
at 133rd out of 176 countries, below Uganda and  Nicaragua .  “The Magnitsky case is a very emotional black mark against
the Russian investment environment,”  Roland Nash , chief
investment strategist at Moscow-based Verno Capital, which
manages about $200 million in Russian equities, said by phone on
Jan. 17. “It harms sentiment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  