-- ‘Slumdog’ Author, Kamasutra Draw Fans to Rushdie-Less Jaipur
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-01-29T07:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/-slumdog-author-sex-history-draw-fans-to-rushdie-less-jaipur.html
Vikas Swarup, whose first book was
adapted into the movie “Slumdog Millionaire”, and Faramerz Dabhoiwala, the author of an opus on the history of sex lured
visitors to  Asia ’s largest literary festival as organizers
avoided  Salman Rushdie .  The five-day DSC Jaipur Literature Festival that ended
yesterday in Jaipur, the Indian city known for its pink
monuments and forts, attracted over 122,000 visitors, organizers
said. Indian-born Rushdie, who was in New Delhi last week, was
omitted from the list of invitees after protests last year at
the 150-year-old Diggi Palace hotel, the festival venue,
prompted the author of “The Satanic Verses” to cancel his 2012
visit, saying paid assassins were on their way to Jaipur to
“eliminate him.”  The producers instead invited speakers on topics ranging
from the making of  James Bond  to  Buddhism , which included a
speech by the  Dalai Lama . The myriad number of subjects combined
with the absence of entrance fees has turned the conference into
a “gargantuan festival,” said Swarup, who last attended the
show in 2009.  “Last year was just exhausting,” said Sanjoy Roy, a film
maker and festival producer, who had walked off the stage in
tears in the 2012 version of the conference. “It’s fine to
throw up controversies and get people to think in the sessions
but the Rushdie thing was just exhausting.”  Festival Controversy  Rushdie was supposed to address the festival via video link
in 2012. His talk was prevented at the last minute by the owner
of Diggi Palace after protesters threatened violence. New York-
based Rushdie was 276 kilometers (172 miles) northeast of Jaipur
last week for the premier of the film based on his book
“Midnight’s Children.”  India , home to the world’s third-largest Muslim population,
has banned “The Satanic Verses” as some Muslims find it
blasphemous.  Even without Rushdie, the festival had its share of
controversy after sociologist Ashish Nandy said that India’s
backward communities are the most corrupt. The comment prompted
calls to arrest Nandy. Jaipur police have asked Roy not to leave
the city until investigations are complete as Nandy left Jaipur,
Indian Express newspaper reported yesterday.  The festival’s beginnings were in 2004 when author  William
Dalrymple  tried reading his work in public. He had an audience
of 14 people, five of whom were Japanese tourists who had lost
their way. This year, Swarup used the festival to introduce his
latest tome, “The Accidental Apprentice,” while Sebastian
Faulks, who won the Sainsbury’s Popular Fiction Award for his
James Bond takeoff, “Devil May Care,” discussed  Ian Fleming ’s
life with his biographer Andrew Lycett.  Oscar-Winning  The festival was opened by Mahasweta Devi, a best-selling
Bengali author and a Ramon Magsaysay prize winner.  Swarup, whose first book “Q&A” was adapted into the
Oscar-winning “Slumdog Millionaire” by  Danny Boyle , said his
latest work is about a woman who’s offered the role of CEO of
India’s biggest company by answering seven questions.  “People asked how do you get the level of realism, to how
do you do your research?,” Swarup, who is an Indian diplomat
stationed in  Japan , said in an interview. Still, the festival
has “just become too big to handle in one venue.”  The other draw was Dabhoiwala, author of “The Origins of
Sex: A History of the First Sexual  Revolution .” All 100 copies
of the book published by  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s unit  Allen Lane  that were
stocked at the festival shop sold out within minutes of the
Oxford University historian’s speech. He began his session by
asking the audience whether they had had sex with someone
without being married to them.  Sex Selection  “The most interesting questions were about the
relationship between what happened in the Western world in the
first sexual revolution and what is happening in India today,”
Dabhoiwala, who’s next work will be on the history of English,
said in an interview. “What was gratifying was that if people
had come to be titillated, they were a very attentive audience
and there was a lot of gasping.”  Sex was the topic for yet another discussion led by Harvard
University professor Michael Sandel, who spoke about rape
following the sexual assault and murder of a Delhi girl last
month. Sandel spoke in a blue tent sponsored by Google Inc. as
crowds jostled to make their point about violence against women
and sex selection.  Women as ‘Objects’  Author K.R. Indira, who rewrote the Kamasutra from a
woman’s perspective, and former diplomat Pavan Varma discussed
how the 2,000 year-old tome on sex went against women’s security
and treated women as “objects” in a session entitled
“Reimagining the Kamasutra.”  Road builder DSC Ltd., the title sponsor of the festival,
operates the highway between  New Delhi  and the suburb of Gurgaon
and began backing the festival as the organizers were family
friends, said Manhad Narula, whose family runs DSC.  “It’s not really brand building for us but it does make
people warmer towards you,” said Narula in an interview on the
lawns of the sprawling Rambagh Palace, where Random House
Publishers India Pvt. held a party. “The festival is very
visible now and when we tell people we are from DSC, they ask us
if we are the same guys as the festival.”  Red Trousers  The group also runs the $50,000 DSC Prize for South Asian
Literature. This year’s winner was Jeet Thayil, 53, who won the
award for his first novel “Narcopolis.” It’s also shortlisted
for the $30,000 Man Asia Literary Prize, to be announced on
March 14 in  Hong Kong .  Wearing red trousers, white polka-dotted shirt and a straw
hat, Thayil, who was addicted first to opium and later heroin,
for 20 years, was seen signing autographs at the festival.
Cricketer  Rahul Dravid  was also seen being mobbed by fans for
autographs, prompting organizers to close entry to his session.  “Reading books was a way to de-stress,” said Dravid, who
last year retired from the elite form of cricket after amassing
the second-highest run tally. “Whenever I wanted to take my
mind off cricket, I would pick up a book.”  The DSC Jaipur Literature Festival at Diggi Palace, Jaipur,
closed on Jan. 28. Information:
 http://www.jaipurliteraturefestival.org/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  