-- 3D Systems Drops on Report of Three-Dimensional Printing Bubble
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-01-28T21:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/3d-systems-drops-on-report-of-three-dimensional-printing-bubble.html
3D Systems Corp. (DDD)  fell the most in
over a year after Seeking Alpha said the stock may be overvalued
and that the company faces stiffer competition.  3D Systems declined 14 percent to $59.50 at the close in in
New York, for the biggest drop since Oct. 27, 2011. The stock
has tripled in the past 12 months, compared with a 14 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index.  The Rock Hill, South Carolina-based company makes machines
that manufacture three-dimensional objects such as dental crowns
and jewelry. 3D Systems may face increased competition from
competitors such as  Stratasys Ltd. (SSYS) , financial-website Seeking
Alpha said. It said that 3D Systems’ shares are “at least
slightly overvalued.”  “There have been some articles reasserting the short
thesis,” Holden Lewis, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets,
said. Lewis has a buy rating on 3D Systems and a price target of
$75. “They used words like ‘bubble.’ It’s the bears baring
their teeth.”  Lewis wrote in a note earlier this month that 3D Systems
will probably continue to outperform this year. 3D Systems also
recently unveiled a new desktop printer, and said it will buy
Geomagic Inc., a maker of 3D-authoring software.  An amended initial public offering filing today by ExOne
Co., a smaller competitor to 3D Systems, could have driven the
shares down as well, said Troy Jensen, an analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos. Jensen rates 3D Systems overweight with a $73 price
target.  “Gains of several hundred percent make great water cooler
talk, but they could be a dangerous trap for investors,”
Seeking Alpha said.  Stratasys’s stock fell 9.9 percent to $78.47.  The Motley Fool  said  on Jan. 25 that 3D-printing industry
stocks may have entered a bubble.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  