-- ‘Harbaugh Bowl,’ Subway, Verizon: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-28T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/abbvie-harbaugh-bowl-subway-verizon-intellectual-property.html
AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , the drug unit that
split from parent  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  on Jan. 1, sued Indian
generic drug maker  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)  for
infringing a U.S. patent for Zemplar, used to treat kidney
patients.  AbbVie, based in North Chicago, Illinois, contends Mumbai-
based Sun intends to market a low-cost version of the drug
before patent 5,597,815 expires in 2016, according to papers
filed Jan. 24 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “Plaintiffs will be substantially and irreparably damaged
and harmed” if the infringement isn’t stopped by a judge,
AbbVie said in its complaint.  Abbott spun off AbbVie to let investors choose between a
medical products company that makes devices, diagnostics and
nutrition products, and AbbVie, a drugmaker based largely around
Humira, a best-selling rheumatoid arthritis injection that
generated $7.93 billion in 2011.  Uday Baldota, a Sun spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is AbbVie v. Sun, 13-cv-00138, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  NFL Harpoons ‘Harbowl,’ ‘Harbaugh Bowl’ Trademark Applications  An Indiana man who filed applications last year to register
“Harbowl” and “Harbaugh Bowl” as U.S. trademarks said he
abandoned his applications in response to pressure from the
 National Football League , ESPN  reported .  Roy Fox of Pendleton, Indiana, filed his applications with
the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  in February 2012, in
anticipation that the brothers Jim and Harbaugh, who,
respectively, coach the  San Francisco  49ers and the Baltimore
Ravens, might go head to head at this year’s  Super Bowl  game,
according to ESPN.  He said he was contacted by the league even before the
season started, and was told that the NFL feared the marks could
be confused with its own, and that he had no affiliation with
the Harbaugh brothers, whose teams are set to compete in the
Feb. 3 Super Bowl, ESPN reported.  The applications are now abandoned, and Fox said that the
league didn’t respond to his requests to compensate him for the
costs of filing the applications and for season tickets to the
Indianapolis Colts games and an autographed photo of NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell , according to ESPN.  Fake Nike, NFL, NBA Gear Found in Raids in New Orleans Suburb  A resident of the New Orleans suburb of Kenner was arrested
for allegedly selling counterfeit  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  National Basketball
Association  and National Football League gear, New Orleans
Times-Picayune  reported .  He was accused of selling fake goods at a flea market in
Kenner after an undercover investigator bought what turned out
to be a fake NFL jersey, according to the Times-Picayune.  Fake Nike, NFL, and NBA goods were also found in a raid at
the seller’s home, the Times-Picayune reported.  With the Super Bowl game set for Feb. 3 in New Orleans, the
NFL typically ramps up trademark-enforcement efforts in the
contending teams’ home cities and the city that is the site of
the game, according to the Times-Picayune.  Subway’s Aussie Unit Says ‘Footlong’ Is Only a Trademark  Subway Restaurants’ Subway Australia unit responded to
complaints that its “Footlong” sandwiches may measure less
than 12 inches by saying “Footlong” is only a trademark, “a
descriptive name,” ABC News  reported .  Subway Australia said in a posting on its page on Facebook
Inc.’s social media site that “Footlong” is “not intended to
be a measurement of length,” according to ABC News.  An Australian Subway customer posted a photo of his
“Footlong” sandwich that was only 11 inches long to Subway
Australia’s Facebook page, with the note “subway pls respond,”
ABC News reported.  Subway said in a statement to ABC News that although the
company is committed to supplying a consistent product, “length
however may vary slightly when not baked to our exact
specifications.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  UMG Fails to Win Dismissal of ‘Dancing Baby’ Copyright Suit  Universal Music Group ’s motion to dismiss a case brought by
a mother over a video of her dancing toddler has been rejected
by a federal court in San Jose, California.  Stephanie Lenz of Gallitzin, Pennsylvania, sued the music
company in July 2007 after Google Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing
site removed a video she posted. Universal had objected to
Lenz’s use of Prince’s song “Let’s Go Crazy” to accompany her
brief piece showing her toddler dancing, and filed a takedown
request under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.  She claimed that copyright law’s “fair use” provision
permitted her use of the music.  In March 2012 the court ruled that Lenz -- who is being
assisted by the San Francisco-based digital-rights group
Electronic Frontier Foundation -- didn’t file the suit in bad
faith. Universal at that time had also asked for a dismissal of
the case.  In a Jan. 24 ruling, U.S. District Judge Jeremy Fogel
rejected the music company’s request to dismiss the case. He
said that Universal has failed to establish that Lenz is barred
from collecting damages if she prevails in her claim that her
use of the music fell within the boundaries of fair use.  He said, however, that she failed to demonstrate any
damages based on the loss of YouTube’s hosting services and the
chilling of her free speech.  Lenz’s  30-second video  is presently available on YouTube.  The case is Lenz v. Universal Music Group Inc., 5:07-
cv-03783-JF, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  Unlocking Phone to Change Wireless Carriers Limited by U.S. Rule  Beginning Jan. 26, U.S. consumers were not to be allowed to
unlock new mobile phones purchased from wireless providers,
under a change in U.S. rules backed by carriers led by  Verizon
Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   The  Library of Congress ’s Copyright Office, as part of a
periodic review, said altering software to let one carrier’s
phones work on other networks wouldn’t be among activities that
expressly permitted under copyright law. The rule change was
announced last October.  CTIA-The Wireless Association, with members including the
four largest U.S. mobile carriers -- Verizon, AT&T,  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc. -- had argued that “locking
cell phones is an essential part of the wireless industry’s
dominant business model” involving handset subsidies and
contracts, Librarian of Congress James Billington said in the
notice.  Consumers can still choose to buy unlocked phones that will
work with multiple carriers, giving them an alternative,
Billington said. Partly because of that possibility, unlocking
newly purchased phones doesn’t merit an exemption under
copyright law, he said. Consumers who bought phones before the
change can unlock their handsets, according to the rule change.  The new restriction represents a misuse of copyright law,
 Sherwin Siy , a vice president with the Washington-based policy
group  Public Knowledge , said in an interview.  The change removes legal protection that has allowed
consumers to unlock their phones and doesn’t explicitly make the
act illegal, Mitch Stoltz, a staff attorney with the Electronic
Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based advocacy group, said
in an interview.  “You will not have this shield in the event you’re sued,”
Stoltz said. “It may go to court some time, and then it will be
up to a judge.”  CTIA said in a filing with Library of Congress that
subsidies “depend on ensuring that the handset will be used, as
contemplated, with the carrier’s service.”  Circumventing barriers to unauthorized use “will have
significant adverse effects on the wireless industry and on the
public,” the Washington-based trade group said in its February
2012 filing.  Amy Storey, a spokeswoman for Washington-based CTIA, didn’t
immediately supply a comment.  California Accuses Two Clothing Firms of Using Pirated Software  California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  accused two
foreign apparel makers in lawsuits of gaining an unfair
competitive advantage over American companies by using pirated
software in clothing production.  Pratibha Syntex Ltd. of India and Ningbo Beyond Home
Textile Co. Ltd. of China violated California’s unfair
competition law by failing to pay licensing fees for software
manufactured by companies including Microsoft Corp.,  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , Harris said in a complaint
filed Jan. 24 in state court in Los Angeles.  The unpaid fees gave Pratibha Syntex and Ningbo Beyond Home
Textile a “significant cost advantage in the low-margin
business of apparel manufacturing,” Harris said in a statement.
The suits target companies whose “unlawful actions are eroding
California’s garment industry and placing California companies
that legally pay for computer software at a disadvantage.”  Since 2010, units of Ningbo have shipped approximately
713,000 pounds of apparel products into California, while
Pratibha has shipped more than 19,000 pounds into the state,
according to the statement.  California’s apparel manufacturers, which are largely based
in  Los Angeles  County, employed more than 580,000 people last
year and generated more than $5 billion in annual revenue since
1990, according to the statement.  Representatives of Pratibha Syntex and Ningbo Beyond Home
Textile didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment on
the complaints.  The cases are California v. Ningbo Beyond Home Textile Co.,
BC499771, and California v. Pratibha Syntex Ltd., BC499751,
California Superior Court, County of Los Angeles.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  