-- Abe First Leader Since Koizumi to See Support Rise After 1 Month
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-01-28T01:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/abe-first-leader-since-koizumi-to-see-support-rise-after-1-month.html
     Jan. 28 (Bloomberg) --Shinzo Abe is Japan’s first prime
minister to see his popularity rise in his initial month in
office in a dozen years, according to a Nikkei newspaper poll
that showed voters favor his policy on monetary stimulus.  Abe’s approval rating rose six percentage points to 68
percent, according to the poll. About 45 percent of those
surveyed supported his push for the 2 percent inflation target
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  set last week, while 32 percent opposed it.
Half think the next BOJ governor should support Abe’s call for
“bold” monetary easing, compared with 26 percent who don’t.  Japan’s seventh leader in sixth years was elected last
month on a platform calling for fiscal and monetary stimulus to
end persistent deflation. He is likely to reiterate those themes
in a policy speech today to open the new session of parliament
with upper house elections six months away.  The yen has fallen 7.1 percent against the dollar and the
Nikkei share average has risen 12.3 percent since he won the
Dec. 16 election. Abe is the first prime minister to achieve a
rise in support after the first month in office since Junichiro Koizumi in 2001, the Nikkei said.  On fiscal spending, 47 percent of respondents said Abe’s
proposed 10.3 trillion yen ($113 billion) spending package was
too large, given  Japan ’s ballooning debt, the Nikkei said. One
fourth of respondents said the package was about right while 10
percent said it was too small.  While it has a majority in the lower house of parliament,
Abe’s government needs to court the opposition-dominated upper
house to ease the passage of legislation and win approval for
his BOJ nominees. The prime minister aims to replace Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa in April and two deputies in March with policy
makers who support monetary stimulus to revive growth.  About 41 percent of respondents said they planned to vote
for Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party in the July upper house vote,
compared with 8 percent for the opposition Democratic Party of
Japan. The Nikkei poll, carried out by telephone between Jan.
25-27, gained responses from 913 people. No margin of error was
given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  