-- Adult Migraine Medicines Don’t Help Children, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-01-29T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/adult-migraine-medicines-don-t-help-children-study-finds.html
Medicines to prevent or treat
migraines in adults aren’t effective in stopping the headaches
in children, according to two studies that suggest doctors may
want to re-evaluate the use of the drugs in pediatric patients.  An analysis of 21 trials published in  JAMA Pediatrics 
showed that  Johnson and Johnson ’s seizure medicine Topamax and
the antidepressant trazodone “have limited evidence” to
support use in children’s migraines occurring fewer than 15
times a month. Other drugs, including some medicines for
hypertension are no better than a placebo, the research found.  About 8 million kids, or 1 of 20 in the U.S., get
 migraines , according to Jacksonville, Florida-based Nemours, a
nonprofit children’s health organization. The results show that
more studies are needed to look at the use of adult migraine
medicines in kids and what role placebos have in helping
children and adolescents, researchers said  “Pediatric clinical trials are different than trials
conducted in adults for many reasons,” William Rodriguez,
Pediatric Science Director of the Food and Drug Administration
Office of Pediatric Therapeutics, said in an e-mail. “One of
the issues is that a failed pediatric trial seldom motivates a
sponsor to conduct additional pediatric trials. This is in
contrast to what happens with failed adult trials. It has to do
with the fact the sponsor is usually much more interested in the
adult market as the pediatric populations with diseases are
small.”  FDA Analysis  Rodriguez was an author on a second analysis by the FDA of
trials of children given a commonly used class of migraine drugs
called triptans. It found that many children got better without
the medication.  In the first study from the Medical College of Wisconsin in
 Milwaukee , the researchers analyzed 21 trials of migraine
medicines that included children and adolescents. Of those, 13
included a group that received a placebo rather than study drug.  They found that  Topamax  and  trazodone  reduced episodic
migraines more than placebo, less than one headache a month when
compared to placebo, while  clonidine , for high  blood pressure ;
flunarizine, a calcium channel blocker; pizotifen, a migraine
drug;  propranolol , for high blood pressure; and valproate, an
anticonvulsant, were no more effective than placebo.  The analysis also showed that children taking a placebo,
rather than the study drugs, reduced their migraines by an
average of about three headaches a month. The high placebo
response suggests more studies of pediatric headaches should
include a placebo group, the authors said.  Few Studies  “There were surprisingly few studies on treating headaches
in children, particularly compared to the hundreds that have
been done in adults,” said  Jeffrey Jackson , a study author and
professor of medicine at the Medical College of  Wisconsin , in a
Jan. 28 e-mail. “Most of the drugs that are effective in adults
do not have evidence of effectiveness in children.”  The FDA analysis found that high placebo response rates
were consistent across the migraine trials studied and pose a
challenge to those who design the research. When putting
together clinical trials, researchers need to take into account
those children who feel better after taking a placebo.  “These studies clearly demonstrate why we cannot assume
what works in adults will work in kids and why children need
their own studies,” Rodriguez said. “There are many -- over 50
percent in most studies -- of children who do not need a drug
for the migraine to resolve in a couple of hours. Drug therapy
appears to be effective in a certain subset of children with
migraine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  