-- AIG’s Greenberg Thumbs Nose at U.S. Taxpayers in Book
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-01-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/aig-s-greenberg-thumbs-his-nose-at-u-s-taxpayers-book-review.html
If you’re among the U.S. taxpayers
who watched in horror as $182 billion of your money made its way
to the collapsing insurance giant  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  during the financial crisis, it might come as a surprise to
learn that your forced munificence didn’t make much of a
difference.  In his new book, “ The AIG Story ,” former chief executive
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg offers his take on what kept the
company alive: “It was saved only by the loyalty and tenacity
of its valiant workforce,” he says.  That is just one of many parallel-universe moments in this
part-vanity, part-vendetta work, which Greenberg co-authored
with law professor Lawrence A. Cunningham. It’s written in the
third person but “is very much Greenberg’s story and a personal
one at that,” we are told in the preface.  In an earlier affront to taxpayers, Greenberg sued the U.S.
government in November 2011, seeking $25 billion based on
allegations that the government, among other things, illegally
seized stock from AIG in 2008 -- stock he had a big interest in
as CEO of Starr International Co., AIG’s biggest shareholder.  Greenberg pushed to get AIG to join the suit, but on Jan.
9, AIG’s board said it was taking a pass.  Same Story  Greenberg was forced out of AIG in March 2005 amid
regulatory probes that targeted him and the company. The version
of the story he tells in his book is pretty much what he’s been
saying since the meltdown: He was a brilliant businessman, an
alert risk-taker and a victim of overzealous regulators and
ungrateful former colleagues. All the bad things that happened
at AIG began after he was shown the door.  It’s a shame we couldn’t have learned more from this very
smart business leader who, through acquisitions and an ability
to spot opportunities where his competition didn’t, built AIG
into the biggest insurance company in the world.  Surely, after a high-flying career befriending heads of
state and moving AIG from an insurance runt to a world-wide
behemoth, a man of 87 would have constructive insights about the
near-collapse of the global economy. And, with a little luck,
maybe even a bit of introspection about lessons he’s learned?  Instead, we get 328 pages of finger-pointing and self-congratulation.  Spitzer, Enron  Former  New York  State Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  is “a
preening scion of outsized ambition” who triggered AIG’s near-destruction, the authors say. The Enron scandal was an
unfortunate turn of events that caused law-enforcement
authorities to become “emboldened” in their pursuit of public
companies. The movement to improve corporate governance saddled
AIG with board members who had the audacity to “challenge
insiders” and “upset the unity” of the board.  Greenberg, in the meantime, is “innovative,”
“independent” and “pioneering.” He is also very important.
“My schedule is packed,” he tells us in a Chairman’s Note at
the start of the book.  Greenberg wound up in nasty back-and-forth litigation with
AIG after he was ousted, and much of the book seeks to show that
AIG’s new management both wronged him and took on risks that he
never would have taken.  It was AIG’s Financial Products (FP) subsidiary that
concocted the derivatives that were nearly the firm’s undoing.
The authors assert that once Greenberg was gone, the FP group
took on ever-greater risks with inadequate supervision.  AIG’s Derivatives  It is not clear, though, that AIG’s derivatives operation
was ever a sound idea. When a Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
executive pitched Greenberg on the idea of setting up a
derivatives business in 1986, the book says Greenberg brought in
AIG director Dean Phypers, “who had additional expertise in
financial instruments” to hear what the Drexel guy had to say.  Phypers’s feedback: It was an “exotic” business, and part
of the presentation was “complex and confusing.” They launched
the operation anyway, with Phypers saying the unit would work
“if kept on a tight leash.”  Until then, Greenberg’s AIG had stuck to businesses whose
risks it understood intimately. He can parse the company’s every
misstep since that 2005 ouster all he wants. But Greenberg can’t
escape the fact that he’s the guy who gave the OK to set up the
operation that, without a taxpayer bailout, could have brought
the financial system down.  “The AIG Story” is published by Wiley in the U.S. and
U.K. (328 pages, $29.95, 19.99 pounds). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  ( Susan Antilla  writes for  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 