-- Maine Hospital to Borrow $150 Million for Expansion: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-01-28T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/maine-hospital-to-borrow-150-million-for-expansion-muni-deals.html
Eastern Maine Medical Center, which
serves 40 percent of the state’s population, is selling $149.7
million in tax-free debt after similarly rated hospital bonds
turned in their best annual performance in three years.  The debt is being issued this week through the Maine Health
& Higher Educational Facilities Authority for the nonprofit
hospital, which is using the funds to expand its Bangor flagship
site with a new tower featuring operating rooms and beds. The
$164.6 million project is expected to be completed in 2015,
according to bond documents.  “The hospital is undersized for the demand,” said Derrick
Hollings, treasurer and chief financial officer for Eastern
Maine Healthcare Systems, which operates the medical center.
“This will expand its capacity so we can serve more patients.”  The issue is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, its
third-lowest investment grade, and BBB by  Standard & Poor’s ,
second-lowest. Moody’s said the health-care provider sees
minimal competition and “consistently improving operating
margins.” S&P said the project is warranted, though there is
“ample risk” in building and filling more beds.  Moody’s has a negative outlook on not-for-profit hospitals,
saying federal spending cuts and limited reimbursements from
insurers will reduce growth.  Hospital bonds ranked BBB earned 13.9 percent in 2012,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. That’s better
than the 13 percent return in 2011 and 4.2 percent the year
before.  Hospital officials said they hope to achieve a total
borrowing cost in the mid-to-low 4 percent range for the debt,
which has a final maturity in 2043, Hollings said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  