-- Korean Won, Taiwan Dollar Tumble Most in 16 Months as Yen Slides
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-01-28T09:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/taiwan-dollar-forwards-weaken-for-fourth-day-on-stock-outflows.html
South Korea’s won and the Taiwan
dollar tumbled the most in 16 months as the yen’s slide to a 2
1/2-year low fanned speculation their central banks will seek
weaker exchange rates to protect exports.  A global currency war seems to be breaking out as monetary
easing in Japan drags the yen lower, Ha Sung Keun, a Bank of
Korea board member, said today in Seoul. Korean officials hinted
last week that they would boost measures to curb gains in the
won, which strengthened 8.3 percent in 2012. Taiwan’s central
bank said today it would intervene if needed.  The won tumbled 1.7 percent to close at 1,092.63 per dollar
in Seoul as overseas investors cut their holdings of the
nation’s stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
dropped 1.6 percent last week, the most since May, as foreigners
sold $990 million more of the nation’s equities than they
bought. The Taiwan dollar slid 1.1 percent today to NT$29.56 in
Taipei. Japan’s currency touched 91.26, the weakest level since
June 2010.  “Central banks in the region are watching each other,”
said Tarsicio Tong, a Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at
Union Bank of Taiwan. “If the Japanese yen falls more, the
Taiwan dollar may have more room to weaken.”  South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said last week
the won’s gains had been too steep and the government was “all
ready” for new measures to address this. Policy makers in
November tightened limits on the use of currency forwards by
banks as won gains threatened exports. Bank of Korea Governor
Kim Choong Soo said Jan. 14 the nation would take an “active”
response if needed on the won, which touched a 17-month high of
1,054.49 per dollar on Jan. 15.  Samsung, Sony  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the nation’s biggest exporter,
said last week a stronger currency may cut 2013 operating profit
by more than 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion). Appreciation is
expected to continue for the “time being,” Robert Yi,
Samsung’s senior vice president, said on a conference call on
Jan. 25, after announcing fourth-quarter earnings.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , the nation’s biggest automaker, reported
last week a 5.5 percent drop in profit for the fourth quarter, a
period in which the won led gains among major currencies with a
4.5 percent advance. “The won’s appreciation will probably
intensify toward the second half of this year,” Chief Financial
Officer Lee Won Hee said in a Jan. 24 conference call.  Samsung and Taiwanese electronics manufacturers including
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. compete globally with Japanese
companies such as Sony Corp., while Hyundai Motor vies with
Toyota Motor Corp. in the auto market. The won and the Taiwan
dollar “are likely to take the biggest hits on the current
revaluation of the yen,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist in Hong
Kong at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a research note today.  Yen’s Advance  Currency moves over the past five years have generally put
Japanese exporters at a disadvantage. The yen led Asia gains
with a 19 percent advance versus the dollar in that time, while
Taiwan’s dollar rose 9.3 percent and the won weakened 13
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Over the past 12 months, the yen slumped 15 percent, the
won rose 2.8 percent and the Taiwan dollar strengthened 0.7
percent. Taiwan’s central bank sold its currency to counter
gains during the final minutes of trading on most days in the
past 10 months, according to traders, who asked not to be
identified.  South Korea last year tightened limits on use of currency
forwards by banks as won gains threatened exports. From Dec. 1,
positions at overseas lenders were capped at 150 percent of
equity, down from 200 percent previously. The ceiling for
domestic banks was cut to 30 percent from 40 percent.  North Korea  Tensions with North Korea are helping weaken the won, which
today fell for a fourth day, the longest losing streak since
August. The North’s leader Kim Jong Un vowed to defend his
country against hostility from the U.S. after the totalitarian
state said last week it planned to test a nuclear weapon. Kim
supported government statements that “powerful physical
countermeasures would be taken to defend” the dignity and
sovereignty of the nation, the official Korean Central News
Agency said in a report yesterday.  Swings in the won and the Taiwan dollar may become more
pronounced. One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
surged 267 basis points today to 9.30 percent and that for
Taiwan’s dollar surged 122 basis points to 4.60 percent. Those
were the biggest jumps since September 2011.  “Concern that authorities will introduce regulations to
stem currency appreciation on top of continued fund outflows are
keeping the won weaker,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst
at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “The yen’s decline is also
weakening the won. Investors also remain worried about
geopolitical risks on North Korea’s nuclear test.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  