-- Takeda Jumps After Winning FDA Approval for Diabetes Drug
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-01-28T09:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/takeda-diabetes-drug-succeeding-actos-wins-fda-approval.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , whose
best-selling diabetes drug Actos lost patent protection in
August, rose to the highest level in more than four years after
winning U.S. regulatory approval for a new treatment.  The  Osaka , Japan-based  company  advanced 1.4 percent to
4,615 yen in Tokyo trading, the highest since December 2008.
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.9 percent.  Takeda and  Furiex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (FURX) , its partner on the
drug, received clearance from the  Food and Drug Administration 
for alogliptin and two combinations of the treatment to use with
diet and exercise for patients with  Type 2 diabetes .
“Alogliptin helps stimulate the release of insulin after a
meal, which leads to better blood sugar control,” the FDA said
Jan. 25.  “Investors hadn’t priced expectations for the new
treatment in earnings and thought the  stock  wouldn’t fall if
Takeda didn’t win approval,” said Ryoichi Urushihara, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Then, approval came in
and boosted  earnings  expectations.”  The approval gives Takeda a new revenue source as cheaper
generics erode earnings from Actos, its largest sales
contributor and once the world’s biggest diabetes drug. Takeda,
whose application for alogliptin was twice rejected by the FDA,
has  projected  net income would fall to a 13-year low of 120
billion yen ($1.3 billion) in the 12 months through March 2015.
The company said it plans to sell the medicines beginning in
mid-2013.  Today’s gain boosted Takeda’s  climb  this month to 20
percent, compared with a 4.1 percent advance for the Nikkei.  Sales Peak  Actos sales peaked in the year ended March 2011 at $4.5
billion for Takeda and accounted for 27 percent of the company’s
revenue at the time.  Alogliptin is in the same class of drugs as  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s
Januvia, which generated $3.3 billion in 2011, and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Onglyza, which sold $473 million that year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The first rejection of alogliptin came in June 2009, when
the FDA said clinical data was insufficient based on new
guidelines on diabetes treatments and cardiovascular risks
released in December 2008. Takeda conducted additional studies
for its resubmission. In April last year, the FDA asked for more
information on the use of the medicine in other countries.  In the U.S., 25.8 million children and adults, or 8.3
percent of the population, have diabetes, including 7 million
people who are undiagnosed, according to figures from  the
American Diabetes Association’s  website.  Diabetes is caused by the body’s inability to use or
produce the hormone insulin. It can lead to  heart disease ,
 kidney failure , blindness or amputations. Most diabetics have
the Type 2 form linked to being overweight or inactive.  Alogliptin is approved in Japan and sold under the brand
name of Nesina. The tablets will go by the same name in the U.S.
The other products will be called Oseni and Kazano, Takeda said
in the statement.  Furiex will receive a $25 million payment as a result of
the approval as well as royalties based on U.S. sales, the
Morrisville, North Carolina-based company said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  