-- Hakkasan Founder’s Cafe Brings Bangkok Noodles to U.K.
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-01-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/hakkasan-founder-s-cafe-brings-bangkok-noodles-to-u-k-.html
It’s not difficult to identify the
star of Asian dining in the U.K.  Alan Yau stands alone.  He’s the Hong Kong-born restaurateur who created Hakkasan
and Yauatcha at the top end of the market and Wagamama and
Busaba Eathai for inexpensive meals. He’s the man behind Cha Cha
Moon and Sake No Hana. Now, he’s back with a new concept.  Naamyaa Cafe is an all-day venue serving Thai street food,
along with other dishes from around Asia (and beyond) that you
might find in a Bangkok. So don’t be surprised to see a chili
dog, Caesar salad and sashimi on the menu alongside tom yam
goong (spicy prawn soup) and other favorites.  So far so good. One flaw is the menu, with too many set
meals you don’t want and a shortage of individual Thai dishes
that you do. The main attractions are the kanom jin noodles
flown in from Bangkok and served with pickled morning glory,
star fruit, free-range boiled egg and Thai herb soup.  There are also rice meals (again with that soup) as well as
snacks and small plates. If you like to try a variety of dishes,
you may find your table cluttered with plates you had to pay for
and don’t want to eat. That’s unfortunate because much of the
food is good, the restaurant is bright and attractive, the
prices are reasonable and the service is friendly.  Household Divinity  Naamyaa Cafe, near Angel tube station, represents the
modern face of  Thailand , with a “wai” in the direction of
tradition. You are greeted by rows of Nang Kwak figurines. Nang
Kwak is a spirit of household divinity which Thais believe
brings prosperity and good luck.  Yau is obsessed with detail and it was no surprise to spot
him tasting dishes and chatting with the chef on the first of my
three visits.  I subsequently ate there with a Thai colleague who was
impressed by the authenticity of both the design and the food.
(With the one exception, that the noodle set meals all come
under the heading of naamyaa, which she says is exclusively a
fish-based sauce, so wouldn’t cover chicken or beef.)  Some of the dishes are very good. The jasmine-tea smoked
baby-back pork ribs at 8.50 pounds ($13.45) are rich and sweet.  The Isaan chicken is also worth trying: It’s corn-fed,
free-range chicken grilled with lemon grass. It comes with green
papaya salad, sticky rice and green melon soup. Perhaps you
would prefer the tom yam goong spicy prawn soup. That comes as
part of a set meal for two and costs 24 pounds. Dine alone and
the burgers make sense as a way of avoiding multiple plates of
soup.  Spam, Soup  About 10 dishes come with soup. Think of the Monty Python
Spam sketch and you’ll get the general idea.  The choice of drinks is inspired.  There’s a range of teas (from  India , Nepal,  Japan  and
 China ) served in attractive jugs; Thai, Japanese and British
beers; and even  Kopparberg (KOBRMTFB)  pear cider from  Sweden .  The wine list is a real surprise: It’s not limited to the
inexpensive heavy hitters you might count on to stand up to Thai
food. The Ramey Russian River Chardonnay 2009 is 77 pounds; for
red, the Lytton Springs, Ridge 2007 (a Zinfandel blend from
Sonoma County,  California ) is 73 pounds. The wines start at
below 5 pounds a glass and just above 20 pounds a bottle.  Yau doesn’t copy. He just keeps coming up with original
ideas that other people either follow or buy from him. He’s also
a perfectionist, so teething problems at Naamyaa Cafe are likely
to be short-lived. If you can’t make it to Angel, don’t worry:
There will probably be a branch near you before too long.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 15 pounds a head, plus drinks.  Sound level? Buzzy, but not too loud: 75 decibels.  Inside tip? It’s good to eat at the counter.  Special feature? Soup, soup, soup, soup.  Will I be back? Unlikely as Delhi Grill is nearby.  Date place? If you’re on a budget.  Rating? **.  Naamyaa Cafe is at 407 St. John Street, Islington, EC1V
4AB. Information:  http://www.naamyaa.com/  or +44-20-7291-1128.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80:  London  street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Greg Evans 
on film.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 