-- Manchester City To Sell Balotelli to AC Milan: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-28T11:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/manchester-city-to-sell-balotelli-to-ac-milan-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable Internet links.  Game Over for Mario?  Manchester City is expected to announce today that it’s
selling Italian striker  Mario Balotelli  to AC Milan for 17
million pounds ($27 million), the  Sun  reported.  Balotelli, 22, held a goodbye party at his house yesterday,
the newspaper said.  He joined City in 2010 from  Inter Milan  for 22 million
pounds, but the relationship between him and City manager
 Roberto Mancini  seems “unsustainable,” the Sun reported.  Chelsea Targets Butland  Birmingham City and England Under-21 goalkeeper Jack
Butland may join Chelsea for 3 million pounds as his club tries
to avoid going into administration, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Chelsea, who already have  Petr Cech  and reserve Thibaut
Courtois -- now on loan at  Atletico Madrid  -- as keepers, wants
to sign Butland as a long-term investment and may loan him to
another club to let him gain more experience.  QPR Boosts Odemwingie Bid  Queens Park Rangers are to increase their offer for West
Bromwich Albion striker  Peter Odemwingie  to 3.25 million pounds,
the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Odemwingie has been at odds with his club recently,
criticizing it on his Twitter account for turning down his
transfer request. He faces a 70,000-pound club fine, the paper
said.  QPR defender Anton Ferdinand may move to Turkish side
Bursaspor on loan, the paper added.  According to the  Daily Mirror , both Fulham and Norwich want
to buy QPR and Scotland winger Jamie Mackie for 3 million
pounds.  Hooper Norwich-Bound?  Celtic striker  Gary Hooper  may join Norwich for 7 million
pounds, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Although Tottenham, Sunderland and Newcastle are also
interested in Hooper, they have yet to put in a bid.  A previous offer by Norwich of 4.5 million pounds was
turned down by Celtic, which wants 8 million pounds for the 25-
year-old, the paper said.  Oldham Manager Safe?  Oldham Chairman Simon Corney said manager Paul Dickov’s job
is safe for now, after speculation he might be dismissed even
after yesterday’s F.A. Cup win over Liverpool.  Oldham is only one point above the relegation positions in
League One after a poor run of form.  “I think Paul’s OK for the time being,” Corney told
 BBC Breakfast . “Hopefully this will be the kick-start and we
won’t be talking about Paul’s job again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  