-- Amplats Postpones Job Cuts Amid ‘Dire’ Platinum Industry
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-29T15:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/anglo-american-platinum-puts-plans-for-job-cuts-on-hold.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the
biggest producer of the metal, put plans on hold to cut as many
as 14,000 jobs in South Africa following criticism from the
government.  The company, controlled by  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , said it will
postpone a decision on cuts for as many as 60 days to allow for
a “detailed consultation” with the Department of Mineral
Resources and unions after meeting in  Pretoria .  Anglo American Platinum, or Amplats, announced proposals
Jan. 15 to shut four mine shafts to curb costs. It’s among
mining companies in South Africa grappling with higher expenses
following strikes last year. Politicians and unions attacked the
plans, with Mines Minister Susan Shabangu saying licenses could
be revoked and African National Congress Secretary-General Gwede
Mantashe accusing Anglo of having “stolen our money.”  “The situation for the platinum industry is dire,”
Amplats Chief Executive Officer Chris Griffith said on
Johannesburg-based SAfm radio today. “Collectively there may
be, even with the help of government, potential to reduce the
amount of affected employees.”  The stock rose 0.9 percent to 444 rand by the close in
Johannesburg, a fourth day of gains.  ‘Constructive Engagement’  The department and labor unions are more comfortable with
the consultation process taking place outside of  South Africa ’s
Labour Relations Act, which governs the process of potential job
cuts, Griffith said. Under the act, talks are held with a
facilitator appointed by the Commission for Conciliation,
Mediation and Arbitration.  “It’s important that I don’t prejudge the process,” he
said. “We’ve had some constructive engagement with the DMR;
with our regulator we’re in a much better place. With labor we
always have this consultation process. We’ve still got some work
to do with the ANC.”  Under Amplats’s existing plan, the company would cut
400,000 ounces of platinum production annually, or 7 percent of
global output, to help return to profitability.  “We upgraded our recommendation from sell to hold on the
back of the original strategic review because we thought they
were doing the right thing and obviously government interference
is a bit of a tough one on a business level,” Justin Froneman,
an analyst at SBG Securities Ltd., said by phone from
Johannesburg.  ‘Permanent Solution’  Producers in the continent’s largest economy shut nine
platinum-mine shafts and dismissed 3,332 workers in the second
half of last year, according to the Department of Mineral
Resources. Strikes have led to above-inflation wage gains as
companies face higher production costs.  “We are very confident that in the 60 days we should be
able to reach” a permanent solution,  Lesiba Seshoka , a
spokesman for the  National Union of Mineworkers , said yesterday
in a phone interview. Zingaphi Jakuja, a spokeswoman for the
Department of Mineral Resources, didn’t answer calls.  Amplats said Jan. 14 it would post a 2012 loss because of
walkouts by mineworkers that cut its output by 306,000 ounces.  “The fact is that these guys were burning money, they’re
going to continue to burn money unless they turn those assets
around tomorrow, which is highly unlikely,” Froneman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  