-- Armstrong Faces Doping-Related Litigation in U.S. and U.K.
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-28T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/armstrong-faces-doping-related-litigation-in-u-s-and-u-k-.html
A criminal probe of  Lance Armstrong ’s professional cycling team by U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in Los Angeles was closed last February without
charges being filed. Armstrong still faces civil lawsuits that
include doping allegations.  The following past and current legal actions in U.S. and
U.K. courts involve allegations that Armstrong used illegal
performance enhancing drugs during his professional cycling
career while claiming he rode clean.  Ex-Teammate Landis Accuses Armstrong in Whistle-Blower Suit  Former Armstrong teammate Floyd Landis, who has admitted to
doping, filed a whistle-blower lawsuit on behalf of the U.S. in
federal court in  Washington . The 2010 complaint, a copy of which
was posted on the website of the  New York  Daily News, is under
seal and the U.S.  Justice Department  hasn’t issued a decision
whether it will join the case.  Landis accuses Armstrong of violating the sponsorship
agreement his team had with the U.S.  Postal Service  by using
illegal performance enhancing drugs and blood doping to win the
Tour de  France . Thomas Weisel, a Silicon Valley investor who
owned the team, is also a defendant in the case. The complaint
couldn’t be independently obtained from the court.  The case is U.S. ex rel.  Floyd Landis  v. Tailwind Sports
Corp., 10-00976, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  Justice Department Petitioned to Enforce Sponsor’s Subpoena  The U.S. Justice Department in 2011 filed a petition in
federal court in Washington to force Armstrong to provide
information to the Postal Service Office of Inspector General.
The petition was unsealed in December.  According to the Justice Department’s filing, the Postal
Service, which provided a total of about $40 million to
Armstrong’s team, is investigating whether he and his teammates
violated the sponsorship agreement by using illegal substances.  The information the Postal Service is seeking includes
correspondence with Michele Ferrari, the Italian doctor who
according to the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency was instrumental in the
team’s doping program. The investigation is separate from the
criminal investigation by federal prosecutors in  Los Angeles 
that ended without charges against Armstrong.  In November, the government withdrew the petition, saying
in court filings that Armstrong had complied with the subpoena.  The case is U.S. v. Armstrong, 11-mc-00565, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  California Residents Suing Over ‘Fictional’ Autobiography  Two  Sacramento  residents filed a lawsuit seeking to
represent all  California  buyers of Armstrong’s books “It’s not
About the Bike: My Journey Back to Life” and “Every Second
Counts.” They claim they were duped into buying the books that
turned out to be works of fiction rather than autobiography
because Armstrong falsely claimed in them that he hadn’t doped.  The case is Stutzman v. Armstrong, 13-00116, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  Armstrong’s Lawsuit Against USADA Failed to Stop Loss of Titles  In 2012 Armstrong unsuccessfully sued to prevent the U.S.
Anti-Doping Agency from stripping him of his titles and imposing
a lifetime ban on him. A federal judge dismissed the case in
August.  The case is Armstrong v. U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, 1:12-
cv-00606, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  SCA Promotions Seeks Return of Armstrong’s Prize Money  SCA Promotions Inc., which insured bonuses Armstrong
received for winning the  Tour de France  from 2002 to 2004, was
sued by Armstrong and U.S. Postal Service team owner Tailwind
Sports in 2004 for failing to pay a $5 million bonus. SCA, based
in  Dallas , agreed in 2006 to pay the $5 million and $2.5 million
in interest and legal fees.  SCA, in a letter in October, asked Armstrong to repay the
$12 million he got for Tour de France wins from 2002 to 2004.
The letter put Armstrong “on notice that we may seek legal
sanctions and penalties against Mr. Armstrong in connection with
the false testimony given by him in 2005-2006 arbitration
proceeding,” Jeff Dorough, an attorney for SCA, said in the
letter.  Sunday Times, David Walsh Seek Libel Settlement Repayment  The Sunday Times in the U.K. is trying to recoup $1.5
million from a libel lawsuit filed by Armstrong that it settled
in 2006. Sunday Times sportswriter David Walsh co-wrote “L.A.
Confidentiel,” published in French in 2003. The book included
revelations by former U.S. Postal team soigneur Emma O’Reilly
about doping during the Tour de France.  The case is Times Newspapers Limited & Ors v. Lance
Armstrong,  High Court  of Justice Queens Bench Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  