-- Las Vegas Area Leads U.S. in Home-Construction Gains
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-01-28T19:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/las-vegas-area-leads-u-s-in-home-construction-gains.html
Las Vegas , one of the hardest-hit
cities in the U.S. real estate crash, had the biggest jump in
housing starts in the fourth quarter, almost doubling from a
year earlier.  Construction of single-family homes surged 96 percent in
the  Las Vegas (SPCSLV)  metropolitan area, 92 percent in Florida’s Naples-
Ft. Myers area and 91 percent in Atlanta, Metrostudy said in a
report. The U.S. average was a 47 percent increase, according to
the Washington-based research firm’s survey of 84 markets.  Homebuilders are stepping up production to meet demand,
which has been increasing amid improving  employment ,  mortgage
rates  near record lows and tightening supplies of existing
properties for sale. Housing starts rose 12 percent in December
from the previous month to a 954,000 annual rate, the most since
June 2008, the Commerce Department said on Jan. 17.  “There’s a lot of pent-up demand in markets across country
that is starting to emerge now,” said  Brad Hunter , chief
economist of Metrostudy. “The Las Vegas market is coming back,
but the percentage gains look astronomical because of low
numbers we’ve been seeing up to now.”  Las Vegas and other markets where values collapsed most
after the housing  bust  are attracting investors who are buying
discounted single-family homes and converting them into rentals.
The 1,426 single-family houses started in the Las Vegas area in
the fourth quarter is down from the peak of 7,873 in the third
quarter of 2004, according to Metrostudy.  Houston Homes  In the fourth quarter, Minneapolis-St. Paul; Denver;
Raleigh-Durham,  North Carolina ; Nashville,  Tennessee ; and
Northern California also were among the top 10 areas for
increases in housing starts, Metrostudy said.  Houston had one of the smallest gains, at 27 percent from a
year earlier. Still, the area is a major contributor to the
nationwide housing recovery, with builders starting 5,303
single-family homes, according to the report.  Metrostudy’s data cover homebuilding in 65 percent of U.S.
metropolitan areas. New York,  New Jersey  and Pennsylvania are
among states not included in the report.  Buyer demand for real estate remains choppy. Contracts to
purchase previously owned U.S. homes fell 4.3 percent in
December after a revised 1.6 percent increase in the previous
month, the National Association of Realtors reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  