-- Assaults on Egyptian Women Peak in Protest, Group Says
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-01-28T08:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/assaults-on-egyptian-women-peak-in-protest-group-says.html
 At least 19 women were severely
sexually assaulted or raped in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  during the
second anniversary of  Egypt ’s uprising, in what rights groups
say was the highest reported toll in the country in two years.  A 19-year-old woman had her genitalia sliced with a knife
while others were assaulted on Jan. 25 by male mobs, Dalia
Abdel-Hamid, a researcher at the Cairo-based Egyptian Initiative
for Personal Rights, said by telephone yesterday.  Abdel-Hamid and other women’s rights activists have
repeatedly highlighted sexual harassment and assaults in Egypt,
saying the problem has grown increasingly widespread and violent
since the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  on Feb. 11, 2011.  “The assaults were the largest and most intense as far as
we know since the revolution,” Abdel-Hamid, who volunteered
with the Cairo-based Op-Anti Sexual Harassment, or Opantish,
initiative on the night of the attacks, said. “The attackers
were using weapons and sometimes there were four concurrent mob
harassments in the street that could be seen from the top of a
balcony.”  Male volunteers with the Opantish group, which worked to
rescue women being assaulted in the square, also came under
threat. “Attackers had knives and bottles; one of our
volunteers was stabbed in the leg,” Abdel-Hamid said.  Women in public in Egypt frequently experience sexual
harassment and assaults, the New York-based Human Rights Watch
said in a December 2011 report.  The ruling military council at the time “continued the
poor record of the ousted Mubarak administration by failing to
prevent, investigate or punish such attacks,” HRW said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  