-- Mastercard Sees Shift to Debit as Gulf Banks Rein in Lending
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-01-28T05:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/mastercard-sees-shift-to-debit-as-gulf-banks-rein-in-lending.html
Consumers in the  Persian Gulf  are
“rapidly shifting” to debit and prepaid cards from credit
cards as regulators tighten rules on bank lending,  Mastercard
Inc. (MA) ’s president of the  Middle East  and  Africa  said.  “If I take our business as a window into the world of
regulatory framework and what is happening, what we can is that
the use of debit cards has dramatically increased,” Michael
Miebach said in an interview in Doha, Qatar, on Jan. 23.  Transactions by debit cards, where the cash is immediately
deducted from users’ bank accounts, are increasing twice as fast
as by credit cards, while prepaid card transactions are growing
8 times faster than debit, Miebach said in further comments sent
by e-mail. The number of  debit cards  in the Gulf are growing at
“double digit” figures, with those for prepaid cards at
“triple digits,” he said, without giving further information.  Central banks in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council
imposed limits on bank lending after the 2008 financial crises
forced some countries to bail out lenders. The United Arab
Emirates central bank notified lenders of a proposal to cap
mortgages for foreigners and nationals at 50 percent and 70
percent of property values respectively last month, while Qatar
placed restrictions in 2011 on amounts banks can lend to
nationals and foreigners and limited the interest they charge.  Still, Mastercard, the world’s second-biggest card network
after Visa Inc., seeks to expand its market share in the Middle
East and Africa, Miebach said, speaking at the opening of the
company’s Doha office. The office in Qatar’s capital is its
fifth in the Middle East and North Africa region after Dubai,
 Riyadh , Cairo and Casablanca, he said.  While payments in Gulf countries are 85 to 90
percent cash, compared to 50 percent in the U.S., the region’s
exposure to travelers have made it “a very credit-centric
market in terms of electronic payment,” Miebach said. “It’s
rapidly shifting toward using a lot more debit. Regulators and
banks are pushing for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  