-- Latin America Commits to Open Trade After Protectionist Year
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-01-28T20:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/latin-america-commits-to-open-trade-after-year-of-protectionism.html
Latin American leaders who have put
in place some of the world’s highest trade barriers agreed to
fight protectionism in a summit with their European Union
counterparts this weekend -- two days before handing leadership
of the regional bloc to Cuba.  The Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, known
as Celac for its initials in Spanish, and the EU signed a joint
declaration Jan. 26 that embraces international trade and
respect for legal frameworks. Chilean President Sebastian Pinera, who hosted the summit, today handed the Celac leadership
to Cuban leader  Raul Castro .  The statement, which isn’t legally binding, comes after a
year in which South America’s two largest economies put up new
trade barriers in a bid to protect local industries from outside
competition. The EU is lobbying the Mercosur bloc led by Brazil
and  Argentina  to open up their markets as part of trade
negotiations that have failed to produce results for more than a
decade.  “It is no secret that Europe would have liked to have made
more progress in these talks by now,” Karel De Gucht, trade
commissioner at the European Commission, said in a Jan. 26
speech at the summit. “On the core issue of access to each
other’s market we have still not gotten down to business. It is
in everyone’s interest that we grow our economies ever closer.”  Set up two decades ago to promote trade between member
countries, Mercosur’s 35 percent maximum external tariff deters
exporters from tapping into the bloc’s 278 million consumers.  Raising Barriers  “We reiterate our commitment to avoid protectionism in all
its form,” the summit statement reads. “We remain determined
to favor a system of open multilateral commerce.”  In the past year Brazil and Argentina have increased trade
barriers. Brazil in September boosted  import taxes  on 100
products including steel and plastics and Argentina in February
required importers to seek authorization from the federal tax
agency before purchasing goods abroad.  The two countries are in the bottom half of a global
standing that ranks countries according to their trade openness.
Brazil, which is  Latin America ’s largest economy, ranks 84th out
of 132 nations, followed by Argentina at 96, according to the
 World Economic Forum ’s 2012 report on trade openness.  Mercosur’s newest member, Venezuela, is the world’s most
closed economy behind Burundi and Chad, according to the WEF
report. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  has nationalized more
than 1,000 companies or their assets during his 14 years in
office. The Communist island of Cuba, which eschews free
enterprise, isn’t in the report.  Unfair, Exclusionary  “The international economic order is unfair and
exclusionary,” Castro, 81, said today at the summit in prepared
remarks. “We must be capable of promoting our own regional
architecture that is specially designed to meet the
particularities and needs of Latin America and the Caribbean.”  Some Latin American countries such as  Chile ,  Peru ,  Mexico 
and Colombia are committed to free trade,  Michael Shifter ,
president of the Washington-based  Inter-American Dialogue , said
by phone Jan. 22.  Chile ranks 14th in the world in terms of trade openness,
above the U.S. and Ireland, according to the World Economic
Forum. The Andean nation, which along with Mexico has a free
trade agreement with the EU, is followed in the region by
Uruguay,  Costa Rica , Peru,  Panama  and Mexico, according to the
report.  Pacific Alliance  Mexico, Colombia, Chile and Peru last year created the
Pacific Alliance trade bloc, which by the end of March will have
90 percent of goods trading duty-free, Pinera told reporters at
the summit yesterday. Member nations also agreed to include
Guatemala and Japan as observers.  “We strengthened ties to achieve increased and more
efficient cooperation,” Pinera told reporters today after
closing the summit. “We are moving forward on relaxing duties
and preferential tariffs to advance firmly and with confidence
toward greater integration.”  Colombia and Peru are also working to implement their free
trade agreements with the EU on a provisional basis by the end
of March, European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  told
reporters during the summit.  Still, Mercosur-member nations didn’t announce any progress
in talks with the EU at the summit.  “This is a Latin America moving in lots of different
directions,” Shifter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 