-- Australian Housing Unlikely to Plug Resource Gap, Deloitte Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-28T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/australian-housing-unlikely-to-plug-resource-gap-deloitte-says.html
Australian housing construction is
unlikely to plug the growth gap that will open when resource
investment peaks, and manufacturing and services will see little
reprieve from a strong currency, a Deloitte Access Economics
report showed.  The Canberra-based research company said in a report
released today that the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  may not cut
its benchmark  interest rate  from the current half-century low of
3 percent. It predicts the nation’s resource investment boom
will peak later this year and doesn’t see the Australian dollar
“ceding” much recently gained ground until after mid-2014.  “Although interest-rate sensitive sectors such as retail
and home building may lift, they won’t set any land speed
records, and it is less clear that dollar dependent sectors will
do the same,” the Deloitte report stated.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the overnight cash rate
target a quarter percentage point to 3 percent last month, the
sixth reduction since Nov. 1, 2011, to spur hiring and revive
the housing market. Policy makers are aiming to rebalance
Australia’s two-speed economy, where mining regions in the north
and west thrive while manufacturers, retailers and builders in
the south and east struggle.  “The mega-mining construction projects which accounted for
much of Australia’s production growth in recent years are
hurtling towards a peak,” the Deloitte report stated. “And
although interest-rate cuts will help retail spending and
housing construction more than is yet realized, that won’t be
enough of itself.”  A separate Deloitte survey of 73 chief financial officers
taken from Dec. 7 to Jan. 14 indicated more than two-thirds
expect the benchmark borrowing cost to be cut. It showed that 63
percent expect the Australian dollar to remain in a range of $1
to $1.05, up from 29 percent six months earlier.  CFOs “appear to be more aligned in their views than they
were six months ago,” the report stated. “This suggests that a
high Australian dollar is now seen as a longer term reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  