-- Axis Bank Said to Seek Up to $1 Billion in Share Sale
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-01-29T04:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/axis-bank-said-to-seek-up-to-1-billion-in-share-sale.html
Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) ,  India ’s third-
largest non-state lender by market value, rose as much as
 3.7 percent  today after it began a share sale to raise 55.5
billion rupees ($1 billion).  The bank, based in Mumbai, is offering 39.9 million shares
at 1,390 rupees, according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg
News yesterday. The shares were up 3 percent to 1,455.6 rupees
as of 9:34 a.m. local time today.  The sale is India’s largest this year and comes after
companies raised 573 billion rupees selling equity in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Foreign demand for Indian stocks
helped lift the benchmark BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  this month
to its highest level in more than two years.  Axis Bank is the third-best performer in the 14-stock
Bankex index over the last six months. The lender said last
month it would offer as many as 45.8 million shares in a so-
called qualified institutional placement, a sale earmarked for
institutional investors.  As part of the offering, the bank would make a preferential
issue of 6.05 million shares to state-owned lenders, including
Life Insurance Corp. of India, according to a stock exchange
notification on Dec. 27. The placement includes 5.9 million
preferential shares, the terms show.  Axis Capital,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
managing the transaction, two people with knowledge of the
matter said yesterday, asking not to be identified as the
information is private. The bank began the offering yesterday,
it said in a stock exchange filing without offering any
additional details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net 
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  