-- Bank of Israel Holds Rate at Lowest in More Than Two Year
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-01-28T16:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/bank-of-israel-holds-rate-at-lowest-in-more-than-two-year.html
The Bank of  Israel  left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged after a surprise cut last
month that brought the rate to the lowest in more than two
years.  Governor Stanley Fischer and the monetary policy committee
held the rate at 1.75 percent, the Jerusalem-based bank said on
its website today. All 22 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg 
forecast the decision.  “For the first time in a long while, investment houses
assess that the risks in the global economy have decreased,”
the central bank said in an e-mailed statement, adding that
inflation expectations for the year ahead indicate the rate will
be below the midpoint of its target range.  The Bank of Israel has gradually reduced the borrowing rate
from 3.25 percent in 2011 in an effort to shore up the economy
amid the  European debt crisis . The International Monetary Fund
said Jan. 23 that the global economy would expand 3.5 percent
this year, less than the 3.6 percent forecast in October. The
euro area economy is expected to shrink 0.2 percent in 2013,
instead of growing 0.2 percent as forecast in October.  The Israeli economy, which is highly dependent on exports,
is expected to expand by 3.8 percent, the Bank of Israel said in
December, updating its forecast to include natural gas
production. Excluding gas output, the growth outlook was revised
down to 2.8 percent, it said. The economy expanded 3.3 percent
in 2012, the slowest since 2009.  Shekel Drops  “From the central bank’s point of view, the local
conditions mostly support another cut in the rate, despite the
global conditions that mostly support waiting,” Amir Kahanovich, chief economist at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd., said
in an e-mail. Kahanovich added that he sees a possible rate cut
already by May.  The shekel slipped 0.2 percent to the 3.7277 to the dollar
following the rate decision.  The central bank also noted a continued rise in home prices
and said it hasn’t yet seen the limitations it placed on
mortgages that went into effect at the beginning of November
have an impact, according to the statement.  In the 12 months ending in November, home prices increased
by 5.7 percent, compared with 3.7 percent in the 12 months to
October.  The decision was the first by the central bank after
Israeli elections on Jan. 22, that gave Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu the most seats in parliament and the best chance to
form the next ruling coalition. The centrist Yesh Atid party
came in a surprising second place.  Moody’s Investors Service said today that a centrist
government that may emerge from the elections is expected to
“emphasize economic and social reforms and reassert the
importance of budget discipline, all credit positives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  