-- Bank Indonesia Steps Up Intervention to Narrow Rupiah Price Gap
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-01-28T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/bank-indonesia-steps-up-intervention-to-narrow-rupiah-price-gap.html
Indonesia ’s central bank stepped up
intervention in the past two weeks to support the rupiah after
an offshore fixing for the currency sank to the biggest discount
to the onshore spot rate in almost 16 months.  Bank Indonesia acted to boost dollar supply in the market
and revive confidence in the rupiah, which lost 0.4 percent this
month to extend a six-quarter slide, and narrow the gap between
local and overseas prices, said Hendar,  executive director  for
monetary policy. The monetary authority sees room to adjust
foreign-exchange rules to temper excess dollar demand and
stabilize the rupiah, he said, without elaborating.  “We are increasing the supply of dollars in the  currency
market  to restore market confidence,” Hendar, who goes by only
one name, said in a telephone interview from Jakarta yesterday.
“This is in line with our effort to not have a dual foreign-
exchange market. We are leaning toward seeing a narrower gap
between the rupiah’s onshore and offshore levels.”  The difference between rupiah quotes within Indonesia and
those outside reached 2.6 percent on Jan. 11, the widest since
Sept. 22, 2011. Analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc led by  Paul Mackel 
in  Hong Kong  wrote in a research note on Jan. 11 that the “two-
tiered market” for the rupiah may prompt companies to hoard
dollars and Indonesians to prefer holding foreign currencies.  The spread declined to the least in a month after Hendar
said it has increased intervention. An average of 18 global
lenders’  quotes  compiled by The Association of Banks in
 Singapore  and used to settle non-deliverable forwards was fixed
at 9,783 per dollar yesterday. That was 0.9 percent cheaper than
the onshore rate, the least since Dec. 20.  Worst Performer  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,675 in the  spot market  in
Jakarta yesterday, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. It was the worst performer among  Asia ’s 11 most-
traded currencies last year, weakening 5.9 percent, as the
nation’s  current account  remained in deficit for a fourth
straight quarter through September. The central bank estimates
the shortfall reached 2.4 percent of gross domestic product for
the full year, the most since 1996.  “Fulfilling dollar demand has helped stabilize onshore
rates, but it remains a short-term measure that doesn’t address
the bigger issue of the current-account deficit,” said Thio Chin Loo, a senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA in
Singapore. “We remain negative on the currency.”  ‘Build Confidence’  The last time the rupiah’s onshore rate exceeded the
offshore fixing by more than 2 percent was in May 2012, when
analysts at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. said  Bank Indonesia 
has set an “unofficial ceiling” for the currency and asked
local lenders not to quote beyond that level. Bank Indonesia
spokesman Difi Johansyah declined on Jan. 14 to comment on the
reason for the disparity between the rupiah rates.  Indonesia’s foreign-currency reserves increased for a sixth
month to $112.8 billion in December, the biggest stockpile since
April. The central bank continues to safeguard the rupiah as it
takes steps to respond to “out of proportion” concerns about
the current-account deficit, Governor Darmin Nasution told
reporters in Jakarta on Jan. 11.  One-month implied volatility for the rupiah, which measures
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, was at
6.25 percent yesterday, the least in almost three weeks.  “The currency’s movement is due to the worsening current
account and there will be room for the rupiah to strengthen
along with the global recovery,” said Hendar. “We also hope to
see domestic measures to improve the current account. In the
meanwhile, Bank Indonesia will fill the gap in dollar supply to
restore confidence in the market. We hope a more stable exchange
rate will build confidence in the  capital market .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  