-- Bank Bonds Poised to Recapture Pre-Crisis Yield Eminence
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-28T16:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/banks-debt-poised-to-capture-pre-crisis-eminence-credit-markets.html
Banks are poised to overtake
industrial companies as the safest borrowers in the $5.1
trillion U.S. corporate bond market for the first time since the
start of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Investors demand an extra 154 basis points in yield over
benchmarks to buy bonds of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Wells Fargo &
Co . and other lenders, compared with 138 basis points for
companies from Alcoa Inc. to Ford Motor Co., Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. At 16 basis points, the gap has
shrunk from a peak of 365 in 2009 and may invert as soon as this
year based on the current pace of tightening.  Banks have responded to calls from the  U.S. Congress  to the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  to rebuild their capital
cushions, increasing their ratio of core capital to assets by
more than two-fold since the peak of the crisis.  “Financial institutions are a favored sector for
investment-grade investors,” Edward Marrinan, a macro credit
strategist at RBS Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. Following legislative and regulatory
changes, “their balance sheets are far more conservatively
funded,” he said.  Spread Reversal  Their bonds were seen as safer than industrial debt by
investors until September 2007, the month after BNP Paribas SA
marked the start of the credit seizure by halting withdrawals
from investment funds that owned subprime mortgage securities.  Bond buyers are wagering lenders are safer relative to
industrial companies even after Moody’s Investors Service cut
the ratings of 15 of the world’s largest banks last June, citing
fragile confidence and tighter regulations that pinched revenue.  Of the 31 financial institutions in the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 index that have reported fourth-quarter earnings, 87 percent
showed earnings growth, the most of any industry, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, a credit-default swaps
benchmark used to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of
85.8 basis points as of 11:25 a.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, increased 0.68 basis point to 16.63 basis
points as of 11:25 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
Corp. are the most active dollar-denominated corporate
securities today, accounting for 4.1 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 11:26 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ‘Further Tightening’  Spreads on bank bonds have shrunk 230 basis points since
the end of 2011, more than three times the 68 basis-point
tightening for industrial debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. In the same period, bank bonds have returned
15.2 percent, compared with 7.7 percent for industrial debt.  Average relative yields on JPMorgan bonds have declined 151
basis points since the end of 2011 to 115 basis points, versus a
tightening of 42 basis points to 134 for Dallas-based AT&T Inc.,
the second-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “While much of the U.S. bank universe is trading close to
its post-crisis tights, we believe there is room for further
tightening” for firms including Morgan Stanley and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Barclays Plc analysts Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff in New York wrote in a report dated Jan. 25.  Goldman Sachs reported a quarterly profit on Jan. 16 that
beat estimates and full-year  revenue  that grew for the first
time since 2009. Two days later, Morgan Stanley, owner of the
world’s biggest brokerage, said fourth-quarter earnings from
that business more than doubled and the firm reached profit-
margin targets six months ahead of schedule.  Moody’s Cuts  For all the concern that financial debt would be roiled by
the Moody’s downgrades on June 21, bank bonds have gained 7.8
percent since the cuts, compared with 3.5 percent for industrial
debentures, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The  Federal Reserve ’s efforts to lift the economy by
accelerating purchases of mortgage-backed securities by $40
billion a month for its third round of so-called quantitative
easing is creating a shortage of assets that sends investors
reaching for more yield, Pri de Silva, a bank analyst at New
York-based CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone interview.  “When financials are wider than industrials, the demand
for financials increases,” de Silva said.  The panic that eventually led to $2 trillion in writedowns
and losses at the world’s largest banks began on Aug. 9, 2007,
after Paris-based BNP Paribas halted withdrawals from three
investment funds that had declined 20 percent in less than two
weeks because it couldn’t “fairly” value their holdings.  Lehman Failure  Thirteen months later, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the
biggest underwriter of mortgage-backed securities as the U.S.
real estate market peaked, filed for the largest bankruptcy in
history, and credit markets froze. Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley were forced to transform into bank holding companies.  A global effort to bolster banks’ balance sheets followed.
The Dodd-Frank Act passed in July 2010 overhauled U.S. financial
rules in a bid to avoid another financial collapse.  New capital rules announced by the Basel committee called
for tighter capital structures, specifically in  Tier 1 capital ,
a measure of lenders’ ability to withstand losses, which
regulators said should be composed mostly of common stock and
retained earnings.  The average Tier 1 common equity at the four largest banks,
JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo, was
11.22 percent of risk-weighted assets at year-end, up from 4.31
percent in December 2008, Bloomberg data show.  The new capital rules may force the largest lenders to hold
equity that’s as much as 9.5 percent of risk-weighted assets.
The four banks, plus Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, had a
Tier 1 common ratio under the stricter rules of 8.89 percent at
the end of 2012, up from 8.03 percent at the end of June,
Bloomberg data show.  “In the past few years banks have been diligent in
reinforcing their capital structure and have more conservative
balance sheets,” Dorian Garay, a New York-based money manager
for an investment-grade debt fund at ING Investment Management,
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  