-- Banks, Regulators Must Make Headway on Living Wills, FSB Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-01-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/banks-regulators-must-make-headway-on-living-wills-fsb-says.html
Banks (SX7P)  and national regulators are
too slow to draw up living wills showing how large international
lenders can be wound down if they fail, a group of global
regulators said yesterday.  “Significant work remains” to be done on the bank-crisis
plans, the Financial Stability Board said in a statement
following a meeting in Zurich, Switzerland. The board said that
it would publish a review of nations’ progress in April, in a
bid to identify lenders and regulators that aren’t up to speed.  “Financial markets have improved over recent months,
medium-term downside risks remain,” Bank of Canada Governor
Mark Carney, who is also the FSB’s chairman, told reporters
after yesterday’s meeting. Bank supervisors should “continue to
assess the resilience” of the banking system to shocks
“through regular stress testing.”  U.S. and European Union regulators have called on large
banks to prepare living wills, to be developed with their
supervisors, showing how they might be safely broken up without
causing market turmoil and taxpayer-funded bailouts. EU nations
alone have provided as much as  4.6 trillion euros  ($6.2
trillion) of capital injections and other support to lenders
since 2008 to prevent a meltdown of the financial system
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The European Banking Authority last week told
39 banks, including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , to
draft such contingency plans by the end of this year.  Work Plan  The FSB brings together regulators, central bankers and
finance ministry officials from the Group of 20 nations.  The board’s work plan for 2013 also includes reviewing
rules for the setting of market benchmarks, in the wake of the
scandal engulfing Libor, Euribor and other interbank lending
rates, Carney said.  The board also said that it also will publish a report in
April on nations’ progress in implementing rules for over-the-
counter derivatives.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is reviewing
whether energy futures contracts that are replacing swaps on the
largest exchanges have enough transparency before they are
traded, amid concerns traders may be turning to futures to
evade regulations being put in place for OTC derivatives.  ‘Futurization’ Shift  Such so-called futurization “is not necessarily a bad
thing if directionally it is consistent with the FSB reforms,”
Carney said. “That said, we are not trying to futurize
everything -- we leave it to the market to adjust.”  The FSB rules for OTC derivatives, which nations were
supposed to have in place by end 2012, require that trades in
standardized contracts should pass through clearinghouses, and
be logged with trade repositories. The measures also seek to
push trading as much as possible onto official platforms.  Separately, Carney said that efforts by Italian lender
 Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  to use derivatives to
obscure its losses didn’t have global implications.  “It’s an unfortunate development for that specific bank
but from a global systemic perspective it’s an idiosyncratic
event,” said Carney, who will take over as Bank of England
Governor in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  