-- Bayer Sued Over Alleged Hidden Risks of Mirena Contraceptive
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-28T21:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/bayer-sued-over-alleged-hidden-risks-of-mirena-contraceptive-1-.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  was sued over claims the
German drugmaker failed to provide disclosures and warnings
regarding the health risks associated with its popular
contraceptive Mirena.  The label for Mirena, an intrauterine device that prevents
pregnancy for as long as five years, doesn’t warn that it can
can become embedded in the body or cause an  ectopic pregnancy ,
Pennsylvania resident Tricia Prendergast said in a complaint
filed in federal court in Philadelphia. Prendergast required 
surgery to remove the device after complications, according 
to her complaint.  Bayer “introduced a product into the stream of commerce
which is dangerous and unsafe in that the harm of Mirena use
outweighs any benefit derived therefrom,” Dianne Nast, an
attorney for Prendergast, wrote in the Jan. 25 complaint, which
names Bayer’s U.S. unit, Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals Inc.  Mirena, approved by the  Food and Drug Administration  in
December 2000, is made of flexible plastic designed for
insertion in the uterus, where it releases a synthetic
progestogen that inhibits pregnancy, according to the complaint.
More than 15 million women worldwide use the product, including
more than 2 million in the U.S., Prendergast said in the
complaint.  Side Effects  Bayer allegedly promoted the product as safe and effective
“despite its lack of efficacy and potential for serious
permanent side effects.” In addition to the risk of an ectopic
pregancy -- one that occurs outside the womb -- Bayer failed to
warn of complications that could require a hysterectomy,
Prendergast claimed.  Prendergast is seeking unspecified compensatory and
punitive damages.  “Bayer has not yet seen this suit but the company will
vigorously defend itself against claims regarding Mirena,”
Rosemarie Yancosek, a spokeswoman for Bayer Healthcare
Pharmaceuticals, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Prendergast v. Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corp.,
13-00450, U.S. District Court Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  