-- Belgium’s Vanackere Says Euro Area Hits Turning Point in Crisis
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-28T21:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/belgium-s-vanackere-says-euro-area-hits-turning-point-in-crisis.html
Belgian Finance Minister Steven Vanackere said the euro area has begun to emerge from the three-
year-long debt crisis, crediting political plans for more
financial integration and the European Central Bank’s pledge to
limit government borrowing costs.   Vanackere said European leaders’ decision last June to seek
a banking union and ECB President Mario Draghi’s announcement in
September of a bond-buying program for euro nations willing to
sign up to budget-austerity conditions marked a “turning
point.” He said “in-depth structural” changes by European
countries to bolster  the economy  have further improved the
outlook.     “I am convinced that the signs of a turnaround are
unmistakably there,” Vanackere told a conference of the
European People’s Party this evening in Brussels. “There are
good hopes.”  Vanackere is part of a growing chorus of European
politicians who allege that the 17-nation euro area has deterred
the threat of a breakup triggered by Greece in late 2009 through
a combination of rescue packages, budget tightening, more
centralized oversight of national budgets and banks and the
possibility of unlimited ECB intervention in the sovereign-bond
market. Vanackere said the part played by the ECB alone had made
a “tremendous change.”   Draghi’s announcement five months ago of a bond-buying
program followed 486 billion euros ($654 billion) in
international commitments for  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and
Spain’s banking system since 2010 to soothe markets and has left
governments with the task of agreeing on any rescue terms as
well as on centralized bank supervision led by the ECB.  Vanackere warned against complacency, signaling that the
fight against unemployment should be the euro area’s priority.  “Let’s not pretend that the crisis is over,” he said.
“The crisis still is dramatically real. And it’s about longer-
than-ever queues of job seekers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  