-- BMC Software Drops After Profit Forecast Misses: Houston Mover
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2013-01-29T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/bmc-software-drops-on-2013-profit-forecast-miss-houston-mover.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , a maker of
programs that help companies update servers and personal
computers, fell after forecasting fiscal 2013 profit that missed
analysts’ estimates, a sign it’s struggling to clinch big
contracts.  The shares  declined  6.2 percent to $41.71 at the close in
 New York , the biggest decline since October 2011. The Houston-
based company said yesterday that  profit  excluding some items
will be $3.35 to $3.45 a share for fiscal 2013, which ends in
March. That’s less than BMC’s prior forecast of $3.49 to $3.59
and trails analysts’ average $3.56 projection, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg .  Activist shareholder Elliott Associates LP pressed BMC to
consider a sale last year, unsettling customers and making it
harder for the company to clinch deals, BMC Chief Executive
Officer Bob Beauchamp told analysts on a conference call
yesterday. The company had two large contract renewals pushed to
the March quarter from the December period, crimping results.  “BMC underperformed across all metrics for the quarter,”
and deals in the mainframe and server-software businesses didn’t
get closed, Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc., wrote in a research report. “Despite having completed its
accelerated share repurchase program, the company lowered its
EPS target for the year, which is clearly disappointing.”  ‘Growth Areas’  The company said it needs to be “more consistent and
disciplined” in the way it secures big contracts, according to
the statement. Management is “scrutinizing the entire company
to improve our operational discipline,” Beauchamp said.  BMC added board members and initiated a $1 billion share
buyback to assuage Elliott’s complaints that it wasn’t doing
enough to maximize  shareholder value . Competitors are
“aggressively” capitalizing on the pressure by Elliott,
prompting many customers to seek personal visits from BMC
management before completing purchases, Beauchamp said.  Beauchamp said during a  conference call  with analysts that
he’s undertaking an operational review aimed at directing
spending toward better performing products to increase earnings,
 cash flow  and operating margin amid low revenue growth. The
company is trying to improve profitability even as revenue this
year is projected to grow in the low single digits.  Web-delivered software, cloud-computing management products
and tools for managing mobile devices are selling well and will
get a greater share of investment compared with underperforming
products, he said.  “We’re going to find a way to move funds to these growth
areas,” Beauchamp said. “It’s just moving faster.”  BMC kicked off the review after the end of the quarter on
Dec. 31, according to Mark Stouse, a spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  