-- BofA Said to Be in Talks to Move Irish Derivatives Unit
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-01-28T12:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/bofa-said-to-be-in-talks-to-move-irish-derivatives-unit.html
Bank of America Corp.  is in talks
with regulators to transfer about $50 billion of its derivatives
business from its Irish unit into its U.K. operation, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  It’s part of a move to centralize and book trading
activities in one place, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private. The plan requires
regulatory approval, one of the people said.  The Merrill Lynch International Bank Ltd. operation, which
is based in Dublin and started in 1995, is among 21 overseas-
owned banks to have full Irish banking licenses, according to
central bank data. Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has spent three years cleaning up after his
predecessor’s takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp. and
Merrill Lynch & Co., divesting more than $60 billion of assets
in the process.  The Financial Times newspaper, which reported the move by
Bank of America earlier today, said the transfer of assets and
the revision of client contracts won’t be completed until end of
the year.  MLIB had $591.6 billion of assets at the end of 2011,
according to its most recent filing with the Irish companies
registry office. That’s almost three times the size of the
country’s largest domestic lender Bank of Ireland Plc’s 159.8
billion-euro ($214.9 billion) balance sheet.  The firm’s MLIB unit is regulated by the Central Bank of
Ireland and provides swaps and over-the-counter derivatives
mainly with third-party institutions.  The plan may “be driven in part by internal tax
considerations,”  John Bruton , chairman of the International
Financial Services Centre, which promotes Ireland as a location
for financial services, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “Losses in the U.K. are more easily set off against
profits in the U.K.”  Officials at Bank of America and the Central Bank of
Ireland declined to comment on the FT report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  