-- Reliance Industries Markets Perpetual Bond Sale; Debt Risk Falls
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-28T09:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/bond-risk-decreases-in-asia-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  is poised
to become the third company in  Asia  to sell U.S. dollar-
denominated perpetual bonds this year as investors seek higher
returns amid near record-low yields. Debt risk in Asia outside
of  Japan  fell.  The Mumbai-based operator of the world’s biggest refining
complex is considering pricing the debt, which can be bought
back after five years, at about 6 percent, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Korea Southern Power Co. and Greentown
China Holdings Ltd. are marketing five-year notes, as is Japan
Finance Organization for Municipalities, or JFM, separate people
with knowledge of the matters said.  Reliance Industries’ plan to sell undated notes follows
similar issues by Agile Property Holdings Ltd. and  Cheung Kong 
Holdings Ltd. this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Dollar bonds in Asia were  yielding  an average 4.095
percent Jan. 25, 16 basis points higher than the record low of
3.936 percent on Nov. 29, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show. The
cost of insuring Asian corporate and sovereign bonds against
non-payment is headed for the least in two weeks after falling
in the five days ending Jan. 25, credit-default swap traders
said.  “Investors are more cautious and more selective on
bonds,” Louisa Lam, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said. “They still prefer senior bonds, but if a
perpetual bond’s pricing is attractive, they’ll definitely
consider it.”  Agile, Cheung Kong  The coupon on Reliance’s bond will be fixed for the life of
the note, the person familiar with the matter said, asking not
to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  Agile’s 8.25 percent notes, which priced at par, were
trading at 94.25 cents on the dollar as of 12:14 p.m. in  Hong
Kong , according to prices quoted by Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. Cheung Kong’s notes were trading at 96.5 cents on the
dollar as of 12:14 p.m. in Hong Kong, prices quoted by RBS show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 1.5 basis point to 106 basis points
as of 3:59 p.m. in Hong Kong, RBS prices show. The gauge is
headed for its lowest close since Jan. 14, according to data
provider CMA.  Korea Southern Power is marketing its notes at a spread of
about 140 basis points more than Treasuries, a person familiar
with the matter said. Greentown China Holdings, which builds
residential villas and high-rise apartments on the mainland,
plans to sell its securities at a yield of about 9 percent,
another person said. JFM is offering its notes in the high 40
basis-point area over mid-swaps, a separate person said.  Credit-Default Swaps  International Container Terminal Services Inc., a Manila-
based cargo handling service provider, sold $100 million more of
its 4.625 percent notes due 2023 at 101.25 cents on the dollar,
a separate person familiar with that matter said.  European Bank for Reconstruction & Development, a
supranational based in the U.K., has hired HSBC, JPMorgan,
Morgan Stanley and RBC Capital Markets LLC to arrange a sale of
seven-year global notes, a person familiar said.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index gained 1 basis point to 136
basis points as of 4:58 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche
Bank AG prices. The measure is on track for its highest close
since Jan. 24, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Markets in  Australia  are closed for a national holiday.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  