-- BR Malls Heads for Two-Month Low on Credit Suisse Cut to Hold
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-28T17:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/br-malls-heads-for-two-month-low-on-credit-suisse-cut-to-hold.html
BR Malls Participacoes SA (BRML3) ,  Brazil ’s
biggest owner of shopping malls, headed for a two-month low
after Credit Suisse Group AG cut its recommendation to the
equivalent of hold.  Shares fell 1.3 percent to 26.49 reais at 3:02 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo . A close at that level would be the lowest since Nov. 12.
The benchmark Bovespa index dropped 1.7 percent.  “The short-term outlook is less compelling than 2012 in
terms of same store sales/same store rentals, especially for
anchor stores,” Credit Suisse analysts including Guilherme Rocha wrote in a note published today in which they reduced
their recommendation from the equivalent of buy. “Growth
through mergers and acquisitions will be much tougher than in
the last three years given higher prices, increasing
competition, and quality of assets.”  Rio de Janeiro-based BR Malls has made at least 21
acquisitions since 2009,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. It
bought at least 39 shopping centers since late 2006, according
to the company’s  website . Sales in stores open at least one year
rose 7.4 percent, while same-store rental revenue climbed 9.6
percent in 2012, the mall operator said in a Jan. 24 regulatory
filing.  A press official at BR Malls didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail message seeking comment.  BR Malls has gained 36 percent in the past year, compared
with the Bovespa’s 4.4 percent decline. The company  trades  at
22.1 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The mall operator’s stock trades at a premium to the sector
average, and its valuation “might not support outperformance in
the short term,” the Credit Suisse analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  