-- Bucknell University Inflated SAT Scores Over Seven Years
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-01-28T22:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/bucknell-university-inflated-sat-scores-over-seven-years.html
Bucknell University  said it inflated
its freshmen entrance-exam scores for seven years, burnishing
students’ credentials.  From 2006 through 2012, the Lewisburg, Pennsylvania
university annually omitted an average of 32 students’ SAT
scores, most of which were lower than what the school reported.
On the combined 1,600-point scale for the critical reading and
math sections, average scores appeared to be 16 points higher
than they actually were.  Colleges give the standardized test-score information to
the public and to services that rank schools based on the data,
such as U.S. News & World Report. The rankings are influential
with students and parents making college choices. Last year,
 Emory University  in Atlanta and  Claremont McKenna College , near
 Los Angeles , admitted making similar misrepresentations.  “These numerical omissions, as relatively small as they
were, violated the trust of every student, faculty member, staff
member and Bucknellian they reached,” John C. Bravman,
Bucknell’s president, said in a Jan. 25  statement  to the
school’s board.  The “enrollment management leadership” preparing the
figures is “no longer with the university,” according to
Bravman, who said he “can’t discern people’s intentions.”  Bill Conley, a new vice president for enrollment
management, detected the discrepancy and began an investigation,
Bravman said.  “I am confident that we now have the complete and accurate
data to report to U.S. News, and that the information posted on
our website is accurate,” Bravman said.  U.S. News, in its latest  rankings , listed Bucknell as tied
for 32nd place among U.S. liberal arts colleges.  Bucknell admitted 2,238 students to the Class of 2016, or
27 percent of those who applied, according to its  website . Of
those, 930 students enrolled. Bucknell said the middle 50
percent of students scored 580 to 680 on the SAT critical
reading section and 620 to 710 on math.  Editors: Lisa Wolfson, Stephen West  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  