-- California Defeats Lawsuit Against Cap-and-Trade Program
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-01-29T00:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/california-defeats-lawsuit-against-cap-and-trade-program-1-.html
California environmental regulators
running the nation’s first economy-wide carbon cap-and-trade
program defeated a lawsuit that claims the system contains a
loophole so companies can avoid reducing  carbon emissions .  State court Judge Ernest Goldsmith in  San Francisco 
rejected claims by two environmental groups challenging the way
the program allows polluters to buy greenhouse gas emission
credits from entities that aren’t part of the program.  “The court’s decision is welcome news for one of
California’s most important clean energy and clean environment
regulations, and provides a bright green light for further
investment in pollution reduction projects,” Timothy O’Connor,
an attorney for the Environmental Defense Fund, said today in an
e-mailed statement. The defense fund sided with state regulators
in the case.  Citizens Climate Lobby and Our Children’s Earth Foundation
sued California’s Air Resources Board claiming the offsets are a
loophole because the projects aren’t new efforts to lower carbon
and would occur even without investments from polluters. The
complaint sought a court order repealing and invalidating the
offset program and prohibiting the state from using offsets as a
compliance instrument in the cap and trade program.  State rules prohibit the creation of offsets from ongoing
projects and require that credits be given only for carbon
reduction beyond what “otherwise would occur,” George Hays, a
lawyer for the groups, told Goldsmith at a Dec. 7 court hearing.  No Reductions  If the  air resources board  “doesn’t ensure the offsets are
really additional, you don’t get reductions,” said Hays, adding
that the offsets undermine the program’s goal of getting
companies to reduce their own emissions.  “Petitioners request the court to do something it does not
have the power to do. Rewrite the statute to forbid the use of
offsets,” Goldsmith said. The entire cap and trade program
might have to be abandoned if he found that the law creating the
program was breached “every time a credited reduction was
potentially non-additional,” Goldsmith said.  Laurie Williams, an attorney for Citizens Climate Lobby,
said in an e-mail the group is reviewing the decision and
considering next steps.  The cap and trade program is a key component of
 California ’s 2006 global warming law, which aims to reduce
emissions to 1990 levels by 2020.  Offset Projects  California Deputy Attorney General Gavin McCabe told
Goldsmith that the law gives the air resources board wide
discretion to decide which type of offsets should be part of the
program. The environmental groups are free to challenge
individual offset projects they think don’t adhere to state
rules, he said.  California held its first auction for greenhouse gas
allowances Nov. 14, offering 23.1 million carbon allowances for
the first phase of compliance, which began Jan. 1, and 39.5
million for the second phase starting in 2015.  California is giving away about 90 percent of allowances in
the first phase and auctioning the rest in what is now the
second-biggest carbon trading market, after the European Union
program.  The California Chamber of Commerce sued on the eve of the
first auction, claiming that the allowances are an unlawful tax
and that the air resources board lacks authority to sell them.
That case is pending in state court in  Sacramento .  Futures contracts based on 2013 California carbon
allowances, which companies can also use cover their emissions,
were offered at $14.35 a metric ton for December delivery, down
from $14.60 a ton on Jan. 25, according to data compiled by BGC
Environmental Brokerage Services LP in  New York .  Prices rose to a 10-month high of $20.25 a metric ton in
July on speculation that the lawsuit, along with increased
natural gas consumption, would strengthen the demand for
allowances, according to data compiled by CME Group Inc.’s  Green
Exchange .  The case is Citizens Climate Lobby v. California Air
Resources Board, CGC-12-519554, California Superior Court (San
Francisco). The chamber’s case is California Chamber of Commerce
v. Air Resources Board, 34-2012-80001313, California Superior
Court (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  