-- Cargotec Appoints Finnair CEO Vehvilaeinen as New Chief
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-01-28T09:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/cargotec-appoints-finnair-ceo-vehvilaeinen-as-new-chief.html
Cargotec Oyj (CGCBV)  named Mika Vehvilaeinen
as chief executive officer as the Finnish supplier of cargo-
handling equipment seeks to benefit from his logistics
experience at  Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  and mobile-phone maker  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   Vehvilaeinen, 51, will leave Finnair, the country’s biggest
airline, after about three years as CEO to start at Cargotec on
March 1 with an annual base salary of 600,000 euros ($807,000),
the Helsinki-based port-crane and forklift manufacturer said in
a statement today.  Cargotec has sought a new chief since October after then-
CEO Mikael Maekinen changed jobs within the company to lead the
listing of its marine unit in  Asia  scheduled by June 30. The
company plans to keep a majority stake in the subsidiary.  “We’ve been restructuring the company, and now we’re
heading into the construction phase,” Cargotec Chairman Ilkka Herlin said today at a Helsinki press conference. “It’s now
time to harvest the fruits of all that hard work.”  Cargotec  rose  as much as 3.4 percent to 22.13 euros, the
highest intraday price since Sept. 17, and was trading up 2.8
percent at 11:40 a.m. in Helsinki. Finnair  fell  2 percent to
2.92 euros after dropping as much as 4.7 percent.  Plans Denied  Vehvilaeinen’s move was reported by Finnish business
magazine Talouselaemae on Jan. 15, prompting both Cargotec and
Vantaa-based Finnair to deny it at the time.  Finland’s government, which owns 55.8 percent of Finnair
shares, doesn’t see the CEO’s shift as having an effect on
potential ownership changes at the carrier, Heidi Hautala, the
minister in charge of state shareholdings, said today in a
statement.  Vehvilaeinen held several executive positions at Nokia,
where he started in 1992, gaining experience in logistics and
service development. His most recent task at the manufacturer
before becoming Finnair CEO was as chief operating officer at
the Nokia Siemens Networks joint venture with German engineering
company  Siemens AG. (SIE)   Finnair appointed Ville Iho as deputy CEO to lead the
carrier until a replacement is found, Finnair said. Vehvilaeinen
resigned yesterday, according to the airline’s spokeswoman Arja Suominen. The airline said in October that it was widening a
cost-reduction program after the project helped third-quarter
net income surge to a record.  “I wouldn’t want to be seen as a restructuring director
even though I’ve had to take on such tasks too,” Vehvilaeinen
said at today’s press conference. “I’ve also built up and
developed businesses, and I see Cargotec through opportunities.
There is a lot of know-how, good products and a strong market
position, and I believe we have all the opportunities for
developing the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  