-- Caterpillar Considers ‘All Options’ as Probe Continues
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-28T21:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/caterpillar-still-investigating-chinese-accounting-discrepancy.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest maker
of construction and mining equipment, said it’s considering
“all options” to recover losses from false accounting at a
Chinese business that led to a $580 million writedown.  The company is also seeing how it can hold those
responsible to account for the “multiyear, coordinated
accounting misconduct,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Doug Oberhelman  said yesterday.  “We are not done,” Oberhelman said on the company’s
fourth-quarter earnings conference call with analysts. “We are
putting in more effort to finish our investigation.”  Caterpillar, which revealed the discrepancy on Jan. 18,
said yesterday it first became concerned about issues at its
Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical & Electrical Manufacturing Co. unit
after a count of physical inventory. That assessment took place
in November, a month after Caterpillar completed its purchase of
Siwei’s parent ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. for HK$6.15 billion
($793 million).  The takeover was Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar’s
largest Asian deal and among $10.3 billion of acquisitions
announced by Oberhelman since he became CEO in 2010. Caterpillar
says it has replaced the management at Siwei, which makes
hydraulic roof supports used in underground coal mining. The
U.S. company said it doesn’t comment on pending or potential
litigation.  Auditors ‘Misled’  “When we put our own team in place, the way we operate, we
get to the bottom of it,” Chief Financial Officer Brad Halverson said in a telephone interview yesterday. Those
responsible “purposefully misled their auditors and us.”  Fourth-quarter net income fell 55 percent to $697 million,
or $1.04 a share, from $1.55 billion, or $2.32 a year earlier,
Caterpillar said yesterday. Excluding the 87-cent-a-share
writedown and a tax benefit, earnings were $1.46, missing
the¼$1.70 average of 22 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Caterpillar said it doesn’t expect the problems at Siwei to
have a “significant impact” on 2013 profit and revenue, which
it forecast at $7 to $9 a share and $60 billion to $68 billion
respectively. The shares rose 2 percent to close at $97.45 in
 New York  yesterday.  China  is “a very important market now, and as we look to
the future, we expect it to become even more significant,”
Oberhelman said on the call. “While the industries we serve in
China are significant, it doesn’t mean there aren’t
challenges.”  Williams’ Response  The problem at Siwei is the latest setback for Caterpillar
in China, where machine sales have slowed amid excess
manufacturing capacity. The country, which is the largest
construction-equipment market and biggest coal miner, saw
excavator sales fall in December for the 20th consecutive month,
according to China Construction Machinery Business Online.  China’s excavator manufacturing capacity has increased to
almost 600,000 a year, compared with a worldwide market of about
300,000, London-based Off-Highway Research said last month.  Emory Williams, the chairman of ERA prior to its takeover
by Caterpillar, said yesterday he was “shocked and dismayed”
by the writedown.  “We were especially surprised by this situation as we
cooperated very closely with Caterpillar during their extensive
due diligence,” he said in a statement.  Williams said he’s had no response after trying to contact
Caterpillar senior management last week to request further
details and to offer his assistance to the company. Caterpillar
declined to comment on Williams’ statement, said  Jim Dugan , a
company spokesman.  ‘Opaque’ Accounting  Caterpillar’s diligence process for mergers and
acquisitions “is rigorous and robust and includes Caterpillar
personnel and outside accounting, legal and financial
advisors,” the company said in its earnings statement. “It is
important to understand that Siwei was a publicly traded company
with audited financial statements.”  The Siwei case isn’t unusual in a country whose accounting
standards are described by Jefferies & Co. analyst  Stephen Volkmann  as “opaque.” Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co., a Chinese machinery manufacturer, is trying to
allay investor concerns after Ming Pao Daily reported Jan. 8 it
had an unsigned letter questioning the company’s sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shruti Date Singh at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net  