-- Charterhouse Said to Value Nocibe at $807 Million in Sale
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-01-29T11:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/charterhouse-said-to-value-nocibe-at-600-million-euros.html
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP’s
sale of Nocibe SA may value the French fragrance and cosmetics
retailer at about 600 million euros ($807 million), according to
two people with knowledge of the process.  The buyout firm, based in  London , hired banks to sell the
competitor of Sephora SA, a unit of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , and may draw interest from private equity buyers
such as Advent International Corp. and PAI Partners and
companies including Galeries Lafayette SA, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the process isn’t public.  The retailer, which Charterhouse bought from Bridgepoint
Advisers Ltd. in 2006, also competes with Marionnaud Parfumeries
SA, a French cosmetics chain owned by  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s
A.S. Watson retailer. Charterhouse, which owns a controlling
stake in Nocibe, acquired it for 490 million euros, according to
its website.  A representative for Charterhouse declined to comment.
Emilie Dufour, a spokeswoman for Nocibe, could not immediately
be reached for comment.  An official at Advent, owner of  Douglas Holding AG (DOU) , a
German cosmetics retailer, declined to comment on their
potential interest. A spokeswoman for  Galeries Lafayette 
couldn’t immediately comment. A spokesman for PAI wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  The sales process is expected to kick off within the next
two months, two people familiar with the process said.  450 Outlets  Nocibe, based in Villeneuve d’Ascq near Lille in  France ,
sells its own beauty products as well as others such as La
Petite Robe Noire fragrance by Guerlain and Tommy Guns shampoo.
It has about 450 outlets in France, according to its website.  Nocibe may be valued at around 10 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about 60
million euros, the people said. That would imply a valuation of
about 600 million euros, which would include equity and debt.
The company, which has 3,000 employees, was created in 1984 and
had sales of 670 million euros in 2011, the website shows.  Hutchison Whampoa acquired Marionnaud in 2005 for 758
million euros, or about 10 times Ebitda, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  L’Oreal SA (OR)  acquired Body Shop
International Plc for about 12 times Ebitda in 2006, while
Advent agreed last year to buy Douglas Holding for 7.2 times
Ebitda, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  