-- Chavez Orders Venezuela Economic Plan as Health Improves
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-01-28T15:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/chavez-health-improves-enough-to-dictate-venezuela-economic-plan.html
Venezuela’s government said
President  Hugo Chavez  has recovered sufficiently from a cancer
operation in Cuba to make economic policy decisions and that his
plans to boost exports will be outlined soon.  A respiratory infection Chavez contracted after the
operation last month is under control and the former paratrooper
is making domestic and foreign policy decisions again,
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas told reporters yesterday
in Santiago, where he was attending a meeting of regional and
European leaders. The day before, Vice President  Nicolas Maduro 
said Chavez, 58, had approved a new economic plan.  “Chavez reviewed the budget, financing, economic
development and the theme of promoting exporters,” Maduro said
Jan. 26 on state television, after returning from  Havana .
“We’re going to develop the export capacity of our economy, and
not just through our great oil enterprise.”  The comments sparked speculation that the government may be
preparing to devalue the currency to help  Venezuela  trim the
world’s second-largest budget deficit, according to Asdrubal Oliveros, the director of Caracas-based financial consulting
firm Ecoanalitica. Economists at banks including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Barclays Plc have said a devaluation is
inevitable in order to boost revenue in bolivars from oil
exports.  “Clearly, when you talk about stimulating the export
market, you’re talking about the  exchange rate ,” Oliveros said
in a phone interview Jan. 26. “For political reasons, the
government won’t talk about a devaluation.”  Budget Management  The measures will allow the government to manage its budget
in a way that will ensure the implementation of social and
development policies this year, Maduro said, without providing
details. He said the plan would be announced over the weekend,
though no statement was released by Sunday night.  The government may employ a “timid” devaluation to get
them through 2013, said Oliveros. A weaker bolivar would risk
pushing up consumer prices that are already rising 20 percent a
year, he said.  Barclays’ Alejandro Grisanti, Goldman Sachs’s  Alberto Ramos 
and HSBC Holdings Plc’s Ramiro Blazquez predicted earlier this
month the government would weaken the bolivar as much as 50
percent by March 31. Still, they said the power vacuum created
by Chavez’s absence could delay the decision.  Chavez called for unity in  Latin America , condemned the
U.S. trade embargo on Cuba and made a plea for better regional
energy integration and increased spending on social programs in
a letter read today by Maduro at the regional summit in
Santiago. He made no mention of economic measures.  The Venezuelan leader, who is being treated for an
undisclosed type of cancer, hasn’t been seen in public since his
fourth surgery on Dec. 11.  “He has a smile and a face full of light,” Maduro said in
his midnight speech Jan. 26. “He’s optimistic and full of
faith.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 