-- China Communists to Control Size of Party Amid Corruption Fight
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-28T10:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/china-communists-to-control-size-of-party-amid-corruption-fight.html
China ’s ruling Communist Party will
control the size of the organization as it seeks to weed out
“unqualified members,” the official Xinhua News Agency said,
citing a meeting overseen by party leader  Xi Jinping .  Some party members are “corrupt and degenerate,” members
of the ruling Politburo said, affecting the party’s “vigor and
vitality,” according to the Xinhua report. The party had 82
million members as of last year.  The statement comes as part of a crackdown on corruption
following Xi’s elevation to party general secretary in November
that has netted officials including Li Chuncheng, a deputy party
secretary in Sichuan province removed on suspicion of discipline
violations. Chinese leaders have said corruption and official
malfeasance risk weakening the party’s grip on power.  In a bid to burnish the party’s image, Xi has called for an
end to lavish receptions and displays of ostentation. In
September, the party sent the case of ousted Politburo member  Bo
Xilai , who is accused of abuse of power and bribery, to the
judiciary after his wife was convicted in the murder of a
British businessman.  “If  a party has no rules for its political direction,
stance and conduct, it is merely a collection of motley fools,”
Xinhua said in a commentary dated Jan. 24.  Xinhua also reported today that a county in southern
China’s  Guangdong Province  will require officials there to
report their assets, including real estate and automobiles, to
the government.  The asset reports won’t be made public until a time in the
future, Xinhua reported, citing Zheng Zhentao, party chief of
Shaoguan City in Guangdong. Three regions in Guangdong are part
of a pilot program in asset disclosure in a bid to fight
corruption, Xinhua said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  