-- China Won’t Impose Solar Tariff on Polysilicon Imports
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-01-28T18:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/china-won-t-impose-solar-tariff-on-polysilicon-imports.html
China , the biggest producer of solar
products, probably won’t impose tariffs on imported polysilicon,
the main raw ingredient in panels that turn sunlight into
electricity, according Aaron Chew, an analyst with Maxim Group
LLC.  China is expected to rule Feb. 20 on complaints from
domestic polysilicon producers that imports from  Europe ,  South
Korea  and the U.S. are being sold in the country below cost,
Chew said in a research note today.  The complaint is part of an escalating solar trade fight
pitting China against the U.S. and Europe. Chew said a
polysilicon tariff would be a retaliation for duties the U.S.
imposed on Chinese solar products in October and Europe is
considering. It may hurt Chinese Companies that make
polysilicon-based cells and panels more than it would benefit
the polysilicon suppliers.  Imposing a tariff on imported polysilicon “would raise
production costs and further squeeze the economics of module
manufacturing, already under pressure from severe price
declines,” Chew said in the report.  China began investigating in November whether foreign
polysilicon manufacturers, which supply 75 percent of the
material worldwide, were dumping their product in China.  The world’s biggest polysilicon producer is China-based
 GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  The next four are South Korea’s
 OCI Co. (010060) , Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. from the U.S., Germany’s
 Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  and Norway’s  Renewable Energy Corp. (REC) , according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Polysilicon Rally  GCL-Poly shares have gained 36 percent this year, and Daqo
New Energy Corp., another Chinese producer, is up 61 percent.
Chew said the rally is based in part on speculation that a
tariff will boost sales and has probably “gotten ahead of
itself.”  Prices for solar panels dropped 22 percent in the past year
as demand slowed. That will make it hard for Chinese
manufacturers to absorb higher prices for polysilicon,  said
Jeffrey Osborne, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  New
York .  “Given the inventory of finished solar modules around the
globe and manufacturing oversupply,” polysilicon duties would
“definitely crimp” any potential margin expansion of solar
wafer, cell and module producers near term, Osborne said today
in an e-mail.  “They are unlikely to be able to raise their prices to
offset the higher silicon prices,” he said.  Chinese polysilicon companies don’t produce enough to
supply the entire country, especially if the government follows
through on efforts to boost solar installations to 10 gigawatts
this year, Osborne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  