-- China Bulls Gain on Record Structured Notes for Yuan
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-01-28T22:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/china-bulls-gain-on-record-structured-notes-for-yuan-currencies.html
Investors turning bullish on  China 
are buying record amounts of structured notes tied to the  yuan 
as the country recovers from a two-year economic slowdown.  Individual investors in the U.S. bought $79.9 million of
notes since December that rise and fall in value based on swings
in the offshore Chinese  renminbi , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The nine notes created by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  use the
highest leverage for such securities since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in January 2010 to generate yields as much as
five times more than the yuan’s appreciation.  The Communist nation’s economic growth accelerated last
quarter for the first time since 2010, fueling speculation that
the government would allow the currency to rise at a faster
pace. The median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for the yuan to gain 2 percent by the end of 2013, following a 1
percent rise last year, the slowest since 2009.  “In the last six months, we have seen increased demand
from high-net-worth investors looking for ways to access the
growing Chinese market,” Todd Fruhbeis, managing director and
head of structured-product sales for the Americas at HSBC in New
York, wrote in an e-mail. “We expect this trend will continue
given China’s continued growth prospects.”  Yuan Hubs  The offshore  exchange rate , known by the symbol CNH, tracks
the official rate in the domestic market, or CNY. The official
rate is allowed to fluctuate a maximum 1 percent on either side
of a  reference rate  set by the  Bank of China .  China has pledged to support offshore yuan hubs as it seeks
a greater role for the currency in global finance at a time when
monetary easing in the U.S., Europe and Japan is boosting the
supply of dollars, euros and yen.  The  Bank of England  is ready “in principle” to agree a
swap line with China’s central bank that would help London
become a center for offshore yuan trading, its chief cashier,
Chris Salmon, said in a speech in London last week. Taiwan banks
will be able to take deposits of and lend in the Chinese
currency by the Lunar New Year.  Offshore trading for the Chinese currency started in  Hong
Kong  in 2010, where average volume of yuan deals has doubled in
the past year to at least $6 billion a day, according to
Standard Chartered Plc. Transactions in offshore options in yuan
swelled to between $300 million and $500 million per day, J.P.
Morgan Private Bank said.  Dim Sum  The offshore rate traded at 6.2295 per dollar in Hong Kong
yesterday after touching 6.1735 Jan. 11, the strongest since its
2010 debut. The domestic rate rose to a 19-year high of 6.2124
three days later and traded at 6.2226 yesterday.  Sales of yuan-denominated, or Dim Sum, bonds in Hong Kong
reached a record 175.8 billion yuan ($28.2 billion) in 2012,
from 152 billion yuan in the previous year, Bloomberg data show.  The securities have gained for a record seven consecutive
weeks since China’s central bank announced plans to accelerate
the opening up of  capital markets  to foreigners and allow cross-
border yuan loans, a Deutsche Bank AG  index  show.  “China has indicated that their priority now is to
increase liquidity in the currency,” said  Axel Merk , founder
and president of Merk Investments LLC in Palo Alto, California,
who oversees about $20.8 million of Chinese currency. “That’s a
very important precondition to make the currency more
convertible and also for future currency appreciation.”  Record Size  Merk, who manages the Merk Asian Currency Fund, said he
invests in  time deposits , a kind of bank deposit, for the
offshore currency and nondeliverable forwards, a derivative for
some currencies, for the yuan in Shanghai.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money.  In one deal, HSBC sold $36.8 million of one-year notes tied
to the offshore yuan, the largest single offering involving the
currency. While investors can realize returns five times the
rise of the yuan versus the  U.S. dollar , according to a
 prospectus  filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, they are exposed to any depreciation of the currency
and can lose all of their investment. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
distributed the notes for a 0.9 percent fee.  The People’s Bank of China has been selling yuan and buying
foreign exchange to prevent the currency from strengthening,
leading to a record $3.31 trillion in  foreign reserves  in
December, the world’s largest holding.  Criticism Abates  The U.S. Treasury Department said on Nov. 27 that China
isn’t a currency manipulator under U.S. law, though the yuan
“remains significantly undervalued” and needs to rise further.  Criticism over China’s exchange-rate system has abated in
recent months.  Lawrence Summers , the former top economic adviser
to President  Barack Obama , said Jan. 14 the yuan is no longer
undervalued as it was five years ago.  Currency strategists have been raising their forecasts for
the yuan after reports showed retail sales increased last month
at the fastest pace since March and industrial production growth
accelerated in the largest country in the world by population.  The yuan will strengthen to 6.1 per dollar by year-end and
extend its gain to 6 by the end of 2014, the median forecast of
36 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg shows. In September, they were
expecting the currency to appreciate to 6.23 per dollar.  Optimism over China’s growth picked up in November as data
started to show a recovery in manufacturing, with the  official
purchasing managers’ index  climbing at the fastest pace in seven
months.  Faster Reform  That same month the ruling Communist Party had its once-in-
a-decade power handover, with Vice President  Xi Jinping 
appointed party general secretary before he is forecast to
succeed President  Hu Jintao  as the nation’s head in March. Xi
has called for speedier economic reform, a narrowing of  income
inequality  and a crackdown on corruption.  It’s the lack of transparency in the one-party state that
poses the largest risk to investors in China, according to  James Rickards , a senior managing director of Tangent Capital Partners
in New York.  “I wouldn’t touch China with a 10-foot pole in terms of a
lot of investment products coming out,” Rickards said during an
interview from Vail, Colorado.  Rickards said he has no concern with the HSBC notes,
calling them “a pure play on the yuan, and my view is that it’s
going to go up.” He said he expects the currency to appreciate
about 10 percent to 15 percent this year.  No ‘Hiccups’  The number of bearish bets on the currency declined as a
government report on Jan. 18 showed that the world’s second
largest economy grew 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, from 7.4 percent the previous three-month period.  It was the first acceleration since 2010 and higher than
the 5.8 percent forecasted averaged growth across the so-called
BRIC nations. The economy is set to expand 8.1 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of 47 economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News .  “It’s clear to investors now that China will keep making
progress on yuan convertibility, so concerns on any sudden
hiccups are gone,” Tommy Ong, a Hong Kong-based senior vice-
president of Treasury and markets at DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd.,
said by telephone on Jan. 25. “Liquidity of the yuan market and
acceptance of the currency have been rising.”  A stronger currency will help raise the purchasing power of
Chinese residents, which coincides with the government’s goal to
boost domestic demand, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, said in a Jan. 7 phone
interview.  Kowalczyk, the most-accurate forecaster on the yuan for the
past six quarters based on data compiled by Bloomberg, upgraded
his end-June forecast on the yuan to 6.16 from 6.20.  DBS’s Ong said he’s aware of “stronger demand” from the
U.S. on yuan-related structured products.  “Expectations of stronger yuan gains, say 2 percent or
more, have returned,” he said. “Investors are no longer
skeptical of China’s determination on making the yuan a global
currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  