-- Little Debbie Maker to Buy Drake’s Brand, Hostess Says
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-01-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/mckee-to-buy-drake-s-brand-for-27-5-million-hostess-says-1-.html
Hostess Brands Inc. said United
States Bakery Inc. offered to buy certain bread brands for $28.9
million and that McKee Foods Corp., maker of Little Debbie
snacks, agreed to pay $27.5 million for its Drake’s brand.  “The contemplated purchase prices for Drake’s and the four
bread brands, together with our previous announced stalking-
horse bid for the majority of our bread business, means we have
agreements to sell these assets for at least $440 million,”
Hostess Chief Executive Officer Gregory F. Rayburn said
yesterday in a statement.  United States Bakery agreed to buy the Sweetheart, Eddy’s,
Standish Farms and Grandma Emilie’s bread brands, four bakeries
and 14 depots, plus certain equipment, according to court
papers.  “The Drake’s brand has its roots in a family baking
business, much like McKee Foods and the Little Debbie brand,”
 Mike McKee , chief executive officer of McKee Foods, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We believe that Drake’s will have a strong
future within our family of brands,” McKee added.  Drake’s products include Devil Dogs, Ring Dings, Yodels,
Yankee Doodles, Sunny Doodles, Funny Bones and Drake’s Coffee
Cake. McKee, based in Collegedale,  Tennessee , will buy the
brands and specific equipment, according to court papers.
statement.  Bidding, Auction  A hearing to consider approval of bidding procedures is set
for Feb. 11. Hostess has requested a March 15 auction date and a
March 19 court hearing to authorize the sale to the highest or
otherwise best bidders. The proposals are subject to court
approval. The remaining bread brands, as well as the Hostess
snack cake business, will be sold separately, according to the
statement.  “This agreement, if successful, allows United States
Bakery to continue our long range growth plans through
acquisition and market expansion,” Bob Albers, the company’s
chief executive officer, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We believe the assets and brands will allow us to
provide fresh baked Franz Bakery products to a wider and diverse
geographical base.”  Wonder Bread  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO) , based in Thomasville,  Georgia , will
serve as the lead, or stalking-horse, bidder for Hostess’s
Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride, Merita and Nature’s Pride brands,
20 bread plants, 38 depots and other assets. Flowers is offering
$360 million, plus $30 million for the Beefsteak brand. An
auction is set for Feb. 28, followed by a hearing to authorize
the sales.  Flowers Foods, established in 1919, produces and markets
packaged baked goods for retail and food-service customers. The
company’s top brands are Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  Hostess, the 82-year-old maker of Hostess CupCakes, Ding
Dongs and Ho Hos, began to wind down in November after failing
to reach an agreement with its bakers’ union on concessions to
help the company emerge from its second bankruptcy. Changes in
American diets led to years of declining sales at Hostess, while
ingredient costs and labor expenses climbed.  A standoff with striking union workers triggered
liquidation auctions of Hostess’s brands, recipes, plants and
other assets. The Bakery Confectionery Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union, which represented more than 5,000
Hostess workers, went on strike Nov. 9 after U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Robert Drain in White, Plains,  New York , imposed contract
concessions opposed by more than 90 percent of the union’s
members.  Retiree Benefits  Hostess yesterday asked the bankruptcy judge for permission
to stop providing benefits to retirees.  The projected cost of providing retiree benefits from June
2012 through this coming June is $1.1 million, or an average
monthly cost of $94,100, according to company’s court filing.
Because the benefits don’t add value to the estates and aren’t
necessary to the company’s winddown, lenders have made clear
that they won’t agree to continue to fund the benefits after the
end of February, according to the filing.  The company hasn’t reached an agreement with unions on the
matter, lawyers for Hostess said in the filing.  Previously known as Interstate Bakeries Corp., Hostess
exited an earlier bankruptcy in 2009 under the control of buyout
firm Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders. Hostess entered
bankruptcy again in January 2012.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( White Plains ).
The previous bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  