-- Clinton Says Injuries Healing in Appearance With Obama
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-01-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/clinton-says-injuries-healing-in-appearance-with-obama.html
Departing Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  acknowledged “lingering effects” from a concussion and
cerebral blood clot even as she said they are “decreasing” and
“will disappear.”  Clinton, a potential presidential candidate in 2016, shared
the national television spotlight yesterday with President  Barack Obama , an erstwhile political rival for the office who used a
joint interview on CBS’s “60 Minutes” program to praise
Clinton’s influence in shaping his administration’s policies and
thank her as a “strong friend.”  Obama also rebuffed criticism that under his presidency the
U.S. has retreated from global leadership, saying that while he
has been careful not to “shoot from the hip” in  Syria , his
administration has helped lay the groundwork for regime changes
in Libya and Egypt.  The president suggested that the late Libyan strongman
 Muammar Qaddafi , killed by Libyan rebels whose insurrection was
aided by a North Atlantic Treaty Organization no-fly zone,
“wouldn’t agree” with the criticism “if he was around.”  Obama sidestepped a question on whether his side-by-side
appearance with Clinton was tantamount to an endorsement for a
presidential candidacy with a reminder that he is only a few
days into his second term, and Clinton declined to signal any
political intentions.  “I don’t think, you know, either he or I can make
predictions about what’s going to happen tomorrow or the next
year,” Clinton said.  Clinton Recovering  Still, Clinton, 65, suggested the concussion and blood clot
she sustained from a fall last month wouldn’t present a medical
impediment. Her health gained new attention after she appeared
at a congressional hearing last week wearing thick eyeglasses,
which a State Department spokeswoman acknowledged that Clinton
would be wearing for some time instead of  contact lenses  because
of issues stemming from her concussion.  Clinton said her health is “great” and attributed the
glasses to “lingering effects” from the fall. “The doctors
tell me that that will all recede,” she said.  The Senate is scheduled to vote this week on the expected
confirmation of Obama’s nominee to succeed Clinton as secretary
of state, Senator  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts , who was the
 Democratic Party ’s nominee for president in 2004.  The interviewer, CBS News correspondent Steve Kroft, said
it was Obama who suggested the joint appearance with Clinton on
the program. The joint appearance and on-air compliments which
Obama gave his departing Cabinet member strengthen Clinton’s
claim to the legacy of both of the most recent Democratic
presidents. She is married to former President  Bill Clinton .  Like-Minded  Obama said Clinton has been “one of the most important
advisers” he has had “on a whole range of issues.”  The two offered echoes of their outlook on foreign policy.  Obama, who criticized predecessor President  George W. Bush ’s decision to go to war with Iraq, said a guiding principle
of his administration has been to look for places “where our
intervention, our engagement can really make a difference” and
“to be opportunistic about that.”  Clinton said she remained mindful of the measured approach
of Republican President Dwight Eisenhower.  “You’ve got to be careful,” Clinton said. “You have to
be thoughtful. You can’t rush in, especially now, where it’s
more complex than it’s been in decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 