-- Colombia Cuts Rate to 4% And Steps Up Daily Dollar Purchases
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-01-28T23:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/colombia-cuts-key-rate-to-latin-american-low-of-4-on-inflation.html
Colombia  cut interest rates to the
lowest level in Latin America to boost below-potential economic
growth, while increasing daily dollar purchases to curb the
peso’s appreciation.  Banco de la Republica, led by bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe, reduced its  benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter point to
4 percent, as forecast by 31 of 33 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Two predicted no change. After announcing the
decision, Uribe said Colombia will boost daily dollar purchases
to at least $30 million and will buy $3 billion between February
and May.  “Colombia’s economy is growing below its potential while
inflation has fallen below the 3 percent midpoint of the target
range,” policy makers said in their  statement  posted on the
central bank’s website. Uribe said all seven board members
wanted to cut the rate even though the vote today wasn’t
unanimous.  Policy makers have lowered borrowing costs at five of their
last seven board meetings, as the economy grew at the slowest
pace in the Andean region, while inflation fell to its lowest
level since 2010.  ‘More Cuts’  The language of the statement suggests that “there could
be more cuts ahead,” said  Camilo Perez , said Camilo Perez, the
head analyst at Banco de Bogota SA.  “The chances of another rate cut are clearly greater
now,” Perez said, speaking in a telephone interview from
Bogota. “Their forecast shows there are risks of slower growth
this year.”  Perez said his forecast remains is that policy makers will
hold the policy rate at 4 percent, even though the chances of a
cut have risen.  The central bank said today that it expects the economy to
expand between 2.5 percent and 4.5 percent this year, with
growth of 4 percent the most probable outcome.  Annual  inflation  slowed to 2.44 percent in December, from
2.77 percent the month before. Three measures of so-called  core
inflation  tracked by the central bank, which exclude the most
volatile prices, all slowed last month.  Colombia targets consumer price increases of 3 percent,
plus or minus one percentage point.  ‘Clear Signs’  Industrial output  slumped 4.1 percent in November from the
year-earlier period, the biggest decline since July 2009, the
government said Jan. 18. That was weaker than all 21 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  The economy grew  2.1 percent  in the third quarter from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in the Andean region. The result
was weaker than the 3.3 percent to 4.8 percent range the central
bank had forecast.  Growth trailed Peru, Chile and  Mexico , while out-pacing
 Brazil ’s, the only other major Latin economy that has cut
borrowing costs over the past six months.  The economy’s weak performance means the central bank will
probably cut interest rates again at its February meeting, said
Nader Nazmi, senior  Latin America  economist at BNP Paribas, who
had predicted today’s move.  “There are clear signs that the economy is not turning
around yet, and the most recent was the weakness in industrial
production,” Nazmi said in a Jan. 25 telephone interview.
“Inflation is under control, so the cost of cutting right now
is basically nil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  