-- Congress Completes $60.2 Billion in Hurricane Sandy Aid
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-01-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/congress-completes-60-2-billion-in-hurricane-sandy-aid.html
Congress completed a $60.2 billion
aid package to help rebuild communities devastated by  Hurricane
Sandy  three months after the storm struck the U.S. Northeast.  The Senate cleared the legislation 62-36 yesterday. It will
provide $50.5 billion for victims’ needs and rebuilding of
roads, bridges and mass-transit systems. The bill goes to
President  Barack Obama  for his signature. In addition, Congress
passed a $9.7 billion increase in the national flood insurance
fund’s borrowing authority on Jan. 4.  The storm hit Oct. 29 with hurricane-force winds and
flooding that killed more than 125 people in 10 states. It
ravaged shore communities from  New Jersey ’s Atlantic City to
Bridgeport, Connecticut.  The governors of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
offered their “genuine thanks and gratitude” in a joint
statement after the vote.  “To all Americans, we are grateful for their willingness
to come to our aid as we take on the monumental task of
rebuilding,” said Democrats Andrew Cuomo of New York and  Dan Malloy  of Connecticut, along with Republican  Chris Christie  of
New Jersey.  Grateful Officials  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  also thanked lawmakers for
supporting the measure.  “ New Yorkers  are still working to rebuild,” Bloomberg,
the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP, said in a statement. “This aid will allow us to
better help our residents and businesses.”  Nine Republicans voted for the measure. No Democrats voted
against it.  Delays in enacting the aid plan had angered lawmakers from
the three states. After the Senate passed a plan on Dec. 28,
Northeast Republicans led by Christie denounced a Jan. 1
decision by House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, to
put off a vote that day. That required the new Congress that
took office Jan. 3 to start anew on the legislation.  Boehner relented after meeting with angry lawmakers from
New Jersey and New York. Christie had called Boehner’s decision
to postpone the Jan. 1 vote “disappointing and disgusting.”  New York Republican Representative  Peter King  suggested on
Fox TV that residents of the region should withhold political
contributions from  House Republicans . He and other lawmakers
pointed out that Congress passed $51.8 billion in relief within
10 days after  Hurricane Katrina  flooded New Orleans in 2005.  Flood Insurance  The House and Senate voted Jan. 4 for the $9.7 billion
increase in the flood-insurance fund’s borrowing authority,
allowing it to continue paying 120,000 Northeast claims.  The House passed the rest of the plan Jan. 15 on a 241-180
vote. It includes $17 billion to meet the immediate needs of
Sandy victims and $33.5 billion for long-term reconstruction.  “Despite overwhelming damage from wind and water, snow and
-- in some neighborhoods -- even fire, New Yorkers are ready to
move forward,” New York Democrat  Charles Schumer  said
yesterday, before the vote. “Not one day has passed since Sandy
made landfall that I haven’t heard from my constituents
wondering when Washington will remember them.”  The aid plan includes $3.9 billion to repair publicly owned
hospitals, local roads and facilities operated by gas and
electric utilities. It would provide $235 million to rebuild the
flood-damaged Veterans’ Administration hospital in lower
Manhattan and other VA medical facilities in the region.  Army Corps  The money for long-term projects includes almost $4 billion
for the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers to clear navigation
channels, repair damaged beaches and prevent shore erosion in
future storms.  “We have a habit here of throwing money at things under
the emergency category,” said Senator  Dan Coats , an Indiana
Republican who urged closer scrutiny of disaster assistance
packages.  The Senate defeated an amendment that would have offset the
plan’s cost with an across-the-board 0.49 percent reduction in
federal discretionary spending this year and by a similar amount
during the next eight years.  Heritage Action for America, a group in Washington that
advocates for smaller government, urged senators to oppose the
aid measure. It said too much money would go to “superfluous
programs” unrelated to Hurricane Sandy relief, such as funds to
upgrade National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
airplanes.  Boehner decided to put off a vote on the aid plan Jan. 1
after the House passed a tax increase on Americans with annual
income of more than $400,000 for individuals and $450,000 for
married couples. The plan was opposed by most Republicans.  The aid bill is H.R. 152.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  