-- Congress Comes Out of Hiding on Immigration
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-28T21:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/congress-comes-out-of-hiding-on-immigration.html
A marginalized group emerged from
the shadows today to assert that they indeed have a voice, and a
future, in American society. We speak, of course, of members of
Congress. After years of scurrying for political cover, a brave
handful of senators held a daylight, weekday  news conference  in
Washington to present -- in writing -- a surprisingly detailed
outline for overhauling the nation’s immigration laws.  This is new. What’s more, the group of senators backing the
outline is thoroughly bipartisan, with Republicans Jeff Flake,
Lindsey Graham, John McCain and Marco Rubio declaring their
participation. Rubio, in particular, is working  to sell  reform
to skeptics on the right. Democratic Senator Charles Schumer
hailed the group’s proposals as “a major breakthrough.” McCain
called the legislative path “difficult but achievable.”  The proposals are promising. The plan calls for stricter
border enforcement, backed by new technology and personnel. Once
an as-yet unspecified level of border security is established, a
two-step process of legalization would begin for the estimated
11 million undocumented immigrants living in the U.S., who would
be subject to an interim legal status before being eligible for
citizenship. Fines and back taxes would have to be paid.
Immigrants who entered the country as children would have an
easier path to citizenship than others, as would agricultural
workers.  In addition, visas would be increased for highly skilled
workers, and a new employment verification system would impose
“stiff fines and criminal penalties for egregious offenses” by
employers who hire undocumented labor.  With President  Barack Obama  scheduled to speak on
immigration tomorrow in Las Vegas, the sense of momentum in
Washington is real. Business interests and labor unions,
including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the AFL-CIO, are
generally supportive. Even in the House of Representatives,
where Republican hard-liners have been the biggest obstacle to
immigration reform, change is in the air.  A small, bipartisan group of House members has been working
for years to construct a comprehensive immigration reform
capable of becoming law. Republican Representative John Carter
of Texas revealed this week for the first time that he is a
member of the group, which includes California Democrat Zoe Lofgren. (Carter’s disclosure is significant; the issue is so
sensitive among conservatives, and the House group is so
secretive, that members have watermarked documents to ensure
confidentiality.) Meanwhile, Speaker John Boehner confirmed last
week that the members “basically have an agreement.”  Pitfalls remain. Enforcement will never be perfect -- and
so might never satisfy the concerns of conservatives. Similarly,
objections to “amnesty” for undocumented immigrants are bound to
resurface. The pathway to citizenship, the Senate outline says,
is “contingent upon our success in securing our borders and
addressing visa overstays.” And how will we know when we have
realized that unspecified level of border security? According to
the senatorial outline, that determination would be made by
border-state political leaders, who must be relied on to resist
partisan and populist  temptations .  Despite such concerns, the change in the political
environment is genuine. Trey Gowdy, a second-term Republican who
is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee’s immigration
subcommittee, is known as a  hawk  on illegal immigration. Yet he
told a newspaper in his home state of South Carolina that he
wants a system that reflects “the humanity that I think defines
us as a people, and the respect for the rule of law that defines
us as a republic.” If that’s the standard Congress maintains for
immigration reform, millions will be on a path to citizenship,
and the nation will be on the high road to success.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 