-- Copper Rises on Signs of Chinese, U.S. Manufacturing Strength
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-28T15:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/copper-advances-as-chinese-earnings-add-to-revival-indications.html
Copper rose in  New York  for the
first time in four sessions on signs that manufacturing is
gaining strength in  China  and the U.S., the two biggest users of
the metal.  Earnings at Chinese industrial companies advanced for a
fourth month in December, increasing 17 percent from a year
earlier, the country’s statistics bureau said today. Figures
last week showed fourth-quarter gross domestic product expanded
more than economists expected. A U.S. government report today
showed stronger-than-expected durable goods orders in December.  “We’re seeing more and more good news out of China, and
that will translate into higher copper prices,”  Bill O’Neill , a
partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview. “The durable-goods number was
further indication of improvement.”  Copper futures for delivery in March added less than 0.1
percent to $3.654 a pound at 10:39 a.m. on the Comex in New
York.  Prices pared earlier gains of as much as 0.7 percent after
an unexpected drop in a U.S. housing-sales gauge. The index of
contracts for the purchase of previously owned homes fell in
December for the first time since August, data from the National
Association of Realtors showed. Last week, copper lost 0.7
percent amid concern that supplies may exceed demand this year.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
4.6 percent in the U.S., exceeding the highest forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after a 0.7 percent gain in
November, the government report today showed. The nation is the
world’s second-largest copper consumer.  Caterpillar  Copper also climbed after  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  said prices are
poised to advance, after reporting fourth-quarter profit that
exceeded estimates by analysts. The metal will average $3.75 a
pound this year, according to Caterpillar, the world’s largest
maker of construction and mining equipment. Increased economic
growth will boost demand for most metals, Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar said in its earnings statement on its website today.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 0.2 percent to $8,042.75 a metric ton ($3.65 a
pound).  Zinc, lead and nickel also advanced in London. Tin and
aluminum fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  