-- Court Originalists Upend Power Balance With Recess Ruling
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-01-28T17:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/court-originalists-upend-power-balance-with-recess-ruling.html
If it was good enough for  James Madison , it’s good enough for me -- that was the message of the
U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  when it  struck down  the
president’s power to appoint officials when Congress isn’t doing
business but is nominally in session.  Relying on the language of the Constitution, and what it
took to be the original intention of the Founding Fathers, the
three-member court panel struck down a practice that by some
estimates goes back to 1867. The decision involved appointments
to the  National Labor Relations Board , but the impact will be
felt throughout government. Hundreds, perhaps thousands of
executive branch actions will be thrown into question
retroactively.  With the greatest respect to Madison and his peers, this
makes no sense -- or at least no sense in a world that differs
from that of 1789. The problem isn’t really that from now on,
the president will have to put up all his nominees for Senate
confirmation unless it is during the official recess that
usually takes place over the summer. In principle, that would be
a reasonable thing for him to have to do, and it is entirely
possible that the court got the original meaning right.  Bigger Government  The problem is that in every other respect, including the
confirmation process, today’s government is totally different
from the world the constitutional framers imagined. Start with
its size. When  Thomas Jefferson  took office in 1801, a dozen
years into the history of the Constitution in action, he had a
grand total of four full-time Cabinet officials: the secretaries
of state, war, the Treasury and the Navy. The attorney general
was a part-time lawyer who kept his private clients. There were
no assistant secretaries, to say nothing of deputies, deputy
assistants and beyond. Senate confirmation was a matter of a few
discussions among a handful of men.  All this has been altered radically as government has
grown. The increase in the number of confirmed officials came
both in slow increments, with the growth of individual jobs
within the executive branch in the 19th century, and in major
leaps, as in the New Deal, when agencies proliferated. Today,
confirming appointees takes forever. If recess appointments
can’t fill jobs during the backlog period, then much of the
executive branch will teeter along, rudderless. This might
please small-government advocates, but even they presumably
would like to see the Defense Department, say, fully
operational.  Size isn’t the only issue. In Jefferson’s world, when
senators got down to business, they would either confirm the
president’s nominee or reject him (always “him” until  Franklin D. Roosevelt  nominated Frances Perkins as labor secretary). In
the contemporary world, however, an innovation totally
incompatible with original intent has changed that: I speak, of
course, of the dreaded filibuster.  The filibuster has a dirty history and a disreputable
present. Deployed most often to protect slavery and segregation,
it enables a minority of the Senate to block an appointment
without compunction. Filibusters, or just the threat of them,
have for many years been applied most often to block
appointments.  Undemocratic Filibuster  There is nothing unconstitutional about this -- unless you
are an originalist. The Senate makes its own rules, and if it
wants a rule that breaks majority vote, so be it. But the
Founding Fathers never dreamed of it. It is, arguably, a
violation of their aspiration to a republican form of
government. It is certainly undemocratic.  In a sense, recess appointments functioned as compensation
to the executive branch for its inability to get an up-or-down
vote on its nominees. There was a certain push and pull -- if
the Senate blocked a nominee, the president could give that
person a recess appointment. Taken together, the system gave
each side incentives to compromise. Even if they couldn’t, each
walked away with something.  Now the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of Columbia
Circuit has upset this balance in favor of the minority party in
the Senate. Its motives may be totally pure, but the effects of
the decision are decidedly partisan.  And the true culprit isn’t the three-judge panel -- all of
whom happened to have been appointed by Republican presidents --
but the theory of originalism itself. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes put it best (as he usually did). The words of the
Constitution, he  wrote , “have called into life a being the
development of which could not have been foreseen completely by
the most gifted of its begetters.”  The Constitution has evolved as the country has changed.
The trouble with applying strict originalism to one bit of the
evolving structure is that it doesn’t take into account the
other changes. Had we never developed recess appointments of the
modern type, that might have been fine. Yet they came about as
part of an overall structure of balance between the branches,
and eliminating them makes those powers less balanced, not more.  The NLRB itself would have been unimaginable to the
framers. How does Congress’s power to regulate interstate
commerce evolve into a body that can determine labor-capital
relations and control unions and employers alike? By necessity,
that’s how.  If we have today a constitutional system that is the envy
of the world, it is emphatically not because of the original
text, however elegant. It is because we have had the wisdom over
the generations to let our magnificent structure evolve to meet
new needs and circumstances.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 