-- Credit Suisse, Morgan Stanley to Trade China Stock Index Futures
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-28T03:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/credit-suisse-morgan-stanley-to-trade-china-stock-index-futures.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are among five foreign investors approved to trade stock
index futures on the China Financial Futures Exchange.  Credit Suisse is one of the Qualified Foreign Institutional
Investors, also known as QFIIs, that obtained permits to trade
the instruments, Josephine Lee, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at
the bank, said by phone today. Morgan Stanley was also selected,
a person with direct knowledge of the matter said, asking not to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  China is seeking to attract investment to its  capital
markets  by broadening the range of instruments available to
foreign institutions. Policy makers can also increase the limit
on the amount of QFII investment 10-fold,  Guo Shuqing , chairman
of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said Jan. 14.  China “recently” selected five firms from the QFII
program as the first foreign funds to trade stock index futures,
an exchange official told Bloomberg News last week.  UBS AG and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  are also among the five firms,
the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday, citing people it
didn’t identify. UBS China spokeswoman Joanna Sin declined to
comment. Amanda Liu, a Shanghai-based BNP Paribas spokeswoman,
had no immediate comment when contacted by phone today.  Morgan Stanley China spokeswoman Xu Li declined to comment.  The CSRC increased the total allotment under the QFII
program to $80 billion in April. More than 200 institutions have
obtained QFII status as of December, according to the watchdog.
The investors have a total of about $37.4 billion approved for
investment in China’s capital markets, according to the
country’s foreign exchange regulator.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  