-- Credit Suisse Bank Cut Tempers Moody’s Optimism: Turkey Credit
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-01-28T12:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/credit-suisse-bank-cut-tempers-moody-s-optimism-turkey-credit.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s downgrade
of Turkish bank stocks is sobering sentiment for traders
counting on a sovereign upgrade by Moody’s Investors Service to
prolong the best bond rally in  emerging markets .  Credit Suisse cut its view on the country’s banks, saying
lenders are “vulnerable to potential risk factors that the
market has been neglecting,” according to an e-mailed report
dated Jan. 25. The yield on the nation’s  two-year notes  rose for
the first time in nine days, trimming the biggest rally among 17
emerging markets, as  bank stocks  tumbled.  While analysts predict that Turkey will receive a second
investment-grade rating this year, underpinning more foreign
inflows, Credit Suisse downgraded banks to neutral “after being
positive for more than a year.” Moody’s is scheduled to hold a
teleconference today, with “shifting closer to an investment-
grade sovereign rating” among topics on its website.  “Moody’s will make  Turkey  investment grade and the
momentum will continue, but ups-and-downs will be the story of
the year and there will be profit-taking,” Gulay Girgin, chief
economist at Istanbul-based Oyak Securities, said by telephone
on Jan. 25. “Yields are already hovering at historical low
levels, so I don’t know the bottom, but it’s very difficult to
fall further.”  Rising Yield  The yield on the benchmark  two-year  security rose four
basis points to 5.88 percent on Jan. 25, bringing them 15 basis
points above the closing record-low reached on Dec. 4. That’s
down from 10.37 percent 12 months ago as yields fell below those
for higher-rated  Russia ,  India  and  Brazil .  Fitch Ratings  upgraded Turkey in November, the country’s
first investment-grade ranking in 18 years. Moody’s will
probably raise Turkey within six months and bond yields may fall
as much as 35 basis points on the move, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in an e-mailed report on Jan. 24.  An upgrade will “help the case for institutional
investors, who require investment grade from two major rating
agencies to be able to invest in a country,” Alper Ince, who
helps oversee $8.5 billion as managing director at Pacific
Alternative Asset Management Co. in  Irvine ,  California , said by
e-mail on Jan. 24. “The key question is how much of this is
already discounted by valuations and flows by investors.”  ‘Big Positive’  Predicting the consequences of a rating change may be
little better than flipping a coin, with yields moving in the
opposite direction than suggested 47 percent of the time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg in June on 314 upgrades,
downgrades and outlook changes going back to 1974. Yields were
measured after a month relative to U.S. Treasury debt, the
global benchmark.  Investors bought $411 million of bonds in the week ending
Jan. 18, bringing this month’s total to $1.9 billion, the best
start to a year since 2011, according to central bank data.
Turkey attracted a record $16 billion from foreign inflows into
bonds last year.  “Another investment-grade move is a big positive, although
less for re-pricing than for new flow,” Stuart Hackett,
director of trading at Ekspres Invest in Istanbul, said in e-
mailed comments on Jan. 25. “Funds that didn’t touch Turkey
previously would need to buy in.”  The increase in yields at the end of last week was “a
healthy correction that should continue to some extent next week
before we take off again,” Hackett said. “Credit Suisse and
other bank cuts were the trigger.”  ‘Priced In’  A Moody’s upgrade in the first half of this year has been
“priced in to a great extent,” Ates Buldur, an analyst at
Credit Suisse in Istanbul, wrote in the report on banks. The
market has seen most of the positives at the macroeconomic and
banking level, he said.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Turkish debt rather
than  U.S. Treasuries  has dropped 217 basis points since the
beginning of 2012, or 2.17 percentage points, to 161 as of 2:50
p.m. in Istanbul today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Index. That compares with the emerging-market average of
255 and with 143 for Brazil and 155 for Russia.  Moody’s rates Turkey at Ba1, its highest non-investment
status. Brazil is ranked two levels above Turkey and Russia
three steps higher. S&P rates Turkey two levels below investment
grade.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey were unchanged at
120, falling 169 basis points in the past 12 months. Declining
prices show improving perceptions of a borrower’s
creditworthiness. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Stocks Fall  The lira was little changed at 1.7663 today. Bond yields
fell two basis points to 5.86 percent.  The ISE National 100  Index (XU100)  of stocks sank 2 percent on Jan.
25, with the gauge for banks sliding 3.4 percent, the most in 11
months. The broader index, which rallied 53 percent last year,
had closed at record highs every day since Jan. 14. The index
dropped another 1.6 percent today. Banks led with a 2.5 percent
fall.  “If a second investment grade comes, the markets will
rally a bit more, but probably a lot is already in the price,”
Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at Standard Bank Group
Ltd. in  London , said in e-mailed comments on Jan. 25. “Bonds in
general look overbaked, while equities maybe just came too far,
too fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  