-- Croatian EU Entry to Help Atlantica Gain, Tedeschi Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-01-29T13:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/croatian-eu-entry-to-help-atlantica-gain-tedeschi-says.html
Croatia ’s European Union entry this
year will help the biggest snack and beverage company in the
former Yugoslav region shift focus to western  Europe  after
relying on  Russia  and other ex-Soviet republics for growth.  Zagreb-based  Atlantic Grupa d.d. ’s 2012 revenue probably
grew about 5 percent from 4.77 billion kuna ($846 million) in
2011, said Chief Executive Officer Emil Tedeschi in an interview
at his company’s headquarters before the company reports
earnings scheduled for Feb. 22. Similar growth is expected this
year, he said.  Croatian companies are looking for new markets as they
struggle to sell products at home and to the west because of a
two-year recession and debt crisis.  Atlantic Grupa (ATGRRA) ’s 2012 sales
were propped up by demand from the east of its products such as
Argeta pates and Multipower vitamin supplements, Tedeschi said.
Its shares are up 25 percent this month, outpacing the 9 percent
gain in Croatia’s main stock index.  EU entry will bring “more opportunities and an extra
marketing tool, as we can label our products and brands that are
made in Croatia as ‘Made in the EU,’ ” Tedeschi said. “We are
prepared to grow organically and expand internationally.”  Atlantic Grupa produces and distributes so-called fast-
moving consumer goods in the former Yugoslav region. Its
beverages, snacks, food supplements and cosmetics are
manufactured in 14 plants in Croatia,  Serbia ,  Slovenia , Bosnia-
Herzegovina and Macedonia, as well as in  Germany , and
distributed in 40 countries.  Customs Duties  While membership in the Brussels-based bloc will make
Croatian companies face new  customs duties  for their products
entering Serbian, Bosnian and Macedonian markets, which are part
of  Central European Free Trade Agreement , or CEFTA, production
facilities in those countries help Atlantic Grupa avoid higher
costs for distributions across the Balkans, Tedeschi said.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, will probably show a “single-digit”
increase over 2011’s 500.67 million kuna, he said.  “In 2012, all our product categories have performed very
well, and we expect the trend to continue this year,” Tedeschi
said.  Atlantic Grupa in November refinanced its long-term debt
with a loan of 307 million euros ($412 million) from the
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development ,  International
Finance Corp.  and four commercial banks. The average interest
rate was 4.71 percent.  Loan Refinancing  “The highlight of the year was that we were able to
refinance our loan, without being obliged to do that, and with
 interest rates  below sovereign debt yield,” Tedeschi said. “We
obtained a new horizon of seven years, which is the loan’s
maturity, and proved that we have earned the trust of the
financial community.”  Atlantic Grupa employs 4,350 people in 12 countries.
Tedeschi, 45, expanded the family-owned business in 2010 to
acquire Slovenia’s food and beverage maker Droga Kolinska d.d.,
which had production plants in Serbia and Macedonia. In 2008, it
acquired  Farmacia , Croatia’s biggest closely-held pharmacy
chain.  The shares fell to 662 kuna at 2:19 p.m. today in Zagreb,
from yesterday’s close of 664.09 kuna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  