-- Cyprus Rejects Calls for More Action on Money Laundering
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-01-28T13:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/cyprus-refutes-it-needs-to-take-more-action-on-money-laundering.html
The head of Cyprus’s anti-money
laundering  unit  said the country doesn’t need to strengthen
existing rules following accusations the island is a base for
Russian illegal money flows.  “Our anti-money laundering legislation has been in line
with European Union rules since 1996, well before talks started
on accession to the bloc and before joining in 2004,” Eva
Rossidou-Papakyriacou said in a Jan. 25 phone interview from
Nicosia. “In many cases our legislation is often stricter than
elsewhere in the EU.”  Two-way investment flows between Russia and Cyprus create
suspicion that laundering may be behind the transactions, German
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Jan. 21, adding the
following day that euro-region states will make stronger money-
laundering laws in Cyprus a precondition for aid. In June,
Cyprus became the fifth euro-area nation to request a rescue and
is still negotiating the size and terms with the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund.  “Cyprus has nothing to hide on money laundering nor on the
exchange of tax information,” Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly
said in Nicosia today. The country has adopted and implemented
all anti-money laundering recommendations and “there may be a
lack of knowledge in many European countries on Cypriot
action,” he said.  Supervisory Authorities  Cyprus has supervisory authorities which monitor the
application of international-standard measures for preventing
and suppressing money laundering, including provisions for the
tracing, freezing and confiscation of assets that are suspected
of coming from criminal activities, Rossidou-Papakyriacou said.  International investors, including Russians, are attracted
to Cyprus as a business center because of its favorable tax
regime and double tax avoidance treaties, she said.  The IMF recognized the “soundness” of Cyprus’s legal
framework for combating money laundering in a review started
last September. The IMF didn’t identify any loopholes and only
suggested some minor changes which Cyprus, in order to show good
will, has already implemented in law, Rossidou-Papakyriacou
said.  With regards to 49 recommendations of the intergovernmental
Financial Action Task Force on money laundering, Cyprus ranks
seventh out of the 17 euro-area states in terms of the number of
measures it fully complies with, according to the latest
evaluation  report  of the  Moneyval  anti-laundering committee of
the  Council Of Europe .  Cyprus ranks second for the number of recommendations it
largely complies with and is only one of four countries without
any non-compliant rating, the report shows. The evaluation also
covers implementation of measures.  “Cyprus is not a tax haven,” Rossidou-Papakyriacou said.
“A tax haven is a country which has almost zero taxation and no
controls on where money comes from and neither is true of
Cyprus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  