-- Daimler Adds Nissan as Partner on Ford Fuel-Cell Project
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-01-28T12:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/daimler-plans-joint-fuel-cell-project-with-nissan-ford.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the third-biggest maker
of luxury vehicles, and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  added Nissan Motor Co. as
a partner in developing fuel cells for electric cars, which the
manufacturers plan to start selling in 2017.  The companies plan over time to build a combined 100,000
vehicles powered by the technology, Thomas Weber, Daimler’s head
of research and development, said today at a press conference in
Nabern,  Germany . The carmakers will invest equal amounts in the
project to create fuel-cell stacks and systems, they said in a
joint statement, without giving details.  The technology would be a shift from the companies’
battery-powered models already on the market, such as Nissan’s
Leaf and versions of Daimler’s two-seat Smart city car.  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , the largest producer of hybrid models powered by
both electricity and gasoline or diesel, agreed on Jan. 24 to
work on fuel-cell technology among joint projects planned with
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the top-ranked luxury-car producer.  “This technology has the biggest potential for emission-
free driving” compared with other alternative powertrains,
Weber said. “This cooperation gives us the opportunity to bind
together the know-how of three experienced partners” to enable
commercial production of cars running on the powering system.  Technology’s Advantages  Fuel cells produce electricity by combining hydrogen and
oxygen, evaporating water as emissions when the car is driven.
Compared to electric vehicles powered by batteries, fuel-cell
cars have a range closer to combustion engine vehicles and
fueling time is comparable to filling up a gasoline tank.  Carmakers are collaborating on the technology to share
costs and achieve higher volumes once production starts. Higher
volume will strengthen the partners’ position when negotiating
with suppliers, Weber said.  Nissan (7201)  will work under contract with Daimler, the owner of
the Mercedes-Benz luxury brand, and Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford without taking a stake in their existing Automotive Fuel
Cell Corp. joint venture, to avoid time-consuming negotiations,
Herbert Kohler, head of future technology at the German
carmaker, said at the press conference.  The partners want to send a “clear signal” to governments
and suppliers of the need to develop a hydrogen-fueling
infrastructure worldwide, the companies said. Germany needs a
wider hydrogen filling-station network than the current 15
outlets, Weber said.  Research Sites  The project will use the partners’ existing development
centers in  Detroit ,  Tokyo ,  Vancouver  and Daimler’s headquarters
city of Stuttgart, Germany, they said. Nissan is based in
Yokohama,  Japan , and is that country’s second-biggest carmaker.  “We can proceed quicker, as we can develop around the
clock,” Weber said.  Each partner will market its own branded vehicles, probably
starting with front-wheel-drive models, Weber said.  “This powertrain is the start of a modular strategy,” he
said. “It has to be adaptable into several models.”  The partnership is open to other manufacturers, including
Nissan’s French global alliance partner,  Renault SA (RNO) , Weber said.  Daimler is skipping an intermediate step of fuel-cell
technology development that was originally planned for 2014 with
smaller numbers of vehicles, Weber said. Mercedes currently has
a test fleet of about 200 fuel-cell cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Nabern, Germany, via 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  