-- Default Swaps Lift Sovereign Ratings From Brink of Junk
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-01-28T15:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/default-swaps-lift-sovereign-ratings-from-brink-of-junk.html
The risk of owning sovereign bonds
has fallen to a two-year low, setting the stage for more gains
by the riskiest government securities as the investors look to a
healing world economy.  The amount of risk priced into government issues is the
least since 2011, lifting the average implied ratings for more
than 80 debt markets to Baa2 from Baa3, or one step above junk,
according to Moody’s Analytics. Credit-default swaps show the
securities to be safer after more than $5 trillion in stimulus
by the world’s central banks since 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Bianco Research LLC.  Even after returning 18.5 percent last year, bonds of
 Portugal , Ireland, Italy,  Greece  and Spain may produce more
gains for investors. Their debt yields average 2.57 percentage
points more than Treasuries, double the average gap of 1.26
percentage points of the past 10 years, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Investors from Brandywine Global
Investment Management LLC to Prudential Financial Inc. are
turning to government securities.  “There is still risk out there, but the wave of
accommodation has set the stage for the reflation of the global
economy,” Jack McIntyre, who manages $44.5 billion in assets
for Brandywine, said by phone from Philadelphia on Jan. 22. He
is buying debt in Brazil, Portugal, Italy and Ireland.  Divining Line  Concern that major economies will default has all but
disappeared. Twenty-two of the 34 developed-world members of the
Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development have
credit-default swaps, which protect against losses on their
debt, at less than one percentage point, or 100 basis points,
meaning they are viewed as almost risk free. Six months ago only
six fit that category, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  One indication of further gains is that the implied rating
of Baa2 for the world’s sovereign bonds is below the actual
average of Baa1. That suggests investors are becoming less
pessimistic, said Jerry Tempelman, a director at Moody’s
Analytics in New York, an arm of Moody’s Corp. that’s separate
from the company’s credit-rating business.  Ireland’s implied rating has risen eight steps to Baa3, the
lowest investment grade, from Caa2 in August 2011. The price of
credit-default swaps tied to the nation’s bonds fell to 183
basis points from a record high of 1,195 in July 2011.  Relative Yields  Irish two-year notes yield 94 basis points more than German
bunds, down from more than 2000 in 2011. The nation’s five-year
notes yield 3 percent, compared with 2.91 percent for  Italy ,
which is rated two levels higher by Moody’s.  Spain’s ranking is up one level to Ba2 from Ba3 in July
2012, and its default swaps have fallen by more than half to 261
basis points. Its five-year notes, at 3.79 percent, yield about
3 percentage points more than bunds.  The bonds of Ireland and Spain have returned 58.4 percent
and 12.1 percent since their lowest implied ratings.  Investors are growing more confident as the three biggest
challenges to sovereign ratings -- slowing growth in  China , a
breakup of the euro region and U.S. political stagnation over
the fiscal cliff and the debt ceiling -- diminish, Raman Srivastava, head of global fixed income at Standish Mellon Asset
Management Company LLC, which manages $170 billion, said in a
telephone interview on Jan. 24.  Faster Growth  China’s gross domestic product  grew  7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter after a seven-quarter slowdown, the National
Bureau of Statistics said Jan 18. Since European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi said July 26 he would do “whatever it
takes” to save the 17-nation euro, the currency has appreciated
versus 16 major counterparts. U.S. lawmakers raised taxes Jan. 1
and last week suspended the debt limit until May 19.  “There are still a lot of hurdles to clear, but things are
looking more encouraging globally,” Srivastava said. He has
been purchasing global inflation-linked debt and bonds of Italy,
where benchmark 10-year note yields have fallen to 4.15 percent
from a high of 7.24 percent in November 2011.  “Slowly we are transitioning to an environment where
growth is driven by fundamentals rather than fear,” he said.  The improving risk outlook has lured investors away from
Treasuries and German  bunds , which gained 1.84 percent and 3.3
percent last year after returning 9.79 percent and 9.69 percent
respectively in 2011, according to Bank of America indexes.  Rising Yields  Both are off to the worst start to a year since 2009.
Benchmark 10-year Treasury yields rose today to 2 percent for
the first time since April 25, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The 1.625 percent note due November 2022 fell 7/32,
or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 96 28/32.  Bonds in  emerging markets  and the most-indebted European
countries are producing world-beating gains. The almost 19
percent returns for debt of Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and
Spain last year came after an average loss of 6.87 percent in
2011. Emerging-market debt has increased 9.14 percent since the
start of 2012.  Central bank stimulus won’t guarantee growth and risks
sparking global inflation, according to Scott Mather, head of
global portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the world’s largest bond fund.  “Like any drug, you can become addicted to easy monetary
policy,” Mather said in a telephone interview on Jan. 23. “It
certainly feels good, but it doesn’t mean you are becoming
healthier. The vulnerabilities in the system are all still
there, and when the good feeling wears off reality will hit, and
hit hard.”  Boosting Treasuries  Pimco’s $285 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  raised its holdings
of Treasuries to 26 percent in December, the highest level since
July, keeping non-U.S. developed nations’ bonds at 12 percent
and cutting the fund’s emerging-market debt to 7 percent from 8
percent.  While the International Monetary Fund cut its global growth
forecast Jan. 23 to 3.5 percent for this year, from 3.6 percent
in October, the pace would still be faster than the 3.2 percent
in 2012.  Global sovereign bond yields have fallen to 1.45 percent,
near the record low yield of 1.35 percent in December 2012, from
about 1.8 percent a year ago, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Indexes that goes back to 2001.  Yields may stay low as the world’s leading economies cut
supply, refinancing $220 billion less sovereign debt this year
than they did in 2012.  Debt Maturities  Bills, notes and bonds coming due for the Group of Seven
industrialized nations plus  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China will
drop to $7.38 trillion from $7.60 trillion in 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. government will reduce net sales by $250 billion
from the $1.2 trillion issued in fiscal 2012 ended Sept. 30, a
survey of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers found.  “This deleveraging cycle has not been in a straight line,
but it is going on, and as it continues government balance
sheets are getting better,” Stuart Thomson, an international
fixed-income fund manager at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow,
who oversees $110 billion in assets, said in a telephone
interview on Jan. 24. He is investing in commodity producing
countries such as Australia and Brazil.  Benchmark U.S. interest rates have been zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008, and the Fed has injected more than
$2.3 trillion into the financial system through bond purchases
to ignite economic growth and keep borrowing costs near record
lows. It’s buying $85 billion a month in mortgage securities and
Treasuries.  Japan Stimulus  The Bank of  Japan  increased its asset-purchase fund on Oct.
30 by 11 trillion yen ($121 billion) to 66 trillion yen. Draghi
said Oct. 4 the ECB is ready to start buying government bonds to
help the debt-ridden nations in the region.  Yields about record lows in the biggest developed countries
are creating a “virtuous cycle” in troubled nations, bringing
capital back in which has pushed down borrowing costs, which
will ultimately help growth, Robert Tipp, chief investment
strategist in  Newark , New Jersey, for Prudential’s fixed-income
division, which oversees $350 billion, said in an Jan. 23
telephone interview.  “We are certainly not out of the woods, but the Fed has
been very vigilant in controlling downside risk for the U.S. and
Draghi has removed a lot of systemic risk out of  Europe ,” Tipp
said. His firm is staying away from Bunds and Treasuries in
favor of Irish and Italian debt.  Riskier Assets  Investors are moving into riskier assets as better bond
performance has spilled into global equity markets. The MSCI
All-Country World  Index (MXWO)  of stocks in developed and emerging
markets has risen 3.8 percent this year, on pace for its best
monthly gain since June.  U.S. investment and junk-rated corporate bonds have
returned 0.417 percent this year, compared to a 0.359 percent
loss for Treasuries, after company debt returned 11.3 percent in
2012.  “There is still a desperate reach for yield among global
investors,” Nic Pifer, head of global fixed-income for Columbia
Management Investment Advisers LLC in  Minneapolis , which
oversees $340 billion, said in a telephone interview on Jan. 23.  “We are in an incrementally improving global economy with
less concern of event risk due to the warm blanket provided from
central banks. If you want return you have to look beyond the
safe haven assets,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  