-- Deutsche Bank Said to Be Among Banks in Bafin Euribor Probe
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-01-28T14:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/deutsche-bank-said-to-be-among-banks-in-bafin-euribor-probe.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is among several
banks facing probes by financial regulator Bafin over the
possible rigging of Euribor  interest rates , two people familiar
with the matter said.  WestLB, now called Portigon AG, is also being investigated
over the Euribor rates, said the people, who declined to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak about the
matter.  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported today Bafin is looking
into four German lenders over Euribor, including Portigon and
Deutsche Bank. Both lenders are also being reviewed for their
participation in Libor rate setting.  Regulators from  Canada  to Switzerland are investigating
whether more than a dozen banks including Deutsche Bank,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  colluded to rig
benchmark interest rates.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
was fined $1.5 billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators last month
for manipulating interest rates including Euribor and the London
interbank offered rate.  The benchmarks are meant to represent the rate at which
banks can borrow from other lenders in a specific currency over
various periods.  Bafin spokesman  Ben Fischer  declined to identify any of the
banks involved or to say how many are being investigated.
Spokesmen for Deutsche Bank and Portigon declined to comment.  The regulator has various forms of reacting to allegations
of wrongdoing, said Fischer. The process can be escalated from
asking for a dialogue over the issue, ordering to hand in
information to opening a special probe, he said.  November Hearing  Raimund Roeseler, Bafin’s top banking regulator, told
German lawmakers at a hearing in November banks that
participated in either Libor or Euribor rate setting were
questioned over the issue and several special probes were
started. While he said that Bafin was investigating Deutsche
Bank, he didn’t identify any of the other lenders under review.  Banks were also asked to hand in results of their own
internal investigations, Roeseler said at the hearing.  Bafin told the banks it would order additional probes “in
the foreseeable future” to check whether the risk management
was adequately reformed, Roeseler said at the hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 