-- Direct-Seller Fortune Hi-Tech Marketing Accused of Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-28T20:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/direct-seller-fortune-hi-tech-marketing-accused-of-fraud-1-.html
Fortune Hi-Tech Marketing Inc., a
company describing itself as a direct seller of consumer goods
and services that gives people “the opportunity to build their
own business,” is a fraud, state and federal authorities said.  Since 2001, FHTM has been running an unlawful scheme
emphasizing the recruitment of fee-paying new members over
product sales, according to a federal court complaint filed
under seal Jan. 24 in Chicago by Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan,  Kentucky  Attorney General Jack Conway,  North Carolina 
Attorney General Roy Cooper and the Federal Trade Commission.  The company charges new representatives $250 to join its
sales force and the same amount in subsequent years while paying
them little for selling products including vitamins, beauty
products and satellite TV service and the bulk of their income
for recruiting more sellers, according to the complaint, a copy
of which was provided by Conway’s office.  “We believe that Fortune Hi-Tech Marketing was operating a
massive pyramid scheme that involved more than 100,000 people”
across the U.S. and in other countries, Conway said today in a
statement.  ‘Significant Losses’  “The perpetrators of this pyramid scheme promised big
returns but instead delivered significant losses for thousands
of families,” in  Illinois  and elsewhere, Madigan said in a
separate statement.  Alleging violations of the FTC Act, Illinois’ consumer
fraud law as well as the laws of North Carolina and Kentucky,
the authorities have asked for a court order freezing Fortune’s
assets, appointing a receiver, an injunction barring future
violations and the imposition of monetary penalties.  Named as individual defendants in the litigation are
Fortune President Paul Orberson and Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Mills. Information on lawyers for the two men and the
company wasn’t immediately available.  Investigators and a court-appointed receiver have taken
over the company’s Lexington, Kentucky, headquarters and a
warehouse in Danville, Kentucky, the  attorneys general  said.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Fortune Hi-Tech
Marketing, 13-cv-00578, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Illinois ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  