-- Doctors Heavy Caseloads Put Patients at Risk, Study Shows
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-01-29T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/doctors-heavy-caseloads-put-patients-at-risk-study-shows.html
Almost half of hospital doctors said
they routinely see more patients than they can safely manage,
leading in some cases to unneeded tests, medication errors and
deaths, according to a survey by researchers at  Johns Hopkins
University .  Seven percent of 506 hospital-based physicians surveyed
said their heavy workload likely led to a patient complication,
and 5 percent reported it probably caused a death over the past
year. The findings are published in a research letter released
yesterday by  JAMA Internal Medicine .  Doctors are increasingly taking on more patients to
compensate for cuts in payments from health insurers, the
researchers said. That workload is projected to increase as the
2010 health law expands insurance coverage to 30 million more
Americans. The researchers, based at Johns Hopkins University in
Baltimore, said there is a risk that rising patient volumes may
increase costs by decreasing quality.  “Excessively increasing the workload may lead to
suboptimal care and less direct patient care time, which may
paradoxically increase, rather than decrease costs,” the
study’s authors wrote.  Forty percent of doctors said they saw an unsafe number of
patients at least once a month with 25 percent saying it
prevented them from fully discussing treatment options or
answering questions, according to the survey.  Researchers electronically surveyed doctors in November
2010 using a physician networking website. The average age of
the physicians was 38 with an average salary of $180,000.
Doctors said they could safely manage 15 people during a shift
if they were able to devote 100 percent of their time to patient
care.  Lawmakers have moved to prevent medical errors by putting
restrictions on the number of hours doctors in training can work
and set standards for nursing staffing levels. There are no
similar limits on workloads for physicians who focus primarily
on care of hospitalized patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  