-- Dollar Drops Versus Major Peers as Fed Opens Meeting
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-01-29T22:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/dollar-declines-2nd-day-versus-yen-before-confidence-fed.html
The dollar fell versus all but one
of its 16 most-traded peers as investors pared bets the Federal
Reserve will signal a change to its asset-buying program at the
end of a two-day meeting tomorrow.  The euro rose to its strongest versus the dollar since
December 2011 after exceeding a technical level amid increasing
appetite for risk as optimism rose that fiscal turmoil in the
region is easing.  South Africa ’s rand rallied against the dollar
from the weakest in almost four years. The yen gained versus the
dollar as U.S.  consumer confidence  fell.  “The Fed will reiterate that they’re going to continue
with asset purchases, and that’s something that’s been weighing
on the dollar today,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist
at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “Weak consumer confidence this morning also has put
some pressure on the dollar.”  The U.S. currency touched $1.3497 per euro, the weakest
level in almost 14 months, before trading at $1.3492 at 5 p.m.
in New York, down 0.3 percent. The greenback depreciated 0.1
percent to 90.73 yen after touching 91.26 yesterday, the
strongest since June 2010. The shared currency rose 0.1 percent
to 122.41 yen.  The European currency tested a resistance level at $1.3493,
which is the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the shared
currency’s drop versus the dollar from May 2011 to July 2012,
 Richard Adcock , a technical strategist at UBS AG in  London ,
wrote today in a client note. Resistance is an area on a chart
where sell orders may be clustered. Fibonacci analysis is based
on the theory that prices rise or fall by certain percentages
after reaching a new high or low.  Weekly Gain  The euro gained 1.1 percent against the dollar last week as
the  European Central Bank  said financial institutions will repay
more of its loans than forecast, spurring optimism the worst of
the region’s three-year-old debt crisis is over. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index climbed to 290.45 in London today, the highest
level since February 2011.  South Africa’s rand rose versus most major peers,
rebounding from its weakest level in almost four years against
the dollar as investors bet the decline had gone too far. The
currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 9.0271 per dollar. It slid
to 9.1604 yesterday, the least since April 2009.  Japan ’s currency gained versus the dollar as a report
showed confidence among U.S. consumers dropped more than
forecast in January to the lowest level in more than a year.  ‘Not Realistic’  “What we’re seeing is a little profit-taking,”  Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “To expect dollar-yen
to go in a straight line to 100 or 105 is not realistic.”  The Conference Board’s index of U.S.  consumer confidence 
decreased to 58.6, the weakest since November 2011, from a
revised 66.7 in December, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today.  The yen rose earlier versus the dollar as investors reduced
wagers it would keep falling after sliding for the past 11 weeks
in the longest losing streak on record.  Japan’s currency fell 6.2 percent over the past month in
the worst performance among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
gained 2 percent, while the dollar declined 0.3 percent.  The dollar fell today against all of its major peers except
the Taiwanese dollar, which lost less than 0.1 percent to 29.553
to the greenback.  ‘Evenly Divided’  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will issue a policy
statement tomorrow after a meeting it opened today. Minutes of
the committee’s December session showed participants were
“approximately evenly divided” between those who said it would
be appropriate to end its third round of asset purchases, known
as quantitative easing or QE3, around mid-2013 and those who
thought the buying would need to continue beyond that.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
debt each month to boost economic growth and spur employment.  “The groundbreaking meeting was December, and they’ll be
in a holding pattern through January, so I don’t think we’ll get
any fresh drivers from the meeting tonight,” said  Daragh Maher ,
a strategist in London at HSBC Holdings Plc.  The  New Zealand dollar  rose for the first time in four days
against its U.S. counterpart after the statistics bureau said
the annual trade deficit narrowed to NZ$1.21 billion ($1
billion) in the 12 months ended December, compared with a
revised NZ$1.39 billion shortfall in the year through November.  The kiwi, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened 0.7
percent to 83.94 U.S. cents after falling 1 percent in the
previous three days.  Trading Volumes  Sterling rose for the first time in four days against the
euro before a report forecast to show U.K. mortgage approvals
increased in December. The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to
85.59 pence.  U.K. currency-trading volumes fell to an average $1.92
trillion a day in October, 5 percent lower than six months
earlier, the  Bank of England  said, citing its twice-a-year
surveys for the Foreign Exchange Joint Standing Committee.  Average currency-trading volumes in the U.S. declined to
$794 billion a day in October from $860 billion in April, the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of New York said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  