-- Don’t Cry for Ricky Martin as ‘Evita’ Closes at a Loss
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/don-t-cry-for-ricky-martin-as-evita-closes-at-a-loss.html
Even with 8 million Twitter
followers, pop star  Ricky Martin  couldn’t make “Evita”
profitable.  Undone by high weekly running costs, Broadway’s top-selling
show to open in 2012 closed Saturday night without earning back
the $11 million raised from investors.  The failure of “Evita” illustrates the risks of producing
large, star-driven musical revivals, which generally have a
shorter life than a popular all-new show.  The 1979 original, with  Patti LuPone  and Mandy Patinkin,
ran nearly four years; the revival just 46 weeks. Given its
sales, it would have taken at least 63 weeks for the production
to break even. (The production cost $9.6 million.)  A budget and early results were obtained from the office of
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman through a Freedom of
Information Law request and from a Broadway investor.  The show was capitalized at $11 million, including $1
million held in reserve. Ticket sales averaged about $1.03
million per week after deducting credit card commissions and
other fees that producers don’t keep. Weekly expenses were about
$880,000 including royalties paid to the director, composer and
others.  Narrow Margins  “You’re playing to a very narrow profit margin,” said
Jack Viertel, artistic director of the  Encores!  concert series,
referring to large revivals generally. “Stars in revivals make
sense if you believe you have a business model that can make
back its money in a reasonable amount of time.”  New York  critics were underwhelmed by Argentinian star
Elena Roger in the title role. But Martin proved a huge draw, as
evidenced by the dips when he missed performances. When he
didn’t renew his one-year contract, the lead producers, Hal
Luftig and  Scott Sanders , searched for replacements to extend
the run, without success.  Luftig and Sanders declined to comment for this story, said
Leslie Papa, a production spokesman.  With a cast of three dozen, “Evita” was a large-scale
undertaking. While Martin’s pay as Marxist revolutionary Che
Guevara wasn’t fully detailed, the budget lists a “star
percentage” bonus of 10 percent of weekly box office above
$700,000 and “star perqs” (perquisites) of $18,500 a week. The
five principals shared about $170,000 a week in pay and
perquisites at the outset of the run.  High Payroll  That’s nearly three times the initial weekly pay of the
entire 27-actor company of 2011’s monster hit “ The Book of
Mormon .”  Composer  Andrew Lloyd Webber ’s Really Useful Group, which
owns the rights to the show, was paid a onetime fee of $100,000.
In addition, Lord Lloyd Webber and Really Useful earned fees and
royalties totaling about $70,000 a week. From that, lyricist Tim
Rice received an undisclosed portion of the authors’ $6,300
weekly license fee.  Really Useful’s compensation includes these weekly
whoppers: More than $5,000 for “management advice and services
remotely from the  United Kingdom ” and $3,500 for “costumes,
sets and props in the Broadway production.”  Never mind that the revival, which originated in  London ,
had its own Tony Award-winning designer, Christopher Oram.
(Really Useful also received 15 percent of sales of Broadway
merchandise.)  Expenses associated with the Marquis Theatre added up:
During the first month, when the company was rehearsing, rent,
musicians, stagehands, box office and other staff cost
approximately $250,000 a week.  Overall, the show needed to gross an additional 13 percent
each week, or a total of about $1.18 million after deducting for
credit card commissions, just to repay investors within a year.  The bottom line: Celebrities are no guarantee of an
audience large enough to earn back investors’ money.  Muse highlights include  movies  and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 