-- Dubai Suitcases of Cash Circumvent Loan Rules: Mortgages
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-29T13:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/dubai-suitcases-of-cash-circumvent-loan-rules-mortgages.html
Dubai real estate agent Laura Adams
remembers the Iranian homebuyer because of how he wanted to pay.  “He literally put a suitcase on my desk, opened it up and
it was full of 1,000 dirham notes,” the Carlton Real Estate
managing director said in an interview. “I asked him to go
across the road to Western Union and get it exchanged for a
manager’s check, half a million dirhams ($136,000).”  Cash is king in the Persian Gulf emirate’s rebounding
property market, limiting the power of regulators to control
rising prices that fueled the last property bubble by imposing
restrictions on  mortgage loans  to foreigners. Buyers from Iran
to Russia to Greece are paying cash in as many as 70 percent of
Dubai home purchases, up from 49 percent in 2007, according to
researcher Reidin.com.  The  United Arab Emirates  central bank, which oversees seven
emirates including Dubai, issued the rules last month limiting
mortgages to expatriates in an effort to prevent the type of
speculation that created a property bubble that burst in 2008,
sending prices down as much as 65 percent. While the caps may do
little to curb price increases, they will hamper efforts by
banks to revive credit growth.  Lenders are pushing back against the restrictions, which
cap mortgages to foreigners, the majority of homebuyers and 80
percent of the population of the U.A.E., to 50 percent of the
value of a first property and 40 percent of a second. U.A.E.
citizens would be limited to 70 percent on a first home and 60
percent on a second. Previously there was no limit and banks
were lending as much as 85 percent.  Muted Effect  “The overall level of impact on the market, which is
overwhelmingly dominated by cash buyers, is going to be
relatively small,” said Nicholas Maclean, Middle East managing
director for CBRE Group Inc.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
tower, sold fewer than 15 percent of its homes last year to
buyers using mortgages, Morgan Stanley analyst Muneeba Kayani
said in a note, citing the company. An Emaar spokeswoman, who
asked not to be identified in line with company policy,
confirmed the information in the Morgan Stanley report regarding
sales but declined to provide a specific figure saying that the
actual number is not public information.  Ali Rashid Lootah, chairman of builder Nakheel PJSC,
developer of the man-made palm-shaped islands in Dubai, said the
majority of its sales are funded with cash and that the impact
of the law would be minimal.  Cash-Stuffed  Though most purchases aren’t made with banknotes, the
500,000 dirhams wasn’t the first cash-stuffed suitcase that
Adams has seen at work. One customer told her he had the money
with him because he’d just completed a diamond deal and didn’t
want to stop by the bank, she said. A Russian buyer walked in
with 250,000 euros ($336,000) as the down payment on a two-
bedroom apartment in the Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest
tower, she said. The rest was paid with a single check.  “The lack of control on overseas currency in the U.A.E.
has resulted in the prevalence of cash purchases,” said Craig Plumb, regional head of research at broker Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. “Buying property with cash tends to raise questions in
other markets.”  Rising home values and signs of greater competition between
lenders last year sparked concern that real estate speculation
would return four years after it caused the market to crash.
Apartment prices increased 19 percent and houses rose by 24
percent, according to broker Jones Lang LaSalle. Abdul Aziz Al Ghurair, head of the United Arab Emirates’ Bankers’ Association,
in November said low rates and easier terms from mortgage
lenders could lead people to “gamble.”  Lending Jump  Residential and commercial mortgages jumped 24 percent by
value in the third quarter from a year earlier to 1.19 billion
dirhams, according to Reidin. That’s a third lower than the same
period in 2008, when Dubai’s property market began to slump.  Governments in  Singapore  and  Hong Kong  introduced measures
to cool property prices in the past two years. Those included
lower loan-to-value ratios, or LTVs, as well as taxes on
property sales,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said in a report Jan. 8.  “Property prices in both markets have continued to rise
because of ample liquidity given negative real  interest rates 
and nominal  mortgage rates  below rental yields,” Morgan Stanley
analyst Muneeba Kayani wrote.  Investors paid in cash for around 80 percent of homes
bought in Dubai in the past six years, CBRE’s Maclean said. The
only exception was in 2007 when around 33 percent of home
transactions were funded through mortgages, he said.  Cash Consistency  “The most interesting thing about the breakdown of
mortgage and cash buyers is how consistent it has been,” he
said. “Even at the peak of the market, borrowing actually was
low by international standards.”  The lending restrictions may exclude as many as 25 percent
of buyers, who won’t be able to collect the 50 percent down
payment, according to Ryan Mahoney, chief executive officer of
property broker Better Homes. He said around 40 percent of his
clients get mortgages to fund properties, generally with value
of around 1.5 million dirhams. Investors and cash buyers tend to
buy properties that are priced above 3 million dirhams, he said.  Restricting lending may work against efforts to create a
more stable Dubai property market by increasing purchases by
people who buy their own homes to live in rather than renting
them out or seeking to sell at a profit.  The rules may result in “excluding the people we are
trying to encourage: the end users and the ones who work and
live in the country, which is certainly not what the government
intended,” said Plumb of Jones Lang. Cash investors can make
the market more volatile because they’re likely to move their
money quickly when a better opportunity emerges, he said.  Banks Protest  Dubai’s banks, which will bear the brunt of the central
bank’s lending restrictions, are proposing a mortgage cap of 75
percent for foreigners, bank association chairman Al-Ghurair
told reporters on Jan 27. The association is also recommending a
cap of 80 percent for U.A.E. nationals for their first mortgage
and 65 percent for second homes, he said.  Directives sent last month to lenders restricting mortgages
were meant to “draw their attention to certain standards that
are expected to be adopted under the new system,” central bank
Governor Sultan Bin Nasser Al-Suwaidi said in an interview with
state-owned newspaper al-Ittihad published on Jan. 21. The
U.A.E. plans to issue regulations governing the mortgage market
in six to nine months, he said.  Main Banks  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  has the biggest share of the
U.A.E.’s mortgage market at 24.3 percent, according to Jaap Meijer, director of equity research at Dubai-based Arqaam
Capital Ltd.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  commands 19.2 percent, National
Bank of Abu Dhabi 14.3 percent and  First Gulf Bank (FGB)  12.9 percent.  A down payment of 50 percent on a home purchase is “too
restrictive” considering average prices range from 1.5 million
dirhams to 3.5 million dirhams for apartments and single-family
homes, said Murad Ansari, a Riyadh-based analyst at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE.  Real estate accounted for just 22 percent of loans at the
end of 2011 and 18 percent of those were for expatriates,
Digvijay Singh, a Dubai-based analyst at VTB Capital Plc, said
in a Dec. 31 report.  Mortgage lending “is an opportunity for banks to grow
their loan book in a market that otherwise has been stagnant in
the absence of demand from the corporate sector,” Ansari said.
“This adds another blow, which means retail credit demand may
also slow down as well.”  Speculators Return  Though there is disagreement on the size of the mortgage
restrictions, concern about speculation has prompted wide
support for some type of limits. The proportion of homes bought
with loans was the highest in the two years leading up to the
property crash. At the time, borrowers frequently put down as
little of 10 percent of a property’s value and sold them as
prices soared.  The last three months of 2012 witnessed a noticeable return
of speculators as sellers “were becoming unrealistic with their
expectations and buyers aimed to ride the recovery wave in some
areas, expecting prices to jump 25 percent in few months,”
Adams from Carlton Real Estate said.  “Something had to be done,” Adams said. “Now whether it
had to be 50 percent LTV I’m not sure, but we certainly started
to see flipping of properties in some areas.”  Single-family homes will be most affected by the lending
rules because the properties are popular with expatriate
families and prices have increased sharply, Adams said,
referring to communities such as the Arabian Ranches, Meadows
and Springs.  “Buyers who have to put down a large sum of money will be
now aggressive in negotiating prices,” she said. “It’s not the
same when you are buying with someone else’ money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 