-- Dubai’s ENOC Seeks Oil Condensate Supply to Replace Iran Imports
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-01-28T07:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/dubai-s-enoc-seeks-oil-condensate-supply-to-replace-iran-imports.html
Emirates National Oil Co., Dubai’s
government-owned refiner, is seeking new suppliers of condensate
to replace imports from  Iran  because U.S. sanctions threaten
financial penalties for companies that trade with the country.  The refiner, known as ENOC, is “currently finalizing
contracts” for condensate supply over coming years, ENOC said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. ENOC already buys
condensate, a light hydrocarbon liquid found along with crude
oil or natural gas, from the Persian Gulf state of Qatar,
according to the statement.  The company operates a 120,000-barrel-a-day  refinery  at the
port of Jebel Ali that processes condensate into jet fuel,
diesel and gasoline reformate. Dubai, the commercial hub of the
United Arab Emirates, has bought condensate from Iran, one of
the region’s main suppliers of the fuel before sanctions over
 Iran’s nuclear program  curtailed trade with the country.  The U.S. and European Union have targeted Iran’s energy and
financial industries to force a halt in a nuclear program they
say could be used to develop atomic weapons. Iran says it wants
nuclear energy for civilian use only.  Iranian crude shipments will probably decline to about 1
million barrels a day in January, from more than 2 million
before the measures took effect, and exports will remain low
this year, the  International Energy Agency  said last month.  Financial Access  The U.S. threatens to deny access to its financial system
to any lender or oil company doing business with Iranian energy
companies or banks. EU sanctions stopped most shippers from
buying insurance for tankers transporting crude or products from
Iran.  ENOC’s comments coincided with a visit to Dubai and Abu
Dhabi, the U.A.E. capital, by  David Cohen , the U.S. Treasury
Department’s undersecretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence. Cohen planned to discuss enforcement of the
sanctions against Iran and efforts to stop the Islamic republic
from evading them, according to a notice on the Treasury
Department’s website.  ENOC said it’s seeking to import condensate from suppliers
in the  Middle East  and  Asia .  Dubai doesn’t produce enough crude to meet domestic demand.
Neighboring  Abu Dhabi  holds most of the U.A.E.’s crude reserves,
about 6 percent of the global total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  