-- Duggan Now Billionaire as Pharmacyclics Up on Cancer Drug
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2013-01-28T17:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/duggan-now-billionaire-as-pharmacyclics-up-on-cancer-drug.html
Robert W. Duggan, the chief
executive officer of  Pharmacyclics Inc. (PCYC) , which makes an
experimental treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, has
become a billionaire after the company’s shares have tripled in
a year.  Pharmacyclics’ medicine, called ibrutinib, inhibits an
enzyme that promotes cancer growth. It helped control the
malignancy in 68 percent of 116 patients who hadn’t been
previously treated for the blood cancer, the Sunnyvale,
California-based company said in a December statement.  “It’s not just promising, it has those unique profiles of
looking very efficacious but also really safe,” said John McCamant, editor of Medical Technology Stock Letter, in a phone
interview. “That is very rare in cancer drugs.”  The stock surge comes after Duggan, 68, made hundreds of
millions of dollars investing in and selling companies such as a
bakery chain, a European billboard operation and robotic surgery
innovator. He has a net worth of at least $1.2 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , and has never
appeared on an international wealth ranking.  Naomi Cretcher, a spokeswoman for Pharmacyclics, did not
respond to e-mail and phone queries for comment, after
entertaining an interview request with  Bloomberg News  in
December.  Johnson & Johnson  Ibrutinib, which is delivered by pill and is in Phase III
drug trials -- the last hurdle before market introduction -- is
part of a new class of medicines for chronic lymphocytic
leukemia, or CLL, a cancer that strikes about 16,000 Americans a
year at a median age of about 72.  The goal is to use the drug without chemotherapy, a
standard treatment that can be too toxic for some elderly
patients. Ibrutinib may generate as much as $5 billion a year if
approved for CLL and other blood cancers, said  Michael Yee , an
RBC Capital Markets analyst in December.  In December 2011,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  said it would pay Pharmacyclics, which Duggan took
control of in a 2008 boardroom coup, as much as $975 million to
fund getting the drug to market in exchange for half the profits
generated globally.  There are 27 human trials of ibutrinib completed, under way
or planned. McCamant said he believes the company will begin
selling the drug in 2014, about one year faster than Wall Street
consensus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.
He said it also has a good chance of developing additional
usages for the drug, such as treating autoimmune disorders.  Largest Shareholder  Pharmacyclics generated $103 million in revenue in the
quarter that ended September 30, 2012, up 178 percent from the
prior year. Of the 13 analysts that cover the company, 61.5
percent have a buy rating on the stock, with an average target
price of $80.38 per share. The stock was down 1.23 percent to
$70.62 at 12:03 a.m. in trading in  New York .  Duggan owns almost 20 percent of Pharmacyclics shares, and
controls another 500,000 shares he manages on behalf of
undisclosed high net worth individuals, according to filings
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The billionaire bought most of his shares between 2004 and
2011, at a cost of $42 million, including shares he received as
repayment of $6 million he loaned the company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. They are valued at about $990 million.  He also has at least $250 million in cash and other
investable assets, based upon an analysis of past investments
and stock sales, taxes, charitable giving and stock purchases,
according to the Bloomberg ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  