-- Leader With Some Spine Takes on World Heavyweight
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-01-28T22:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/leader-with-some-spine-takes-on-world-heavyweight.html
Say what you want about Benigno Aquino, but the Philippine president has some brass.  First he arrested predecessor Gloria Arroyo on corruption
charges and ousted her Supreme Court chief justice. Then he took
on the powerful Catholic Church, shepherding free-contraception
laws that enraged the Vatican. Next he ran afoul of the local
tycoons by backing higher taxes on cigarettes and alcohol. By
tackling these issues along with economic reforms, Aquino’s
country is on the way toward an investment-grade credit rating.  Now Aquino is taking on an immeasurably bigger target:
 China . The  Philippines  will challenge China’s maritime claims
before a United Nations-endorsed tribunal. This isn’t going over
well in China, and it’s sure to raise tensions as Asia vies for
oil, gas and fisheries resources and a ruling on competing views
of history in contested waters.  Much of it really is an argument over China’s controversial
“ nine-dash ” map. First published in the late 1940s, the map
extends China’s territorial claims as much as 800 miles from
Hainan Island to the equatorial waters off the coast of Borneo.
China says the map proves its “indisputable sovereignty” over
more than 100 islands, atolls and reefs that form the Paracel
and Spratly Islands. The rest of Asia disagrees.  Geopolitical Risk  This dispute represents something more for political
scientists, such as Ian Bremmer. As leaders and investors alike
try to navigate a world they no longer understand, they are
turning to Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group in New York,
and his ilk for perspective. And when Bremmer considers the
biggest threats in the year ahead, East Asian brinkmanship is
near the top of the list.  “At risk here is the decades-long pattern of East Asia as
a zone where positive-sum commerce and economics trumps zero-sum
geopolitical tension,” Bremmer says.  U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta are right to worry about military
conflict. The intensifying spat over a group of tiny islands
that  Japan  calls Senkaku and China calls Diaoyu is the most
dangerous flash point.  Strains rose last year after Japan effectively nationalized
the islands. At first, it was just about fishing rights and
coast guard vessels squaring off. From April to December, there
was a disturbing trend:  Tokyo ’s Self-Defense Force scrambled
fighter jets 160 times against Chinese aircraft approaching
Japanese airspace. That’s the highest number of aerial contacts
since Japan began releasing such data and is a significant proxy
for escalating tensions.  Markets seem convinced that pragmatism will rule the day.
China needs rapid growth to ensure the Communist Party’s grip on
power, and Shinzo Abe, Japan’s new prime minister, aims to
revive his nation’s moribund economy. The primacy of commerce,
the conventional wisdom says, will prevail. This sunny view
ignores how nationalism clouds Asia’s judgment.  China doesn’t deserve all the blame. Japan, too, has a
disproportionate number of territorial quarrels --- with  Russia ,
South Korea and  Taiwan . Abe, a nationalist, wants to alter
Japan’s pacifist constitution. But China’s assertiveness and
fast-growing military apparatus, which now includes an aircraft
carrier, is generating concern throughout the region as well as
the U.S.  Asia has never been closer economically, yet it’s growing
further apart diplomatically. It lacks a credible forum where
disagreements can be aired, a void that strengthens China’s
hand. China has been adept at using its economic leverage over
tiny nations such as Cambodia and  Laos  to block multilateral
talks or actions. This forces the U.S. into the uncomfortable
position of balancing competing economic and security priorities
with a fast-rising rival.  Something Bigger  By resorting to international law, Aquino is taking a
positive step. The way to address and resolve the dispute is
through diplomacy, not with navy ships or hot tempers that risk
turning minor confrontations into something much bigger.  Yet this is only the beginning. Last year marked a turning
point as an economically dominant China shifted from charm-
offensive mode to political and military assertiveness. This is
playing out against the backdrop of the ascension of Xi Jinping
as China’s leader, and what that will bring in 2013 and beyond.  Confronted by a daunting list of domestic challenges, Xi
will focus on consolidating domestic power. It is farfetched to
think he would yield ground on diplomatic issues if it risks an
internal backlash.  “If Beijing faces a foreign policy test, Xi will have a
strong incentive to demonstrate his foreign-policy mettle and
avoid being seen as capitulating to outside interests,” Bremmer
says. “That dynamic suggests less chance of compromise from
Asia’s emerging strategic powerhouse and heightened risk
throughout the region.”  Tests could come from many places -- a new Japanese
government anxious to flex its muscles; U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s pivot to Asia; provocations from North Korea that put
the onus on China, Pyongyang’s crucial supporter; or nations
like the Philippines taking diplomatic frustrations to the UN.  Aquino is the first Asian leader willing to call China’s
bluff and risk economic retaliation. How he navigates this
showdown will be instructive for others when their turn comes.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 