-- EBay, Marriott Among Companies Supporting Gay-Marriage Bills
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-01-28T20:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/ebay-marriott-among-companies-supporting-gay-marriage-rights.html
Marriott International Inc.  and
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  are among at least 13 companies
throwing their support behind an effort to repeal a U.S. law
that defines marriage as solely between one man and one woman.  Corporations such as Hartford, Connecticut-based  Aetna
Inc. , the third-biggest U.S. health insurer, and  EBay Inc. , the
 San Jose , California-based operator of the world’s largest
online marketplace, also have joined a coalition put together by
the  Human Rights Campaign , a lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender advocacy group in  Washington . Six of the 13
coalition members are Fortune 500 companies.  Efforts to legalize same-sex marriage have gained momentum
within the past year. The White House has dropped the
government’s support of the Defense of Marriage Act, which is
being challenged in court, while nine states and the  District of
Columbia  now allow same-sex couples to lawfully marry.  “We are proud of our longstanding commitment to diversity,
inclusion and equal treatment of all our employees within our
benefits programs,” David Rodriguez, executive vice president
and chief human resources officer at Bethesda, Maryland-based
Marriott, the largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, said in
a statement. “Joining the Business Coalition for DOMA Repeal
affirms that commitment, and we urge Congress to pass this
important legislation.”  New Legislation  Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of  California  and Representative
 Jerrold Nadler  of  New York , both Democrats, are preparing to
introduce bills that would repeal the 1996 Defense of Marriage
Act and federally recognize all legal  same-sex marriages .  Spokesmen for Feinstein and Nadler said the lawmakers will
introduce similar versions of legislation they sponsored during
the last session of Congress. Those bills, which expired at the
end of the session, would have repealed DOMA, which defines
marriage as solely between one man and one woman and thus
prevents same-sex married couples from claiming the federal tax
breaks and other marriage benefits that opposite-sex spouses
receive.  Feinstein, a member of the  Senate Judiciary Committee ,
sponsored a bill that gained 32 co-sponsors, with no Republican
support, and didn’t come up for a floor vote before the end of
the session. No action was taken on Nadler’s bill, which had
bipartisan support among its 160 co-sponsors.  Nadler is the top Democrat on the  House Judiciary
Committee ’s  Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice ,
which has jurisdiction over proposed constitutional amendments,
abortion, federal civil rights laws and lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgender rights.  House Position  When  House Republicans  established rules for the current
session of Congress, the measure they adopted,  H. Res. 5 ,
included the authorization of taxpayer dollars to pay legal fees
to fight challenges to the Defense of Marriage Act.  Last February, Attorney General Eric Holder told Congress
that the Obama administration would no longer defend DOMA.  “These corporate pioneers understand one marriage deserves
no less respect and dignity than any other marriage,” HRC
President Chad Griffin said in a statement. “They understand
that repealing the discriminatory Defense of Marriage Act is the
right thing for our nation, and the smart thing for American
business.”  UPS Boycott  That support could make companies susceptible to boycotts.  Last month the Family Research Council, a traditional-
values advocacy group that calls homosexuality “unnatural,”
said it would cut all business ties with Atlanta-based  United
Parcel Service Inc. , the world’s biggest package-delivery
company, after the company announced a non-discrimination policy
for corporate giving, excluding groups like the  Boy Scouts of
America  because of its prohibition on openly gay members.  “If UPS wants to cater to the intolerant crowd, that’s
their business,” the Washington-based group wrote Dec. 11 on
its  website . “But from now on, it won’t be ours. FRC is taking
its shipping needs elsewhere.”  In an interview today, Peter Sprigg, senior fellow for
policy studies at the Family Research Council, said his group
would also “be vigorously opposing the repeal of the Defense of
Marriage Act in Congress.”  “I think it’s odd that corporations would be speaking out
on a legislative issue like this,” he said. “It seems to me
like the only reason they’re taking this position is not because
it’s in their interest, but because they’re trying to appease
the very vocal pro-homosexual activists.”  ‘A Relic’  The Human Rights Campaign said boycott threats are
unwarranted.  “The question of boycotts or backlash against companies
that stand up for equality has fast become a relic of a previous
era,” Deena Fidas, deputy director of the  HRC Foundation ’s
Workplace Project, said in an interview. “The threats simply do
not hold power or sway. To attempt to boycott these businesses
for what have become mainstream views of a majority of Americans
does not work.”  In addition to Marriott, Aetna, EBay and New York-based
Bristol Myers Squibb, the members of the coalition include A/X
Armani Exchange, owned by Milan-based fashion company  Giorgio
Armani SpA ; drug maker  Biogen Idec Inc. , based in Weston,
 Massachusetts ; Norwalk, Connecticut-based  Diageo North America
Inc. , the operating arm of  Diageo Plc , the world’s largest
distiller, in  Canada  and the U.S.; and Redwood, California-based
 Electronic Arts Inc. , the second-largest U.S. video-game maker.  Kimpton, Sun Life  Also participating are closely held  Kimpton Hotel &
Restaurant Group LLC , headquartered in  San Francisco ; closely
held  Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. , based in
Springfield, Massachusetts;  Replacements Ltd. , a McLeansville,
North Carolina-based company that supplies dinnerware sets; the
U.S. arm of  Sun Life Financial Inc. , Canada’s third-largest
insurer; and New York-based  Thomson Reuters Corp.   Bloomberg LP , the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with  Thomson Reuters  in selling financial and legal
information and trading systems.  The  Supreme Court  in March will take up same-sex marriage
for the first time, considering two cases including a challenge
to a California ballot initiative barring such nuptials. The
administration must decide by the end of February whether it
will argue against the ballot measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at  
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  