-- ECB Oversight Failures May Lead to Damage Claims Under EU Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-28T14:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/ecb-oversight-failures-may-lead-to-damage-claims-under-eu-plan.html
The European Central Bank may be
vulnerable to lawsuits and claims for damages if it fails in its
duties as a bank supervisor, according to documents prepared by
European Commission officials.  Once the ECB has oversight powers, it will face liability
rules similar to those that apply to national banking
regulators, according to a Jan. 14 document obtained by
Bloomberg News. The ECB will also face similar checks and
controls to national regulators when it seeks to force banks to
raise more capital, a second document dated Jan. 10 showed.  Under the proposal, the ECB “may be held liable for
illegal action or inaction,” according to the Jan. 14 document.
Liability could apply in cases where the ECB fails to replace a
struggling national supervisor in carrying out day-to-day
oversight of a bank or to withdraw the authorization of a bank
that breaches its regulatory obligations.  EU finance ministers reached an accord last month to put
the ECB in charge of supervising all euro-area lenders in a deal
that paves the way for the currency bloc’s firewall fund to
provide direct bailouts to banks.  Under the accord, the ECB could directly supervise any
banks it chooses, while leaving day-to-day oversight of other
lenders in the hands of national regulators. A final deal on the
law must be negotiated by governments and the European
Parliament.  The commission documents obtained by Bloomberg News are
intended as a contribution to negotiations between governments
and EU lawmakers.  Capital Requirements  On bank capital, the ECB would be expected to comply with
constraints on regulators that are included in EU law.  A bill on overhauling capital rules is also being
negotiated by national governments and the EU Parliament. Drafts
of the law include procedures that supervisors should follow
when seeking to raise requirements on their banks in order to
tame a credit boom and avert a financial crisis.  According to the Jan. 10 document, should the final law
include a requirement for regulators to check with the
commission before applying some types of extra so-called macro-
prudential rules to their banks, this would also apply to the
ECB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  