-- ECB Said to Object to 15-Year Commitment on Anglo Irish
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 2013-01-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/ecb-said-to-object-to-15-year-commitment-to-fund-anglo-irish.html
European Central Bank policy makers
rejected an Irish government plan designed to fund the rescue of
the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. for at least 15 years,
according to three people with knowledge of the discussions.  Under the proposal, the Irish central bank would have
signed a contract guaranteeing to hold for at least a decade and
a half a long-term bond issued to replace about 30 billion euros
($40.4 billion) of so-called promissory notes used to rescue the
lender in 2010, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  The Irish government is trying to refinance the rescue of
Anglo Irish to ease funding pressure on the state over the next
decade. Policy makers prefer the government to take another loan
from the European Stability Mechanism or raise the money in
financial markets, two of the people said.  Deliberations among ECB policy makers last week were
unofficial, according to the people. Irish central bank governor
Patrick Honohan retracted the proposal when it was met by
opposition, one of the people said. Honohan announced he’d
present a new plan in one of the next ECB council meetings,
according to another person.  ECB Imprimatur  With the imprimatur of the ECB, the  Irish central bank 
currently holds the promissory notes in exchange for funding
Anglo through emergency lending.  Enda Kenny’s government had weighed injecting as much as 40
billion euros of bonds with a maturity of as long as 40 years
into the bank to be used as collateral for ECB funds, Bloomberg
News reported in September. The government would have exchanged
those notes for a long-term bond, which the central bank would
hold until at least 2028, the people said.  By scrapping the promissory notes, Ireland would no longer
have to pay 3.1 billion euros a year to Anglo. Under the current
contract, Anglo must use this annual instalment to pay down the
central bank loan.  Discussions about funding the lender are ongoing, Paul
Bolger, a finance ministry spokesman, said by phone yesterday,
adding that Kenny said on Jan. 13 he was confident an accord
would be reached by the end of March. An ECB spokesman declined
to comment on the 15-year proposal, saying talks are ongoing and
drawing conclusions about an outcome are premature.  ECB Rejects  Reuters reported on Jan. 26 that the ECB had rejected a
plan to replace promissory notes with long-term bonds because it
is tantamount to monetary financing. The ECB is prohibited from
financing governments.  “While we still expect a deal to be announced before the
next payment date, 31 March, there are clearly problems in
agreeing a deal that does not breach the ECB Treaty,” said
Dermot O’Leary, chief economist at Goodbody Stockbrokers in
Dublin.  Emergency-liquidity assistance to the lender amounted to
41.7 billion euros at the end of June, equivalent to about a
quarter of the economy, with the promissory notes making up the
bulk of the collateral. The notes were included in Irish
government debt in 2010, helping to triple the state’s
borrowings over the last five years.  Anglo Irish was merged with INBS and renamed Irish Bank
Resolution Corp. in 2011, and ordered to wind down by the end of
the decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  