-- ECB Says Impact of Proposed Banking Rules May Vary Across EU
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-28T10:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/ecb-says-impact-of-proposed-banking-rules-may-vary-across-eu.html
The  European Central Bank  said it’s
vital to evaluate the impact of planned new banking rules across
the European Union as it may vary from one country to another.  “An impact assessment needs to be carried out as a matter
of priority,” the ECB said in an e-mailed statement today. The
proposals by an EU-mandated group led by Bank of Finland
Governor Erkki Liikanen “may have a significantly different
impact across the EU, given differences in the structure of the
banking sectors.”  This could produce “different consequences in terms of
divergent funding costs as well possible unintended
consequences, namely on the real economy of  member states ,” the
Frankfurt-based ECB said. “This needs to be assessed.”  Under the non-binding suggestions presented by the Liikanen
group last year, EU banks would be forced to push many of their
trading activities into separately capitalized units and face
extra bonus rules. Lenders including Deutsche Bank AG and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  have publicly lobbied against the proposals.  The group, assembled by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-
services chief, also called for a toughening of Basel bank-
capital rules and for lenders to issue debt designed to be
written down in crises. Barnier said in an interview on Jan. 25
he will present proposals for a “strong reform” of bank
structure later this year.  Further Clarification  “Further clarification” is needed on setting an
additional capital-buffer requirement on trading activities,
according to the ECB.  “The addition of a further capital buffer for European
banks would need to be duly assessed as it would come on top of
several other new requirements including the counter-cyclical
capital buffer, the capital conservation buffer, the additional
capital charge for systemically important financial institutions
and, possibly, the systemic risk buffer,” the ECB said.  On bank structure rules, the ECB wants any EU measures to
be coordinated with nations inside and outside the bloc to
prevent “regulatory arbitrage.” Both the U.K. and the French
governments have published plans to introduce some form of
structural separation at their biggest banks.  Making Market  The ECB calls for officials to analyze further whether
banks’ deposit-taking arms should be allowed to carry out so-
called market-making activities. Market-making involves a bank
offering to buy and sell the same security, so helping to set
the market price.  While the Liikanen group’s proposals would push market-
making outside the deposit-taking bank,  France ’s plans,
published in December, would allow it to remain inside.  According to the ECB opinion, the EU should reject the
Liikanen group’s proposals to force banks to issue a specific
type of debt that would be written down or converted into equity
should the lender encounter difficulties. Instead, the central
bank favors European Commission proposals to give regulators
broader “bail-in” powers to impose losses on banks’ creditors.  One approach could be to force systemically important banks
to issue a minimum amount of debt that would be eligible for
such writedowns, according to the ECB opinion. The central bank
also “highly welcomes” proposals to toughen banker-pay rules.  Measures such as requiring a portion of a banker’s bonus to
be given in the form of bonds that can be written down or
converted into equity if the bank gets into difficulty should
“be further assessed and pursued,” the ECB said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  