-- Egypt Protests Flare for Fifth Day as Opposition Rejects Talks
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2013-01-28T13:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/egypt-protests-flare-for-fifth-day-in-defiance-of-mursi-order.html
Clashes flared for a fifth day in
 Egypt , killing one person, while a main opposition bloc rejected
calls for dialogue with President Mohamed Mursi hours after he
instituted a state of emergency in three restive provinces.  More demonstrations are expected today to mark the
anniversary of the bloodiest day in the 2011 uprising that
ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011. About 50 people have died in
clashes since Jan. 25, in what Mursi described as unacceptable
attacks on civilians and state installations. Transgressors, he
warned in a late-night address, would be dealt with firmly.  A second mass funeral in two days in Port Said and clashes
between police firing tear gas at rock-throwing protesters in
central Cairo clouded Mursi’s call for a national dialogue with
the opposition. His critics say he has reneged on pledges, is
intent solely on cementing Islamist rule in the nation and has
failed to revive the economy. The Egyptian pound , with the
currency having shed 7 percent in a month.  Nobel Laureate  Mohamed ElBaradei , one of the opposition’s
leaders, said Mursi’s offer for talks wasn’t objective and
refused to take part in them unless conditions are met. He was
joined by former presidential candidates Amre Moussa and Hamdeen
Sabahi in rejecting talks.  “When a president declares emergency only seven months
after being in office, I think this a serious sign of his
failure in running the country,” Khaled Dawoud, a spokesman for
the National Salvation Front bloc of opposition groups, said by
phone. The NSF includes ElBaradei’s Constitution Party.  “We’re very cautious about any calls for dialogue coming
from the president because all the previous calls were
meaningless,” he said.  The state of emergency was to last for 30 days in the
provinces of Port Said, Suez and Ismailiya. The measures were
enacted after a spasm of violence since Jan. 25, the anniversary
of the uprising that ousted Mubarak, and recalled memories of
the frantic steps taken by the ousted leader in the waning days
of his rule. 