-- Egyptians Protest for Fifth Day, Opposition Spurns Talks
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-01-29T02:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/egypt-protests-flare-for-fifth-day-opposition-spurns-talks-1-.html
Egyptian security forces clashed
yesterday with protesters for a fifth day as the main opposition
leaders snubbed a call for dialogue by President Mohamed Mursi.  The violence came hours after Mursi instituted a state of
emergency in three restive provinces and said transgressors
would be dealt with firmly. Protests were held to mark the
anniversary of the bloodiest day in the 2011 uprising that
ousted  Hosni Mubarak . At least one person was killed, adding to
a death toll of about 50 since Jan. 25.  Demonstrators in the cities of Suez, Ismailiya and Port
Said defied a nighttime curfew, with crowds chanting anti-Mursi
and anti-Muslim Brotherhood slogans, according to Ahram Online.
 Amnesty International , in a  report  yesterday, said Egyptian
security forces used “unnecessary lethal force” during weekend
clashes with demonstrators.  Earlier, opposition leaders including Nobel Laureate
Mohamed ElBaradei and former presidential candidates Hamdeen
Sabahi and Amre Moussa said they wouldn’t agree to talks until
Mursi meets their demands including accepting responsibility for
the bloodshed. They also want him to set up a unity government
and a balanced committee to amend the constitution.  “We will not let down this great people by attending a
dialogue that we know will have a dead-end,” ElBaradei said at
a news briefing in Cairo. Ayman Nour, an opposition leader who
ran against Mubarak for the presidency in 2005 and was
subsequently jailed, said the rejection of dialogue was
irresponsible.  Mursi Critics  Mursi’s critics say he has reneged on pledges, is intent
solely on cementing Islamist rule and has failed to raise the
nation’s living standards. The Egyptian pound has fallen 7
percent in the past month, and the latest clashes undermine the
prospect of political stability that would help revive the
economy.  In  Washington ,  Victoria Nuland , a U.S. State Department
spokeswoman, urged all sides “to work together through
dialogue” to resolve issues, and she called on the government
to respect citizens’ rights.  “We are watching how the emergency law put in place will
be applied, given the very sensitive history of this in  Egypt ,”
she told reporters at the State Department. “What’s most
important is that the Egyptian government respect the rights of
all Egyptians to due process going forward.”  U.S. Support  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is talking with
lawmakers about providing the $450 million in economic support
promised to Egypt last year, Nuland said.  “That money remains on hold, and we are continuing to work
with the Congress to get it released,” she said.  Amid the crackdown by Mursi’s government and the prospect
of bigger U.S. budget cuts, it’s becoming harder for members of
Congress to justify sustained support for Egypt, which costs
American taxpayers $1.5 billion a year in aid, with $1.3 billion
of it for the military.  U.S. Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Vermont Democrat who heads
the Senate subcommittee that oversees spending on international
operations, created the current conditions on military aid to
Egypt that call for demonstrated democratic progress.  “Egypt’s transition to democracy is important to stability
in the region,” Leahy said by e-mail. “We have a strong
connection to the Egyptian people and empathy for their
aspirations for their country, but it is becoming increasingly
difficult to make the case for assistance to the Egyptian
government.”  Soccer Fans  The latest wave of violence began with protests marking the
revolution’s second anniversary, and was exacerbated when a
court sentenced soccer fans from Port Said to death for their
role in violence last year.  Almost 40 people have been killed in Port Said, one of the
three provinces now under emergency rule, in clashes triggered
by the ruling. A second mass funeral in two days was taking
place there yesterday, while in Cairo police and protesters
battled with tear gas and rocks.  Yesterday, the upper house of parliament, which holds
temporary legislative powers, approved Mursi’s decision to
declare a state of emergency in Port Said, Ismailiya and Suez,
according to the state-run Middle East News Agency.  The emergency rule, which will last 30 days, includes a
nighttime curfew. A police vehicle was set on fire last night
and 11 officers were wounded, MENA reported.  Economic Factors  The crackdown recalls measures taken by Mubarak in the last
days of his rule, and some of the slogans protesters used
against him in 2011 are now being directed at Mursi. At the Port
Said funeral, marchers chanted “The people want the fall of the
regime,” and “Sleep and rest, martyrs, and we will continue
the struggle.”  The latest tensions undermine hopes of a turnaround in the
economy, which has been growing at the  slowest pace in two
decades  since Mubarak’s ouster. The central bank has spent about
60 percent of its  foreign reserves  since the start of 2011. Its
announcement of daily dollar auctions on Dec. 30, a move aimed
at shielding reserves by limiting local banks’ access to foreign
currency, triggered the pound’s slump.  The government, after twice delaying a request for an
International Monetary Fund loan, is now again negotiating for
$4.8 billion in funding.  Security Vacuum  In addition to Mursi’s measures, the upper house of
parliament also approved a draft law submitted by the Cabinet
giving the military temporary authority to help “preserve
security and protect vital establishments,” including arrest
powers, MENA reported. A similar measure initiated by the then-
ruling army was condemned in June by Islamists and others.  The latest unrest shows the security vacuum that has
emerged since the 2011 revolution, as Egyptians see “the
erosion of the authorities of the central government,” Yasser el-Shimy, a Mideast analyst with the  International Crisis Group ,
said by telephone.  If security forces are able to restore order with the
measures that Mursi announced, it could boost his popularity,
el-Shimy said. Failure, however, may only “serve to escalate
the turmoil,” he said.  Mursi called the violence of the past few days the “ugly
face of a counter-revolution,” and stressed he was not
backtracking on a commitment to a democratic Egypt.  ‘Excessive Force’  The human-rights group Amnesty International said its
researchers documented the use of “excessive force” by
security personnel, who it said violated Egyptian law limiting
the use of firearms by police.  “The recourse to violence by some protesters does not give
a blank check to the police to shoot and beat protesters,” the
group said. “All this comes against the backdrop of decades in
which the security forces have operated with impunity -– in some
cases getting away with murder.”  In Port Said, 27-year-old Mohamed el-Sayed, who was wounded
in the clashes, predicted that the president’s security
crackdown would “lead to a massacre.”  “Someone like me, who was wounded, will not go home until
I get back my rights,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  