-- Emirates NBD Rises to Year-High on Dividend Bets: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-28T15:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/emirates-nbd-rallies-high-on-higher-dividend-bets-dubai-mover.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  rallied to the
highest level in more than a year on bets the biggest United
Arab Emirates lender by assets may announce a higher dividend
once it reports fourth-quarter results this week.  The shares rallied 6.1 percent to 3.50 dirhams at the close
in Dubai, the strongest level since October 2011. About 3.2
million shares were traded today, more than six times the three-
month daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock was the  biggest gainer  on the benchmark  DFM General
Index (DFMGI) , which increased 0.1 percent.  Emirates NBD’s  fourth-quarter profit  may more than double
to 517 million dirhams ($141 million), according to the  average
estimate  of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The lender,
which paid a cash dividend of 20 fils per share last year, has a
 12-month dividend yield  of 5.7 percent. That compares with 3.1
percent for the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Financial Index. (BGCCFINL)  The bank is
due to report results Jan. 30, according to a statement to the
Dubai bourse.  “Investors are shifting focus toward stocks that pay
dividends and have attractive dividend yields,” Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities, said by e-mail
today.  Emirates NBD’s Dubai-based Islamic banking unit, Emirates
Islamic Bank PJSC, is seeking to double net income in 2013 as it
boost retail lending, its chief executive officer, Jamal Bin Ghalaita, said this month.  Two analysts  recommend investors buy the shares of Emirates
NBD, while five have a hold rating on the stock and one says to
sell, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock fell 3.1
percent in 2012, lagging a gain of 20 percent for the Dubai
benchmark index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  