-- Henkel CEO Rorsted Says No Sense in Beiersdorf Asset Exchange
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-28T11:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/henkel-ceo-rorsted-says-no-sense-in-beiersdorf-asset-exchange.html
Henkel AG Chief Executive Officer
Kasper Rorsted denied that the owner of Schwarzkopf hair-care
products may seek to gain  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) ’s adhesives business in
exchange for one of his cosmetics brands.  Such an asset swap “would not make sense” as Henkel is
already the world’s biggest adhesives company, Rorsted said at
the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland on Jan. 22.
Henkel, based in Dusseldorf, has “a very strong cosmetics
business that we are very happy with.”  Speculation that Henkel and Beiersdorf may exchange some
assets has been around since about 2006, according to Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt. Henkel
got about  50 percent  of 2011 revenue, or 7.75 billion euros
($10.4 billion), from adhesives. Beiersdorf’s adhesives unit
represented about 17 percent of sales, or 937 million euros.  “You can see some synergies between the two adhesives
businesses and a rationale behind Henkel owning both,” Frericks
said. “At this point of time, it might not make sense for
Henkel to double down in the cyclical business considering its
good position. Henkel has also turned around its cosmetics
business pretty significantly.”  Henkel gets about 22 percent of revenue from cosmetics,
including the Schwarzkopf brand. Most of the rest comes from
adhesives and home-care products including Persil detergent.  Henkel’s priority is to invest cash in the business,
Rorsted said, adding that the company will only consider share
buybacks once investment opportunities have been exhausted.  Cosmetics brands including Nivea, La Prairie and Eucerin
skin creams represented more than 80 percent of Beiersdorf’s
6.04 billion euros of revenue last year.  Sven Jacobsen, a spokesman for Beiersdorf, said the company
declines to comment on market speculation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  