-- EPL Frees 30% Brazil Port Capacity to Reduce Bottleneck
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-01-28T20:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/epl-frees-30-port-capacity-to-ease-bottleneck-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil’s plan to use idled capacity
at ports will boost shipments by as much as 30 percent, a
stopgap aimed at easing bottlenecks while the government seeks
54.2 billion reais ($26.7 billion) in new investments.  “A lot of capacity” can be unlocked now by changing rules
so private operators can sign more cargo-handling contracts with
third parties, said Bernardo Figueiredo, head of the state
logistics company, known as EPL. Companies including  Vale SA (VALE5)  and
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA now must use at least
half of their port capacity for their own goods.  “If no one has the containers or cars on a scale big
enough to make a terminal viable, you can only have scale if you
are allowed to access the market,” Figueiredo said in a Jan. 24
interview in Sao Paulo. Ports also need to be expanded quickly
because “we have small terminals that don’t have the scale to
compete in the global market,” he said.  President Dilma Rousseff, seeking to stimulate the economy
and upgrade infrastructure after a decade without investment,
will auction off ports, airports and roads this year. Brazil,
the world’s largest exporter of coffee and sugar, needs about
500 billion reais of spending in the next five years to “zero
our infrastructure deficit,” Figueiredo said.  Beyond easing the rules for private ports, Brazil needs to
expand terminal capacity and reorganize the public ports as
well, Figueiredo said.  ‘Sorely Lacking’  Challenges at ports, from berths unable to handle the
largest vessels to distribution centers and warehouses that are
“sorely lacking,” are hampering growth in the world’s second-
largest emerging market, according to K.C. Conway, executive
managing director at consultant Colliers International.  “You have economic activity that is three shoe sizes
larger than your infrastructure can handle,” Conway said by
telephone from Atlanta. “You don’t have the physical
infrastructure to meet the commercial activity that’s occurring
and that it can grow into.”  Growth in Brazil slowed to less than 1 percent last year,
according to a central bank survey of economists, down from 2.7
percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010. The expansion is
expected to pick up to 3.2 percent this year, the survey shows.  Brazil’s government aims to reduce port tariffs by about 30
percent, Figueiredo said in September. Efforts to improve and
expand railways will lower those costs by about 40 percent, he
said in the interview.  Batista’s LLX  The cargo-handling rules will allow  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) , the
port developer unit of billionaire  Eike Batista , to move freight
for companies established at its Acu complex in Rio de Janeiro
state without them needing to have their own terminals, said
Paulo Resende, director at the Center for Logistics Studies of
Fundacao Dom Cabral. Private terminals at the Espirito Santo
port complex, including Vale’s Tubarao, also stand to benefit.  “It’s a very significant change and within modern
standards of ports management,” he said by telephone from Nova
Lima, Brazil. “The result is more competition in the free
market, which is positive for the country.”  LLX  declined  1.6 percent to 2.4 reais in Sao Paulo trading
today, extending its  tumble  in the last 12 months to 35 percent,
trailing the 4.4 percent decline for the benchmark Bovespa
index. The stock slumped last year as projects by companies
including Ternium SA and Anglo American Plc expired or were
postponed.  Telephone messages left with LLX weren’t returned. Vale and
Usiminas declined through their press offices to comment about
the port rules.  Investment Incentives  Letting private port operators sign contracts for all of
their capacity with third parties will boost shipments of
containers by about 30 percent, according to Marcos Vendramini,
transportation infrastructure director at Los Angeles-based
 Aecom Technology Corp. (ACM)   That step also would encourage private developers to build
terminals, he said. Now, only companies with huge shipping needs
have the incentive to invest in ports, he said. That group would
include companies such as Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer. Ports accounted for 0.8 percent of Vale’s 98.8 billion
reais in revenue in 2011.  Limits on private-port operations, which were implemented
in 2010, “delayed Brazil by years,” Vendramini said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “It was an absurd
intervention.”  Port Plan  Ports Secretary Leonidas Cristino announced in December the
government’s plan to increase investments in ports, which
included the third-party cargo-handling rule. The plan entails a
new regulatory framework, investment of 54.2 billion reais
through 2017 and a line of financing. The ports of Manaus, Porto
Sul, Espirito Santo, Ilheus and Imbituba will be offered for
private concession. The details remain under debate in Congress.  Santos Brasil SA, which already operates terminals at
Santos and others, and Investimentos & Participacoes em Infra-
Estrutura SA, which operates transportations systems including
the Guarulhos airport in Sao Paulo, have expressed interest in
the new ports investments. Both companies declined to comment
further as details have not yet been decided upon.  Rates of return for infrastructure projects are varied and
not set by the government, EPL’s Figueiredo said.  ‘Reference Point’  “We have to have a return rate as a reference point,” he
said. “The truth is it’s the market that regulates the value of
a return.”  Private terminals are expected to receive 75 percent of
initial investments because they can address immediate
challenges, Figueirdo said.  “We need investors to bring larger and larger volumes of
investment,” he said. “The government opted to stimulate this
type of initiative because it is more agile, it can act more
quickly to increase capacity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  