-- ERA Former Chairman Surprised by Caterpillar’s Siwei Writedown
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-01-28T09:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/era-former-chairman-surprised-by-caterpillar-s-siwei-writedown.html
Emory Williams, former chairman of
ERA Mining Machinery Ltd., was “shocked and dismayed” to learn
of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ’s writedown at its China unit, according to
an e-mailed statement today.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, said on Jan. 18 it will take a $580 million
writedown after discovering accounting misconduct at Zhengzhou
Siwei Mechanical & Electrical Manufacturing Co., a company
bought as part of Caterpillar’s $793 million acquisition of ERA
Mining in November 2011.  The non-cash goodwill impairment charge will reduce fourth-
quarter earnings by about 87 cents a share, Peoria, Illinois-
based Caterpillar said in a statement. Senior managers at Siwei
who were found to be responsible for the “deliberate, multi-
year, coordinated accounting misconduct” were removed and a new
leadership team put in place, the company said.  Caterpillar acquired ERA Mining, Siwei’s parent company, to
gain factories that make underground coal-mining equipment in
 China , the world’s largest coal producer. The irregularities
found at Siwei are the latest setback for Caterpillar in China,
after it said in April that it was moving unsold excavators to
other countries amid excess inventory.  “We were especially surprised by this situation as we
cooperated very closely with the Caterpillar team during their
extensive due diligence,” Williams said in the statement. “Our
surprise is compounded by the fact that, as directors of ERA
prior to the acquisition by Caterpillar, when it was a Hong Kong
listed company, we took the company’s fiduciary and reporting
responsibilities very seriously.”  Caterpillar hasn’t responded to a request last week for
more information, Williams said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  