-- Merkel Challenger Steinbrueck to Focus on Income Gap in Election
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2013-01-28T17:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/merkel-challenger-steinbrueck-to-focus-on-income-gap-in-election.html
Germany’s main opposition  Social
Democratic Party  unveiled an election-year focus on narrowing a
growing income divide in  Europe ’s biggest economy, as it seeks
to prevent Chancellor  Angela Merkel  from winning a third term.  The introduction of a universal  minimum wage , tax increases
for higher earners, housing and public investment in education
will be the SPD’s main election themes,  Peer Steinbrueck ,
Merkel’s main challenger, told reporters today at the conclusion
of a two-day party conclave in Potsdam, outside Berlin. The
opposition has tabled a debate on the poverty gap in Germany in
the lower house of parliament on Jan. 31.  “Mrs Merkel has distanced herself from the real living
conditions of Germany today,” said Steinbrueck, who was finance
minister in Merkel’s first-term government. “We will campaign
on hot-button issues. That’s why we’ll talk about social
justice.”  Steinbrueck’s SPD are seeking a formula that allows them to
build on their success at regional level to unseat Merkel at
federal elections due this fall. While Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union  is enjoying near-record poll ratings, the
weakness of her Free Democratic Party ally means she can’t rely
on a rerun of her current coalition.  Steinbrueck said he wants to spend an additional 3 billion
euros ($4 billion) a year on developing affordable housing to
counter rising apartment rents in Germany’s biggest cities. He
also proposed giving parents a legal entitlement, effective as
of 2020, to send their children to all-day elementary schools.  Bertelsmann Study  The SPD leadership cited  a study  released in December by
the Bertelsmann Stiftung and the German Institute for Economic
Research showing the number of low-income earners is growing as
the middle class shrinks. In 1997, 65 percent of Germans earned
between 70 percent and 150 percent of the country’s median
income; that group has since shrunk to 58 percent, it found.  “Social cohesion in  Germany  is in danger as it has become
very difficult to move up the social ladder,” said Steinbrueck.
“At the same time, living costs are increasing and real
salaries are stagnating” as rents and energy costs rise.  Merkel’s difficulty was underlined by a weekly Emnid poll
released yesterday showing support for her CDU/CSU bloc at 41
percent, down two percentage points. While that’s easily ahead
of the 27 percent backing for the Social Democrats, her Free
Democratic partner was below the 5 percent threshold needed to
win seats in parliament. With the Greens also unchanged at 13
percent, the poll suggested that neither the CDU-FDP nor the
SPD-Greens have sufficient support to form a coalition.  Steinbrueck said that as a one-time finance minister he
could guarantee his plans won’t lead to higher public debt. Tax
increases for high-income earners, levies on wealth and capital
gains will instead allow a broadening of the tax base, he said.  The SPD still faces a challenge in tackling Merkel on
financial policy as German voters repeatedly give her top marks
for her handling of the euro-area debt crisis. Michael Meister,
the CDU parliamentary spokesman, accused Steinbrueck of
abandoning the center ground in the pursuit of votes, saying he
had “obviously lost all his influence within his party in
finance-related issues,” according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  