-- Hess Refining Exit Seen Unlikely to Spur U.S. Gasoline Imports
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-01-28T17:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/hess-refining-exit-seen-unlikely-to-spur-u-s-gasoline-imports.html
Hess Corp. (HES) ’s plan to exit oil
refining, including closing a plant with a daily capacity of
70,000 barrels, is unlikely to spur imports of European gasoline
into the U.S., analysts said.  The withdrawal probably won’t stop a decline in flows of
the auto fuel across the Atlantic, according to Ehsan Ul-Haq,
senior market consultant at KBC Energy Economics in Walton-on-
Thames, England. Refiners in the U.S. and the Caribbean will
replace lost capacity, said Bjorn Kristian Roed, an analyst at
 Danske Markets  in Copenhagen.  “I do not see any long-term arbitrage opening up due to
this that should stimulate increased Europe-U.S. product
trade,” Roed said by e-mail today. “I do not expect a
significant shortage of refineries to have a significant impact
on U.S. prices that will make us see increased European
imports” of gasoline, he said.  The refinery in  Port Reading ,  New Jersey , is scheduled to
shut by the end of next month, New York-based Hess said today in
a statement. If the plant were sold to another operator,
continued production might further discourage gasoline imports,
Ul-Haq said by e-mail.  Daily earnings for tankers plying the trans-Atlantic route
rose 1.4 percent to $17,404, figures from the London-based
Baltic Exchange showed today. That was the third gain in a row
after nine straight drops. Returns are down 22 percent from this
year’s high on Jan. 10.  Gasoline for delivery in February climbed 2.3 percent to
$2.9405 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 5 p.m.
London time. A close at that price would be the biggest climb
since Dec. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  