-- Hess Exits Refining as Elliott Seeks Board Seats
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-01-28T21:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/hess-to-pursue-sale-of-terminal-network-exit-refining-business.html
  Hess Corp. (HES)  will sell its fuel
storage terminal network and exit the refining business as
billionaire  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Associates LP fund said it may
buy more than $800 million in shares and seek board seats.  Hess will close its  Port Reading ,  New Jersey , refinery by
the end of February and seek a buyer for its 19 storage
terminals, the New York-based company said in a statement today.
Hess  rose  6.1 percent to $62.48 at the close in New York, the
biggest gain since Oct. 27, 2011.  Singer is the founder and president of Elliott Management
Corp., which oversees two funds, Elliott Associates and Elliott
International LP, that have $21.5 billion of assets under
management. Elliott last year added two new board members to  BMC
Software Inc. (BMC)  after pushing BMC to consider a sale.  Elliott Associates notified Hess on Jan. 25 that it was
seeking regulatory approval to buy shares “beyond those they
may already own, if any,” and may seek board seats at the
annual shareholder meeting this year, according to a separate
release from Hess.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Elliott,
declined to comment when reached by phone today.  Hess, with a market value of $21 billion as of today, has
risen 13 percent in the past year as it closed an unprofitable
refinery and ramped up operations offshore  Norway  and in North
Dakota’s Bakken oil fields.  Terminal Sales  Hess’s terminals business may sell for as much as $1
billion, said  Fadel Gheit , a New York-based analyst with
Oppenheimer & Co. The moves also will free up about $1 billion
in working capital “for future growth opportunities,” the
company said. The Port Reading closing culminates a process that
last year included shutting down another money-losing refinery
Hess co-owned in the  U.S. Virgin Islands  known as Hovensa LLC.  “They’ve been doing this gradually,” Gheit said today in
a telephone interview. “Hess has turned a corner and the
company is executing the right strategy.” Gheit rates Hess the
equivalent of a buy and doesn’t own shares.  Hess joins companies including  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Marathon
Oil Corp. (MRO)  in exiting the refining business, which rallied in
2012 in areas where operators have had access to cheaper U.S.
crude. East Coast refineries, which pay more for imported oil,
have been shut as their profit margins narrowed.  “We have transformed Hess into a predominantly exploration
and production company, which is part of a multi-year strategy
to grow  shareholder value ,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Hess said in the statement.  Global Production  Hess has exploration and production assets around the
world, from the Bakken and Utica plays in the U.S. to the
Valhall field off Norway. The company has tripled its revenue
from exploration and production in the past decade, while
continuing to generate 75 percent of sales from refining and
fuel marketing. Oil and gas  production  in the third quarter
climbed 17 percent from a year earlier to the equivalent of
402,330 barrels of oil a day, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Valhall, a North Sea development operated by  BP Plc (BP/)  in
which Hess owns about a two-thirds stake, began production Jan.
26 and is expected to reach the equivalent of 65,000 barrels a
day by the second half of the year, BP said today in a
statement. The field was enhanced to be able to process as much
as 120,000 barrels of crude a day, BP said.  Of the $6.7 billion Hess plans to spend this year on
exploration and production, 40 percent of it will go toward its
unconventional shale resources in the U.S., the company said
Jan. 9. Hess, which was founded by John Hess’s father, began as
a fuel oil delivery business and expanded into retail, refining,
and oil storage.  Retaining Retail  The company is retaining its gas station business, which
includes more than 1,350 Hess-branded sites in 16 states along
the East Coast, according to the statement. The company is the
leading gasoline convenience store retailer in the region,
according to the company’s website.  “The next potential move for them could be to exit the
retail side,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst with Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis , said in a telephone interview today. “Retail
is a lower-margin business, so exiting could potentially unlock
further value.”  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the largest independent fuel processor
in the world, is in the process of spinning off its convenience
store business.  Hess plans to continue its long-term commitment to the
retail and energy marketing business,  Jon Pepper , a spokesman
for Hess, wrote today in an e-mail.  Argentina Clash  Founded in 1977, Singer’s Elliott Management is one of the
oldest private investment firms of its kind under continuous
management. The Elliott funds’ investors include large
institutions, college and charitable endowments, family offices,
and friends and employees of the firm.  Singer is among a group of creditors seeking payment from
Argentina for bond defaults. Ghana detained an Argentine Navy
ship in October on the bondholders’ request and Argentine
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  took a chartered flight
to Indonesia this month to avoid creditors seizing the nation’s
plane.  Hess has retained  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as its financial
adviser on the terminal sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  