-- ETFs Growing by Helping Dopes Keep Up With the Pros: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-01-28T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/etfs-growing-by-helping-dopes-keep-up-with-the-pros-muni-credit.html
Investors are directing a record
amount of cash into U.S. municipal-bond exchange-traded  funds 
and are poised to add more, helping to keep borrowing costs for
local governments close to four-decade lows.  Buyers are turning to the ETFs, which typically track an
index and trade like stocks, even as the largest muni exchange-
traded fund has earned 0.5 percentage point less on average in
each of the past five years than the broader market for state
and city debt.  Still, muni ETFs are one of the fastest-growing parts of
the $3.7 trillion local-debt market. They have about $12 billion
of assets, up 40 percent from the end of 2011 and compared with
$600 million in 2007, data from Lipper US Fund Flows and the
Federal Reserve show. The shares are easier to trade than actual
bonds, which individuals often buy and hold until maturity, said
Bart Mosley at Trident Municipal Research.  Demand for ETFs will grow “as long as continued interest
in the underlying muni market is strong,” as they offer a
liquid and diverse trading option, said Mosley, Trident’s co-
president in New York.  Benefit Bump  The tax advantage of munis has increased since the start of
the year as federal income-tax rates rose for top earners, while
the fiscal pact passed Jan. 1 kept the bonds’ tax status intact.
President  Barack Obama  has proposed limiting the value of the
muni tax break for higher earners. Muni yields fell to the
 lowest  since 1965 last month.  Investors added $3.9 billion to muni mutual funds in the
past three weeks, the most since October 2009, Lipper data show.
ETFs still have a way to go before they catch up with muni
mutual funds, which held $613 billion as of Sept. 30, up about
16 percent from a year earlier, Fed data show.  While investors are buying more muni ETFs, the funds have
failed to match the performance of their underlying indexes or
the 5.9 percent five-year annualized return for the muni market,
according to Bank of America Merrill lynch data.  The  $3.6 billion  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Municipal
Bond Fund, the largest muni ETF, has earned an annualized 5.4
percent in the past five years. That compares with the 5.6
percent annualized gain for its benchmark, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Actionable Exposure’  The ETF, known as MUB, “provides investors with a broad,
actionable exposure to this market that would be difficult to
replicate with individual securities,” Matt Tucker, head of
iShares fixed-income strategy for BlackRock Inc. in San
Francisco, said in an e-mail through a spokeswoman.  “Since inception, MUB has closely tracked” its benchmark,
“slightly outperforming when adjusted for fees,” he said.  The  $1.6 billion  SPDR Nuveen Barclays Short Term Municipal
Bond ETF, the second-largest for munis, has returned 0.35
percentage point less annualized for the five-year period than
its index.  “They’re not actively looking to outperform their
benchmark,” Mosley said about ETF returns. “They’re really
looking to deliver performance as close as possible to the
benchmark.”  Expense Ratio  Part of the Nuveen ETF’s tracking loss is because of its
0.2 percent expense ratio, Tim Ryan, who helps oversee the ETF
at Nuveen Investments Inc. in  Chicago , said in an interview. He
said the fund also limits holdings to AAA and AA credits, rather
than lower-rated munis that have posted outsize gains in the
past year as investors sought their higher yields.  “Given what’s happened in the investment environment, I’m
pretty pleased with how our ETFs have held up,” Ryan said.  The ETFs also tend to underperform their mutual fund
rivals. Open- and closed-end U.S. muni funds combined earned an
average 5.3 percent annualized over the past five years,
compared with 4.4 percent for muni ETFs, Bloomberg data show.  That extra gain comes at a cost though. Muni ETFs charge an
average of 32 cents annually for every $100 invested, compared
with 57 cents for muni mutual funds geared toward institutional
buyers and 78 cents for individuals, according to Morningstar
Inc. data.  With mutual funds, investors “are getting a manager who
will probably have a team of credit analysts doing deep research
into each of the different bonds they’re buying,” said Timothy Strauts, an ETF analyst at Morningstar in Chicago. “So they
have a better feel for what are good credits.”  80,000 Issuers  The muni market’s 80,000 different states and localities
make it a diverse asset class compared with both Treasuries and
less than 10,000 corporate-bond issuers, Mosley said. That
offers muni mutual fund managers possible value through
illiquidity or inefficiencies in the market, he said.  “There is more opportunity for active managers to add
value in the municipal space maybe than other asset classes,”
Mosley said.  For Strauts, the benefit of ETFs is that they ease the
challenge of choosing the right fund at the right time.  “You can buy the ETF, which is going to get you a low cost
and get you close to the index returns, or you have a choice
between 100 different muni-bond managers,” Strauts said. “How
do you know which active investor is going to outperform?”  In muni trading last week, benchmark yields fell to 1.68
percent for 10-year maturities, close to a six-week low,
Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Following is a pending sale:  ILLINOIS  is set to issue $500 million of general-obligation
debt as soon as Jan. 30, according to sale documents. Proceeds
will help finance school construction and transportation
projects. Standard & Poor’s cut Illinois’s credit last week to
A-, six steps below the top, after lawmakers failed to repair
the nation’s worst-funded pension system. (Added Jan. 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  