-- Metro’s Media-Saturn Stake Said to Value Unit Above Group
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-28T12:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/metro-to-raise-stake-in-media-saturn-as-co-founder-sells-2-97-.html
Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest
retailer, will pay about 230 million euros ($309 million) for a
stake in its Media-Saturn electronics unit, according to a
person familiar with the matter, implying a valuation for the
division that exceeds the company’s entire market value.  The price for the 2.97 percent stake being acquired from
Media-Saturn co-founder Leopold Stiefel is based on a 2002
agreement with the chain’s founders, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the negotiations are private. A
Metro spokeswoman declined to comment on the price, saying only
that the transaction will be completed in the first half.  “The price seems very high compared to what the company is
worth today, but it also seems high in comparison with 2002
because the business was much smaller in terms of revenue back
then,” said Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler
in  Frankfurt . “It’s a good deal for Stiefel.”  The implied valuation for the unit of about 7.7 billion
euros compares with Metro’s market capitalization of 7.5 billion
euros. The Dusseldorf-based retailer gets about a third of sales
from the electronics unit and has seen its market value slump
about 60 percent in the past five years, with declining earnings
at Media-Saturn contributing to the drop.  Metro fell 0.4 percent to 22.84 euros at 1:49 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The  stock  has rebounded 8.8 percent this year
after sliding 48 percent in 2011 and 26 percent in 2012.  The purchase of the stake in Media-Saturn increases Metro’s
holding to 78.38 percent, leaving Stiefel’s fellow co-founder
Erich Kellerhals as the only other shareholder.  Contract Talks  Metro has been in a dispute with Kellerhals over the
influence he still wields over the business. In August, the
retailer won dismissal of an appeals case seeking to block a
corporate governance change at Media-Saturn meant to cut the
sway exerted by the Media Markt founder.  Contract talks are taking place between Metro and Stiefel
and he will remain an adviser to Media-Saturn, according to a
statement from the Stiefel family.  “We very much welcome his willingness to continue to be
involved in the company,” Metro Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch said in a separate statement today.  Koch has pledged to focus on the Cash & Carry wholesale
unit and Media-Saturn electronics stores. The owner of Kaufhof
department stores and Real supermarkets reported little changed
 fourth-quarter revenue  on Jan. 16 as increased sales at Media-
Saturn in  Germany  offset weakness in western  Europe . It also
announced that day that the electronics chain is leaving  China .  Metro cut its 2012 profit forecast in October because of
weakening economies in southern Europe and parts of eastern
Europe. It forecast 2012 earnings before interest, tax and other
items to be about 2 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  