-- EU’s De Gucht Seeks to Strike Trade Deal With Canada on Feb. 6-7
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-28T16:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/eu-s-de-gucht-seeks-to-strike-trade-deal-with-canada-on-feb-6-7.html
European Union Trade Commissioner
Karel De Gucht will visit Ottawa next week in a bid to seal an
accord that would expand commerce with  Canada  and sharpen the
focus on planned EU talks with the U.S.  De Gucht will meet his Canadian counterpart, Ed Fast,
during a Feb. 6-7 trip meant to wrap up almost four years of
negotiations on a free-trade agreement, the European Commission
said. EU-Canada trade in goods was worth 52.4 billion euros
($70.5 billion) in 2011, while services commerce totaled 22.3
billion euros in 2010, according to the latest data from the
commission.  A negotiated deal, which would need the approval of EU
national governments and the European Parliament, may end 97
percent of tariffs on EU-Canada goods trade at the entry into
force and 99 percent after seven years. The sticking points have
included Canadian access to the EU’s beef and pork markets and
European access to Canada’s dairy market as well as to Canadian
public-procurement contracts at the sub-federal level.  The goal of De Gucht’s visit to Ottawa next week is to
reach “closure” in the talks on an EU-Canada commerce
agreement,  John Clancy , trade spokesman of the Brussels-based
commission, the 27-nation bloc’s executive, said in an e-mail
statement today.  The EU is sidestepping stalled World Trade Organization
efforts to open markets by seeking commerce deals with
individual countries or groups of nations. The EU struck a trade
accord with  South Korea  that took effect in 2011, agreed in late
November to start talks with  Japan  and last month approved an
agreement with Colombia and  Peru  and reached a draft deal with
 Singapore .  Both Sides  Also on the EU’s agenda is a possible free-trade agreement
with the U.S., with both sides moving toward the start of
negotiations. The EU and the U.S. have the largest bilateral
commercial relationship in the world, with their trade in goods
in 2011 worth almost 445 billion euros and in services in 2010
valued at nearly 258 billion euros, according to the commission.  On his way to Ottawa, De Gucht plans to stop in  Washington 
on Feb. 5 in an effort to advance preparations for trade talks
with the U.S., said Clancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  