-- EU Said to Weigh Bank Debt Rule Delay in Blow to Basel Timetable
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-28T17:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/eu-said-to-weigh-bank-debt-rule-delay-in-blow-to-basel-timetable.html
The European Union is weighing a
one-year delay to the deadline for  lenders  to disclose whether
they meet a debt ratio, in the latest blow to the global
timetable for applying Basel bank rules, according to three
people familiar with the discussions.  EU nations may seek to push the start date for mandatory
disclosure of this so-called leverage ratio from Jan. 1, 2015,
to Jan. 1, 2016, said the people, who couldn’t be named because
the talks are private. The revised date was discussed by
diplomats at a meeting today, they said.  The ratio is part of the package of international bank
rules known as Basel III, which has become beset by delays as
regulators across the world ponder how best to implement the
measures, which more than triple the core capital lenders must
hold and set standards for how lenders should manage risks.  The EU, like the U.S. missed the January deadline to start
phasing in parts of Basel III. The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, the international group that drew up the standards,
agreed earlier this month to delay and water down another key
part of the package designed to ensure banks have enough easy-
to-sell assets in a crisis.  The possible delay to the  leverage ratio  was triggered by
the EU’s failure to meet the January deadline. Officials will
hold further talks on the timing for the leverage ratio and
other parts of the Basel III rules in the coming weeks, two of
the people said.  Governments and European Parliament lawmakers have sparred
over swathes of the bloc’s draft Basel implementing law
including banker bonus curbs, rules for systemically important
banks and the leverage limit.  Three Percent  The leverage ratio would cap a lender’s debt at no more
than 33 times its  Tier 1 capital , a measure of its financial
reserves. It would do this by requiring banks to hold capital
equivalent to three percent of their loans, derivatives trades
and other assets.  A total of 56 banks out of a sample of 209 would have
failed to meet the leverage ratio had it been in force at the
end of 2011, according to data published by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision , the international group that drew up the
standards. The lenders with shortfalls included 29 large
international banks, the Basel group said.  The EU’s implementation timetable for the Basel rules is
still under discussion and will need to be agreed on by
governments and by the EU parliament, according to a
spokeswoman for Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of
the EU.  Ireland is committed to reaching a deal on the implementing
legislation as soon as possible, said the spokeswoman, who
declined to be cited by name, in line with official policy.  Under the Basel plans lenders would have to show how well
they meet the rule from Jan. 1, 2015, while the measure would
become a binding requirement from Jan. 1, 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  