-- Euro Money Funds Preparing for Yields Below Zero, Fitch Reports
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-01-28T11:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/euro-money-funds-preparing-for-yields-below-zero-fitch-reports.html
More than half of the euro funds
represented by the Institutional Money Market Funds Association
are changing share structures so they can operate if yields fall
below zero,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Funds with almost 50 billion euros ($67 billion) of assets
have adopted, or said they will adopt, changes that allow them
to pass losses to investors by reducing the number of shares
they own, according to Fitch. Without the change, record-low
yields on the debt the funds buy will threaten their fixed-share
price and force them to shut.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in October it was replacing two
stable net asset value euro money-market funds with variable
share classes. RBS Asset Management Ltd. is adopting the changes
for funds with 9.8 billion pounds ($15.4 billion) under
management while  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has also announced similar
structures.  “Investors have been accepting of this,” Fitch analysts
led by Richard Woodrow wrote in a report. “We expect more fund
complexes will follow suit.”  Money-market funds buy short-term, high-grade debt
securities, and are designed to offer investors an alternative
to holding cash.  The average seven-day yield on funds that buy euro-
denominated  government securities  was at zero percent for the
week ended Jan. 18, according to research firm  iMoneyNet Inc.  in
Westborough, Massachusetts. The average yield on euro funds
eligible to purchase corporate debt was 0.03 percent.  The Institutional Money Market Funds Association is a  trade
body  based in London that has represented triple-A rated funds
in Europe since 2000, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  