-- European Stocks Little Changed; Debenhams Retreats
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-01-28T16:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/european-stock-futures-rise-on-chinese-industrial-profits.html
European stocks  were little changed
near a 23-month high as U.S. reports showed that durable-goods
orders increased in the world’s largest economy while pending
sales of houses declined.  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO)  rose 3.4 percent after Morgan Stanley
raised its recommendation for the stock.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the
second-largest U.K. department-store chain, dropped 2.9 percent
after Morgan Stanley cut its rating of the shares.  The Stoxx 600 slipped 0.1 percent to 289.36 at the close.
The benchmark gauge rallied last week to the highest level since
February 2011 and has jumped 3.5 percent this year after U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a budget compromise.  “Markets have run quite well and are at the top end of
their trading ranges,” said  Andrea Williams , head of European
equities at Royal  London  Asset Management in London, which
oversees about $1.1 billion. “There’s some risk of a setback
unless we get good corporate numbers and optimistic statements.
It is important that data continues to show the  U.S. economy  is
improving.”  Orders for  durable goods  in the U.S., the European Union’s
largest trading partner, climbed 4.6 percent in December, a
Commerce Department report in  Washington  showed. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast a gain of 2 percent.  Housing Data  A separate release from the National Association of
Realtors showed its index of contracts for the purchase of
previously owned homes fell 4.3 percent to 101.7 last month
after a revised 1.6 percent increase in the prior month. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey projected no change in the
gauge.  Chinese industrial companies’  profits  rose 17 percent to
895 billion  yuan  ($144 billion) in December from a year earlier,
the National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday in Beijing.  National benchmark indexes gained in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.2 percent, while
France’s CAC 40 advanced less than 0.1 percent. Germany’s DAX
retreated 0.3 percent.  SBM Offshore gained 3.4 percent to 12.01 euros, a four-
month high. The largest maker of floating oil-and-gas platforms
was raised to  equal weight , a rating similar to neutral, from
underweight at Morgan Stanley.  ASML, TNT  ASML Holding NV added 2.8 percent to 56.23 euros, the
highest price since it sold shares to the public in March 1995.
 Europe ’s largest semiconductor-equipment supplier was raised to
buy from neutral at Citigroup Inc, citing limited risk
associated with  capital spending  by ASML’s customers. Concern
about the feasibility of the upcoming extreme ultraviolet
technology is diminishing and the revenue contribution from
services is increasing, the brokerage said.  TNT Express NV advanced 3.3 percent to 5.69 euros after UBS
AG upgraded the shares to buy from neutral. The Dutch delivery
company’s new management will swiftly act to fix or sell its
Brazilian and Chinese operations, UBS said.  Debenhams dropped 2.9 percent to 102.2 pence as Morgan
Stanley cut its recommendation on the shares to equal weight
from overweight. The brokerage lowered its rating on the U.K.
general retail industry to “cautious” and said analysts’
estimates for the industry’s profit growth in 2013 are too high.  Northland Resources SA slumped 45 percent to 0.63 kroner,
the lowest since the company sold shares to the public in 2006.
The iron-ore miner increased the cost estimates for the
Kaunisvaara project in northern  Sweden  and said it needs to
raise $375 million in bond and share sales.  The volume of shares trading on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  was 7.9
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  