-- Fed Releases Global Shock Stress Test Scenario for Big Banks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-01-28T20:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/fed-releases-global-shock-stress-test-scenario-for-biggest-banks.html
The Federal Reserve released
“adverse and severely adverse” global financial market
scenarios that will be used to gauge the strength of six large
banks, as part of the central bank’s annual stress tests that
will be finalized in March.  Six banks -- Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc.,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Morgan Stanley and  Wells
Fargo & Co . -- will have their portfolios tested to measure how
they would do if the economy and financial markets experienced a
severe downturn. The scenarios for the economy were released in
November.  The U.S. central bank started stress tests in 2009 to
restore confidence in the financial system after the worst
crisis since the Great Depression brought down Bear Stearns Cos.
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Regulators have since
complemented the tests with a capital-planning requirement to
improve boards’ management of risk and dividend and stock-
buyback decisions.  “Supervisory stress test results will include data such as
 capital ratios , revenue, and loss estimates under a severely
adverse scenario,”  the Fed  said today in a release in
 Washington . The parameters will include “a severely adverse
scenario provided by the  Federal Reserve , and reflect the
capital actions the companies plan to undertake.”  March Release  The central bank will release results from supervisory
stress tests at 4:30 p.m. on March 7 in Washington. Details
about whether banks will be able to pay dividends or must build
more capital, known as the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and
Review, will be released at 4:30 p.m. on March 14, the Fed said.  The tests are designed to strengthen banks so they have
enough capital to survive a financial crisis or recession. Bank
stocks have  climbed 23 percent  in the past year for the best
return among 10 industry groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. The overall index climbed 14 percent.  The scenarios released today contain data on global equity
markets in dozens of countries and how much they might decline
from an adverse shock. Banks must test, for example, against a
33 percent drop in equities in  China , a 60 percent decline in
 Spain , and a 75 percent decline in Ireland.  The central bank previously released the economic scenarios
in November. The worst of those parameters would test the bank
against a recession in which U.S. gross domestic product
declines by 6.1 percent and the  unemployment rate  climbs as high
as 12.1 percent.  When the Fed released the scenarios last year, it said they
were not forecasts and were “designed to assess the strength
and resilience of financial institutions and their ability to
continue to meet the credit needs of households and
businesses.”  -- With assistance from Jeff Kearns in Washington. Editors: Gail DeGeorge, James Tyson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  