-- Fitch Says U.S. Debt-Suspension Removes Risk of Downgrade
-- B y   J o e   C i o l l i   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-28T14:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/fitch-says-u-s-debt-suspension-removes-risk-of-downgrade.html
Fitch Ratings  said the temporary
suspension of the  U.S. debt  limit removes the near-term risk to
the nation’s AAA credit rating.  Agreement on a credible medium-term  deficit reduction  plan
consistent with sustaining the economic recovery would likely
result in the affirmation of the rating and revision of the
outlook to stable from negative, Fitch said in a statement. In
the absence of such a plan, the negative outlook would likely be
resolved with a downgrade later in 2013.  Fitch had previously said that failure to increase the debt
ceiling in a timely manner would prompt a review of the U.S.
sovereign rating. Congress broke an impasse on Jan. 2 on how to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff by passing legislation skirting
income-tax increases for more than 99 percent of households. The
U.S. House of Representatives voted on Jan. 23 to temporarily
suspend the nation’s borrowing limit,, removing the issue for
now as a tool for seeking deeper spending cuts.  “This is definitely helpful for  market sentiment ,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at Credit
Agricole SA, said in a telephone interview. “It seems that
markets are looking for a decent gain.”  Treasury benchmark 10-year yields rose to 2 percent for the
first time since April as signs of improvement in the global
economy cut demand for the relative safety of  U.S. debt .  S&P Downgrade  The  yield  rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 1.99 percent at 9:31 a.m. New York time, after reaching 2
percent for the first time since April 25. The price of the
1.625 percent security due in November 2022 fell 13/32, or $4.06
per  $1,000  face amount, to 96 22/32, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader data.  Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S.’s credit rating
under review with a negative outlook in August 2011, when the
U.S. pushed back a decision on spending and raised its so-called
the debt ceiling after months of political wrangling.  Standard &
Poor’s  cut its rating to AA+ that month, blaming the nation’s
political process.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries have fallen from 2.56 percent
since the S&P downgrade and touched a record low 1.38 percent on
July 25, 2012. The U.S. Dollar Index has gained about 7 percent
in that span.  The debt-limit legislation is slated to be taken up by the
Senate, where Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said lawmakers will
pass the bill unchanged and send it to President  Barack Obama .
White House spokesman  Jay Carney  last week said at a briefing
that the administration still prefers a long-term extension of
the nation’s debt ceiling, while adding that Obama “would not
stand in the way” if Congress passes the proposal.  House Plan  The House debt-ceiling plan, which passed 285-144 and would
lift the government’s $16.4 trillion borrowing limit until May
19, includes a provision designed to prompt lawmakers to address
the  federal budget . The House and the Senate each must adopt a
budget resolution under the plan for the next fiscal year by
April 15. If not, the pay for members of the chamber that
doesn’t act will be withheld and placed in an escrow account
until they adopt one -- or, at the latest, until the end of the
113th Congress.  Obama signed legislation on Jan. 2 that, in addition to
raising tax rates on the highest earners while sparing others,
delayed for two-months the automatic spending cuts, known as
sequestration, that would affect sectors such as defense that
were set to take place Jan. 1. The combined tax increase and
spending cuts would have been valued at over $600 billion,
enough to bring the  U.S. economy  into a recession according to
the  Congressional Budget Office .  ‘Strengthen Confidence’  “The passage of a fiscal year 2014 budget resolution
through Congress and a corresponding increase in the debt limit
would strengthen confidence in the fiscal framework and provide
a platform for putting in place a longer-term deficit reduction
plan,” London-based Fitch analyst  David Riley  wrote in the note
today. “Avoiding a government ‘shutdown’ requires Congress to
pass a continuing resolution on March 27 and the deferred
spending sequester comes into effect on March 1.  Failure to
reach timely agreement on these would not prompt an immediate
review of the U.S. sovereign rating, though it would undermine
confidence in the prospects for reaching agreement this year on
a credible deficit reduction plan necessary to forestall a
downgrade of the U.S. rating.”  On March 1, the across-the-board spending cuts that were
originally scheduled to begin in January are set to take effect.
And on March 27, current funding for the government expires,
potentially setting up a government shutdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  