-- Fonterra CEO Seeks to Reassure China, World on Milk Safety
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-01-28T04:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/fonterra-seeks-to-reassure-china-world-on-milk-safety-ceo-says.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the
world’s largest dairy exporter, assured its biggest customer
China that traces of an agricultural chemical found in some milk
products posed no health risk, Chief Executive Officer Theo
Spierings said.  China and  Taiwan  are conducting tests after the Auckland,
New Zealand-based company said on Jan. 24 that minimal levels of
the fertilizer additive dicyandiamide, known as DCD, were
present in some samples, Spierings said in a phone interview.
The company hasn’t had any customer complaints and no goods had
been recalled or blocked, he said.  “We’re providing all the information that is needed on a
customer level,” Spierings said. “I would be very surprised if
retailers are withdrawing product from the shelf.”  Fonterra, the farmer-owned group that accounts for about 40
percent of the global dairy trade and sends about 20 percent of
its exports to  China , said Jan. 24 the discovery of the additive
may become a trade concern even though there was no health risk.
Milk safety in China became a major issue in 2008, when locally
made melamine-contaminated milk powder may have killed at least
six infants, causing the collapse of Fonterra’s partner Sanlu
Group.  Fonterra Shareholders’ Fund, an equity product that tracks
the co-operative’s dividends and earnings, fell 1.4 percent to
NZ$7.13 at the close in Wellington. The units, which have no
voting rights, dropped 1.1 percent on Jan. 25, the day after
Fonterra first disclosed the DCD readings.  China Quarantine  China’s General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine didn’t respond to faxed questions by
Bloomberg seeking confirmation if it was testing Fonterra’s milk
products and what the outcome was.  New Zealand’s government is working with Fonterra to decide
how DCD can be used on farms, the  Ministry  for Primary
Industries said. The absence of agreed international levels in
foods means that any presence could be unacceptable to some
markets, it said.  Traces of DCD were first discovered in September, Spierings
said, prior to the listing of the Shareholders’  Fund (FSF)  on the New
Zealand stock exchange in November. The market value of the fund
has risen to NZ$682 million ($570 million) from NZ$525 million
since it began trading. Fonterra didn’t disclose the findings
then because there was no food safety risk, Spierings said.  “If something is safe and you’re well within
specifications then you don’t start to talk about it,”
Spierings said.  Water Quality  DCD is used to improve water quality on farms by reducing
nitrate levels, as well as cut greenhouse gas emissions,
according to the New Zealand government. It’s been used on about
500 out of about 12,000 dairy farms, industry group Federated
Farmers said last week.  A person weighing 60 kilograms (132 pounds) would have to
drink more than 130 liters (34 gallons) of milk to reach the
European Commission’s acceptable daily intake for DCD, and
“considerably” more to have adverse health effects, according
to the Ministry for Primary Industries website.  Ravensdown Fertiliser Co-operative Ltd. and Ballance Agri-
Nutrients Co-operative, which make 98 percent of New Zealand
fertilizers, voluntarily suspended DCD sales last week to avoid
any trade risk, Ravensdown Chief Executive Officer Greg Campbell
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  