-- Ford Beating General Motors in Race to Europe Turnaround
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-01-28T21:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/ford-beating-general-motors-in-race-to-europe-turnaround.html
When  Ford Motor Co. (F)  posts  fourth-
quarter results  tomorrow, the numbers probably won’t look great,
likely the lowest operating profit of the year. Those figures
mask the optimism coming from an unlikely place:  Europe .  Using its turnaround in the U.S. as a road map, Ford is
moving more briskly to recover in Europe than its competitors.
While Ford will report a loss of more than $1.5 billion for the
full year in Europe and has forecast a similar result for 2013,
Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks said in an interview this
month during the  Detroit auto show , those losses will begin to
disappear in about two years.  Ford will be about a year ahead of  General Motors Co. (GM)  in
efforts to revamp operations in the region, said  Peter Nesvold ,
a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst with a  buy  rating on the shares.
Ford’s board signaled increased conviction in the company’s
European restructuring plan by doubling the quarterly dividend
earlier this month, he said.  “In the case of Ford, ultimately, this is the team that
without external help was able to accomplish in  North America 
what almost nobody thought was going to be possible,” Nesvold,
who is based in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “The
problems aren’t identical in Europe, but they are similar.”  Ford’s fourth-quarter revenue probably slipped 4.5 percent
to $33 billion, the average of 11 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, from $34.6 billion a year earlier. The average of 19
estimates is for 25 cents of operating profit per share, up from
20 cents a year earlier.  Ford Optimism  Optimism about Ford’s prospects in Europe helped its shares
rise this month to their  highest level  since May 2011. Analysts
are divided about where it goes from here. Buckingham Research
Group, Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG have downgraded the
stock within the past week. At the same time, at least seven
analysts have raised their price target for the shares this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The “disconnect between frothy expectations and likely
performance makes us unwilling to chase Ford,”  Brian Johnson , a
Chicago-based analyst for Barclays, wrote in a Jan. 25 report.
Ford’s rise since Oct. 24, the day before the mid-decade
forecast, through today more than quintupled the S&P 500’s 6.5
percent gain during that span. “Investor hopes are getting
ahead of solid reality. While maintaining a positive outlook for
Ford’s business performance, we are cautious on the shares.”  Ford closed at $13.78, 10 cents higher than on Jan. 25 in
New York. The company’s first-quarter dividend is payable March
1 to shareholders of record on Jan. 30.  Ford has said it wants to achieve profit margins of 8
percent to 10 percent in North America over the long term. The
North American profits are underwriting the European
restructuring.  ‘Getting Comfortable’  “What investors are looking for is getting comfortable
with the sustainability of those margins and figuring out
exactly how much higher they could go,” Joseph Spak, an analyst
with  RBC Capital Markets , who rates Ford the equivalent of a
buy, said in a telephone interview.  Demand in Europe fell 7.8 percent last year to 12.5 million
vehicle registrations, the lowest in 19 years, the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA, said this month.
Ford’s registrations plunged 13 percent to 939,409, according to
the Brussels-based trade group.  The story is quite the opposite in North America. Record
profits there buttressed Ford’s bottom line in the first nine
months of last year. The automaker earned $6.47 billion before
taxes in the region in 2012’s first nine months, more than it
made there for all of 2011. North America had an operating
profit margin of 11.2 percent during the period in an industry
where a 5 percent margin is respectable.  ‘Wonderful’ Profitability  “We’ve had a wonderful nine months, in terms of
profitability, margin and generating very positive operating
cash flow,” said CFO Shanks. “I think the path that we’ve been
on will continue.”  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , 67, revived Ford
after arriving in 2006 from  Boeing Co. (BA)  by using $23.4 billion
that the company borrowed late that year to overhaul its lineup
with fuel-efficient models such as the Focus and Fiesta. Those
efforts were preceded by plans to restructure the company’s
North American operations beginning in October 2005, Shanks
said.  “If we had not started then, if we had waited until the
overall economic crisis was evident, we would not have been
ready for it,” he said. “That’s another interesting learning
on Europe -- there was no evidence from the outside when people
looked at what we were doing that we were making any progress.”  Europe Plan  Ford plans to shutter three factories in Europe by the end
of next year and cut 6,200 jobs, or 13 percent of its workforce
there, in an effort to break even in the region by mid-decade.
The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s shares climbed 35
percent from Oct. 24, the day before Mulally presented the
company’s restructuring plan for Europe, through Jan. 25.  Ford plans to introduce its Mustang sports car in Europe
soon and is tripling its sport-utility vehicle offerings in the
continent, Mulally said in September. The automaker is adding
the subcompact EcoSport SUV, just four meters (13 feet, 1 inch)
long, and the Edge midsized utility to its European lineup,
which already includes the Kuga compact, known in the U.S. as
the Escape.  “They basically turn over their entire product lineup over
the next 12 to 18 months,” Nesvold said of Ford’s vehicle
offerings in the region. “That gives them an opportunity to
improve their pricing in Europe, and then in 2014 and 2015 they
will have addressed their cost and capacity issues.”  CEO’s View  Ford restarted production at its factory in Genk,  Belgium ,
last week after a blockade by workers over plans to shut the
site ended. The company hadn’t shipped a vehicle from the plant
since it said the factory will shut for good in 2014. A factory
in Southampton,  England , that makes chassis cabs for the Transit
van and a stamping plant in Dagenham, on the outskirts of
 London , will close this year.  “We think we can be profitable, with the restructuring
actions that we’ve taken and all the new products that we’re
introducing, by mid-decade,” Mulally said this month in a
speech at the Automotive News World Congress event in  Detroit .
“When you look at some of the people that are not taking
action, it might be a little bit longer.”  GM told workers at its German unit Opel last week that it
may shutter a factory in that country as soon as the end of
2014. The Detroit-based automaker has racked up $17.3 billion in
losses in Europe since 1999 and has said it plans to break even
there by mid-decade.  GM, Chrysler  GM’s plans haven’t been quite as well received by investors
as Ford’s. Since Oct. 30, the day before GM said it would cut
costs by $500 million a year starting this year, it  gained 24
percent through today. While that’s far better than the S&P’s
6.2 percent gain, it trails Ford’s 33 percent rise.  “We are not focused on what Ford is doing, but are keenly
focused on driving to break-even by the middle of the decade
with great products and an improved cost structure,” said Randy Arickx, a GM spokesman.  Fiat SpA (F) , the majority owner of Chrysler Group LLC, is
relying on the U.S. unit to offset losses at Fiat’s mass-market
brands in Europe.  Sergio Marchionne , CEO of both companies, is
working to improve results in the region before merging the two
automakers by 2015.  Ford likes its odds in Europe, given its experience in
North America.  “Even with a no-change bottom line in Europe in ’13 versus
’12, we’re well on our way in terms of a transformation that
will get that part of the business back on track,” Ford’s
Shanks said. “We didn’t fix North America in six months. It
took years. The same thing will happen in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  