-- Forint in Longest Losing Streak in 8 Months Before Rate Meeting
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-28T16:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/forint-in-longest-losing-streak-in-8-months-before-rates-meeting.html
Hungary’s forint weakened for a
fifth day, its longest losing streak in eight months, before
central bank policy makers meet to consider a sixth consecutive
rate cut tomorrow.  The currency depreciated as much as 0.9 percent to 299.99
per euro, its weakest intraday level since June 6. It traded 0.5
percent lower at 298.75 by 4:33 p.m. in Budapest, extending the
decline this year to 2.5 percent.  The central bank  will cut  its main rate to 5.5 percent from
5.75 percent, according to 26 out of 27 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sandor Jobbagy, an analyst at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s
CIB unit, forecast no change. Forward-rate agreements fixing
interest costs in nine months rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 4.74 percent, 97 basis points below the
Budapest interbank offered rate to which it settles. The spread
has retreated from a three-year high of 1.39 percent reached in
December.  “Pressure increases massively on the Monetary Council to
deliver a pause tomorrow,” Luis Costa, a London-based
strategist at Citigroup Inc., wrote by e-mail today. “A cut
tomorrow might send euro-forint even higher.”  Hungary should use further monetary easing “very
cautiously,” the International Monetary Fund said in a
statement today after a regular review of the country’s economy.
Hungary will probably overshoot its budget deficit targets
through 2015 and needs a shift in policy to make fiscal
consolidation sustainable and to boost growth, the IMF said.  ‘Unorthodox Tools’  The forint has depreciated 3 percent against the euro since
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said last month the next
governor should “bravely use unorthodox tools” to help the
economy recover from its second recession in four years.
Matolcsy is the most likely successor after Magyar Nemzeti Bank
President  Andras Simor ’s term ends in March, according to the
Index and hvg.hu news websites.  Weakening economic growth indicators, such as a faster-
than-expected drop in retail sales, will probably move the
central bank to cut rates tomorrow, said Daniel Hewitt, a
London-based economist at Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  