-- Fortress’s Gagfah Gains After Bid Report: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-01-28T11:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/fortress-s-gagfah-rises-after-takeover-report-frankfurt-mover.html
Gagfah SA (GFJ) , Germany’s second-largest
property company by market value, rose to the highest in more
than four years after Manager Magazin reported that the company
may receive a takeover offer from larger competitor  Deutsche
Wohnen AG. (DWNI)   The shares climbed as much as 3.8 percent to 9.68 euros in
Frankfurt trading, the highest since September 2008, and were
priced at 9:47 euros as of 12:35 a.m. Gagfah, majority owned by
New York-based  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , more than doubled
in the past 12 months, lifting its market value to 1.95 billion
euros ($2.62 billion).  Manuela Damianakis, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Wohnen
rejected the report. “These are rumors arising due to our
strength, but there’s nothing to them,” she said. Dirk Schmitt,
a spokesman for Gagfah, declined to comment.  Deutsche Wohnen grew rapidly last year and Chief Executive
Officer Michael Zahn said in October he expects to increase the
company’s market value to as high as 5 billion euros within four
years. Analysts and investors say a merger between Deutsche
Wohnen and a competitor like Gagfah would benefit shareholders
by reducing costs.  Zahn said a merger among Germany’s listed property
companies is possible, Die Welt reported on Sunday.  Right Conditions  “There have been conversations about this, but it’s
currently not on the table,” he said, according to Die Welt.
“I would not rule out that these ideas are brought up again --
when the conditions are right.”  Deutsche Wohnen rose 1.3 percent to 14.44 euros.  Manager Magazin reported the potential offer on Jan. 25
without saying where it got the information.  Gagfah,  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  or  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  may be
targets for Deutsche Wohnen, Close Brothers Seydler Bank AG
analyst Manuel Martin said in a Jan. 13 report. Mergers in the
German property industry are possible, Commerzbank AG analyst
Thomas Rothauesler wrote on Nov. 8. GSW is Germany’s third-
largest residential landlord by market value, and TAG Immobilien
is the fourth.  “When Deutsche Wohnen runs out of growth opportunities, I
could see them doing a takeover, but I don’t think it’s in the
cards right now,” said Georg Kanders, an analyst at Bankhaus
Lampe KG. Gagfah is not a likely target because Deutsche Wohnen
prefers apartments in large cities such as Berlin and Frankfurt,
where the population is growing. Gagfah’s assets are more
scattered geographically.  Available Cash  Deutsche Wohnen increased the number of homes it owns by
more than half in 2012. On Jan. 16 the company  raised 195.1
million euros  in a share sale, and used about half of the
proceeds to buy apartments in Berlin, said Damianakis. Deutsche
Wohnen has investor approval to issue an additional 800 million
euros of new shares.  “Those amounts wouldn’t be enough to buy a company as big
as Gagfah,” said Commerzbank’s Rothaeusler.  Gagfah’s net asset
value  is 2.57 billion euros, according to its third-quarter
earnings report.  Gagfah has about 3 billion euros of debt maturing this
year. In August, the company said it may sell 38,000 apartments
in Dresden in order to pay a 1.1 billion loan maturing in May.
At the time, Zahn said Deutsche Wohnen may bid for the
properties.  The sale hasn’t taken place and now Luxembourg-based Gagfah
prefers to refinance the loan, two people with knowledge of the
matter said on Jan. 22.  Fortress is among the private-equity firms facing debt
deadlines after buying German real estate with the cheap credit
available in the years before the global financial crisis
started in 2008. The New York-based  company owns about 66
percent of Gagfah , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  