-- France Pushes Lauvergeon for ‘Major’ EADS Role in Board Revamp
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-01-28T12:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/france-pushes-lauvergeon-for-major-eads-role-in-board-revamp.html
The French government is positioning
 Anne Lauvergeon , the former chief executive officer of nuclear-
plant builder  Areva SA (AREVA) , for a key role at  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD) ’s revamped supervisory board.  “She’s a woman with great talents that should be fully
tapped, we want them to be,” Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici
said today on France Info radio. Her experience in industry
means she should be able to “to play a major role” at EADS.  Le Figaro newspaper reported earlier today that President
Francois Hollande wants Lauvergeon to head the EADS board, in
what would mark a comeback for one of France’s best known
corporate leaders. Lauvergeon, 53, was denied a third term in
2011 by then President  Nicolas Sarkozy  as CEO of Areva, which is
majority owned by the French state.  The French government, which holds a 12 percent stake in
EADS, said yesterday that Lauvergeon and former European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet will represent it on the
board of EADS. The nominations are part of a board shake-up
required after Germany agreed to take a direct stake in the
parent of Airbus SAS for the first time.  EADS is now led by Arnaud Lagardere, whose media company
owns a stake in EADS. The main shareholders have historically
been wary to balance Franco-German representation in key
positions, with the chairman and CEO role split between the two
countries. Tom Enders, the EADS CEO, is German.  Lauvergeon, trained as a physicist at the Ecole des Mines
de Paris, worked at the French atomic energy agency in the 1980s
before joining the staff of former President François
Mitterrand. She then became a partner at what is now called
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  In 1999, then-President  Jacques Chirac  tapped her to
run Cogema, a state-owned nuclear fuel business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  