-- French Troops About to Take Timbuktu as They Push Rebels
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e
-- 2013-01-29T00:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/french-troops-about-to-take-timbuktu-as-they-push-rebels.html
Islamist fighters in Mali’s city of
Timbuktu destroyed a library containing historic manuscripts
before they fled advancing French and Malian forces, the town’s
mayor said.  The militants attacked a new building of the  Ahmed Baba
Institute  that was opened in 2009 with South African funding,
Mayor Halle Ousmane Cisse said yesterday by phone from Bamako,
the capital. They also ransacked the town hall before they
started leaving on Jan. 25, he said.  “They have completely destroyed the new center,” he said.
“A sizable part of the manuscripts were still in the old
center.”  Malian forces have entered Timbuktu, with French forces
encircling the city, French military spokesman  Thierry Burkhard 
said. While there have been no reports of fighting, the town
isn’t yet under full control, he said in a news conference in
Paris.  French and Malian forces now hold the city’s airport, about
7 kilometers (4.4 miles) from the town center, Mali’s army
spokesman, Colonel Diarran Kone, said by phone from Bamako.  Fighting alongside Malian and African forces, the French
captured another northern town, Gao, about 590 miles (950
kilometers) north of Bamako, on Jan. 26, according to  France ’s
Defense Ministry. Taking full control of Timbuktu would make
Kidal the last of three large northern cities the rebels
control.  “Things are going as expected,” French Foreign Minister
Laurent Fabius said of the French intervention on the Paris-
based France 2 television channel. “What’s important is that
 Mali , little by little, is liberated.”  French Goals  French President Francois Hollande said that he doesn’t
intend to keep French troops in Mali indefinitely and that
Malian and other African forces should pick up the task of
holding the ground recovered from insurgents.  Hollande said Mali’s government should move as quickly as
possible to organize elections to bolster its legitimacy. The
Malians and African forces also need financial support, and
France is organizing a donor conference, he said at a news
conference in Paris with Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk.  The United Nations is ready for a “major effort” to
support Mali’s government, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told
reporters yesterday in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa. He
called supporting the Malians a “moral imperative.”  French Rafale and Mirage 2000 warplanes carried out 20
bombing raids the nights before ground troops reached Gao and
Timbuktu, according to the French Defense Ministry. Timbuktu was
approached by the south by French armored forces Jan. 27, while
paratroopers were dropped to the north of the town to prevent
escape by militants.  ‘Brief and Violent’  Helicopter-borne French special forces seized Gao’s airport
and bridge early on Jan. 26 and were reinforced that evening by
an airlift of 40 Chadian troops and 40 Niger troops, according
to the ministry account. The city of Gao was taken the next day
by Malian and French troops.  The battle to take the key Gao bridge was “brief and
violent” with 15 militants killed, Burkhard said. No prisoners
were taken, and no French personnel were injured, he said.  Some of the Islamist fighters “have escaped and some are
hiding, and we’ll help the African troops pursue them,” French
Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said on France’s TF1
television channel.  Like the Taliban in  Afghanistan , the withdrawal of the
Islamists doesn’t mean victory, and the pressure is on France to
turn over security operations before its forces get bogged down
and hit by roadside bombs and suicide bombers, said a U.S.
official who asked to not be named because he wasn’t authorized
to discuss the matter publicly.  French Intervention  France intervened in Mali on Jan. 11 after Islamist
fighters overran the town of Konna, sparking concern they might
advance to Bamako. European and U.S. leaders have said that
northern Mali is turning into a haven for Islamist militants
intent on attacking western targets.  Timbuktu  is known for three ancient mosques and 16
mausoleums dating as far back as the 15th century, according to
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, which has designated the desert city a World
Heritage site.  Islamist rebels said in July that they were destroying
historic mausoleums and mosques in the city because they
consider the sites “idolatrous.”  Several insurgent groups, including Touareg separatists and
al-Qaeda-linked Islamists, seized northern Mali last year, after
a March coup in the capital.  West Africa  The French defense ministry has said 3,700 soldiers are
involved in the operation to win back the area, including 2,500
on Malian soil. West African nations decided to almost double
their Mali mission to 5,700 troops, General Shehu Abdulkadir,
commander of the African-led International Support Mission to
Mali, said on Jan. 26.  Fabius said that after the coalition forces’ “recapture of
all of Mali,” France will play a supporting role.  “First the African troops, and then the French are there
as support,” he said.  Mali vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-largest producer
of gold, with  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
among the companies operating in the country. It ranks 175th of
187 nations on the UN Human Development Index, which measures
indicators including literacy, income and gender equality.  The International Monetary Fund said yesterday it approved
a disbursement of about $18.4 million to Mali under the rapid
credit facility “to support the authorities with policy advice
and financial support to maintain macroeconomic stability and
growth during the next 12 months.”  “Mali’s economy is traversing a particularly difficult
period as a result of the 2011 drought, insurgent attacks in the
north of the country and political instability in the wake of
the military coup in March 2012,” the IMF said in a statement
released in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  