-- Furiex Rises on FDA Approval of Takeda Diabetes Medicine
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-28T21:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/furiex-rises-on-fda-approval-of-takeda-diabetes-medicine.html
Furiex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (FURX)  rose the
most in more than two years after partner  Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. (4502)  won U.S. regulatory approval for a new diabetes treatment.  Furiex rose 66 percent to $35.34 at 4 p.m.  New York  time,
in its biggest gain since June 2010. Takeda, based in Osaka,
Japan, advanced 1.4 percent to 4,615 yen at the close of Tokyo
trading, the highest since December 2008.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Takeda and
Furiex’s alogliptin and two combinations of the treatment to use
with diet and exercise for patients with  Type 2 diabetes .
Morrisville, North Carolina-based Furiex said in a statement
that it will receive a $25 million payment as a result of the
approval as well as royalties based on U.S. sales.  “Alogliptin helps stimulate the release of insulin after a
meal, which leads to better blood sugar control,” the FDA said
Jan. 25 in a statement.  The approval gives Takeda a new revenue source as cheaper
generics erode earnings from Actos, its largest sales
contributor and once the world’s biggest diabetes drug. Takeda,
whose application for alogliptin was twice rejected by the FDA,
has  projected  net income would fall to a 13-year low of 120
billion yen ($1.3 billion) in the 12 months through March 2015.
The company said it plans to sell the medicines beginning in
mid-2013.  Sales Peak  Actos sales peaked in the year ended March 2011 at $4.5
billion for Takeda and accounted for 27 percent of the company’s
revenue at the time.  Alogliptin is in the same class of drugs as  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s
Januvia, which generated $3.3 billion in 2011, and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Onglyza, which sold $473 million that year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The first rejection of alogliptin came in June 2009, when
the FDA said clinical data was insufficient based on new
guidelines on diabetes treatments and cardiovascular risks
released in December 2008. Takeda conducted additional studies
for its resubmission. In April last year, the FDA asked for more
information on the use of the medicine in other countries.  In the U.S., 25.8 million children and adults, or 8.3
percent of the population, have diabetes, including 7 million
people who are undiagnosed, according to figures from  the
American Diabetes Association’s  website.  Diabetes is caused by the body’s inability to use or
produce the hormone insulin. It can lead to  heart disease ,
 kidney failure , blindness or amputations. Most diabetics have
the Type 2 form linked to being overweight or inactive.  Alogliptin is approved in Japan and sold under the brand
name of Nesina. The tablets will go by the same name in the U.S.
The other products will be called Oseni and Kazano, Takeda said
in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net 
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  