-- Gasoline Jumps to Three-Month High as Hess to Shut Port Reading
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-01-28T20:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/gasoline-advances-as-hess-says-shutting-port-reading-refinery.html
Gasoline rose to the highest level
since Oct. 11 after  Hess Corp. (HES)  said it will shut the Port
Reading, New Jersey, refinery at the end of February.  Futures rose 2.1 percent as Hess said it plans to sell its
terminal network and leave the refinery business. The network
includes 28 million barrels of storage at 19 terminals on the
East Coast. The 70,000-barrel-a-day refinery’s fluid catalytic
cracker makes gasoline and components for blending heating oil.  “Hess consists mainly of a cat cracker that produces
approximately 50,000 barrels a day of gasoline that supplies the
Northeast,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston. “Its shutdown will particularly impact summer
supplies.”  Gasoline for February delivery rose 5.94 cents to $2.9348 a
gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices have risen
for eight days, advancing 8.4 percent and becoming the top
performer on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodity index. Volume
was 64 percent of the 100-day average at 3:02 p.m.  The February contract expires Jan. 31. The more actively
traded March contract advanced 5.11 cents to $2.9409.  March-delivery crude oil rose 56 cents to settle at $96.44
a gallon on the Nymex.  Hess said the Port Reading refinery has lost money in two
of the past three years. The plant was “challenged”
financially by a requirement to spend money to comply with
environmental regulations for low-sulfur heating oil and “the
weak forecast for gasoline refining margins,” the company said.  The announcement comes as refineries in Padd 1, which
includes New York Harbor, the delivery point for Nymex futures,
have units down for repairs and maintenance planned.  Other Refineries  Philadelphia Energy Solutions will shut the Girard Point
section of its plant, the largest near the harbor, this month
for sixty days of work. A fluid catalytic cracker at  Delta
Airlines Inc. (DAL) ’s Trainer,  Pennsylvania , refinery has been shut
for repairs since December.  “Refineries are going through some fairly significant
turnaround, and you would have expected the Port Reading
refinery to make up some of this capacity,” said  Andrew Lebow ,
a senior vice president at Jefferies Bache LLC in New York.  Gareth Lewis-Davies, an analyst at BNP Paribas in London,
said today in an e-mailed response to questions that the closing
“will be positive” for East Coast gasoline prices and will
“increase scope for Europe to arbitrage gasoline and components
to the U.S.”  Heating oil for February delivery increased 0.48 cent to
settle at $3.0616 on the exchange. Volume was 6.6 percent above
the 100-day average at 3:08 p.m..  The  retail price  for regular gasoline, averaged nationwide,
rose 0.2 cent to $3.349 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.
Prices are the highest since Dec. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  