-- General Growth Buys Warrants From Blackstone, Fairholme
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-01-28T22:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/general-growth-buys-warrants-from-blackstone-fairholme.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
second-largest U.S. owner of shopping malls, purchased $633
million of warrants to buy the company’s shares from  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and Fairholme Funds Inc.  The warrants were exercisable into about 52 million shares
at a weighted average exercise price of $9.37, the Chicago-based
real estate investment trust said today in a statement.
Blackstone, based in New York, and Bruce Berkowitz’s Fairholme
no longer hold warrants in the company.  Blackstone and Fairholme acquired the warrants after
investing in General Growth as part of the company’s 2010 exit
from bankruptcy. The sale leaves  Brookfield Asset Management
Inc. (BAM/A)  as the sole holder of the company’s outstanding warrants,
after another member of the investor group,  Bill Ackman ’s
Pershing Square Capital Management LP, sold its share to the
Toronto-based investment firm.  General Growth has decided not to buy the Pershing warrants
from Brookfield, according to today’s statement. Brookfield, the
company’s largest  shareholder , holds warrants for about 83
million common shares at an average exercise price of $9.53, the
company said.  The shares closed today at $19.53, down 0.8 percent. They
have gained 22 percent in the past 12 months.  Blackstone remains a holder of General Growth’s common
stock, holding about 41.4 million shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The REIT, the largest U.S. mall owner after  Simon Property
Group Inc. (SPG) , filed for bankruptcy in 2009 after weighing itself
down with $27 billion in debt and was unable to refinance
because of the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  