-- Germany Spars With ECB Over Threat Posed by Cyprus to Euro Area
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-01-28T10:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/germany-spars-with-ecb-over-threat-posed-by-cyprus-to-euro-area.html
Germany ’s Finance Ministry said that
Cyprus can only access international aid if it threatens the
euro area’s stability, resisting European Central Bank warnings
that the island economy might derail progress made in Europe.  Providing aid from the euro region’s financial backstops is
linked to legal conditions that have to be respected, the
Finance Ministry in Berlin said today in an e-mailed comment.
That includes the question of whether Cyprus is systemically
relevant to the 17-nation euro area and its readiness to carry
out an adjustment program, the ministry said.  The German focus on Cyprus’s obligations contrasts with ECB
Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen, who told Greek newspaper
Kathimerini yesterday that policy makers must realize Cyprus has
the potential to cause damage beyond the size of its economy.  “If one simply looks at the size of the economy -- it is
something like 0.15 percent of euro area GDP -- they may
conclude that Cyprus is not systemically important,” Asmussen,
a former deputy German finance minister, told Kathimerini in
comments confirmed by the ECB. “In normal times, one may be
tempted to agree. But I think we are still not in normal times,
and therefore I think that disorderly developments in Cyprus can
harm the progress we made in  Europe  in 2012.”  Draghi Versus Schaeuble  ECB President Mario Draghi pressed German Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble to recognize that Cyprus and its banks are a
risk for the euro region as a whole, Der Spiegel reported in
this week’s edition, without saying how it got the information.
Schaeuble rejected the notion that Cyprus’s woes are
“systemically relevant,” prompting Draghi to argue that this
was a question for economists, not lawyers, the magazine said.  Schaeuble’s ministry said that the so-called troika of the
ECB, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission
must determine jointly that the situation in Cyprus is a threat
to the euro region’s stability for the Mediterranean country to
qualify for aid. Euro region finance ministers will probably
discuss a program for Cyprus at their meeting in March, based on
analysis provided by the troika, the ministry said.  Asmussen said that a “bad development” in Cyprus could
result in two kinds of developments. “One is possible contagion
of  Greece  via banking channels, since a number of Cypriot banks
are active in Greece,” he said. “Secondly, it can send the
wrong signal to the rest of the euro area,” with countries such
as Portugal and Ireland preparing to re-enter capital markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  