-- Germany Breaks Clean-Energy Taboo in Attack on Price Surge
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-01-28T15:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/germany-breaks-clean-energy-taboo-in-attack-on-power-price-surge.html
Germany , adding wind and solar parks
to counter falling nuclear output, proposed shifting more of the
cost of expansion to producers from consumers as the government
seeks to stem a surge in electricity prices in an election year.  The government may ask owners of existing renewable-power
generators to take a one-time reduction in their so-called feed-
in tariff of 1 percent to 1.5 percent, Environment Minister
Peter Altmaier said today in Berlin. Subsidies to new projects
may also be delayed to help curb costs, he said.  Germany is transforming its power market to more than
triple the share of renewables in the energy mix by 2050 while
phasing out nuclear generation. The scale of the energy
overhaul, the nation’s biggest since World War II, has moved the
soaring cost of electricity to the center of the political and
economic agenda before federal elections this fall.  The government also proposed to curtail subsidies for large
energy users such as steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and chemical
company  BASF SE (BAS) , Altmaier said as he outlined plans to cut the
cost of the nuclear exit by about 1.3 billion euros ($1.8
billion).  The measures would “make the energy switch more just, more
predictable, and ensure that consumers are protected from
unexpected and excessive power-price increases,” according to
the minister, who is seeking to bring them into law by Aug. 1.  Prevent Backlash  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is working to prevent a voter
backlash after costs for Germany’s clean-energy expansion
spiraled. Consumers in  Europe ’s biggest economy have seen power
bills climb after a fee they pay for renewables jumped 47
percent to a record 5.28 euro cents a kilowatt-hour on Jan. 1.  Altmaier proposed freezing the surcharge at the current
level in 2014, and said any increase thereafter should be
limited to 2.5 percent a year.  The one-time cut in subsidies for wind and solar parks
would save about 300 million euros, according to the minister.
Deferring subsidy payments to new generators may cut a further
500 million euros, while reining in subsidies to energy-
intensive companies could bring in 500 million euros, he said.  The plans were criticized by the BEE renewable-energy lobby
group, which said delaying payments for new ventures would
“punish” investors and throw project planning into doubt.
Reducing aid for existing generators is “legally
questionable,” the lobby said today in an e-mailed statement.  The BDI industry association said Germany’s energy switch
could have been better planned and implemented.  “The whole system of subsidies has to be rapidly
overhauled from its roots,” BDI President Ulrich Grillo said
today in  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung .  Gas prices  in Germany
are now four times those of the U.S. because of the latter’s
support for shale gas, Grillo said. “Industries that compete
internationally cannot sustain another price rise,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  