-- Given Gains Most in 3 Months on Permira Report: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-28T14:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/given-imaging-set-for-biggest-gain-since-october-tel-aviv-mover.html
Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN)  had its biggest
advance in more than three months after a person with direct
knowledge said Permira Holdings Ltd. is among private-equity
firms considering to buy the company.  The shares of the maker of capsule-sized cameras jumped 3.9
percent, the most since Oct. 21, to 61.4 shekels at the close in
Tel Aviv on four times the average three-month daily volume.
 Discount Investment Corp. (DISI) , which holds a stake in Given, gained
3 percent to 13 shekels. Nochi Dankner’s  IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) ,
which controls Discount Investment via a unit, rose 2.7 percent
to 11.29 shekels. The  TA-25 (TA-25)  benchmark index added 0.4 percent.  Discount Investment is in talks to sell all or part of its
45.5 percent stake in Given, said the person, who has direct
knowledge of the talks and asked not to be named because the
discussions are private. Given, the Yokneam, Israel-based maker
of a pill-sized camera to diagnose gastrointestinal illnesses,
this month abandoned a plan to find a buyer for the whole
company and said Discount Investment wanted to sell its stake in
one block.  “Finding a buyer for Given would improve financing
pressure within the IDB group of companies,” Daniel Rapoport,
head of equity and derivatives at  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI)  said
today by phone. IDB has been selling assets, including a stake
in Clal Industries & Investments Ltd., as it seeks to avoid
default.  A spokeswoman for Permira in  London  declined to comment on
Given, as did a spokeswoman for Tel Aviv-based Discount
Investment.  IDB shares plunged 74 percent in 2012 as controlling
shareholder Dankner sold assets and raised funds to try to meet
debt commitments. Standard & Poor’s Maalot in December cut the
holding company’s debt rating to default.  IDB sold a unit of Tel Aviv-based  Clal Insurance
Enterprises Holdings Ltd. (CLIS)  to  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway (BRK/B) 
for $221 million in August. Argentinian businessman Eduardo Elsztain agreed in September to pay $25 million for 10 percent
of IDB’s parent company Ganden Holdings Ltd., with the option of
investing another $75 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  