-- Good Drivers With Low Incomes Punished by Insurers
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-01-28T21:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/good-drivers-with-low-incomes-punished-by-insurers-group-says.html
The largest U.S. auto insurers weigh
occupation and education levels more than driving records to set
rates for minimum-liability coverage, the  Consumer Federation of
America  said today, citing a  review  of a dozen cities.  The group compared quotes from State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co.,  Allstate Corp. (ALL) ,  Progressive Corp. (PGR) , Geico and
Farmers Insurance for two fictional 30-year-old female drivers.
One was a married executive with a master’s degree and a home
who’d caused $800 in damage in an accident in the past three
years. The other was a single receptionist with a high-school
education who was renting and had a clean driving record.  Controlling for variables like zip code and car model, the
group found that the executive got a lower quote in most cases
than the receptionist, who had also been without coverage for 45
days. The findings show that companies are using discriminatory
metrics in setting rates for coverage that is mandated in most
states, the CFA said.  “State insurance regulators should require auto insurers
to explain why they believe factors such as education and income
are better predictors of losses than are at-fault accidents,”
J.  Robert Hunter , CFA’s director of insurance and former Texas
insurance commissioner, said in a statement posted on the
group’s website.  Geico, Progressive and Farmers quoted a higher rate to the
receptionist in all 12 cities, the group said. In Baltimore,
Allstate said it would cost the receptionist two-and-a-half
times as much, or $3,292, to insure her car as the executive.
The Northbrook, Illinois-based insurer charged lower rates in
cities including Chicago,  St. Louis  and Phoenix.  Progressive’s Criteria  Progressive works “to price each driver’s policy as
accurately as possible” and uses multiple criteria, “which
sometimes include non-driving factors that have proven to be
predictive of a person’s likelihood of being involved in a
crash,” Jeff Sibel, a spokesman for the Mayfield Village, Ohio-
based company said in an e-mail.  State Farm, the largest U.S. auto insurer, was the outlier,
giving the receptionist a lower rate than the executive in all
twelve cities. The policyholder-owned insurer is based in
Bloomington, Illinois.  Geico, a unit of Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
didn’t respond to a request for comment left on a media hotline.
Laura Strykowski, an Allstate spokeswoman, State Farm’s Rachael
Risinger and Farmers’ Jerry Davies had no immediate comment.
Farmers has a management relationship with Switzerland’s Zurich
Insurance Group AG.  Price Declines  The average annual price of auto insurance for U.S. drivers
fell 3.3 percent to $791.22 in 2010 from four years earlier, the
 Insurance Information Institute  said in a statement today,
citing data compiled by the  National Association of Insurance
Commissioners . Competition among insurers helps lower prices for
consumers, according to III, an industry trade group.  “Drivers should shop around if they feel as though their
current auto insurer is not meeting their needs, or is charging
too high a price,” Steven Weisbart, a senior vice president and
chief economist at III, said in the statement.  The other cities studied were: Washington, Atlanta,
Cleveland, Denver, Houston,  Los Angeles , Seattle, and Tampa,
Florida.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Bunn in New York at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  