-- Greece’s Tsipras Wants European Conference to Solve Debt Crisis
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-01-28T11:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/greece-s-tsipras-wants-european-conference-to-solve-debt-crisis.html
Europe must abandon austerity
policies and convene a summit to make  Greece ’s debt sustainable
and return the country to growth, said Alexis Tsipras, the
nation’s main opposition leader.  “Our strategy, if we were to be elected in Greece, is to
cancel austerity measures, cancel the memorandum of austerity,”
Tsipras, who heads the Syriza party, told Bloomberg Television
in New York on Jan. 25. “We must have a restructuring of
Greece’s debt and renegotiation of the loan agreement.”  Tsipras said a European conference similar to one held in
1953, which brought debt relief to  Germany , is necessary to
solve the region’s crisis. It should accompany a plan such as
the one proposed by former U.S. Secretary of State George C. Marshall in 1947, which channeled American aid to help rebuild
 Europe  after World War II, that would revive economic growth in
Greece and southern Europe, he said.  The 38-year-old Tsipras led Syriza to a second-place finish
in inconclusive elections in May on an anti-austerity platform,
stoking concern about Greece’s future in the 17-nation euro
zone. The party finished second in repeat elections a month
later that saw the first-place New Democracy party, led by
Antonis Samaras, go on to form a coalition government.  Four polls published on Jan. 26 and yesterday showed New
Democracy with an edge of between 0.4 percent and 1.7 percent
over Syriza, or “Coalition of the Radical Left.”  Budget Deficit  Tsipras said austerity policies have been disastrous for
the Greek economy, which is set to contract for a sixth year in
2013 with unemployment at a record high. Greece’s government has
implemented budget cuts and economic reforms to tame a fiscal
deficit that has led to bailouts from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund.  Greece won’t be ejected from the euro if it abandons
austerity policies and demands changes to its bailout
agreements, he said.  “Nobody can estimate who needs who most, but the certainty
is that if Greece leaves or if they decide to eject Greece, it
will be a total disaster for the euro and would be a step
backward for the global economy,” Tsipras said. “If a country
can go to Brussels and say ‘enough is enough with these
irrational policies,’ I do think their reaction will in fact be
more measured and they will agree to have a dialogue, a
renegotiation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  