-- Gulfmena CEO Arabi Steps Down as Proprietary Funds Shut
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-28T13:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/gulfmena-ceo-haissam-arabi-steps-down-as-proprietary-funds-shut.html
Haissam Arabi, chief executive
officer and founder of Gulfmena Investments Ltd., will step down
as the company closes its proprietary funds and adopts a new
strategy after losses in a main vehicle.  Marc Hambach, chief operating officer at the company based
in the Dubai International Financial Centre, will take over as
interim CEO effective Feb. 1, Arabi said in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News today. The Gulfmena Opportunities Fund Ltd. and
Gulfmena Access Fund will close as the company seeks to focus on
institutions, ultra-high net worth individuals and family
offices, he added.  The Gulfmena Opportunities Fund, which focuses on the
Middle East and North Africa region, fell each year since 2010
with a retreat of 3.6 percent in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The change in Gulfmena’s strategy comes
after the number of brokerages in the United Arab Emirates more
than halved to 48 since 2008 amid lower trading volumes and a
drought in initial public offerings.  “The past five years have been very difficult for the
asset management industry in particular and the financial
industry in general,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, managing
director of Abu Dhabi Financial Services Co., the brokerage unit
of  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC. (NBAD)  “Even though the equity
markets picked up in 2012, it was grueling few years.”  Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index, (DFMGI)  which was the best
performer in the Gulf Cooperation Council region last year, is
still 79 percent below its peak in 2005.  Average trading volume 
for the gauge rose 60 percent to 160 million shares in 2012 --
about half the volume traded in 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Gulfmena Investments will focus on offering services
including sponsoring of DIFC funds, structuring and
“domiciliation of carefully selected managers,” according to
the e-mail from Arabi today. It will continue to offer
investment management services, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  