-- Iceland Wins Case on 2008 Refusal to Cover Foreign Deposits
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-01-28T15:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/iceland-awaits-verdict-on-2008-refusal-to-honor-foreign-deposits.html
Iceland was found to have acted
within its rights in its 2008 refusal to cover U.K. and Dutch
depositors in a failed Icelandic bank, escaping damages as high
as 20 percent of its economic output.  The European Free Trade Association Court in Luxembourg
today dismissed a case brought the EFTA Surveillance Authority,
which claimed the island had breached European Economic Area
law. A loss would have allowed the Netherlands and the U.K. to
seek damages of much as 335 billion kronur ($2.6 billion),
according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  All three “pleas” were dismissed, in part because the
laws governing Iceland’s membership didn’t “envisage” a
“systemic crisis of the magnitude experienced in Iceland,” the
court said in a statement. “How to proceed in a case where the
guarantee scheme was unable to cope with its payment obligations
remained largely unanswered by the directive.”  Iceland in 2008 declined to cover $5.4 billion in
guarantees to 350,000 U.K. and Dutch citizens who had opened
Icesave accounts at  Landsbanki Islands hf , one of three major
banks to fail during the island’s financial meltdown. The
British and Dutch governments covered the guarantees and Iceland
was then taken to court by the EFTA Surveillance Authority.  The krona was little changed at 172.93 per euro as 3:09
p.m. in Reykjavik.  ‘Completely Vindicated’  “Iceland is completely vindicated,” Foreign Minister
Ossur Skarphedinsson told reporters in Reykjavik. “All of
Iceland’s costs will be paid by ESA. That, by itself, underlines
how great our victory is.”  Iceland had maintained it wasn’t obligated to guarantee the
foreign deposits. The caretakers of Landsbanki last year began
repaying priority claims, using the proceeds of the bank’s
estate. They have now covered 50 percent of all such
obligations, or 650 billion kronur, Pall Benediktsson, a
spokesman for the lender, said by e-mail last week.  Iceland reiterated today that it expects to repay the
Icesave claims in full and that it has already covered 90
percent of the money advanced by the U.K. and the Netherlands to
cover the minimum deposit guarantees.  “Within a few years we will have finished paying all our
obligations and probably 15 percent more than that,” said
Skarphedinsson. “I don’t remember any bank in the world that
has failed and still delivered results of this kind. So
Icelanders will honor their obligations and that’s what matters
most.”  Fast Recovery  The north Atlantic nation, which completed a 33-month $4.6
billion IMF-led economic program in August 2011, has been
praised for its handling of the crisis. The $85 billion default
of  Kaupthing Bank hf , Glitnir Bank hf and Landsbanki in 2008
plunged the $13 billion economy into its worst recession in six
decades. Iceland escaped sovereign default by refusing to back
the banks.  Since then, Iceland has recovered faster than much of the
European Union, of which it isn’t a member. Gross domestic
product will expand 2.9 percent in 2013, the central bank
estimates. The 17-nation euro area will shrink 0.2 percent this
year, the IMF estimates.  Iceland carries the lowest investment grade at  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. Fitch in
February last year raised the island from junk, praising its
“unorthodox crisis policy.”  Sustainable Debt  Iceland would have been able to withstand a worst-case
outcome in the Icesave ruling, Franek Rozwadowski, the IMF’s
representative for Iceland, said in a phone interview last week
from Reykjavik.  “Debt sustainability analysis suggests that an increase in
debt of this size” would still mean that the government debt
levels were “sustainable,” he said.  Landsbanki had sought to attract foreign depositors through
high-yielding Internet accounts that saved it the trouble of
establishing subsidiaries abroad. The lender collapsed in
October 2008 with the rest of Iceland’s debt-laden banking
industry. At their peak, Landsbanki, Kaupthing and Glitnir had
combined debts that swelled to 10 times Iceland’s economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 