-- Indian Bonds Snap Two-Day Decline as Economists Predict Rate Cut
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-28T12:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/indian-bonds-snap-two-day-decline-as-economists-predict-rate-cut.html
Indian bonds advanced, snapping a
two-day loss, as economists predicted the central bank will cut
its benchmark  interest rate  for the first time in nine months to
support the economy.  Twenty-five of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
 Reserve Bank  of  India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will lower the
repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent tomorrow,
while three expect a 50 basis point reduction and one sees no
change. The wholesale-price  index , the benchmark inflation
measure, rose 7.18 percent in December from a year earlier, the
smallest increase since 2009, government data showed this month.  “Inflation has already eased in recent months, giving some
room for maneuver” for monetary policy,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
strategists including  Frances Cheung  wrote in a research note
today, projecting a 25 basis point repo-rate decrease.  The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds maturing in June 2022
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.87 percent
in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. The
rate has dropped 17 basis points this month. Local bond and
currency markets were closed on Jan. 25 for a holiday.  The  Reserve Bank of India  said today the government’s
economic-policy overhaul may boost room to focus on spurring
growth. The RBI’s repo rate was last lowered by half a
percentage point in April, the only reduction since 2009.  ‘Calibrated Stance’  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said last week he
wanted interest rates to moderate to spur growth in Asia’s
third-largest economy. Gross domestic  product  will rise as
little as 5.7 percent in the year through March, the government
said Dec. 17. That would be the slowest pace since 2003.  “The balance of macroeconomic risks suggest continuation
of the calibrated stance, while increasingly focusing on growth
risks,” the central bank said in a report today. “Reforms
since September 2012 have reduced immediate risks, but there is
a long road ahead to bring about a sustainable turnaround for
the Indian economy.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration has taken a
series of measures since mid-September, including allowing more
international investment in retailing and aviation, to revive
Asia’s third-largest economy and avert a downgrade in the
sovereign rating. India on Jan. 17 partially freed diesel prices
from state control to curb fuel subsidies.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell two basis
points to 7.56 percent in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  