-- Indonesia Increasing Palm Oil Export Tax Seen Curbing Shipments
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-01-28T10:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/indonesia-increasing-palm-oil-export-tax-seen-curbing-shipments.html
Indonesia  will raise taxes on  palm
oil  exports in February in the first increase in nine months,
potentially curbing shipments from the largest producer as rival
Malaysia maintains a zero-tariff policy for a second month.  The duty will be raised to 9 percent from 7.5 percent in
January, according to a Trade Ministry  decree  on its website
today. The  base price  to calculate the levy will be increased to
$744 a metric ton from $709, it said. This is the first increase
in taxes since May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The increased tariffs by Indonesia may lower shipments and
hamper efforts to trim reserves, which have surged to about 90
percent of storage capacity. Futures in Kuala Lumpur have
tumbled 21 percent after Malaysian inventories reached a record
of 2.63 million tons in December, prompting the government to
cut export taxes. The Malaysian tariffs were cut to zero for
this month and will be kept at that level in February.  “Higher taxes will reduce our competitiveness against
 Malaysia ,” Hariyanto Wijaya, a Jakarta-based analyst at PT
Mandiri Sekuritas, said by phone. “Our biggest loss will be in
our largest market,  India , where crude palm oil imports will be
taxed 2.5 percent. But Malaysian shippers won’t have to pay
export tax for their shipments, that’s an advantage for them.”  India, the world’s biggest palm oil buyer, raised taxes on
imports of crude cooking oils to 2.5 percent from zero on Jan.
17 to shield domestic oilseed growers from cheap overseas
supplies. It also almost doubled the taxable value to $802 a ton
for crude palm oil from $447 with the rate set to be revised
every fortnight.  The Indonesian government reviews the  tax rates  and base
export prices every month, based on average rates in  Kuala
Lumpur , Rotterdam and Jakarta in one month to the 19th of every
month. The tax will be set at 9 percent if price falls in the
range of between $800 to $850, according to a separate Finance
Ministry decree. The February tax was based on reference price
of $815.12 per ton, the trade ministry said.  Palm oil for delivery in April fell 1.5 percent to 2,445
ringgit ($793) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange on
Jan. 25. The market is closed today for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  