-- Indonesian Coal Swaps Gain a Second Day, China Prices Unchanged
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-01-28T02:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/indonesian-coal-swaps-gain-a-second-day-china-prices-unchanged.html
Swaps prices gained a second day for
thermal coal from  Indonesia , the world’s largest exporter of the
fuel, according to Ginga Petroleum Singapore Pte.  China 
contracts dropped.  The swap for Indonesian sub-bituminous coal with a
calorific value of 4,900 kilocalories a kilogram in the second
quarter rose 5 cents to $65.75 a metric ton on a net-as-received
basis on Jan. 25, Ginga said in an e-mail today. The contract
for February gained 5 cents to $64.55 a ton.  Contracts for coal with a heating value of 5,500
kilocalories a kilogram for shipment to South China in the
second quarter were unchanged at $86.55 a ton on a net-as-
received basis, the energy broker said. The February contract
remained at $85.50 a ton.  Tornadoes in  Australia ’s Queensland state felled trees and
power lines, as Oswald, which had been a tropical cyclone,
dumped heavy rain and moved toward New South Wales, bringing
damaging winds and possible flooding. Operations at the port of
Newcastle in New South Wales are unaffected by the storms, Keith Powell, a spokesmen, said by telephone today.  The thermal-coal price at Newcastle, the benchmark for
Asian contracts, surged to $138.50 a ton in January 2011 after
Cyclone Yasi crimped output and shipments. Prices have declined
to $91.15 a ton as of the week ending Jan. 18, according to data
from IHS McCloskey.  A commodity swap is a financial agreement whereby a
floating price is exchanged for a fixed rate over a specified
contract period. About 60 percent of Indonesia’s coal is
classified as sub-bituminous. Higher moisture levels and a lower
carbon content reduce the heating value compared with better-
quality stock. Sub-bit coal has fewer than 6,100 kilocalories
per kilogram, according to the Indonesian energy ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  