-- Insurers Urged to Cover Brain Imaging for Alzheimer’s
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/insurers-urged-to-cover-brain-imaging-for-alzheimer-s.html
Advanced imaging that detects plaque
in the brain should be covered by Medicare and private insurers
for select people with dementia to help diagnose or rule out
Alzheimer’s disease, advocates and doctors said.  The recommendations released today are the first to help
govern the  burgeoning field  of brain imaging and may increase
the use of the practice to improve care for the  5 million 
Americans affected with Alzheimer’s. The Alzheimer’s Association
and the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging
crafted the proposal to address which patients might benefit
from the PET scan technology that detects the plaque.  While amyloid plaque is a hallmark of Alzheimer’s disease,
not everyone with it has the mind-robbing condition. PET scans
require a drug injected into patients to highlight the plaque
for doctors.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Amyvid is the only compound
currently approved for use with PET scans for this purpose.  “This is going to become much more ubiquitous and
available over the next few years,” said Maria Carrillo, vice
president of medical and scientific relations at the Chicago-
based  Alzheimer’s Association . “It’s something physicians can
refer their patients for if they need additional information.”  Lilly’s drug isn’t now covered by Medicare, the U.S.
insurance program for the elderly and disabled, though the
agency plans a  hearing  on Jan. 30. Products from  General
Electric Co. (GE) , Piramal Enterprises Ltd. and  Navidea
Biopharmaceuticals Inc. (NAVB)  are expected to reach the market in the
next two years.  The costs of the scans vary depending on where they are
done and who conducts them, though prices for standard PET
imaging range from $1,000 to $3,000.  Growing Concern  Alzheimer’s is the sixth-leading cause of death in the
U.S., according to the Alzheimer’s Association. The number of
people with the disease is expected to double within 20 years as
the world’s population ages, to as many as 65.7 million people
in 2030 and 115 million by 2050, the Geneva-based World Health
Organization said last April. There is no treatment to cure or
slow the disease. Current therapies address only symptoms.  While Alzheimer’s is the most common cause of dementia in
the elderly, memory problems may also stem from drug side
effects, strokes, thyroid problems and vitamin deficiencies.  The guidelines identify three groups of patients who should
have insurance access to the brain imaging technology, the two
organizations said. People with unexplained, worsening memory
loss or confusion, those with possible Alzheimer’s disease who
have unusual symptoms and those with progressive dementia that
develops before the age of 65 may benefit, they said.  Scanning Criteria  The groups said such brain scans shouldn’t be used for
people 65 or older with conventional signs of Alzheimer’s, those
without symptoms or those with unconfirmed complaints about
memory loss. People who already meet the criteria for
Alzheimer’s disease won’t get additional benefit from the
imaging, the groups said. It also can’t predict future risk in
people with few or inconsistent signs of dementia, they said.  The goal of screening is to rule out Alzheimer’s or help
manage treatment for those who most likely have it, based on the
imaging and other tests, Carrillo said. If there are no amyloid
plaques, then doctors can look for  other causes  of dementia,
which may be manageable or even reversible, she said.  For those with the condition, the imaging may help speed a
diagnosis, she said.  Faster Detection  “It can definitely take two or three years sometimes to
get a diagnosis,” Carrillo said in a telephone interview.
“That’s really not helpful. These people have been robbed of
two years of knowing a definitive diagnosis.”  In that time, patients could have been given medicine to
ease symptoms, participating in clinical trials or getting their
personal affairs in order, she said.  It’s also important for those conducting the imaging scans
to have proper training, said Frederic Fahey, president of the
 Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging . Eventually,
the information gathered from the scans may help develop new
treatments for Alzheimer’s disease, he said in a statement.  The technology also shouldn’t be used to determine how
severe dementia is, to look for disease in people without
symptoms who have a family history, or non-medical reasons like
insurance or legal questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  