-- Lira Drops 1st Day in 3 as Banks Buy Dollars to Beef Up Reserves
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-01-28T11:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/lira-drops-1st-day-in-3-as-banks-buy-dollars-to-beef-up-reserves.html
The lira weakened for the first time
in three days as a deadline for lenders’ to increase their
foreign-exchange reserves approached, boosting the demand for
dollars.  The lira depreciated 0.2 percent against the dollar to 1.77
by 11:37 a.m. in Istanbul. It slid for a sixth day versus the
euro, falling less than 0.1 percent at 2.3814, its lowest level
on a closing basis since March 27.  The central bank increased its  reserve requirements  on Jan.
22 to tighten  Turkey ’s credit growth while reducing interest
rates to deter capital inflows that are strengthening the lira.
The higher ratios will be effective Feb. 1 and the banks will be
required to transfer as much as $2.9 billion in foreign exchange
and gold by Feb. 15 at the very latest to beef up their
reserves.  The “banks are hoarding foreign exchange” because of
higher reserve requirements, Bora Tamer Yilmaz, a vice president
at Istanbul-based Halk Securities, the brokerage unit of  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , said in e-mailed comments.  Yields on benchmark two-year notes rose for a second day,
climbing three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.91
percent.  “The increase in yields shows that the market is anxious
after the central bank’s tight stance,” Yilmaz said. “The
market is looking for an excuse to sell bonds.”  The lira has appreciated 1 percent this year against the
dollar, the fourth-biggest gain among emerging-market currencies
in Eastern Europe and  Africa  after the Romanian leu, the
Bulgarian lev and the Russian ruble.  The central bank raised its foreign-exchange reserve
requirement on liabilities of up to one year by 50 basis points
to 12 percent. The ratio on liabilities of up to three years was
increased to 10 percent from 9.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  