-- Iran Successfully Launched Monkey Into Space, Retrieved It
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-01-28T15:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/iran-successfully-launched-monkey-into-space-retrieved-it-1-.html
Iran  said it sent a monkey into
orbit on board a locally built rocket and retrieved it,
completing a mission that’s part of its plan to eventually send
a man into space.  The Kavoshgar rocket, which carried the capsule named
Pishgam or Pioneer where the monkey was placed, was launched
today, state-run  Press TV  reported. It marked the occasion of
the birthday of the Prophet Mohammad, which Iran observes
tomorrow, it said.  Iran reached its objective with the rocket attaining a
height of 120 km (74 miles) and the capsule returning undamaged,
state television said. Defense Minister Ahmad Vahidi said the
passenger “was retrieved alive and in good health.”  Television pictures showed two small monkeys, wearing black
shorts and seatbelts, sitting inside a white plastic capsule. It
wasn’t clear if the image was linked to today’s mission or a
previous one.  President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has described his country’s
scientific achievements as “miraculous” and his government has
portrayed Iran’s nuclear and space programs as a symbol of
independence from Western countries. The U.S. and its allies are
at loggerheads with Iran over its nuclear program and express
concern that its space projects may have military applications.  Hamid Fazeli, head of the country’s space agency, said this
month that a primate would be sent into orbit as part of a plan
to put humans in space within five years.  The first Iranian-made satellite, called Omid, was launched
in February 2009. A year later, Iran fired a domestically
produced rocket into space with a satellite carrying two
turtles, a rat and several worms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  