-- Italian Consumer Confidence Declines to 17-Year Low
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-01-28T12:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/italian-consumer-optimism-falls-to-lowest-in-more-than-15-years.html
Italian  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly declined this month to the lowest in at least 17
years as the country’s fourth recession since 2001 damped
optimism.  The confidence index dropped to 84.6, the lowest since the
series began in 1996, from 85.7 percent in December, the Italian
statistics office  Istat  said in  Rome  today. Economists had
predicted an increase to 86, according to the median of 12
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Cautious household spending will serve as a major
obstacle to any recovery in economic activity” this year and
the next, Raj Badiani, an economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London , said in an e-mailed note to clients. The  Bank of Italy 
said on Jan. 18 it expects households’ spending to decline 1.9
percent this year.  The Italian economy contracted at least 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter of last year, employers lobby Confindustria said
in a report today. This month the central bank cut its forecast
for  gross domestic product  in 2013 to a decline of 1 percent
compared with a previous estimate of a 0.2 percent reduction.  Both the government and the central bank expect a recovery
in the second half of this year amid increasing exports.
Economists and businessmen are less optimistic about a pick up
in domestic demand as unemployment tops 11.1 percent.  Tax Cuts  The country’s economic policy is up for review as Italians
prepare to vote Feb. 24-25. Pier Luigi Bersani, who leads a
coalition of center-left parties and is ahead in all opinion
polls, has proposed cutting income tax rates on low and middle
incomes and raising levies on high earners, while former premier
 Silvio Berlusconi  is pushing for the abolition on primary
residence of a property tax known as IMU.  Outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who during his 14-
months in office has raised levies to tame the sovereign debt
crisis, said cutting taxes now is not “incoherent” though the
next administration should avoid making promises that it
wouldn’t be able to keep.  Speaking on La7 television today, he proposed 11.5 billion
euros $15 billion in cuts to the IRAP regional corporate tax
over five years starting in 2014, 15.5 billion euros in lower
income taxes and 2.5 billion euros in breaks for first-home
owners and families with children.  Reducing the fiscal burden might be difficult as  Italy  may
need at least 9 billion euros in additional budget measures this
year to meet its deficit goal, Finance Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo said in an interview in Rome Jan. 18. Monti today denied
that more budget cuts would be needed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  