-- Lithuania Sells 400 Million Euros of Bonds as Yield Tumbles
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-01-28T15:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/lithuania-selling-eurobonds-as-yield-offered-said-to-tumble.html
Lithuania raised 400 million euros
($538 million) in its first sale of euro-denominated bonds since
April as improved economic growth and steps to cut the  budget
deficit  spurred a plunge in borrowing costs.  The 2018 euro bond tap was priced to yield 2.631 percent,
the  Finance Ministry  in Vilnius, the capital, said in an e-
mailed statement. That was in line with guidance of 140 basis
points above the benchmark swap rate. A 400 million-euro tap of
the same issue last April was priced to yield 4.216 percent.  The Baltic economy is outpacing growth in most of  Europe 
while deficit cuts in December have reassured investors,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s Mohammed Kazmi.
Lithuania’s economy grew 3.5 percent in 2012 and will expand 3
percent this year, the Finance Ministry estimates.  “Lithuania is a relative growth performer in the region,”
Kazmi, an emerging-markets strategist in  London , said today by
e-mail. “Its credit has also gained from political clarity
after completion of the new Cabinet and adoption of the budget,
as well as recent comments confirming commitment to euro
accession in 2015.”  The yield on the February 2018 bonds rose to 2.489 percent
in trading today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Lithuania needs to repay a 1 billion-euro bond due in March, the
data show.  The four-party coalition formed after October elections
approved a budget that reduced the planned deficit to 2.5
percent of gross domestic product this year, from about 3
percent last year.  The government and central bank agreed last week to seek
euro adoption in 2015 and align policies with that goal.  Strong investor demand for emerging-market debt securities
was also supporting the sale today, Kazmi said before the
results were announced.  Proceeds will be used to finance the deficit and maturing
debt, the ministry said.  Barclays Plc and Citibank Inc. managed the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  