-- J&J Failed to Forecast Flaws Leading to Recall, Jury Told
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-28T19:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/j-j-failed-to-forecast-flaws-leading-to-recall-jury-told.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  failed in
developing an all-metal hip implant to forecast key flaws that
led to its recall in 2010, a project manager told jurors in the
first of 10,000 lawsuits over the device to go to trial.  Lawyers for plaintiff Loren Kransky seek to show in a trial
that began Jan. 25 in state court in  Los Angeles  that J&J’s
DePuy unit knew its ASR hip implant had design defects and hid
them from doctors. Magnus Flett was the first witness, and he
told how DePuy analyzed what might cause the ASR hips to fail.  Kransky’s lawyers claim the implanted metal cups didn’t
stimulate ingrowth of surrounding bone, making them unstable in
the hip. They also claim the shallow design of the ASR cups, in
which a metal ball atop the femur rotates, led to toxic debris
of cobalt and chromium ions in the bloodstream. Analysts
estimate the lawsuits could cost J&J billions of dollars.  Flett led a design team and oversaw a group conducting a
so-called failure mode and effect analysis, or FMEA, of a cup
that was shallower than other cups. Kransky attorney  Michael
Kelly  asked if the group foresaw that the “likelihood of lack
of bony ingrowth” would be “almost never.”  “We have forecast it to be minimum,” responded Flett,
whose videotaped testimony resumed today.  The  company  denies Kransky’s claims, including failure to
warn, defective design and negligent recall. In his opening
statement, Alexander Calfo, a lawyer for J&J, said Kelly
stitched together “snippets of e-mails, smidgens of depositions
and sound bites of memos” to paint a false picture of DePuy.  ‘Plain Truth’  In his opening statement, Kelly said that while DePuy
advised doctors ideally to place the cup at a 45 degree angle in
the hip, a study showed more than half of implants were placed
at wider angles. DePuy began selling ASR devices in  Europe  in
2004 and in the U.S. in 2005. Soon after that, doctors began
reporting that the cup could be unstable and lead to the release
of metal ions, Kelly said.  “Isn’t it true that DePuy didn’t know in 2008, 2007, 2006,
2005, ’04, all the way down to the design, DePuy had no idea
what the acceptable range was for the placement of the ASR?”
Kelly asked Flett. “Isn’t that the simple and plain truth?”  “I think the data as we started to get it indicated angles
above 55 gave us increased ion results,” Flett said.  Increased Wear  Flett said that he joined DePuy to work on the ASR design
after spending 15 years working on automotive brake systems.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey ,  recalled  the hip
devices after saying U.K. data showed the ASR failed in more
than 12 percent of patients after five years. Kelly said
internal J&J documents show 37 percent of ASR hips failed after
4.6 years. An Australian joint registry showed that 44 percent
failed after seven years, he said.  Kelly, in his opening statement, displayed a DePuy document
from Sept. 27, 2007, describing how “massively increased wear”
can occur when the cup is “oriented at a steep angle.” The
 company  could “significantly redesign” the ASR to remove a
groove, or ridge, that was part of the cup’s design, according
to the document.  He referred to a May 2, 2008, e-mail in which Paul Berman,
DePuy’s head of U.S. marketing, said, “We will ultimately need
a cup redesign but the short-term action is manage
perceptions.”  ‘Project Alpha’  Kelly referred to a Berman e-mail on July 2, 2008, about
sales representatives “telling surgeons DePuy is making an
emergency change to the ASR cup. We must keep the ASR 2 project
under total wrap, particularly in the U.S. where we will not
make the change immediately. As expected, the competition will
use this information against us.”  Berman also wrote: “Lastly, I propose any future reference
to ASR 2 is Project Alpha. Please be cognizant about who you
discuss this project with, particularly outside the company.”  In testimony today, Flett said DePuy scrapped efforts to
redesign the ASR cup because of financial and business reasons.
He said that DePuy never told surgeons that the ASR failed and
required followup surgeries known as revisions at a rate that
was eight times that of another company hip device, the
Pinnacle.  “I don’t believe that was clinically relevant,” he said.  Flett also discussed a proposal to study the performance of
the ASR against the Pinnacle, another metal-on-metal device.  “This study seems like suicide to me,” he said in an e-
mail. Flett testified that he likened such a study to suicide
because “it will prove that one is better than the other and
they are both our products and that means one will be worse.”  Sales Stopped  He said DePuy stopped selling the device in late 2009.  “We didn’t see the sales of the product continuing the way
we wanted, so we took it off the market,” Flett said.  Another witness, Dr. George Samaras, testified as an expert
for Kransky’s lawyers and criticized DePuy’s failure mode and
effect analysis.  J&J said in January 2012 that it had spent about $800
million on hip recalls during the prior two years. J&J didn’t
provide an estimate of its product-liability costs.  The company offered to pay more than $200,000 a case to
settle most of the 10,000 lawsuits, according to five people
familiar with the matter. The cost could exceed $2 billion if
most plaintiffs accept the terms. Lawyers for hip recipients
rejected the offer, the people said.  J&J has said that Kransky’s claims of elevated metal levels
in his body can be traced to his other health problems. Kransky
smoked since he was 12 and was exposed to the defoliant chemical
 Agent Orange  when he served as a U.S. Air Force mechanic in
 Vietnam . He suffers from diabetes, coronary artery disease, high
 blood pressure , and  kidney disease . He had two strokes and
suffers from kidney cancer, according to the company.  The Kransky case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles at  mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  