-- J&J Failed Own Safety Test in Hip Design, Witness Says
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/j-j-failed-its-own-safety-test-in-hip-design-witness-testifies.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  failed its own
safety test in designing an all-metal hip implant and then
changed the protocol instead of fixing the flaw, a witness
testified in the first of 10,000 lawsuits to go to trial.  George Samaras, a consultant, testified yesterday for Loren
Kransky, who is suing J&J for defective design and failure to
warn over an ASR XL hip he had replaced last year. J&J recalled
93,000 ASR hips in 2010 after saying 12 percent failed within
five years. Another witness yesterday said Australian data last
year showed the hip failed at a 44 percent rate after seven
years. Analysts say the lawsuits could cost J&J billions of
dollars.  Samaras told jurors in state court in Los Angeles that
J&J’s DePuy unit failed the safety standard it set up for the
ASR hip cup, in which a metal ball atop the femur rotates. He
cited an internal document showing the ASR produced 16 times
more chromium and cobalt debris in the body than another DePuy
product. While DePuy’s review standards said the ASR should have
failed, the company said it passed, Samaras said.  “It’s horrible practice,” said Samaras, a biomedical
engineer who runs a consulting firm near Pueblo, Colorado.
“That’s not what good engineers do. You are playing games with
what the requirements for the device are.”  The  company  denies Kransky’s claims, including failure to
warn, defective design and negligent recall. In his opening
statement, Alexander Calfo, a lawyer for J&J, said the ASR was
properly designed. He said claims by Kransky, 65, of elevated
metal levels in his body can be traced to his many other health
problems, including diabetes, coronary artery disease, high
blood pressure, kidney disease, strokes and cancer.  Design Criteria  Samaras said DePuy’s original design criteria said the ASR
had to be at least as good as predecessor devices at the
company. When that failed, DePuy found other devices for
comparisons that put the ASR in a more favorable light, he said.  “They changed the test,” Samaras said. “They didn’t do
what they were supposed to do, which is change the design.”  Samaras appeared before John Baron, an epidemiologist at
Dartmouth Medical School testified that Australian national
registry data showed that the ASR XL failed at a rate of 22
percent after five years and 44 percent after seven years.  The five-year rate, he said, “hits you between the eyes.”  He also reviewed data from England, Wales and Sweden,
concluding that the failure rate is “extraordinarily high.”  ‘Higher Rate’  “The ASR XL total hip replacement fails at a much higher
rate than a typical hip replacement,” Baron said.  On cross-examination, J&J attorney Michael Zellers
suggested that the rate of replacement surgeries rose after the
negative publicity surrounding the recall.  “A surgeon would not remove a hip without a good reason,”
Baron said. “It would be far-fetched to say that publicity
regarding possible problems would lead a clinician to remove a
hip.”  Jurors also saw the videotaped testimony of Magnus Flett,
who led a DePuy design team and oversaw a group conducting a so-
called failure mode and effect analysis, or FMEA, of the cup.  Flett said DePuy scrapped efforts to redesign the ASR cup
because of financial and business reasons. He said that DePuy
never told surgeons that the ASR failed and required follow-up
surgeries known as revisions at a rate that was eight times that
of another company hip device, the Pinnacle.  “I don’t believe that was clinically relevant,” he said.  Flett also discussed a proposal to study the performance of
the ASR against the Pinnacle, another metal-on-metal device.  ‘Like Suicide’  “This study seems like suicide to me,” he said in a 2005
e-mail. Flett testified that he likened such a study to suicide
because “it will prove that one is better than the other and
they are both our products and that means one will be worse.”  He said DePuy stopped selling the ASR in late 2009.  “We didn’t see the sales of the product continuing the way
we wanted, so we took it off the market,” Flett said.  Kransky’s lawyers claim the implanted metal cups didn’t
stimulate ingrowth of surrounding bone, making them unstable in
the hip. They also claim the shallow design of the ASR cups, in
which a metal ball atop the femur rotates, led to toxic debris
of cobalt and chromium ions in the bloodstream.  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey,  recalled  the hip
devices after saying U.K. data showed the ASR failed in more
than 12 percent of patients after five years. A lawyer for
Kransky, Michael Kelly, told jurors in his opening statement
that internal J&J documents show 37 percent of ASR hips failed
after 4.6 years.  Montana Physician  After Samaras testified, jurors heard by videotape from
Daniel C. Brooke, a physician who practices in Kransky’s home
state of Montana. He testified about examining Kransky and
discussing a surgery to replace the ASR hip he had implanted in
December 2007. Kransky, a retired prison guard, had a so-called
revision surgery to remove the device in February 2012.  Brooke said that Kransky’s levels of chromium and cobalt
debris were “very alarming.” Kransky’s multiple medical
problems led the doctor to believe he might not survive the
surgery.  “Kransky was always honest with me,” Brooke said. “He
was an old man with a whole constellation of problems going on.
He didn’t want to have surgery. I think he thought it was going
to kill him.”  The Kransky case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles at  mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  