-- J-Lo Wasted in Lackluster ‘Parker’; Dated ‘Yossi’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/j-lo-wasted-in-lackluster-parker-dated-yossi-movies.html
Abundantly self-possessed and
beautiful, Jennifer Lopez hardly seems like a woman without
options.  Shoehorned into “ Parker ,” a treadmill of an action movie,
however, she weeps, shudders and strips as the film’s damsel in
distress.  Neither the quirk-free movie nor director Taylor Hackford
has a clue what to do with the brash Lopez.  Jason Statham plays Parker, the master thief with an ethical
streak and a lethal disposition who appeared in many of Donald
E. Westlake’s crime novels stretching back to 1962. (Westlake
wrote the Parker books under the pseudonym Richard Stark).  Like the film itself, pairing Statham and Lopez, who aren’t
given a romance, is an opportunity squandered. Lopez has more
fun with Patti LuPone, who plays Lopez’ flamboyant Cuban mother.  At his best (“ Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels ”), the
British Statham suggests a sly, below-the-surface danger. Just
as often, as in “Parker,” he’s merely furrow-browed and
humorless.  “I don’t steal from people who can’t afford it and don’t
hurt people who don’t deserve it,” Parker announces early, as if
to justify the violence to come.  Based on the novel “Flashfire,” published in 2000, “Parker”
follows its anti-hero’s quest for revenge and remuneration in
tony West Palm Beach. His one-time gang, headed by a
backstabbing boss (Michael Chiklis), is planning to steal $50
million in jewelry during a glitzy high society auction.  Robbing Robbers  Lopez plays Leslie, a Palm Beach realtor showing mansions to
Parker (disguised as a rich Texan in boots and Stetson).
Initially unaware that Parker is merely scouting for the home
where his old gang might be hiding out, Leslie soon catches on
and wants in on Parker’s rob-from-the-robbers scheme.  In the most dispiriting scene, the camera ogles Lopez as
Leslie stands in bra and panties for Parker’s inspection. That’s
only one of the film’s dated touches.  Worse, Hackford doesn’t offer the visual panache or clever
self-awareness that could turn this pedestrian genre film into
something with flourish.  Instead, “Parker” quickly settles into a lurching routine of
explosive, predictable set pieces.  The best of them opens the movie: a million-dollar robbery
of the Ohio State Fair that just might be the action genre’s
first use of farm animals.  “Parker,” from FilmDistrict, is playing across the U.S.
Rating: ** (Evans)  Sad ‘Yossi’  The way the Israeli drama “ Yossi ” treats the subject of gay
grief seems closer in spirit to the early ’60s (the era of
Christopher Isherwood’s similarly themed novel “A Single Man”
and the movie Tom Ford made from it) than to today.  The title character is the same moon-faced sad sack (played
by the same good actor, Ohad Knoller) who first appeared in
Eytan Fox’s 2002 story of love and death among soldiers, “ Yossi
and Jagger .”  Fox has set his sequel 10 years later. Yossi, now a
respected but standoffish doctor, is still grieving for Jagger
and still closeted.  Skillfully Paced  Why? The colleagues who try to break through his shell seem
like kind, open-minded people, not homophobes. If he told them
the truth, even the nurse with a crush on him would probably try
to set him up with an eligible man.  It’s a quiet, skillfully paced picture, but not terribly
smart. The solution it comes up with for Yossi’s solitude is the
same one that has marred a thousand other movies about
loneliness: a hunk (Oz Zehavi) who drops down out of nowhere and
spies the soul under Yossi’s middle-aged flab.  Since he’s young and out, the director may be trying to show
how attitudes and expectations vary between different
generations of gay men. What he’s really doing, though, is
selling the same tinsel fantasy the movies were pushing long
before Yossi and Jagger’s lips first met.  “Yossi,” from Strand Releasing, is playing in New York.
Rating: *** (Seligman)  Insect Monsters  I never did figure where the decapitated goon with the
swastika on his tongue at the beginning of “ John Dies at the
End ” fit into the plot. But since something vile or dire happens
every five minutes or so in this indie horror comedy, it didn’t
occur to me to wonder until it was over.  Written and directed by Don Coscarelli, from a novel by
David Wong, it has college-age kids battling insectoidal
monsters and extraterrestrial ghosts. The special effects --
arms bloodily detaching, bugs swarming out of headless necks --
are just good/bad enough to keep you laughing.  Inspired (at least in spirit) by the 1985 “ Re-Animator ,” and
full of its own re-animated corpses, the movie has a happy-go-
lucky trippiness that makes it a different beast from the
torture porn now dominating the horror box office.  “Re-Animator” was typical of fright films that quietly
establish their context in the first half so they can unleash a
nightmare in the second. “John Dies at the End” is structured
differently: It starts out unruly and maintains its high.  If the gross-outs fall short of the very best, well that’s
all right. It’s happy just to entertain.  “John Dies at the End,” from Magnet Releasing, is playing in
L.A. It opens in New York on Feb. 1. Rating: *** (Seligman)  (Greg Evans and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and Philip
Boroff on  theater .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 