-- Japan Atomic’s Tsuruga Nuclear Plant May Be on Active Fault
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-01-28T10:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/japan-atomic-s-tsuruga-plant-may-be-on-active-fault-nra-says.html
An earthquake fault line under  Japan 
Atomic Power Co.’s Tsuruga nuclear plant may be active, a report
commissioned by the Nuclear Regulation Authority concluded,
raising the likelihood it will be permanently shut.  The Tsuruga atomic station is one of six nuclear plants
being investigated for active  fault lines  as part of a safety
overhaul following the Fukushima disaster. Laws in Japan, which
experiences about 10 percent of the world’s earthquakes,
prohibit building reactors on active faults.  While the ruling today in a draft report indicates Japan
Atomic -- owned by utilities including Tokyo Electric Power Co.
and  Kansai Electric  Power Co. -- should decommission the plant,
the ruling can be appealed. All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors
are shut for safety checks.  “The crush zone running under the Tsuruga power station is
very likely an active fault,” according to the report. The NRA
may review the conclusion if the plant operator provides
“objective data that deny the possibility that the fault is
active” through additional investigation, the report said.  Today’s report focused on the Tsuruga No. 2 reactor and was
compiled by a team led by  Kunihiko Shimazaki , an NRA
commissioner, and four other scientists. The team in December
ran a two-day on-site survey at the plant about 30 kilometers
(18 miles) north of Lake Biwa, which supplies drinking water for
the Kansai region  ‘Totally Unacceptable’  The team made a preliminary assessment last month that the
fault was likely active, which Japan Atomic  said  at the time was
“totally unacceptable.” The company said it will carry out
studies to support its claim that the fault is inactive.  The NRA, which was set up after the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, is drawing up new rules on nuclear safety for release
in July, which leaves its present legal authority in limbo.  If faults under nuclear  power plants  are judged active, the
NRA doesn’t have legal authority to cancel a reactor
installation permit or shut down operating reactors before new
laws are implemented in July, Gyo Sato, the NRA’s spokesman,
said by phone today. The regulator can only use administrative
guidance to keep reactors idled, Sato said.  Japan Atomic would likely delay a decision to decommission
the reactor as long as possible, Hidetoshi Shioda, a Tokyo-based
senior energy analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. said by
phone today before the release of the draft. “The issue will
remain deadlocked,” he said.  Decommission Costs  Kansai Electric, which owns 18.54 percent of Japan Atomic,
may have to pay some of the costs if the 1,160-megawatt Tsuruga
No. 2 reactor is decommissioned, President Makoto Yagi said in
December. Decommissioning a reactor of that size may cost as
much as 56.6 billion yen ($622 million), the Federation of
Electric Power Companies, a group of Japan’s 10 regional
utilities, estimated in 2007.  Japan Atomic supplies electricity produced at Tsuruga and
its Tokai Dai-Ni nuclear plants to  five utilities  including
Tokyo Electric and  Kansai Electric (9503)  Power Co., according to the
company. Tokyo Electric, currently under the government’s
control, is the biggest stakeholder in Japan Atomic with 28.23
percent of  voting rights .  Tsuruga’s No. 2 unit started commercial operation in 1987.
The  No. 1 unit  in Tsuruga was Japan’s first commercial reactor
when it started up in 1970, according to the company. Both
reactors are offline for safety checks.  Safety Questions  The NRA draft will be completed after feedback from Japan
Atomic and a peer review by scientists who are investigating
faults under other plants, Shimazaki said at the meeting today.  The NRA report on reactor No. 2 will raise questions about
the safety of the No. 1 unit at the same plant, raising the bar
for restarting the reactor, Shioda said.  Japan Atomic’s Tokai Dai-Ni atomic plant is unlikely to be
restarted because of strong local opposition, Shioda said. The
Dai-Ni station lost external power during the March 11
earthquake and tsunami in 2011 that wrecked  Tokyo Electric ’s
Dai-Ichi station 110 kilometers north up the coast.  Japan’s guidelines for nuclear plants defines active faults
as those that may have moved in the past 120,000 to 130,000
years or later, according to the NRA.  That may change as in the NRA’s latest  draft  for safety
standards to be introduced in July, earthquake fault activity
may be pushed back to 400,000 years ago.  Tepco Revival?  Under that definition, faults under Tokyo Electric’s
Kashiwazaki Kariwa atomic plant, the world’s biggest, could be
judged active,  Kyodo News  reported last week. Restarting
Kashiwazaki is key to reviving Tokyo Electric, which was taken
over by the government after it was unable to meet liabilities
for the Fukushima nuclear accident.  The NRA is also investigating faults under five other
nuclear plants including Kansai Electric’s Ohi and Mihama
plants. Others are owned by Tohoku Electric Power Co.,  Hokuriku
Electric Power Co. (9505)  and Japan Atomic Energy Agency, according to
the regulator.  From early May to July last year, Japan was without nuclear
power as all its rectors were offline for safety checks and
maintenance.  That may repeat this year as Kansai Electric’s No. 3 and
No. 4 reactors at its Ohi plant, the only two running in Japan,
will be shut for maintenance in September as is required every
13 months for nuclear plants, Takahiro Senoh, the company’s
spokesman, said by phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  