-- Jennings Said to Be in Talks to Sell RAM to Management, Kazimir
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-01-28T14:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/jennings-said-to-be-in-talks-to-sell-ram-to-management-kazimir.html
Stephen Jennings , the co-founder of
Russian investment bank  Renaissance Capital  Ltd., is in talks to
sell his asset management firm, two people familiar with
knowledge the matter said.  The management of Renaissance Asset Managers, led by
President Plamen Monovksi, may acquire control of the firm, with
Kazimir Partners Ltd. taking a minority stake, said the people,
who requested anonymity because the discussions are private.  Jennings, 52, left Renaissance Capital in November after
his billionaire partner,  Mikhail Prokhorov , 47, rebuffed
requests for additional cash. A New Zealand native, Jennings
surrendered his stake in RenCap and kept control of the group’s
asset management unit, urban development projects in Africa,
 consumer lending  in Nigeria and real estate funds in Russia,
according to statements from Renaissance Group and Onexim,
Prokhorov’s investment holding.  Monovski and Frank Mosier, the managing partner for
Kazimir, declined to comment on a possible buyout. Jennings
couldn’t be reached on his Russian mobile phone or through the
London offices of Renaissance Asset Managers. “We do not
comment on market speculation or rumor,” Mary Zerner, a
spokeswoman for the  fund manager  in London, said by e-mail.  Founded in 2003, Renaissance Asset Managers employs more
than 50 people and oversees $2.8 billion in emerging markets,
according to its website. Macquarie Renaissance, a joint venture
infrastructure fund with $630 million of assets, is not part of
the sale, the people said. Damian Secen, head of Macquarie
Capital for Russia, declined to comment by e-mail.  Kazimir Partners was founded in 2002 by Mosier and Dmitri Kryukov, both former senior executives at RenCap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net  