-- Jones Day, DLA, Sullivan & Cromwell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-28T11:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/jones-day-sullivan-cromwell-business-of-law.html
Mergers and acquisitions lawyer
Wesley R. Johnson Jr. was named partner-in-charge of  Jones Day ’s
 New York  office. Johnson succeeds Willis Goldsmith, who led
Jones Day in New York since January 2008. Goldsmith will
continue his practice advising clients on labor and employment
matters as a partner in New York.  Johnson’s practice focuses on cross-border mergers and
acquisitions. He first joined Jones Day’s Paris Office in 1986,
where he was partner-in-charge from 1994 to 2010.  His transactions have included French clients such as
France Telecom/Orange, Alcatel-Lucent, Société Générale,  Credit
Agricole , Sanofi, Veolia, Total, and PSA Peugeot-Citroen. He has
also advised U.S. clients on their European investments and
Chinese clients including China Investment Corp., Sinochem, and
China Guangdong Nuclear Power Corporation, the firm said.  Steve Brogan, managing partner of Jones Day, said in a
statement that Johnson’s management experience in Paris makes
him “extremely well suited to lead our New York office, the
largest office in the firm and one that is marked by the highest
levels of competency in all disciplines necessary to respond to
client needs in New York and to do so with real efficiency.”  Jones Day’s New York office opened in 1986 and has grown to
almost 300 lawyers, making it the firm’s largest. The office is
home to leaders of eight of the firm’s global practices: banking
and finance, business restructuring and reorganization,  capital
markets , corporate criminal investigations, financial
institutions litigation and regulation, intellectual property,
mergers and acquisitions, and securities litigation and SEC
enforcement, the firm said.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 37 offices
throughout the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Labor and Employment Firms Expand in San Diego and Michigan  Two labor and employment firms expanded last week with new
offices. Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC opened an
office in San Diego, headed by litigator Spencer Skeen, who
moved to the firm from Fisher & Phillips LLP.  Jackson Lewis LLP opened an office in Grand Rapids,
 Michigan , and hired partner Timothy J. Ryan and counsel Linda L.
Ryan, both formerly with Kotz Sangster Wysocki PC. The office
will be overseen by Maurice Jenkins, who is the managing partner
of Jackson Lewis’s office in Detroit as well.  Ogletree’s San Diego office is the firm’s fifth in
California and 43rd to house its 650 lawyers. The new office is
the fourth the firm has opened in less than a year. Jackson
Lewis has 750 attorneys at 51 U.S. locations.  News  DLA Piper to Close Glasgow Office, Sell Insurance Practice  DLA Piper LLP and  Allen & Overy  LLP are among international
law firms moving jobs to cheaper locations or cutting positions
to reduce costs.  DLA Piper plans to close its office in Glasgow,  Scotland ,
and sell its defendant-insurance practice, spokesman  Nick Bell 
said in a statement Jan. 26. The firm is also shrinking its
multi-site document-production unit, he said.  Earlier this month, the firm opened an office in  Seoul ,
headed by Daniel Lee, managing partner for  Korea . DLA Piper has
a total of about 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries.  The closing of the firm’s Glasgow office comes as some
global law firms restructure their workforces. Allen & Overy is
transferring 43 support staff to Belfast from continental Europe
and the U.S., the firm said in a statement Jan. 26.  The office was opened in 2011 to provide support services
that were previously based in the firm’s London headquarters at
a lower cost, the firm said. Allen & Overy is offering
relocation packages to its staff in an effort to minimize job
losses, according to the statement.  “We understand that these changes will be difficult for
those of our staff in each location who are affected, and we are
committed to supporting them and treating them fairly,” Allen &
Overy global managing partner Wim Dejonghe said. “But with low
economic growth across many developed markets, we must ensure we
are operating in a way that will deliver the cost efficiencies
our clients expect of us.”  Another U.K. law firm, Eversheds LLP, has proposed a plan
to close its 29-person Copenhagen office and open one in
Beijing, the Financial Times reported Jan. 26.  Deals  AT&T to Buy Spectrum From Verizon Wireless for $1.9 Billion  Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP advised  AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, on its agreement to acquire
airwaves from larger rival  Verizon Wireless  for $1.9 billion,
helping bolster its network in a region that covers 42 million
people. Verizon’s in-house lawyers worked on the deal according
to two people familiar with the matter.  The 700-megahertz spectrum spans 18 states, including
California, Texas, New York and Florida, AT&T said Jan. 25 in  a
regulatory filing . The deal is expected to be completed in the
second half of 2013.  The Sullivan & Cromwell team includes Los Angeles mergers
and acquisitions partner Eric M. Krautheimer.  The Dallas-based company will use the airwaves to build out
its next-generation network, which relies on a technology called
long-term evolution, or LTE. AT&T plans to reach 300 million
people in the U.S. with its LTE network by the end of 2014.  Verizon is selling airwaves to its biggest competitor after
forging a separate spectrum deal with cable companies. Verizon
won regulatory approval last year for a $3.6 billion acquisition
of unused airwaves from Comcast Corp.,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
and other cable providers.  Verizon said last April that it would sell other spectrum
if regulators allowed the company to complete the cable deal.
Advocacy groups such as  Public Knowledge  and Free Press had
opposed the cable transaction, saying it wouldn’t promote
competition in the telecommunications industry.  For more, click here.  Moves  Lateral Partner Moves Round-Up: Jones Day, Duane Morris  Jones Day expanded its German banking and finance practice
with the addition of three new partners from  White & Case  LLP.
Annica Lindegren in  Frankfurt  and Nick Wittek join in Frankfurt,
while Ulf Kreppel joins the firm in Munich. Lindegren was co-
head of the bank finance practice at White & Case from 2001.
Kreppel has led the White & Case structured finance practice
since 2003, the firm said. Wittek’s practice focuses on
structured finance and banking regulation and compliance.  “The arrival of this strong team of banking and finance
lawyers demonstrates that we have become one of the most
attractive firms for high-profile practitioners in Germany.
Jones Day’s ’One Firm Worldwide’ culture, based on team effort,
collegiality, and putting clients first, is more compelling
today than ever before,” Angsar Rempp, partner-in-charge of
Jones Day Germany, said in a statement.  Duane Morris LLP hired David A. Sussman in the firm’s
corporate practice group as a partner in its Newark office. He
joins the firm from Day Pitney LLP, where he was co-chair of
that firm’s private equity and investment funds practice group.
Sussman advises investment advisers and others in connection
with launching investment partnerships, including  hedge funds ,
private equity funds, venture capital funds and real estate
funds.  Mayer Brown LLP announced that William T. Heller IV and
Harry R. Beaudry have joined the firm as partners in its
corporate and securities practice in Houston. Previously, Heller
and Beaudry were partners at Thompson & Knight LLP. Heller
represents clients in corporate and securities law matters, with
a focus on the  energy industry , including oilfield services and
upstream oil and gas. Beaudry represents clients in public and
private offerings of equity and debt securities, mergers and
acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and divestitures of
businesses.  Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP LLP hired Matthew R. Nicely in
its international trade department as a partner in  Washington .
Nicely was most recently a partner and head of the international
trade and customs practice group at Thompson Hine LLP.  Reed Smith LLP  hired Jeff Legault as a partner in its
corporate and securities practice in the firm’s New York office.
Legault was previously a partner in the private equity group of
Goodwin Procter LLP.  Laura M. Burson has joined Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton LLP as a partner in the firm’s intellectual property
practice group, in the firm’s  Los Angeles  office. Burson joins
from Kirkland & Ellis LLP in Los Angeles.  Intellectual property law firm Oblong Spivak LLP hired an
electrical practice group from Oliff & Berridge, Plc. The group
includes partner John S. Kern, as well as an associate and a
technical specialist.  Kleinberg, Kaplan, Wolff & Cohen PC announced that Claudio
A. De Vellis has joined the firm in the estate planning and
administration practice as a partner from Smith, Gambrell &
Russell, LLP. He brings an associate with him from the firm.  Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP is expanding its tax practice
with the addition of Anthony Boggs, who joins as a partner in
Atlanta. He was previously a partner at Bryan Cave LLP. Boggs
will provide tax-related legal services across the firm’s key
practice areas including real estate, real estate capital
markets, international trade, corporate mergers and acquisitions
and technology.  Litigation  Obama Labor Board Recess Appointments Invalid, Court Rules  President  Barack Obama ’s recess appointments to the U.S.
National Labor Relations Board last year were “constitutionally
invalid” because the Senate wasn’t in recess at the time, a
federal appeals court ruled.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington in a unanimous
ruling Jan. 25 sided with Republican lawmakers and a canning
company that challenged the appointments. The judges said the
definition of “the Recess” in the Constitution’s Recess
Appointments Clause is limited to the period between one session
of Congress and the next, and that Congress had begun a new
session at the time the president made the appointments.  Noel Francisco of Jones Day, who represented the canning
company challenging the appointments, said anyone subject to
regulations created by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
would be able to file a lawsuit in Washington challenging them
under the argument that Cordray’s appointment was invalid.  The ruling is the first substantive decision by a federal
appeals court on several challenges to the president’s naming of
the NLRB members on Jan. 4, 2012, while the Senate was holding
so-called pro-forma sessions that sometimes involved a single
senator appearing in the chamber every third day.  To prevent Obama from making appointments after Congress
started a holiday break last December, House and Senate
Republicans refused to adopt a resolution to formally adjourn.  Congressional Republicans  were seeking to block the
president from appointing former Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  as the first head of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, having refused a confirmation vote since he was
nominated in July 2011.  Obama put Cordray in the post on the same day as the NRLB
board members. That appointment is also being contested in a
lawsuit in federal court in Washington. Obama renominated
Cordray Jan. 24.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  and 41 other
Republican senators filed briefs challenging the NLRB
appointments, and McConnell attended oral arguments in the case.  Mark Pearce, the chairman of the NLRB, said in a statement
that the board will continue to issue decisions while more than
a dozen similar challenges are pending in other courts.  The labor board’s website lists more than 200 decisions
issued since Jan. 4, 2012 when the recess appointments were
made.  For more, click here.  Video  Article Notes Possible Avenue for Disciplining Law Schools  Fifteen law schools have been sued by their graduates for
publishing allegedly fraudulent employment data. The graduates
have yet to win any of the cases.  Professor Ben Trachtenberg, of University of Missouri
School of Law, may have another way for the graduates to
prevail.  In a forthcoming law review article, he notes that the
Model Rules of Professional Conduct prohibit lawyers from
engaging in dishonesty and misrepresentation, even beyond the
practice of law. Many law school officials are licensed
attorneys and are subject to professional discipline. He points
out that lawyers with first-hand knowledge of the alleged
misconduct have a duty to report them.  Trachtenberg believes that a bar ethics complaint could
provide a measure of justice and, if successful, have a
significant effect on the marketing practices of American law
schools.  To see the video, click here.  Law Professor: Schools May Close if 2-Year Program Adopted  A proposal to allow students to leave law school after two
years, take the bar and practice could lead to fewer law
schools, according to one of its authors, Professor Samuel
Estreicher of  New York University School of Law .  Under the plan, only students who remain for the
traditional third year would actually receive a law degree.
Another consequence of the proposal is that some schools might
increase tuition to make up for the revenue lost by students
taking only two years of classes. But because tuition costs are
already so high that “I don’t think most schools have that
ability,” he says. “Even the great brand schools will not have
the ability to jack up their price much more.”  But the proposal would also significantly trim student debt
levels, making it easier for students to serve low-income
clients. “I see this as an access to justice proposal,” he
said. Professor Estreicher speaks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee
Pacchia.  To see the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 