-- JPMorgan Sells Euro Bonds in Slowest New Issue Start Since 2008
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-28T16:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/jpmorgan-sells-bonds-as-new-issues-make-slowest-start-since-2008.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which sold 10-
year dollar bonds at a record low 3.2 percent two weeks ago,
priced similar-maturity notes in euros as debt sales in the
currency head for the slowest January since 2008.  The largest  U.S. bank  by assets, which last issued euro
debt in November, sold 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of bonds
to yield 95 basis points above the swap rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the 155 basis-point
spread  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  paid on 10-year debt it sold
Jan. 25.  Banks are poised to overtake industrial companies as the
safest borrowers in the $5.1 trillion U.S. corporate bond market
for the first time since the start of the financial crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors demand an
extra 154 basis points in yield over benchmarks to buy bonds of
JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co . and other lenders, compared with 138
basis points for companies from  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  to Ford Motor Co.,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Financials are perhaps dominating sales so far this year
as they issued about 30 percent less debt in 2012 than they had
in redemptions,” said Jonathan Pitkanen, the London-based head
of credit research at  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . “The
macro environment in  Europe  doesn’t look to be improving which
is why perhaps investors are becoming more wary of buying the
bonds of non-financial corporates.”  Interest Payments  The cost for banks to convert euro interest payments into
dollars is holding near a 20-month low. The three-month cross-
currency basis swap was little changed at 14 basis points below
Euribor, the lowest cost to swap since May 2011.  JPMorgan’s 1.5 billion euros of 2.75 percent bonds due in
10 years which it sold in August yield 83 basis points more than
swaps, 17 tighter than at issue, Bloomberg data show. The spread
on Goldman Sachs’ 3.25 percent debt due February 2023 has
tightened five basis points since issue last week.  Patrick Burton, a spokesman for JPMorgan in London,
declined to comment.  Today’s sales lift corporate bond issuance in euros and
pounds to 60.1 billion euros ($80.8 billion) so far this year,
the slowest start to a year since 2008 when 34 billion euros
were issued in the first three weeks of January, according to
Bloomberg data.  BASF SE (BAS)  offered the only non-financial benchmark-sized bond
in the single currency, Bloomberg data show. It priced 500
million euros of eight-year notes to yield 38 basis points more
than swaps, the tight end of the 40 basis point range initially
marketed, a person with knowledge of that deal said.  ‘Good Value’  “There has been lots of seven-year to 10-year maturity
issuance which is desirable if you are a treasurer but
introduces an element of volatility for investors versus more
traditional five-year paper,” said Jens Vanbrabant, lead
portfolio manager at London-based investment firm ECM Asset 
Management Ltd. “Nevertheless there are areas that still 
represent good value.”  In derivatives markets, the Markit iTraxx Financial Index
of credit-default swaps on the senior debt of banks and insurers
rose one basis point to 136 at 3:35 p.m. in  London . The Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings increased one basis point to 106.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield ratings added two basis
points to 422.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  