-- Kansas Wheat Ratings Fall to 20% Good-Excellent on Drought
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-01-28T22:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/kansas-wheat-ratings-fall-to-20-good-excellent-on-drought-1-.html
Wheat  ratings  in  Kansas , the biggest
U.S. producer of winter varieties, fell from a month earlier as
the worst drought since the 1930s persists, cutting prospects
for crops that are in dormancy for the winter.  The crop was rated 20 percent good or excellent as of
yesterday, down from 24 percent on Dec. 30, the. Department of
Agriculture said today. Little rain has fallen in parts of
Kansas since October, National Weather Service data show. The
drought has caused storms reminiscent of the Dust Bowl era.
Livestock are also being hurt, the USDA said.  “Limited moisture in most areas caused the condition of
the winter wheat to decline during January,” the report said.
“Due to the lack of significant rainfall, many producers are
hauling water for livestock and are concerned about pasture
conditions and low or dried stock pond levels.”  Wheat futures on the Kansas City Board of Trade have gained
0.2 percent this month to $8.3275 a bushel after rising 1.4
percent the past two sessions. Cattle futures surged 2 percent
today, the most in six months, after the drought caused the
price of  animal feed  to jump last year.  The U.S. winter-wheat crop was rated 29 percent good or
excellent on Nov. 23, the last nationwide report before the
grain went dormant for the winter, the lowest since at least
1985 when the USDA began keeping records.  Beef output in the U.S., the world’s largest producer, will
drop to a nine-year low after the drought spurred ranchers to
cull animals. The herd dropped to 97.8 million head as of July
1, the smallest for the date in at least 39 years, the latest
government data show.  Wheat in  Oklahoma  was rated 5 percent good and zero percent
excellent as of yesterday, down from 11 percent good and zero
percent excellent a month earlier, the USDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  