-- Kenya Shilling Falls After Worst Week Since June on Vote Concern
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-01-28T16:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/kenya-shilling-falls-after-worst-week-since-june-on-vote-concern.html
- Kenya’s shilling depreciated,
adding to its worst week in almost eight months, as business
demand for dollars to settle month-end bills outweighed attempts
by the central bank to support the local currency.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy retreated as
much as 0.3 percent to 87.73 a dollar and traded 0.1 percent
down at 87.55 a dollar at the close in Nairobi. The shilling
slid 0.7 percent last week, the worst performance since the
period ended June 1.  The Central Bank of Kenya has sold dollars for five
consecutive days amid concern the shilling will weaken further
before elections in March. The currency may slide to 88.56 a
dollar over the next five weeks as businesses accumulate dollars
before the poll in case it triggers violence, according to the
mean estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of eight analysts and
traders on Jan. 23.  “The shilling is under pressure on increased demand for
dollars as businesses prepare to settle their month-end
obligations,” Duncan Kinuthia, the head of trading at
Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said by phone from Nairobi. The
central bank action “has not provided much support to the
shilling as there is real demand in the market and it will
continue to be on the back foot in the coming days,” he said.  An official in the bank’s foreign-exchange department, who
asked not to be identified in line with policy, confirmed the
dollar sales when contacted by phone today.  Kenya ’s trade gap in November widened as the discovery of
the first crude oil deposit boosted demand for imports of
machinery and equipment. The deficit reached 83.8 billion
shillings ($957.2 million) compared with 81.8 billion shillings
in the same month a year earlier and 62.4 billion shillings in
October, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said in a
 report  on its website.  Foreign-exchange reserves declined to $5.18 billion for the
week ended Jan 24, from $5.26 billion previous week, the central
bank said on its website on Jan 25.  Tanzania’s shilling rallied 0.1 percent to 1,610 a dollar,
while the Ugandan shilling was unchanged at 2,670 a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  