-- Keryx Rises on Results of Phosphorous-Lowering Drug Study
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-28T21:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/keryx-rises-on-results-of-phosphorous-lowering-drug-study.html
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals Inc. (KERX)  rose
the most in almost four years after the company’s drug to help
patients with  kidney failure  remove excess phosphorous from
their bodies met goals in final-phase studies.  Keryx increased 77 percent to $6.06 at the close in New
York, for its biggest gain since April 2009. Keryx’s ferric
citrate, a phosphate binder drug the New York-based company
proposes calling Zerenex, is intended for patients on dialysis.  Zerenex demonstrated a “highly statistically significant
change” in phosphorus levels versus placebo over a four-week
assessment period, Keryx said in a statement today. The
medication also decreased the need for intravenous iron and
erythropoiesis-stimulating agents, such as  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Aranesp
and Epogen that each generated revenue of about $2 billion in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is a clear need for viable alternatives to the
marketed phosphate binders, and Zerenex can play a major role by
not only providing adequate phosphate binding, but also
providing additional benefits,” Julia Lewis, a professor of
medicine at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine in
Nashville, Tennessee, and study chair of the Zerenex Phase III
registration program, said in the statement.  Zerenex also appeared safe and well tolerated, according to
the statement. Keryx said it expects to file by the second
quarter an application to obtain a marketing review from the
 Food and Drug Administration  and the European Medicines Agency.  Sanofi (SAN) , based in Paris, also makes a phosphate binder,
called Renvela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  