-- Korean Won Falls Most in 16 Months on Outflows: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-01-28T06:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/korean-won-falls-most-in-four-months-on-outflows-bonds-decline.html
South Korea’s won fell the most in
16 months after foreign investors stepped up sales of the
nation’s stocks and the yen’s weakness fanned concern policy
makers will intervene to support exports.  Overseas funds sold more of the nation’s  equities  than they
bought today following net sales of $457 million on Jan. 25, the
biggest reduction in their holdings since November 2011,
exchange data show. Korean officials hinted last week that they
would boost measures to curb gains in the won, which
strengthened 8.3 percent in 2012 and touched a 17-month high on
Jan. 15. The yen today reached its weakest level in 2 1/2 years
versus the dollar. South Korea’s government bonds declined.  “Investors were shorting the dollar after continued
selling of stocks by foreign funds increase demand for the
dollar,” said Han Sung Min, a currency dealer at Busan Bank in
Seoul. “There seems to be no ceiling as to where the won-dollar
rate could reach.”  The won tumbled 1.7 percent to close at 1,092.63 per dollar
in  Seoul , its biggest loss since Sept. 26, 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 1.6 percent last week, the
most since May, and has retreated 2.6 percent so far this month.
The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent bonds due September
2017 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, today to
2.84 percent, Korea Exchange prices show.  Intervention Risk  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said last week won
appreciation had been too steep and the government was “all
ready” for new measures to address this. Central bank Governor
Kim Choong Soo said Jan. 14 the nation will take an “active”
response on the won if needed. Measures to slow the won’s
appreciation could include “smoothing operations,” Kim said,
adding authorities should act to normalize the exchange rate.  Sharp fluctuations in foreign capital flows are a key
concern, given the country’s reliance on trade, Ha Sung Keun, a
board member of the South Korean central bank, told reporters in
Seoul today.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , South Korea’s biggest exporter,
said last week a stronger currency may cut 2013 operating profit
by more than 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion). Appreciation is
expected to continue for the “time being,” Robert Yi,
Samsung’s senior vice president, said on a conference call on
Jan. 25, after announcing fourth-quarter earnings.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , the nation’s biggest automaker, reported
last week a 5.5 percent drop in profit for the fourth quarter, a
period in which the won led gains among major currencies with a
4.5 percent advance. “The magnitude of the won’s appreciation
will probably intensify toward the second half of this year,”
Chief Financial Officer Lee Won Hee said in a Jan. 24 conference
call.  North Korea  South Korea last year tightened limits on use of currency
forwards by banks as won gains threatened exports. From Dec. 1,
positions at overseas lenders were capped at 150 percent of
equity, down from 200 percent previously. The ceiling for
domestic banks was cut to 30 percent from 40 percent.  Tensions with North Korea are helping weaken the won, which
today fell for a fourth day, the longest losing streak since
August. The North’s leader Kim Jong Un vowed to defend his
country against hostility from the U.S. after the totalitarian
state said last week it planned to test a nuclear weapon. Kim
supported government statements that “powerful physical
countermeasures would be taken to defend” the dignity and
sovereignty of the nation, the official Korean Central News
Agency said in a report yesterday.  North Korea  “Concern that authorities will introduce regulations to
stem currency appreciation on top of continued fund outflows are
keeping the won weaker,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst
at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “The yen’s decline is also
weakening the won. Investors also remain worried about
geopolitical risks on North Korea’s nuclear test.”  One-month implied volatility in the won, a gauge of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
surged 200 basis points today to 8.63 percent. That’s the
biggest jump since November 2010.  One-month non-deliverable forwards in the won slumped for a
fourth day, falling 0.9 percent to 1,093.39 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency will
appreciate to 1,050 per dollar by the end of June, according to
the median of 29 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Three
months ago, the expectation was for an exchange rate of 1,100.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  