-- Kuwait Parliament Panel Moves to Bail Out Indebted Citizens
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-01-28T06:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/kuwait-parliament-panel-moves-to-bail-out-indebted-citizens.html
A Kuwaiti parliament panel approved
writing off interest payments on bank loans taken by nationals
over five years, in another attempt by lawmakers to bail out
indebted citizens in the oil-rich country.  The finance and economic committee voted in favor of
scrapping the interest on loans taken between January 2002 and
April 2008, the state-run  Kuwait News Agency  reported. The
committee also approved a proposal granting 1,000 dinars
($3,550) to each Kuwaiti who hasn’t taken a loan, the agency
reported, citing committee member Safaa al-Hashem.  The proposal to write off interest payments, which is
opposed by the government, still requires approval of the house.
Central Bank Governor Mohammed al-Hashel said the interest on
loans is an estimated $6 billion, the  news agency  reported on
Jan. 13.  Previous attempts at passing such a law have failed. In
2010, the government refused to endorse a bill that would have
cost the state about $23 billion to buy personal loans and
write-off accumulated interest. The government said at the time
the measure was unconstitutional and threatened the stability of
the country’s banking system. Finance Minister Mustafa al- Shimali has repeatedly said the government has no intention of
supporting such proposals.  ‘Bribing the Citizen’  “Here in  Kuwait , the homeland is rights without duties,
and the conflict is about bribing the citizen while the economy
depends entirely on oil exports, which is a temporary and
unstable source,” Kuwait-based  Al-Shall Economic Consultants 
said in a report Jan. 27. “Any talk about dropping loans or
their interest is a call for more borrowing, or a call for
abandoning prudence in managing the family or the citizen’s
budget. What is spent to finance this proposal is deduction from
an asset, and is not the outcome of an economic activity.”  In 2007, the government set up a fund to help retail
borrowers repay their loans. The central bank governor said in
October that about 26,000 Kuwaitis who had registered with the
fund had received interest-free loans of 420 million dinars,
adding that he was opposed to scrapping interest payments on
citizens’ debts.  Kuwait, the fourth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, posted a record budget surplus of
13.2 billion dinars in the last fiscal year as oil production
and prices rose. The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts
economic growth at 1.8 percent this year, down from estimated
growth of 6.6 percent in 2012. The country will exhaust all oil
revenue by 2017 if the government’s current spending policy
continues, the IMF said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  