-- Nadal Out of Top Four, Serena Williams Rises on Rankings
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-28T11:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/nadal-out-of-top-four-serena-williams-rises-on-rankings.html
Rafael Nadal  dropped out of the top
four of men’s tennis for the first time since 2005, while  Serena Williams  moved to No. 2 on the rankings of the women’s tour.  Eleven-time major singles champion Nadal, who has been
sidelined with a knee injury since June, slipped one spot to No.
5 on the rankings of the ATP World Tour published today.  David Ferrer, who reached the last four at the Australian
Open, is now the highest-ranked Spaniard at No. 4. The top three
is unchanged from two weeks ago. Novak Djokovic of Serbia
remains the world’s best male tennis player after he took his
third straight Australian Open title against Britain’s  Andy Murray  yesterday. Wimbledon champion  Roger Federer  of
Switzerland, who was beaten by Murray in the semifinals, is
ranked second, while Murray is third.  Williams moved up one spot to close in on Victoria Azarenka
of Belarus, who secured the No. 1 ranking by retaining her
Australian Open title two days ago. French Open winner  Maria Sharapova  of Russia dropped one place to No. 3 after losing in
the semifinals in Melbourne to Li Na of China, who climbed one
spot to No. 5.  American teenager Sloane Stephens, who made headlines in
Melbourne by ousting Williams on her way to her first Grand Slam
semifinal, jumped eight places to No. 17.  Seven-time French Open winner Nadal, 26, missed the London
Olympics, the U.S. Open and this month’s  Australian Open  as he
struggled with a knee injury, and shortly before Melbourne, a
stomach virus.  The former world No. 1 is scheduled to make his comeback to
the Tour on Feb. 4 at Vina del Mar, Chile. He’s also committed
to playing in Sao Paulo a week after that, and in Acapulco,
Mexico, on Feb. 25. All these events are on clay, where Nadal’s
had his most success, winning 36 titles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 