-- Natural Gas Tumbles Most in 3 Months on Weather as BofA Sees $3
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-01-28T20:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/natural-gas-drops-to-two-week-low-on-milder-weather-forecasts.html
Natural gas futures in  New York 
dropped the most in more than three months on revised forecasts
for mild mid-February weather that would reduce demand for the
heating fuel.  Gas tumbled 4.5 percent after Commodity Weather Group LLC
predicted above-normal temperatures in the eastern half of the
U.S. from Feb. 7 through Feb. 11. Earlier outlooks had shown
lower-than-usual readings. Gas may fall to $3 per million
British thermal units after the winter to spur power demand and
reduce supplies, Bank of America Corp. said.  “The revised forecasts came in warmer and that’s putting
some pressure on the market,” said Tom Doremus, an analyst at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’re seeing some
near-term relief from last week’s cold.”  Natural gas for February delivery fell 15.5 cents to settle
at $3.289 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the biggest percentage decline since Oct.
22 and the lowest close since Jan. 10. The futures have slipped
1.9 percent this month.  Trading volume was 2.6 percent below the 100-day average at
2:42 p.m., down from more than double the average earlier in the
session.  February $3.35 calls were the most active gas options in
electronic trading. They were 9.6 cents lower at 0.1 cent on
volume of 2,159 contracts as of 2:56 p.m. Calls accounted for 49
percent of options volume.  Stockpile Glut  Gas prices  may fall in the spring to reduce “persistently
high” stockpiles, Sabine Schels, an analyst at Bank of America
Corp. in  London , said in a note to clients today.  “We expect future rallies to be short-lived as
fundamentals are not constructive yet,” Schels said.
“Inventories will likely enter the injection season at almost 2
tcf, the second-highest level ever.”  Gas inventories totaled 2.996 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended Jan. 18, according to the Energy Information
Administration, an arm of the Energy Department. Supplies were
12 percent above the five-year average and 5 percent below last
year’s level for the period.  Net-long wagers on four U.S. natural gas contracts advanced
by 43,288 futures equivalents, or 56 percent, to 120,021 in the
week ended Jan. 22, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data released Jan. 25. It was the highest level since
the week ended Nov. 27.  CFTC Contracts  The measure includes an index of four contracts adjusted to
futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas futures, Nymex  Henry Hub 
Swap Futures, Nymex ClearPort Henry Hub Penultimate Swaps and
the ICE Futures U.S. Henry Hub contract. Henry Hub, in Erath,
 Louisiana , is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark
price for the fuel.  The low in New York on Feb. 9 may be 39 degrees Fahrenheit
(4 Celsius), 11 more than average, according to  AccuWeather Inc .
in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The low in  Cleveland  may be 33
degrees, 8 higher than normal. About 50 percent of U.S.
households use gas for heating.  Last year was the warmest in records going back to 1895 for
the 48 contiguous U.S. states and the second-worst for weather
extremes including drought, hurricanes and wildfires, according
to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  Gas output in the lower-48 states rose to an all-time high
in October as more of the fuel was pumped from shale formations
in the Northeast and  North Dakota , the EIA said Jan. 7.  Gross production increased 0.4 percent to 73.54 billion
cubic feet a day from a revised 73.22 billion in September, the
administration said in the monthly  EIA-914 report .  Production Record  Supplies from the “other states” category rose 1.8
percent to 23.94 billion cubic feet a day from a revised 23.51
billion in September. Production in that region advanced “as
operators reported new wells coming online in the Marcellus and
Bakken shale plays,” the agency said.  Output rose to an all-time high of 28.5 trillion cubic feet
in 2011, led by record output from shale deposits, the EIA said
in a separate report Jan. 7. Shale accounted for 30 percent of
total production in 2011, up from 22 percent the previous year.  The boom in oil and natural gas production helped the U.S.
cut its reliance on imported fuel. America met 83 percent of its
energy needs in the first nine months of last year, government
data show. If the trend lasted through 2012, it will be the
highest level of self-sufficiency since 1991.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Kinder Morgan  Inc. announced
their intention to form a company to export liquefied natural
gas from a site in  Georgia .  LNG Exports  The proposed liquefaction project would be at an existing
El Paso Pipeline Partners LP import terminal at Elba Island,
near Savannah, according to a statement today. El Paso Pipeline,
controlled by Houston-based Kinder Morgan, will own 51 percent
of the entity and operate the facility. Shell, based in  The
Hague , will own 49 percent and buy all of its output. Project
costs weren’t disclosed.  There are eight proposed LNG export terminals in the U.S.
seeking permits allowing processing of more than 12 billion
cubic feet a day, according to the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission . That doesn’t include the Cheniere Energy Inc.’s
Sabine Pass facility in Louisiana, which already has regulatory
permits and may begin exports in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  