-- New Billionaire’s Wealth Pumped by China Power Generator
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-28T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/new-billionaire-s-wealth-pumped-by-china-power-generator.html
Cao Kejian, chairman of  Zhejiang
Kaishan Compressor Co. (300257) , became a billionaire since the start of
this year after shares of  China ’s largest air compressor maker
climbed more than 50 percent in four months on a new product.  The company has manufactured a new screw expander, power-
generating machinery that helps convert water and exhaust gas to
electricity, the company said in a Jan. 7 statement. It will
start selling it globally.  “Kaishan’s technology is market leading globally and it
has cost and distribution network advantages,” said Xu Minle, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Bank of China International. He has a
“buy” rating on the shares and attributes the stock’s gain to
investors’ anticipation of the new product.  Cao, 50, has a net worth of $1.1 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. His wealth consists of 52 percent
of Shenzhen-listed Kaishan Compressor and all of closely held
Kaishan Group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The screw expander will be sold to mines, chemical plants,
 steel mills  and other industrial companies. It makes electricity
using water above 80 degrees Celsius (176 degrees Fahrenheit),
which is produced in the cooling process at a factory and is
usually wasted. While a typical compressor pressurizes air to
create heat, the screw expander uses heat from the water to
produce kinetic energy.  Kaishan’s predecessor was  founded  in 1956 as the Communist
Party consolidated companies that were previously privately
held. It reverted back to a private company in 1998 as China’s
policy makers allowed market economics to take hold.  Raising Stakes  Cao, chairman since 1998, has increased his stake in the
company over the years. He owns 81 percent in Kaishan Group,
which owns 56 percent in Kaishan Compressor, and has 6.5 percent
in the listed company directly, according to Kaishan’s latest
annual report in 2011. He declined to comment on his wealth.  Zhejiang Kaishan Compressor sold  shares  on China’s Nasdaq-
like ChiNext in August 2011. Its shares have lost about 6
percent since the initial public offering. Profit may rise as
much as 10 percent to 323 million  yuan  ($52 million) in 2012, it
said in a Jan. 22 filing to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange.  The group, headquartered in Quzhou in eastern China’s
Zhejiang province, has about 6,000 employees in five factories
in Quzhou, Shanghai and Chongqing, and a network of 2,000
distributors throughout the country. It also exports to more
than 60 countries, including the U.S.,  South Korea ,  Australia ,
 Russia  and  Brazil . In 2009, it established a research center in
Seattle, according to its website.  Company Valuation  The closely held Kaishan Group that Cao owns is valued at
about $221 million, according to a calculation by Bloomberg. The
estimate is based on the average price-to-earnings ratio of
three publicly traded peers: Shanghai Highly (Group) Co., Huayi
Compressor Co. and Sichuan Danfu Compressor Co.  The first screw expander will be delivered to Fairbanks,
Alaska-based Chena Power LLC in February, according to a Jan. 7
filing to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. Kaishan didn’t provide a
value for the deal.  “Kaishan is the only major Chinese company that is capable
of making such a device,” Guodu Securities Co. analyst Xiang Lei said in a phone interview from Beijing. “The product bodes
well for Kaishan’s long-term growth, especially in the
international market.” Xiang also rates the stock “buy”.  Kaishan will compete against  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Ingersoll-Rand
Plc (IR) , according to BOCI’s Xu.  Billionaires Minted  China’s economic growth accelerated for the first time in
two years as the economy expanded 7.9 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012. Full-year gross domestic product rose 7.8
percent. The rebound may quicken in the first half as
infrastructure projects are rolled out and the housing market
picks up.  Hua Bangsong, the founder of  Wison Engineering Services
Co. (2236) , became a billionaire after the company he started -- Wison
Engineering -- raised more than HK$1.2 billion ($154 million) by
selling shares in  Hong Kong  last month, according to a Jan. 24
Bloomberg report.  Sun Weijie, chairman of Yantai Jereh Oilfield Services
Group Co., reached the billionaire level as shares of the
Chinese oil equipment and service provider he co-founded surged
to a record on news of a supply contract from  Venezuela ,
Bloomberg reported Jan. 17.  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York . The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  