-- New York MTA Expanding Safety Campaign After Subway Push Deaths
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-01-28T20:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/new-york-mta-expanding-safety-campaign-after-subway-push-deaths.html
New York’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority  is expanding a public-safety campaign
and may test ways to warn subway operators about people in their
path after two riders were pushed to their deaths in December.  Transit officials, speaking today at a committee meeting in
 Manhattan , said it would be difficult and expensive to install
doors between subway platforms and tracks, as some have
suggested. For the meantime, the MTA will increase audio and
visual announcements warning riders of danger and consider an
“intrusion-detection” system that could alert drivers of
persons on tracks via flashing lights.  “This is an extremely complex issue,” said Thomas Prendergast, acting  executive director  at the largest U.S.
transit agency. “We have to make sure people understand what
the nature of the hazard is and what they can do to protect
themselves.”  While platform doors have become common in Europe and  Asia ,
the age and inconsistency of infrastructure of New York’s 108-
year-old system complicates the hunt for ways to increase
safety. The cost effectiveness of platform doors for the city’s
468 stations -- officials gave a “lowball” estimate of $1
billion -- is a difficult argument to make against other
measures, Prendergast said. Even so, the MTA will start a pilot
program involving doors at one station on the L train, he said.  More Deaths  Fifty-five people died in the subways last year, the most
since 2007 and up from 47 in 2011, according to the report.
Still, the number of incidents of passengers struck by trains,
at 141, declined from 146 a year earlier and is down from a high
of 188 in 2003. Ridership also increased to an all-time high of
1.66 billion last year.  Of last year’s contact incidents, 38 percent were caused by
passengers tripping or falling onto the track or into a moving
train, 23 percent by riders intentionally entering the tracks
and 23 percent by suicide or attempted suicide.  Just 4 percent were due to people being pushed or bumped
onto the tracks or into moving trains. The rest were caused by
people leaning over the platform edge to look for oncoming
trains, incidents caused by medical conditions and people
falling between trains.                                 Platform barriers were first examined in Moscow in the
1960s, Prendergast said. Potential benefits, in addition to
increased security, include cleaner tracks, quieter stations,
and less vandalism and vagrancy. The challenges, in addition to
costs, include standardizing door lengths, ensuring trains stop
at the same place on the platform every time and the additional
labor for maintenance, he said.  Slow Down  In recent weeks, Transit Workers Union Local 100 suggested
operators could slow trains entering stations as a way to
mitigate deaths. Prendergast shot down that plan, saying it
would crowd stations further, leading to increased danger on
stairs and platforms.  As soon as this week, riders can expect to see more posters
in subways and announcements on digital signs telling them:
“Drop something? Leave it,” and “Don’t become a statistic.
Stand back!” Also, 9 million MetroCards will be printed with
messages like those on the posters.  The MTA also is increasing the pace of installing remote
help points. There are currently two stations with such
intercoms, which allow riders to communicate with station agents
in an emergency. Officials plan to begin installing them in 100
more stations through next year, according to the report.  Prendergast said cost estimates for the public-awareness
campaign and the L train pilot weren’t yet available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  