-- NFC Routs AFC 62-35 in NFL’s Pro Bowl Behind Manning, Wilson
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-28T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/nfc-routs-afc-62-35-in-nfl-s-pro-bowl-behind-manning-wilson.html
Eli Manning of the New York Giants
threw two second-quarter touchdown passes, including one to
teammate  Victor Cruz , as the NFC defeated the AFC 62-35 in the
National Football League’s Pro Bowl in Hawaii.  The National Football Conference scored touchdowns on four
consecutive possessions spanning the second and third quarters
to open a 38-14 lead and set a Pro Bowl record for points-
scored. The previous record of 59 points had been set by the
American Football Conference last season.  Seattle Seahawks rookie quarterback Russell Wilson threw
three third-quarter touchdown passes for the NFC, which takes a
22-21 lead in the all-time series.  “It was a great game,” Wilson, who tied  Peyton Manning ’s
NFL rookie-record with 26 touchdown passes this season, said in
a televised interview. “It was fun for the fans, fun for us and
a good way to end the season.”  It was the third-highest scoring game in Pro Bowl history,
behind the NFC’s 55-52 win in 2004 and the AFC’s 59-41 victory
last year in the annual All-Star game.  Minnesota Vikings tight end Kyle Rudolph, added to the NFC
roster as an injury replacement for Atlanta’s Tony Gonzalez,
received the Pro Bowl’s Most Valuable Player award after
catching five passes for 122 yards. His 3-yard touchdown catch
from Eli Manning with six seconds left in the second quarter
gave the NFC a 31-14 halftime lead.  “I never would have dreamed this,” Rudolph said. “Just
to be here was an honor.”  Jackson’s Touchdowns  Drew Brees  of the New Orleans Saints threw the NFC’s first
touchdown pass, a 36-yarder to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers’ Vincent Jackson, who scored twice.  Peyton Manning of the Denver Broncos threw one touchdown
pass for the AFC in his 12th Pro Bowl appearance, while his
replacement in Indianapolis, Colts rookie  Andrew Luck , passed
for two scores. Luck also threw an interception and Houston
Texans quarterback  Matt Schaub  was intercepted twice for the
AFC, which finished with five turnovers.  The All-Star matchup was played the week before the  Super
Bowl  for the fourth straight year, meaning players selected from
the San Francisco 49ers and  Baltimore Ravens  were unavailable.
The 49ers and Ravens will meet in the NFL’s championship game on
Feb. 3 in New Orleans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  