-- Niermann Is Fourth Rabobank Rider to Admit to Doping
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-28T13:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/niermann-is-fourth-rabobank-rider-to-admit-to-doping.html
Ex-professional cyclist Grischa
Niermann said he took the banned performance-enhancing substance
EPO, becoming the fourth former Rabobank team rider to say he’s
cheated.  Niermann said he’d taken erythropoietin, or EPO, an
endurance-boosting hormone that stimulates red-blood cell
production, “a few times” between 2000 and 2003, the Dutch
cycling federation  KNWU  said on its website today. The
federation suspended him for six months as of Feb. 15, it added.  Niermann, 37, joined the KNWU Jan. 1, having previously
been on the Rabobank coaching staff after he retired last
summer. He said he stopped using banned substances in 2003.  Rabobank Groep, a Dutch mortgage lender, in October ended
its 17-year sponsorship of cycling after the team was linked to
the doping scandal involving  Lance Armstrong . Last week,
Rabobank said doping admissions made by three of its former
athletes were “disturbing and shocking.”  Danny Nelissen, Marc Lotz and Thomas Dekker admitted using
banned performance-enhancing substances to news outlets in the
Netherlands. Nelissen told broadcaster RTL he’d started using
EPO during the Tour de  France  in 1996 and 1997, when he was
riding for Rabobank.  Lotz told broadcaster L1 he’d started using EPO and
cortisone in 2001, while Dekker told Dutch newspaper NRC
Handelsblad that “doping was a way of life for many of my
teammates and colleagues.”  Armstrong Titles  A report by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency in October, which
described widespread cheating, said American rider Levi Leipheimer doped when on the Rabobank team in 2003. Leipheimer
is a former teammate of Armstrong, who was stripped of his seven
 Tour de France  titles and banned for life for what USADA said in
October was “serial cheating.”  Armstrong said he cheated by doping in a television
interview earlier this month following 13 years of denials.  Niermann’s testimony has been handed to the independent
Sorgdrager Commission, which was set up in December by the Dutch
cycling federation and the Netherlands Olympic Committee to
investigate the country’s anti-doping practices.  Chaired by former Justice Secretary Winnie Sorgdrager, the
commission offers witnesses who come forward with evidence
anonymity and possibly a less-severe sentence if they inform the
country’s anti-doping authorities of their offenses. It’s
scheduled to publish a report in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  