-- Nigeria Looks to Rio Tinto, Ratel Group for Mining Boom
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-01-29T11:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/nigeria-looks-to-rio-tinto-ratel-group-for-mining-revival.html
Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer,
is offering mining concessions to companies including  Rio Tinto 
Plc and  Ratel Group Ltd. (RTG)  to explore dormant reserves and boost
non-crude revenue, Mines and Steel Development Minister Mohammed Sada said.  “What we want to do is to see that we have a large body of
serious exploration companies” to use available mining data,
Sada said in a Jan. 25 interview. “Our target by 2015 is to at
least make a 3 percent contribution to the gross domestic
product.”  Though commercial quantities of minerals, including gold,
coal, tin and bitumen, have been found in Nigeria, they
contributed only 0.36 percent to the country’s GDP in 2011,
rising to 0.43 percent in the third quarter of last year,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics. Four decades ago
mining’s share was 10 percent, it said.  President Goodluck Jonathan will present a mining “road
map” on Jan. 31 that will outline incentives to companies as
the government tries to meet the target, according to Sada.
Under the plan, investors will get capital allowances for as
much as 95 percent of qualifying expenditures as well as waivers
of custom and import duties for mining equipment. New investors
will get tax holidays of three to five years along with other
concessions, according to the minister.  Overdue Plan  “This is a good initiative and such a road map is probably
even overdue,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. “That said, this is not the first time
that the authorities announce high-level plans to increase the
contribution of the mining sector, so the actual implementation
of this blueprint and introduction of specific incentives will
test the administration’s ability to deliver.”  While Rio Tinto is in talks with the government and has
conducted studies, Ratel Group Ltd. and Savannah Gold Mines Ltd.
are already operating mining leases in the West African country,
Sada said. Illtud Harri, a London-based spokesman for Rio Tinto
declined to comment when contacted by e-mail. Ron Clarke,
interim chief executive officer for Ratel Group, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call and an e-mail seeking
comment.  Oil has dominated the economy since the 1970s, now making
up 95 percent of foreign-exchange income and 80 percent of
government revenue. Mining and agriculture have shrunk by more
than 40 percent, making  Nigeria  more vulnerable to oil price
shocks.  Commercial Deposits  Bonny Light crude, the country’s main export grade, rose
less than 1 percent to $115.14 as of 9:21 a.m. in London. The
naira declined 0.1 percent to 157.20 a dollar as of 12:24 p.m.
in Lagos, the commercial capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Africa’s most-populous nation, with more than 160 million
people, is seeking investors for 34 minerals found in commercial
deposits at 450 sites across the country. These include 2.7
billion metric tons of iron ore, 3 billion tons of coal and 2.2
trillion tons of barite, a mineral used in drilling
hydrocarbons, according to the Mines and Steel Development
Ministry’s  website .  Nigeria signed a memorandum of understanding with  China  on
Jan. 23 that provides for a Chinese-built minerals laboratory by
June and training of Nigerians in mining technology, according
to Sada. The Mines and Steel Development Ministry will soon sign
a deal with Iron Bull Mining Co. of  Australia  to take up some
 iron ore  concessions, he said.  Feasibility Studies  Nigeria’s mining revival is expected to benefit from the
expansion of the country’s rail network, according to the
minister. The government has approved feasibility studies for a
673-kilometer (418-mile) east-west coastal line and a 280-
kilometer line connecting central Kogi State to Abuja that will
help move everything from peanuts to coal from the northern
Sahel belt to ports on the Atlantic coast.  “Without infrastructure you cannot do much with mining,”
Sada said. “Even if you’re utilizing it within the country, you
still need to move large volumes of minerals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  