-- Noble Suspended From Argentine Grain Register on Tax Probe
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-01-28T18:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/noble-under-investigation-for-fake-invoices-afip-official-says.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , Asia’s biggest
listed commodity supplier, was suspended from Argentina’s Grains
Register for an investigation into unpaid taxes, a local tax
agency official said.  Noble, based in Hong Kong, was removed from the register
because of an undisclosed amount of false invoices and potential
use of third-party accounts, the official, who asked not to be
identified citing the agency’s communications policy, told
reporters today in  Buenos Aires . While suspended, Noble must pay
a tax rate of 25 percent to export grain, up from a previous 10
percent, the tax official said.  “We are in business as usual,” Noble Argentine unit
President Alfonso Romero said in a telephone interview from
Buenos Aires. “We read about the suspension in the official
gazette and we have no comments to make as we are buying grains
and exporting grain as we do in any other business day.”  Argentina’s tax agency, known as AFIP, last year said four
of the  South American (SAC)  country’s 10 biggest exporters and grain
and soybean processors underpaid taxes and it would pursue full
repayment. The suspension was cited in  Argentina ’s official
gazette earlier today.  Monsanto, Bunge   Romero declined to say if Noble will appeal or if there are
any additional implications for the company.  Noble exports between 4 million and 5 million metric tons
of grain from Argentina annually, Romero said. The country’s
total grain production was 90.9 million tons for the 2011/2012
season, according to the  latest Agricultural Ministry report.   Noble follows  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and  Monsanto Co. (MON) , both which were
suspended from the register last year.  Bunge, Argentina’s second-biggest exporter, was suspended
on Oct. 1 and excluded on Oct. 26 because of unpaid income taxes
since 2006. Bunge remains suspended from the register, the AFIP
official said today.  Susan Burns , a Bunge spokeswoman at company headquarters in
 White Plains , New York, didn’t reply to a phone call or an e-
mail seeking comment.  Monsanto, which was removed in February for unpaid taxes of
40 million pesos ($8.5 million), returned to the register after
it paid in August. Monsanto, the world’s biggest seed company,
sells corn seed in Argentina.  Argentina is the world’s largest exporter of soy oil, the
second-largest of corn and third of soybeans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  