-- Nokia Bond Risks Endure After Dividends Cut: Corporate Finance
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-01-28T14:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/nokia-bond-risks-endure-after-dividends-cut-corporate-finance.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s tendency to burn through
cash faster than any of its rivals is putting bondholders at
risk even after the smartphone maker bolstered its balance sheet
by skipping a  dividend  for the first time in 143 years.  Societe Generale SA recommends investors sell Nokia’s 500
million euros ($673 million) of 6.75 percent bonds due in 2019
and buy five-year credit-default swaps that insure against the
Finnish company missing debt payments. While Nokia posted its
first profit since early 2011 last week after Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop cut jobs and closed factories, it also had
a seventh straight drop in quarterly revenue.  “Although recent results show that its turnaround plan is
heading in the right direction, we remain cautious with regard
to the company’s ability to achieve its longer-term financial
objectives, including a return to sustainable profitability and
free cash flow generation,” said Robert Jaeger, an analyst at
SocGen in  London .  Nokia is the only global maker of cell phones with negative
 free cash flow  for 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as its
flagship Lumia brand fails to match sales of competitors such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. Nokia has  3.6 billion
euros  of bonds outstanding, including 1.25 billion euros coming
due next year, according to Bloomberg data. Samsung has about
$2.5 billion of notes, while Apple has no public debt.  Cash Burn  Nokia decided not to pay its dividend to save about 750
million euros, after cutting 20,000 jobs and closing production
and research facilities. Even with the bondholder-friendly
steps, analysts and ratings firms are concerned the Espoo,
Finland-based company is burning cash too quickly and that its
smartphone sales are lagging too far behind competitors.  The rising popularity of Samsung’s Galaxy and Apple’s
iPhone has pushed Nokia into third place in the smartphone
market, after it held the record for sales in 2010, according to
 Strategy Analytics . Nokia’s share has declined to 5 percent from
15.8 percent, the analysis firm said.  “The market share is still a long way from where the
leaders are, and a long way from where they were,” said  Dave Novosel , a senior analyst at Chicago-based bond research firm
 Gimme Credit . “We’re still a sell here.”  Negative Flow  Nokia’s free cash flow declined to minus 812 million euros
in the 12 months to Dec. 31, from a positive 2.3 billion euros
as of September 2011, Bloomberg data show. Apple gained $44.7
billion and Samsung added $7.5 billion.  “We have gross cash of 9.9 billion euros and net cash of
4.4 billion euros, both higher than what we had a quarter
earlier,” James Etheridge, a spokesman for Nokia, said in an e-
mailed statement. “2012 was clearly a transition year for us. A
major part of our costs and cash outflows were restructuring
related. We go into 2013 a more nimble and agile company.”  Etheridge said the company has additional liquidity
available via an untapped debt facility and that it has improved
the “time-to-market” for its products. Network operators and
consumers want a “third eco-system to succeed” and Nokia is
“especially focused on returning our phones business to
sustainable positive operating  cash flow  as soon as possible,”
he said.  Risk Demand  The Finnish manufacturer’s bonds rallied over the past
three months, benefitting from rising demand for higher-yield,
higher-risk assets amid record-low central bank  interest rates .  Nokia’s notes in euros due 2019 returned 12.2 percent since
Oct. 25, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That beats the
5.6 percent total return, including reinvested interest, of Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro High Yield Index.  The extra yield over benchmark government debt that
investors demand to hold the Nokia notes shrank to 466 basis
points from 681 basis points on Oct. 25, according to Bloomberg
generic prices. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Spreads are still wider than the 140 basis points for
Ericsson AB’s 500 million euros of 5.375 percent bonds due 2017,
which returned 1.25 percent in the past three months.  The spread on  Samsung (005930) ’s $1 billion of 1.75 percent
securities maturing in 2017 is 67 basis points, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Junk Bonds  The three major ratings companies grade Nokia three steps
below investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service lowered Nokia
by two levels to Ba3, with a “negative” outlook, on July 23.
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings downgraded the phone company
by two steps to an equivalent BB-, also with a “negative”
outlook, within about a month of that decision.  Moody’s said the Finnish company’s “transition in the
smartphone business will cause deeper operating losses and
consequently cash consumption in the coming quarters than we had
previously assumed.” Nokia’s cash pile “will gradually
erode,” the ratings firm said.  Nokia had positive cash flow before dividends in the second
quarter of last year, though that was boosted by 400 million
euros of pre-payments on intellectual property and a 120
million-euro contribution from Nokia Siemens Networks, according
to Moody’s.  S&P cut Nokia’s rating as it revised lower its revenue and
profitability estimates for the company’s smartphone operations
in 2012 and 2013. The firm said it may downgrade Nokia again if
it failed to stabilize margins and “significantly cut its cash
losses.” The New York-based ratings firm had Nokia at
investment grade as recently as April.  Higher Ratings  Ericsson is rated six levels higher than Nokia at A3 by
Moody’s and five levels higher at BBB+ by S&P and Fitch. Samsung
is eight levels above its Finnish rival at Moody’s with an A1
rating, and seven steps higher with an A grade at S&P.  Credit-default swaps insuring Nokia’s debt have halved to
567 basis points after reaching a record-high in July, prices
compiled by Bloomberg show.  There were 110 trades of the swaps insuring a gross $462.7
million of the phone maker’s debt and a total 4,038 contracts
covering a net $1.4 billion outstanding in the week through Jan.
18, according to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.   Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  NSN Benefit  Nokia benefited from its Nokia Siemens Networks joint
venture to return to profit. Nokia’s cash flow from operating
activities was 563 million euros in the fourth quarter of 2012,
down from 634 million euros a year before, and including a 740
million-euro contribution from the joint venture.  “Excluding NSN, Nokia continued to burn cash in the fourth
quarter, at a rate which is likely to increase in Q1,” SocGen’s
Jaeger said.  Net cash rose to 4.4 billion euros at the end of the fourth
quarter, and the missed dividend will “ensure strategic
flexibility,” Nokia said.  The company’s  shares  fell to 3.1 euros from a nine-month
high of 3.49 euros before the dividend announcement, and have
lost more than half their value since February 2011, when Nokia
said its phones would run Microsoft Corp.’s Windows.  Nokia is burning cash after abandoning its own system,
Symbian, which couldn’t keep up with Google Inc.’s Android
platform and the system Apple uses in its iPhones. Nokia said it
sold about 700,000 Lumia smartphones in  North America  in the
holiday quarter, compared with the tens of millions of iPhones
and Android handsets sold.  “Cutting the dividend helps Nokia’s liquidity and they
should have done it a year ago,” said Ping Zhao, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in  New York . “They need to cut costs further.
Even though they made progress, the smartphone is nowhere near
turnaround. It’s going to be a long and hard slog for them to
get back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  