-- Obama Says Gun-Control Plan Needs Help of Congress to Succeed
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-01-28T16:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/obama-meeting-with-police-chiefs-from-sites-of-mass-shootings.html
President  Barack Obama  said his main
proposals to curb gun violence can only succeed with the help of
Congress, where new limits on firearms ownership face
resistance.  Obama is meeting at the White House with police chiefs to
talk about his proposals, including broader background checks
and limiting availability of military-style semiautomatic rifles
with high-capacity ammunition magazines.  “The only way we’re going to be able to do everything that
needs to be done is with the cooperation of Congress,” Obama
told reporters before the closed-door discussion got under way.
“We recognize that this issue elicits a lot of  passion across
the country.”                                         Obama’s
meeting included the top law enforcement officials from three
cities where there have been recent mass shootings -- Newtown,
 Connecticut ; Aurora,  Colorado ; and Oak Creek,  Wisconsin  -- as
the administration presses for legislation.  Obama responded to a shooting at a Newtown elementary
school last month with the proposal to reinstate the assault
weapon ban and to mandate background checks for all gun buyers.
He also signed 23 executive actions, including several designed
to maximize prosecution of gun crimes and improve access to
government data for background checks. Vice President  Joe Biden 
led an administration review of gun policy and has been leading
the White House effort to promote the new measures.  Twenty students and six educators were killed in a shooting
Dec. 14 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown. The gunman’s
main weapon was an assault-style rifle with high-capacity
magazines, according to police.  Twelve people were killed and at least 58 were injured on
July 20 when a gunman opened fire during a midnight showing of
“The Dark Knight Rises” in an Aurora, Colorado, movie theater.
Seven people, including the alleged gunman, died in a shooting
at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, on Aug. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  