-- Oil Trades Near Highest Level in Four Months
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-01-28T13:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/oil-trades-near-highest-level-in-four-months-on-economic-outlook.html
Oil traded close to the highest
level in four months in  New York  after posting the longest run
of weekly gains since April 2009, lifted by speculation that a
global economic recovery will boost fuel demand.  West Texas Intermediate crude advanced as much as 0.6
percent after U.S. durable goods orders rose 4.6 percent in
December, more than the 2 percent forecast in a Bloomberg news
survey. A second U.S. government report today may show pending
homes sales rose last month. The market is well supplied,
Abdalla El-Badri, secretary-general of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, said today.  “Prices have been moving upwards from continued better
economic data from the world’s two largest consumers, U.S. and
 China ,” said Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo
Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “Continued improved data is required to
sustain these higher levels as there remains enough uncertainty
within the  euro zone  for prices to fall.”  Crude for March delivery gained 81 cents to $96.69 a barrel
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
1:49 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures traded was 12
percent below the 100-day average. WTI advanced 0.3 percent last
week and closed at $96.24 a barrel on Jan. 22, the highest since
Sept. 17.  Brent for March settlement increased 52 cents to $113.70 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
volume of all futures traded was 9 percent below the 100-day
average. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$16.97 to WTI. The gap was $17.40 on Jan. 25.  ‘Looking Up’  Durable goods  orders in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, advanced 4.6 percent in December from the prior month
after climbing 0.8 percent in November, according to the
Commerce Department.  “Looking ahead for 2013, the market is expected to remain
well-supplied to meet expected demand growth,” El-Badri said at
a conference in London.  WTI will trade from $95 to $97 a barrel this week and Brent
from $112 to $114 a barrel, according to Hansen.  Hedge funds  boosted bullish bets on WTI for a sixth
consecutive week as futures advanced. Money managers increased
net-long positions, or wagers that crude will rise, by 15
percent in the week ended Jan. 22, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Jan. 25 Commitments of Traders
report. It was the longest run of gains in records dating back
to June 2006.  Bullish Bets  In London, bullish bets on  Brent crude  rose to the most in
more than two years, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  The average price for retail regular gasoline in the U.S.
rose 1.96 cents a gallon in the past two weeks to $3.3443 a
gallon, according to Lundberg Survey Inc. The survey covers the
period ended Jan. 25 and is based on information obtained from
about 2,500 stations by the Camarillo, California-based company.
The average price is down 5.01 cents from a year earlier.  Oil may rise this week as the U.S. Federal Reserve
continues an asset-buying program to boost the economy and
reduce the jobless rate, according to  Ken Hasegawa , an energy
trading manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo  who says WTI may climb
as high as $100 a barrel this week, while Brent will trade from
$112 to $118. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will announce
its latest policy statement after its Jan. 30 meeting.  Unemployment was probably unchanged at 7.8 percent in
January, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of economists before Labor Department figures Feb. 1. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Jan. 14 that the rate “is not an
acceptable situation.”  “If the results of the FOMC and employment data are better
than expected, then WTI might try to touch $100 a barrel,”
Hasegawa said.  WTI’s advance may stall as a technical indicator shows
futures have advanced too quickly for further gains to be
sustainable. The 14-day relative strength index is at 68.1
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading above
70 signals a market is overbought and will probably decline.  An attack on an Algerian oil pipeline today killed two
guards, Reuters reported, citing a security official it did not
identify by name.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in  London  at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  