-- Oil at Four-Month High as Durable Goods Orders Increase
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-01-28T21:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/oil-extends-seven-week-gain-as-durable-goods-orders-jump.html
Oil advanced to a four-month high in
New York as orders for durable goods in the U.S. jumped, adding
to economic optimism, and gasoline gained on the announcement
that a New Jersey refinery will close.  Prices rose after the Commerce Department said orders
increased 4.6 percent in December. Gasoline climbed to a three-
month high after  Hess Corp. (HES)  said it will shut the Port Reading,
New Jersey, plant at the end of February.  “The durable goods number is very good and it bodes well
for energy demand,” said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at
the Price Futures Group in Chicago. “Gasoline is the strong
market right now, and it’s been supportive for oil.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for March delivery rose 56
cents to settle at $96.44 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Trading volume was 21 percent below the 100-day
average at 3:22 p.m. WTI completed its seventh straight weekly
gain, the longest run in almost four years, last week.  Brent for March gained 20 cents to settle at $113.48 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume
was 19 percent below the 100-day average. The European benchmark
contract was at a premium of $17.04 to WTI. The gap was $17.40
on Jan. 25.  Growth in last month’s durable goods orders beat the median
forecast of a 2 percent advance by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Excluding demand for transportation equipment, which
is often volatile, orders increased 1.3 percent, also beating
the median projection.  “The durable goods number was pretty good and brought
crude up,” said Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund
manager at Tyche Capital Advisors.  Consumption Gains  Total petroleum consumption  jumped 3.9 percent in the week
ended Jan. 18 to 18.6 million barrels a day, the Energy
Information Administration, the Energy Department’s statistics
arm, said last week. Gasoline demand increased 1.3 percent to
8.43 million barrels a day.  Gasoline rallied after Hess said it plans sell its terminal
network and leave the refinery business. The 70,000-barrel-a-day
Port Reading refinery’s fluid catalytic cracker makes gasoline
and components for blending heating oil.  Gasoline futures for February delivery advanced 5.94 cents,
or 2.1 percent, to $2.9348 a gallon on the Nymex, the highest
closing level since Oct. 11.  Egypt Clashes  Oil also rose as clashes flared for a fifth day in Egypt,
near key Middle East production areas and distribution routes.
About 50 people have died in Egyptian clashes since Jan. 25.
President Mohamed Mursi instituted a state of emergency for 30
days in the provinces of Port Said, Suez and Ismailiya.  “The biggest concern about  Egypt  is that it will spread to
other areas and the instability is adding to oil’s risk
premium,” Flynn said.  The profits of Chinese industrial companies increased,
possibly signaling more oil demand. The net income rose for a
fourth month in December, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said
yesterday. China uses more oil than any country except the U.S.  The nation’s economic growth will accelerate to 8.4 percent
this year, the Chinese Academy of Sciences forecast Jan. 26 in
its annual outlook. Gross domestic product increased 7.8 percent
last year, government data show.  Hedge funds boosted bullish bets on U.S. crude for a sixth
consecutive week. Money managers increased net-long positions,
or wagers that crude will rise, by 15 percent in the week ended
Jan. 22, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Jan. 25 Commitments of Traders report.  Home Sales  Oil slipped as much as 0.4 percent in intraday trading on a
report that pending U.S. home sales declined in December for the
first time since August. The  index  of contracts for the purchase
of previously owned homes fell 4.3 percent, the National
Association of Realtors said. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey projected no change. U.S. stocks dropped for the first
time in nine days.  “The home sales number is definitely discouraging,” said
Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist at Iitrader.com in
 Chicago . “The equity market is moving lower and it’s weighing
on crude.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 356,972
contracts as of 3:38 p.m. It totaled 429,318 contracts on Jan.
25, 13 percent lower than the three-month average. Open interest
was 1.53 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  