-- Money Funds Retreat as U.S. Managers Work to Limit Rules
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-28T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/money-funds-retreat-as-u-s-managers-work-to-limit-rules.html
Three of the five largest U.S.
money-market fund managers, signaling they can’t stop a second
attempt by regulators to overhaul rules for the $2.7 trillion
industry, are fighting instead to limit the scope of any
changes.  Fidelity Investments , Vanguard Group Inc. and  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  are urging regulators to exempt retail-oriented
funds and focus on those that cater to institutional clients and
buy corporate debt, a category that absorbed the bulk of an
investor run in 2008. Known as prime institutional funds, they
hold $987 billion, or 37 percent of U.S. money-market mutual-
fund assets, according to research firm iMoneyNet.  “It’s a clear sign the funds believe regulation is coming,
and there’s no doubt they’re hedging their bets,”  Peter Crane ,
president of Westborough, Massachusetts-based research firm
Crane Data LLC, said in an interview.  Five months after beating back a regulatory plan by then-
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, fund companies acknowledge they face longer odds in
blocking a similar proposal expected to reach SEC commissioners
before the end of March. The agency is being pressed to
reconsider changes by the Financial Stability Oversight Council,
or FSOC, a risk-monitoring panel that includes the heads of the
 Federal Reserve  and Treasury Department.  “It now appears that further regulation of all or some
types of money-market funds sometime in 2013 is very likely,”
Boston-based Fidelity said this month on its  website  in an
update on the regulatory debate.  ‘Narrowly Tailored’  Fidelity last week drew regulators’ attention to data
showing funds that cater to small investors, and those that
invest solely in municipal or U.S. government-backed debt, were
more stable than institutional prime funds. In the four weeks
after the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc., retail
funds had $41 billion in withdrawals compared with $453 billion
from institutional funds, according to the letter.  “If, based on findings from its study, the SEC determines
that further reform is necessary, then such reform should be
narrowly tailored, so as to minimize disruption to short-term
markets and lessen adverse impacts on long-term economic
activity,” Fidelity, the largest U.S. money fund manager, wrote
in a Jan. 24 letter to the SEC.  Vanguard, based in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania , made a
similar appeal in a letter to the FSOC on Jan. 15. After
detailing its objections to FSOC drafts, the firm, which ranks
fourth in the market, recommended that any final proposal apply
only to prime institutional funds.  Floating Value  No. 5 Schwab, based in  San Francisco , went further in a
Jan. 17 letter to the FSOC, saying the idea of forcing prime
institutional funds to abandon their fixed $1 share price in
favor of a floating value “merits consideration.”  Money managers have asserted that allowing a floating net
asset value would destroy the appeal of money funds, which are
often used as substitute for holding cash.  Vincent Loporchio , a Fidelity spokesman,  John Woerth , a
Vanguard spokesman, and Alison Wertheim for Schwab declined to
comment beyond the letters.  Fidelity has 36 percent of its money-fund assets in
products categorized as institutional prime by iMoneyNet, which
is based in Westborough,  Massachusetts . Vanguard has 15 percent
and Schwab 3.3 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which holds 46 percent of its money
fund assets in institutional prime funds and runs some of the
largest such products, argued against applying rules only to
some funds in a Jan. 14 letter to the FSOC.  ‘Battle Weary’  “Importantly, reforms should apply to both institutional
and retail funds since there is no difference in terms of
exposure to credit risk between these two classes of investor,”
wrote JPMorgan, the second biggest U.S. provider.  JPMorgan spokeswoman Kristen Chambers declined to comment.  “The industry is battle weary and some firms are
presenting various options in order to make the issue go away,”
Anthony Carfang, a partner at Chicago-based consulting firm
Treasury Strategies Inc., said in a telephone interview. “There
seems to be an element of self-interest and a willingness to
throw competitors under the bus.”  Regulators have worked to impose tighter restrictions on
money funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on
debt issued by Lehman Brothers, triggered a wider run on prime
funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  Schapiro’s Changes  The Schapiro-led SEC made changes in 2010 that introduced
minimum liquidity levels, lowered maturity limits and raised
credit standards. Schapiro said funds remained vulnerable to
destabilizing runs because their fixed share prices don’t
necessarily reflect the market value of their holdings.
Shareholders are then encouraged to flee at the first sign of
trouble before the $1 share price collapses, as it did in the
rare case of Reserve Primary.  Regulators have pointed to events during the global
financial crisis in 2008 to show that big institutions had an
information advantage over smaller investors in money funds,
allowing them to react more quickly to market developments.
Withdrawals by institutional investors were more consequential
than those by individuals.  Coming Around  “Some of the fund companies have come around to see the
SEC has identified at least one issue that may need some
additional regulations,” Barry Barbash, head of the asset-
management group at law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP and a
former director of the SEC’s investment-management division,
said in an interview from  Washington .  Fund companies cast doubt on the notion of applying new
rules only to institutional funds when the idea was examined in
an October 2010  report  from the President’s Working Group on
Financial Markets. They said it would be impractical to draw a
line between institutional and retail funds as there was no
regulatory distinction between them and much client cross-over.  In their letters, Vanguard and Schwab offered proposals on
how to differentiate between the two based on the size of client
accounts, either as a dollar amount or as a proportion of a
fund.  Lobbying Effort  Schapiro drafted new rules last year that would have
required that funds either adopt a floating share value or set
aside capital to protect against losses and restrict redemptions
to discourage runs. Industry leaders, including executives from
Fidelity, Vanguard and Schwab, said the new rules would cripple
sales and deny companies and municipalities a cheap source for
short-term borrowing.  Led by their Washington-based trade group, the  Investment
Company Institute , the industry lobbied heavily against the
plan. The 10 biggest money-fund managers and the ICI reported
combined lobbying spending of $16 million in the first half of
2012 and $31.6 million in 2011 in disclosures that referenced
money-market mutual funds, according to a review of documents by
 Bloomberg News . That compared with $16.7 million during all of
2010.  The efforts appeared to pay off when three SEC
commissioners told Schapiro in August they wouldn’t approve her
plan and wanted to see additional study of the issue. Schapiro
shelved the proposal and turned to the FSOC, a panel charged
under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act with monitoring systemic risks to
the financial system, to intervene.  March Timetable  The FSOC issued draft recommendations to the SEC in
November that included the central elements of Schapiro’s plan.
Once the recommendations are final, the SEC will have 90 days to
adopt rules or explain in writing why it rejected the advice.  Schapiro resigned in mid-December. President  Barack Obama 
last week nominated Mary Jo White, a formal federal prosecutor,
to head the agency.  Republican Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher said in a Jan.
16 speech that SEC staff were already preparing a rule-making
proposal he expected to see before the end of March. Gallagher,
one of the three commissioners who blocked the Schapiro plan,
said in September he may support a floating share value.  Democratic Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar, another holdout,
said in a December interview that a floating value “may make
sense” after an SEC report allayed his concern that the
agency’s 2010 reforms hadn’t been sufficiently studied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  