-- Monti Pledges Raft of Tax Cuts After a Year of Increasing Levies
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-01-28T11:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/monti-pledges-raft-of-tax-cuts-after-a-year-of-increasing-levies.html
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti
pledged to cut taxes by 30 billion euros ($27 billion) in five
years as he campaigns for a second term after a year spent
raising levies to fend off the sovereign debt crisis.  Monti proposed 11.5 billion euros in cuts to the IRAP
regional corporate tax over five years starting in 2014, 15.5
billion in lower income taxes and 2.5 billion euros in breaks
for first-home owners and families with children. Speaking on
La7 television, he also pledged to revamp an unpopular property
tax his government imposed to make it “more progressive and
fair.”  The government can make up for the lower tax revenue
through reducing spending, fighting tax evasion and keeping bond
yields down, Monti said. He defended his 14-month term in
office, during which he overhauled pension and labor laws and
raised taxes, saying the measures were needed to keep  Italy 
afloat amid the European sovereign debt crisis.  “I find it consistent to have at first been been very
tough and to say now that in the next five years we can afford a
different approach,” he said.  The yield premium investors demand to buy Italy’s 10-year
bonds over comparable German bonds is at 250 basis points, less
than half the level when Monti came to power. Still, austerity
measures have deepened Italy’s recession, increasing pledges by
candidates to cut taxes to stimulate growth. That spread reached
a euro-era high of 575 basis points the week before he came to
power in Nov. 2011.  ‘A Nightmare’  “Every month it was a nightmare to see how much debt had
to be issued,” Monti said, referring to the high bond yields he
faced when he became prime minister. “We need to loosen ties
gradually,” he said, adding that a shift from current policies
too quickly after the Feb. 24-25 vote could hurt the country’s
finances.  Monti’s government served with the support of the
Democratic Party and former Prime Minister Silvio Belusconi’s
People of Liberty, which represent the left and right
respectively of Italy’s political spectrum. Now Monti is
campaigning against the two political blocs.  Berlusconi, running second in opinion polls, is pushing for
the abolition on primary residences of Monti’s property tax
known as IMU, while front-runner Bersani has proposed cutting
income tax rates on low and middle incomes and raising rates on
high earners.  While Bersani leads in national polls, numbers show he may
not have enough support to win a majority in both houses of
parliament, which may force him to seek an alliance with Monti’s
coalition. Bersani, a former communist, draws support from labor
unions, while Monti, an ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. adviser and
European competition commissioner, today defended voting for
Berlusconi’s center-right party in 1994, saying it was the best
option at the time.  Monti has criticized both parties, saying neither has
guaranteed that economic reforms will continue.  “I won’t participate in any government that isn’t
sufficiently reformist,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  