-- Monte Paschi Oversight Thorough, Continuous, Grilli Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-01-29T15:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/monti-minister-to-defend-paschi-bailout-after-losses-uncovered.html
Regulatory oversight of  Banca Monte
Paschi di Siena SpA  was “continuous and thorough” and the bank
remains solid even with a capital shortfall and possible losses
linked to undisclosed structured finance deals, Finance Minister
Vittorio Grilli said.  Grilli testified in parliament today to defend the
government’s plan to grant a 3.9 billion-euro ($5.3 billion)
rescue as lawmakers ask whether the lender still deserves the
aid. Revelations that former management hid details of the loss-
making transactions from regulators has raised questions about
the Bank of Italy’s oversight under Governor Ignazio Visco and
his predecessor Mario Draghi.  Supervision of Monte Paschi “has been continuous,
thorough and appropriate and it intensified more and more
through inspections that began in 2010 when Draghi was the
governor and continued in 2011, 2012 and 2013 under Governor
Visco,” Grilli told lawmakers.  The central bank opened a “sanctions procedure” against
the Siena, Italy-based bank after the inspections because Monte
Paschi’s management failed to set up adequate control mechanisms
and showed high interest-rate exposure and poor liquidity.  Monte Paschi said on Jan. 17 it will review its accounts
after Bloomberg News reported the lender engaged in a
transaction with Deutsche Bank AG in 2008, dubbed “Project
Santorini,” that obscured losses before it sought an initial
government bailout the following year. The bank said Jan. 23
it’s reviewing three money-losing structured deals, including
Santorini, uncovered by newly appointed executives.  Grilli, Draghi  The bailout will allow  Italy ’s oldest bank to meet capital
levels demanded by the European Banking Authority. Today’s
testimony by Grilli follows a meeting yesterday in Milan between
Grilli and European Central Bank PresidentDraghi, who headed
Italy’s central bank when some of the secret, structured-finance
deals were undertaken.  Revelations this month that Monte Paschi’s former
management hid details of the deals that may saddle the bank
with hundreds of millions of euros in losses has undermined
support for the aid. Former premier Silvio Berlusconi, who’s
heading the center-right coalition in the Feb. 24-25 national
vote, has criticized Prime Minister Mario Monti over the bailout
by linking the aid to an unpopular property tax.  Grilli tried to calm the waters today, saying “I think
that prudence and responsibility are needed in the public debate
on the situation of our financial institutions and of Monte dei
Paschi di Siena in particular.”  He explained how the aid to Monte Paschi isn’t a bailout
but comes in the form of high-interest loans that will initially
pay the state a 9 percent return, rising to 15 percent over the
life of the rescue. If Monte Paschi can’t pay back the funds,
the loans will convert into shares, giving the government a
direct stake in the lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  