-- Opel Board Said to Appoint Neumann This Week as CEO
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d ,   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-01-28T16:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/opel-board-said-to-appoint-neumann-this-week-as-ceo.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel may
appoint Karl-Thomas Neumann, the former head of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Chinese operations, as soon as this week to lead the German
brand’s turnaround effort, people familiar with the matter said.  Opel’s supervisory board plans to vote Jan. 31 on Neumann’s
appointment as chief executive officer, and he may take over in
March, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the approval is still pending. VW agreed to release Neumann from
his contract three months before it expires in June, one person
said. Opel and VW representatives declined to comment.  Opel’s strategy chief, Thomas Sedran, a former consultant
with Alix Partners, has been acting CEO after GM forced out
Karl-Friedrich Stracke last July. Neumann, 51, was passed over
last June when VW created a new board position to focus on the
Chinese operations and appointed Jochem Heizmann to the post.  Neumann will have no time to waste at Opel. GM wants to
break even in  Europe  by the middle of the decade after losing
$17.3 billion in the region since 1999. It plans to cut $500
million in annual costs in Europe in the coming three years,
after eliminating $300 million in spending and 2,600 jobs in
2012, mostly through early retirement and voluntary separations.  GM employs 40,000 staff in Europe, with 22,000 of those
jobs in  Germany . The automaker aims to reduce capacity in Europe
by closing a German factory in Bochum as demand for cars in the
region shrinks for a sixth straight year.  Neumann previously worked at Volkswagen until 2004, when he
left to join  Continental AG. (CON)  He was ousted as Continental CEO in
2009 after clashing with the German car-parts maker’s largest
investor Schaeffler AG. He rejoined VW later that year.  Alfred Rieck, also a former VW executive, resigned from his
post as Opel sales chief last week after less than a year in the
job.  The European auto market contracted 7.8 percent last year
to the lowest in almost two decades.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,
 Renault SA (RNO)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are among automakers eliminating
30,000 jobs in the region to rein in costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  