-- Toronto-Dominion Joins Canadian Lenders in Ratings Cut
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-01-28T23:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/toronto-dominion-joins-canadian-lenders-in-moody-s-cut.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Bank of Nova
Scotia  and four other Canadian lenders had their credit ratings
cut by Moody’s Investors Service because of high  home prices  and
consumer debt.  Toronto-Dominion, the last publicly traded bank rated Aaa
by Moody’s, was cut to Aa1, the ratings firm said today in a
statement. Scotiabank fell to Aa2 and the ratings on  Bank of
Montreal ,  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , Caisse Centrale
Desjardins du Quebec and  National Bank of Canada  were lowered by
one level.  “In the event of a systemic shock -- whether it’s
something domestic or it’s something brought on by external risk
factors transmitted from Europe or the U.S. to the Canadian
economy -- then we would expect, given the size of the Canadian
banks’ exposure to consumer loans they would have an elevated
level of loan losses,” David Beattie, senior credit officer at
Moody’s, said by phone from Toronto.  Toronto-Dominion’s C$650 million ($646 million) of 5.828
percent subordinated notes due July 2023 fell 20 cents to
C$116.46. Scotiabank’s C$750 million of 5.65 percent junior
notes due in December 2056 fell 38 cents to C$120.44.  The downgrades didn’t faze stock investors, as shares of
the biggest Canadian banks showed gains for the day. The
nation’s lenders have been ranked the world’s soundest for five
straight years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum .  Reaching Highs  “To me, it’s minor,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of
research at MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto,
which manages about C$4 billion in assets, including bank
shares. “It’s not going to be a disaster; the Canadian banks
are very well prepared for a slowdown.”  Toronto-Dominion rose 0.2 percent to C$83.78 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto. Scotiabank advanced 0.8 percent,  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  added
0.6 percent and CIBC was up 0.6 percent.  Royal Bank rose 0.8 percent to C$62.61, a record high,
according to the bank. The 10-member  Standard & Poor’s /TSX Banks
 Index (STBANKX)  rose 0.6 percent to 2207.68, near a record high.  Scotiabank and Caisse Centrale were lowered to Aa2 from
Aa1, while Bank of Montreal, CIBC and National Bank were each
lowered to Aa3 from Aa2.  Moody’s also removed systemic support from all rated
Canadian banks’ subordinated debt, including those issued by
 Royal Bank of Canada . The ratings company put the lenders on
review for possible downgrade Oct. 26.  Household Debt  “High levels of consumer indebtedness and elevated housing
prices leave Canadian banks more vulnerable than in the past to
downside risks the Canadian economy faces,” Moody’s said in a
statement.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest lender, was
lowered two levels to Aa3 on June 21 as part of a review of 17
firms with global capital markets operations, including Credit
Suisse Group AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and others.  Canadian  household debt  rose to 165 percent of disposable
income in the third quarter, compared with 163 percent in the
prior three-month period. Sales of existing homes fell 17
percent in December from the month before while the average sale
price rose.  “The Canadian financial sector is sound and well
regulated,” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in a
statement. The government is continuing to monitor the country’s
housing market, he said.  ‘Reckless Policy’  The ruling  Conservative Party  has “relied on consumer debt
to prop up  Canada ’s economy,” Member of Parliament Peggy Nash
of the opposition New  Democratic Party  said in an e-mailed
statement. “This reckless policy has clearly hurt Canada’s
banks.”  Scotiabank, Bank of Montreal and National Bank -- Canada’s
third, fourth and sixth-largest lenders by assets -- have
“sizable exposure” to volatile capital markets businesses,
Moody’s said.  National Bank doesn’t think the ratings change “will have
a material impact on our activities,” Claude Breton, a
spokesman for the Montreal-based lender, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Stephen Knight , a spokesman for Toronto-Dominion, said in
an e-mailed statement that the lender “remains one of the
highest-rated banks globally and the highest-rated bank by
Moody’s in Canada.”  Paul Deegan, a spokesman for Bank of Montreal, declined to
comment, while CIBC’s Kevin Dove didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail seeking comment. Spokesmen for Scotiabank and Caisse
Centrale also didn’t immediately respond to messages sent after
regular business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  