-- Stocks in Switzerland Gain; Transocean Rallies on Icahn
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-01-28T16:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/most-stocks-in-switzerland-gain-transocean-shares-rally.html
Stocks in Switzerland  climbed,
extending a 4 ½-year high, as Chinese industrial profits
increased and a report showed U.S. durable-goods orders rose
more than forecast in December.  Transocean (RIGN)  Ltd. rallied 4.2 percent after billionaire
investor  Carl Icahn  said the world’s biggest offshore-rig
contractor should declare a $4-a-share dividend. UBS AG,
Switzerland’s largest lender, advanced 1.4 percent after  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said it’s one of its most-preferred investment
bank stocks.  Geberit (GEBN)  AG dropped 1.6 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.3 percent to 7,483.95 at the
close of trading in Zurich, its highest level since June 2008.
The gauge increased 1.2 percent last week as the Swiss franc
weakened against the euro and the U.S. House of Representatives
voted to suspend the government’s borrowing limit. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also gained 0.3 percent today.  “This is further positive data that confirms the rebound
in the  U.S. economy ,” Ion-Marc Valahu, co-founder and  fund
manager  at Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in an e-mail regarding
the durable-goods orders. “This should translate in positive
returns for world equities and also show that the worst is over
for global tail risks.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 11 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Economic Data  Chinese industrial companies’ profits rose 17 percent to
895 billion  yuan  ($144 billion) in December from a year earlier,
the National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday in Beijing.  Orders for durable goods in the U.S. rose 4.6 percent in
December after a 0.8 percent gain the prior month, a Commerce
Department report showed today in  Washington . Excluding demand
for transportation equipment, which is volatile month to month,
orders rose 1.3 percent.  The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 2 percent gain in overall orders.  Separate data showed pending U.S. home sales declined in
December for the first time since August. The  index  of contracts
for the purchase of previously owned homes fell 4.3 percent to
101.7 after a revised 1.6 percent increase, the National
Association of Realtors reported today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey projected no change in the gauge.
Compared with a year earlier, pending sales before seasonal
adjustment climbed 4.9 percent.  Transocean Dividend  Transocean climbed 4.2 percent to 54.10 francs, its highest
price since July 2011. Icahn, who holds a 5.61 percent stake in
the company, said he will propose the $4-a-share dividend at the
next meeting if the board doesn’t act.  UBS (UBSN)  increased 1.4 percent to 16.31 francs. “This year we
expect the focus to be on the deleveraging costs,” Credit
Suisse’s Amit Goel wrote in a note to clients today. “Even if
there are hiccups along the way, we expect the market to view
this as an opportunity, as these processes are rarely smooth.”  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  rose 0.8 percent to 37.62 francs. A
gauge of European lenders posted the best performance of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Geberit, a maker of toilets and bathroom piping systems,
declined the most since October, falling 1.6 percent to 215
francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  