-- Lowest Market Volatility Since 2007 Dividing Structured Notes
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-01-28T10:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/lowest-market-volatility-since-2007-dividing-structured-notes.html
The lowest volatility for stocks,
interest rates and  commodities  since 2007 is cutting potential
returns on structured notes such as reverse convertibles and
favoring securities in which capital is protected.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , touched a 5 1/2-year low of 12.43 on Jan. 22,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. sales of reverse
convertibles, high-yielding bank bonds that convert into stock
if a company’s share price plummets, fell to $466.6 million in
the fourth quarter, down from $776 million a year earlier when
the VIX averaged 29.94, Bloomberg data show.  Central bank efforts to curtail the global financial crisis
and boost economic growth, such as the  European Central Bank ’s
unlimited bond-purchase program and quantitative easing in the
U.S., have calmed markets. Options embedded in structured notes
are cheaper when volatility is lower, damping returns on
securities where an investor is effectively selling an option
and benefiting securities where the investor is a buyer.  “Volatility is higher in uncertain environments, but there
is now a feeling that the crisis is under control,” said Johan
Groothaert, global head of investment products and platforms at
 UBS AG (UBSN)  in  London . As a result, investors will probably shift to
structured notes that allow them to benefit if volatility rises,
he said.  Embedded options  The options embedded in a capital-protected structured note
that pays out any positive returns of an underlying stock become
cheaper when volatility is lower. That enables issuers to create
securities with more attractive terms.  “Products that will become more attractive in the current
low-volatility regime are products that are long volatility,
meaning investors are getting exposed to a given asset for a
lower price than before,” said Julien Lascar, head of
distribution and structured equity products in the Asia-Pacific
region at  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   In reverse convertibles, the buyer effectively sells the
issuer a  put option , the value of which is used to make the
security’s returns and other features more enticing. That option
cost $125,246 for a $1 million, two-year reverse convertible
tied to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, sold on Jan. 23, 2012,
Bloomberg data show. The same option on Jan. 23 this year cost
$90,145, or almost 30 percent less.  The level of  interest rates  - close to zero in  Europe  and
the U.S. - is having an even greater effect on the pricing of
structured notes than volatility, said Christian Kronseder,
senior director of sales and public distribution for  Switzerland 
at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in Zurich. When rates
decline, the zero-coupon bonds used to create structured notes
become more expensive, leaving banks with less money to allocate
to options that can be used to sweeten the terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  