-- Pending Sales of Existing Homes in U.S. Decreased 4.3%
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-01-28T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/pending-sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-decreased-4-3-.html
Pending U.S. home sales declined in
December for the first time since August, showing uneven
progress in the housing market.  The  index  of contracts for the purchase of previously owned
homes fell 4.3 percent to 101.7 after a revised 1.6 percent
increase, the National Association of Realtors reported today in
Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey projected
no change in the gauge. Compared with a year earlier, pending
sales before seasonal adjustment climbed 4.9 percent.  Cheaper borrowing costs, improved property values and job
gains may combine to drive further gains in housing demand, a
source of strength for the expansion. The Realtors group said
fewer homes in inventory are holding back sales after the best
 year  for the industry since 2007.  “Our expectation is that the U.S. housing market will
deliver more of the same in 2013 -- increased start activity,
modest home price appreciation, and continued cleansing of the
stock of shadow inventory,” Michael Gapen, a New York-based
senior economist at Barclays Plc, said in a research note before
the report.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 37 economists ranged
from a 5 percent drop to a 5 percent gain after a previously
reported 1.7 percent increase.  Another report today showed orders for  durable goods  rose
more than forecast in December, reflecting gains in demand for
aircraft, communications equipment and electronics. The 4.6
percent surge last month followed a 0.7 percent gain, according
to the Commerce Department in Washington. The median projection
in the Bloomberg survey called for a 2 percent advance.  By Region  Three of four regions showed a drop in pending home sales
last month, including an 8.2 percent decrease in the West and a
5.4 percent drop in the Northeast. Sales contracts advanced 0.9
percent in the Midwest.  Pending sales are considered a leading indicator because
they track purchase contracts in advance of actual transactions,
which are tabulated a month or two later. Existing or previously
owned homes account for more than 90 percent of the housing
market.  Sales of U.S.  existing homes  unexpectedly dropped in
December, restrained by the lowest supply of properties in more
than a decade, the Realtors group reported last week. Purchases
fell 1 percent to a 4.94 million annual rate last month.  “The supply limitation appears to be the main factor
holding back contract signings in the past month,”  Lawrence Yun , the Realtors group’s chief economist, said in a statement.
Still, “buyer interest remains solid.”  New Homes  New-home sales , logged when contracts are signed, declined
7.3 percent in December to a 369,000 annual pace, following a
revised 398,000 rate the previous month that was higher than
previously estimated and the strongest since April 2010, the
Commerce Department reported last week.  For all of 2012, 5.02 million new and previously owned
homes were sold, the most since 5.03 million in 2007.  Borrowing costs have remained affordable for those who
qualify for financing. The average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate
mortgage was 3.42 percent last week, according to  Freddie Mac . A
reading of 3.31 percent in November was the lowest in data going
back to 1972.  Low  interest rates  are driving activity for lenders such as
Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , which saw gains in 2012
bolstered by refinancing applications.  Sales Improving  “We do expect a current favorable mortgage market to
remain, certainly for the near-term,” Chief Executive Officer
William Rogers said on a Jan. 18 earnings call. “There are a
lot more clients that can benefit from refinancing, the purchase
market is improving and so is the overall housing market.”  Rising home prices also have helped heal the real-estate
market that triggered the last recession. The S&P/Case-Shiller
 index  of property values in 20 cities increased 4.3 percent in
the year to October, the biggest 12-month advance since May
2010, according to data released Dec. 26. The group will report
November figures tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  