-- Permira Said to Show Interest in Discount’s Given Stake
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-01-28T15:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/permira-said-to-show-interest-in-discount-s-given-stake.html
Permira Advisers LLP  is among the
private-equity firms considering the acquisition of a stake in
Israeli medical-device maker  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , according to a
person with direct knowledge of the talks.  Discount Investment Corp. (DISI)  is in talks to sell all or part
of its 45.5 percent stake in Given, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the discussions are private. Given, the
Yokneam-based maker of a pill-sized camera to diagnose
gastrointestinal illnesses, this month abandoned a plan to find
a buyer for the whole company and said Discount wanted to sell
its stake in one block.  Given gained 3.9 percent to 61.40 shekels at the close in
Tel Aviv, giving the company a market value of 1.9 billion
shekels ($510 million). The U.S.-traded shares gained 4.2
percent to $16.57 at 9:46 a.m. in  New York . Discount, which
holds Given shares directly and indirectly, climbed 3 percent to
13 shekels at the close in Tel Aviv.  Tycoon Nochi Dankner’s IDB Holding Corp., which indirectly
controls Discount, has been selling assets including a stake in
Clal Industries & Investments Ltd. as the company seeks to avoid
default on its debt.  A spokeswoman for London-based Permira declined to comment
on Given, as did a spokeswoman for Tel Aviv-based Discount.  Fuji, Samsung  Given, which sells its video capsules to peek into the
small bowel and esophagus, is hoping to receive approval to
market the product for inspecting the large intestine. The
company is seeking regulatory approval in  Japan  and the U.S. for
its PillCam Colon 2, for patients who can’t undergo or complete
colonoscopies.  Companies including  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Fujifilm Holdings
Corp. (4901)  and Samsung Electronics Co. held unsuccessful talks with
Given about an acquisition, the person said. New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation, a
spokeswoman said in an e-mail. Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung
declined to comment on market rumors, the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  A phone call made to Fujifilm in Tokyo outside of regular
business hours was directed to an automated recording that
didn’t take messages.  Permira’s interest in Given was reported earlier today by
the Israeli newspaper Globes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  