-- Peru Planning Record Bond Buyback to Stem Sol’s Advance
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y
-- 2013-01-28T14:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/peru-planning-record-bond-buyback-to-stem-sol-s-advance-1-.html
Peru may buy back a record amount of
international bonds next month as it steps up efforts to stem
the biggest rally among major Latin American currencies in the
past year, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said.  Officials are still studying which securities to purchase
and will buy as much as $2 billion in foreign debt in February,
he said. Peru’s government had said in December it planned to
purchase $1.5 billion of foreign debt next month. The Treasury
will purchase dollars on the local market for the buyback.  Nations from  Russia  to  Chile  have expressed concern over
the appreciation of their currencies as investors from developed
markets plow money into higher-yielding assets. Peru’s sol
reached a 16-year high this month, even after the central bank
bought a record $13.9 billion in the  spot market  in 2012.  “The great challenge we have right now is how to deal with
the entrance of capital into our country that’s making the
currency stronger,” Castilla said in a Jan. 26 interview in
Davos,  Switzerland . “We aren’t opting for  capital controls  at
the moment. The central bank can continue intervening
aggressively.”  The sol gained 5.2 percent in the past 12 months, the best
performing amid the seven most traded currencies in Latin
America. Last year it had the best annual performance since
2009. The currency was little changed today at 2.558 per  U.S.
dollar  at 9:11 a.m. in  Lima , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Weapons of mass destruction  Peru, unlike  Costa Rica , doesn’t need to use currency
controls to manage dollar inflows into the economy, central bank
President Julio Velarde said Jan. 25. He didn’t rule out
reducing the country’s benchmark lending rate to close the gap
with record low international borrowing costs.  Costa Rica’s President Laura Chinchilla, who has called
capital inflows from developed markets seeking higher yields
“weapons of mass destruction,” said Jan. 24 her central bank
can adopt further controls to weaken the colon. Chinchilla’s
administration submitted a bill to Congress last week that would
raise taxes to as high as 38 percent from 8 percent on foreign
investors who transfer profits out of the country.  Peru’s  economy  expanded 6.3 percent last year and will grow
at a similar pace this year, as exports rebound and internal
demand continues to grow at a pace of about 9 percent, Castilla
said. The  budget surplus  was 2 percent of gross domestic product
last year and will be about 1 percent this year, according to
the minister.  Record Investment  Peru, the world’s third-largest producer of copper, zinc
and tin, has lined up $70 billion in mining and energy
investment commitments. Record foreign direct investment and
Peruvian companies tapping dollar financing abroad is fueling
the surge in the sol.  “The appreciation corresponds principally to fundamentals,
like foreign direct investment,” Castilla said. “Speculative
money is not the main reason, like in other markets.”  The country’s international bonds totaled $9.45 billion as
of Dec. 31, according to the  Finance Ministry ’s website.
Peruvian companies raised $1 billion abroad this month, led by a
$500 million bond sale by state mortgage lender Mivivienda SA.
BBVA Banco Continental and Pesquera Exalmar SAA sold $300
million and $200 million, respectively.  The central bank this month kept benchmark borrowing costs
unchanged at 4.25 percent, the lowest in  Latin America  along
with  Colombia .  The yield on the nation’s 7.84 percent sol-denominated bond
due August 2020 has dropped 196 basis points, or 1.96 percentage
points, in the past year to 3.79 percent, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on its 7.125 dollar bond due
March 2019 has fallen 130 basis points to 1.98 percent over the
same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Davos, Switzerland at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 