-- Peruvian Bond Yields Rise on Intervention Concern; Sol Weakens
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-28T22:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/peruvian-bond-yields-rise-on-intervention-concern-sol-weakens.html
Peruvian bonds declined, pushing
yields on benchmark securities to a two-week high, amid mounting
speculation that intervention to stem gains in the sol will
discourage foreign investors from buying local debt.  The yield on the government’s 7.84 percent bonds due in
2020 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.85
percent, the highest since Jan. 9. The sol depreciated less than
0.1 percent to 2.56 per  U.S. dollar , its weakest closing price
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Peru  may buy back a record amount of international bonds
next month as it steps up efforts to stem the biggest rally
among major Latin American currencies in the past year, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said in an interview in Davos,
 Switzerland . The central bank has stepped up dollar purchases
and raised the foreign portfolio limit for pension funds to
allow them to invest more abroad.  “We have seen sales from local investors anticipating that
the sol will halt its appreciation in the very short term and
foreign investors have to sell some of their positions,” said
Diego Alvarez, a trader at Banco Internacional del Peru. “The
central bank has decided to weaken the appreciation of the sol
and the  Finance Ministry  is supporting those efforts, but we
don’t expect it to change the tendency.”  The sol appreciated 5.1 percent in the last 12 months, the
most among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as
investors moved money into  Latin America ’s fastest-growing
economy. The central bank bought a record $13.9 billion last
year and raised  reserve requirements  five times.  The monetary authority bought $10 million today at an
average 2.561 soles per U.S. dollar, according to its website.  Peru doesn’t need to use currency controls to manage dollar
inflows into the economy, central bank President Julio Velarde
said Jan. 25. He didn’t rule out reducing the country’s
benchmark lending rate to close the gap with record low
international borrowing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  