-- Polyus Gold Stake Buyers Said to Be Yushvayev, Mutsoyev
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-01-28T19:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/polyus-gold-stake-buyers-said-to-be-yushvayev-mutsoyev.html
Gavriil Yushvayev, a former owner of
Russia’s Wimm-Bill-Dann, and OAO Uralkali investor Zelimkhan
Mutsoyev agreed to buy  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s stake in  Polyus Gold
International Ltd. (PGIL) , two people with knowledge of the plan said.  Billionaire Prokhorov’s 37.8 percent holding will be split
about equally between the two buyers, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the talks are private. The stake
had a value of about $4 billion based on today’s share price.  Prokhorov’s Onexim Holdings Ltd. agreed to sell his shares
in Polyus as he diversifies away from commodities, three people
familiar with the plan said last week. Onexim and the investors,
selected by billionaire Suleiman Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva, sought
approval from the U.K. Takeover Panel for the deal, the people
said. Nafta Moskva owns a 40.2 percent stake.  The press services of Onexim and Nafta Moskva declined to
comment.  Prokhorov, the 66th richest individual on the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index  with $14 billion, is selling industrial
assets and keeping financial ventures. Onexim gained control of
Renaissance Capital, a Moscow-based investment bank, from
founder and shareholder Stephen Jennings in November.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised on the sale of Prokhorov’s
Polyus stake; VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest lender, will
help fund the deal and the Takeover Panel may decide this month,
the people said last week.  Merger Plan  Onexim was considering an international merger before
Prokhorov decided to sell his stake. On Sept. 12, his company
said it was in early talks with two potential buyers for
holdings of less than 20 percent each in the producer.  Nafta Moskva said at the time it was in talks on providing
financial or other support to one of the potential purchasers.
In 2010, Kerimov and his partners gained control of Uralkali,
splitting a 53.2 percent stake among themselves and avoiding a
mandatory offer to minorities.  Kerimov paid $1.3 billion for 37 percent of Polyus in 2009
from billionaire Vladimir Potanin, the Vedomosti newspaper said
at the time.  Yushvayev sold his stake in juice and dairy producer Wimm-
Bill-Dann to PepsiCo Inc. in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  