-- Prokhorov Polyus Stake Buyers Said to Include Milk Mogul
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-01-29T13:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/polyus-buyers-may-include-ex-milk-mogul-russia-overnight.html
A pair of Russian billionaires, one
who made his fortune selling a dairy and juice business to
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and the other an investor in potash producer OAO
Uralkali, agreed to buy  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s stake in  Polyus Gold
International Ltd. (PGIL) , two people with knowledge of the plan said.  Prokhorov’s  37.8 percent  of  Russia ’s biggest gold producer
will be split about equally between Gavriil Yushvayev, a former
owner of Russia’s Wimm-Bill-Dann, and Uralkali shareholder
Zelimkhan Mutsoyev, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the talks are private. The stake is valued at about $4
billion based on yesterday’s price of 224.25 pence ($3.52) in
London. Polyus has surged 16 percent since Jan. 14 and traded
yesterday at the widest premium to peers since September.  Prokhorov’s Onexim Holdings Ltd. agreed to sell his shares
in  Polyus (PLZLY)  as the billionaire former presidential candidate
shifts away from commodities, three people familiar with the
plan said last week. Onexim and the investors, selected by Nafta
Moskva -- billionaire Suleiman Kerimov’s investment company --
sought approval from the U.K. Takeover Panel for the deal, the
people said. Nafta Moskva owns 40.2 percent of Polyus.  “It’s good news for minority investors that Kerimov is
behind the purchase as it means he may get to define Polyus’
strategy from now on,” Ilya Kravets, director of investment
research at Daniloff Capital LLC in New York, where he helps
manage $100 million of assets including Polyus’s London-listed
stock, said by phone yesterday. “Kerimov means higher dividends
and a higher stock price.”  Kerimov Link  Yushvayev, 55, agreed to sell a 19.6 percent stake in
dairy-product and juice-maker Wimm-Bill-Dann to Purchase, New
York-based PepsiCo in 2010 as part of the U.S. soft-drink
producer’s $3.8 billion acquisition of 66 percent of the Moscow-
based company.  Mutsoyev, 53, teamed up with Kerimov in 2010 when OAO
Silvinit and Uralkali agreed to merge to form the world’s
largest potash maker. His 8.37 percent in the combined company
has a value of $1.9 billion based on yesterday’s  London  closing
price. Wadge Holdings Ltd., which Mutsoyev jointly owns with
Kerimov and other Uralkali partners, sold bonds in November to
 China ’s CIC International Co. which are convertible into a 12.5
percent stake of Uralkali.  Polyus’s global depositary receipts increased 0.3 percent
to a three-month high of $3.45 yesterday in New York. The 1.2
percent increase in London shares sent valuations to 13.03 times
estimated earnings, compared with an average multiple of 12 for
companies on the  MSCI Emerging Markets Materials Index. (MXEF0MT)  The 8.6
percent premium was the widest since Sept. 19.  London Decline  The gold company’s London shares fell 1.6 percent to 220.75
pence by 1:17 p.m. in the U.K. capital today, declining for the
first time in four days.  Press officials at Onexim and Nafta Moskva declined to
comment when contacted about the stake sale.  Prokhorov, the 66th richest individual on the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index  with $14 billion, is selling industrial
assets, while remaining in financial ventures. Onexim gained
control of Renaissance Capital, a Moscow-based investment bank,
from founder and shareholder Stephen Jennings in November.  Polyus produced 1.68 million ounces of refined gold last
year, the most in its history, and this year plans to spend as
much as $1.6 billion on projects, including its Natalka
development.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising on the Polyus sale, while
VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest lender, will help fund the
deal, the people said last week.  Boost Dividends  Onexim was considering an international merger before
Prokhorov, who ran against President Vladimir Putin in March
elections, decided to sell his stake. His company said Sept. 12
that it was in early talks with two potential buyers for
holdings of less than 20 percent each in the producer.  The gold producer may increase dividends if Prokhorov sells
out as new owners will need to serve debt they take to buy
shares, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said Jan. 25.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent to 104.79
yesterday, the highest level since April 12. Futures expiring in
March on Moscow’s RTS Index fell 0.7 percent in Moscow today to
162,470.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, was little
changed at $30.93 yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the index futures, increased 1.2
percent to 19.86 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  