-- Premier Foods Slumps as Chief Executive Resigns: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-28T16:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/premier-foods-slumps-as-chief-executive-resigns-london-mover.html
Premier Foods Plc (PFD) , owner of the
Hovis bread and Bisto gravy brands, fell the most in almost a
year after Chief Executive Officer  Michael Clarke  resigned,
prompting analysts to question the company’s stability.  Clarke’s departure from the St Albans, England-based
company is a “major blow” after the former Kraft Foods and
Coca-Cola executive spent less than 18 months in the post,
Charles Mills, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
note. The company hired Gavin Darby to start on Feb. 4 as his
replacement.  The  shares  fell 12 percent, the biggest drop since Feb. 6,
to 106 pence, the lowest price since Dec. 17. The stock fell 17
percent between Clarke becoming CEO in August 2011 and today’s
announcement. It was the worst performer in the  FTSE All-Share
Index (ASX)  today and the volume of shares traded was more than six
times the three-month daily average.  “We see the surprise change of leadership as unhelpful to
Premier’s stability and organic growth prospects,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP) , said in a note as he put his
buy  recommendation  under review. “With its financial
restructuring complete, we think that consistency and longevity
of leadership was going to be critical to its prosperity.”  Premier Foods made 275 million pounds ($433 million) of
disposals last year without reducing its debt ratios, which
stood at about 5.5 times net debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, Deboo said in October.
Premier Foods had net debt of 1.27 billion pounds at June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Leading Improvement  The company said in August that the disposal of the spreads
division would bring the total from divestitures to 275 million
pounds from a target of 330 million pounds by June 2014.  Fourth-quarter trading was in line with management
expectations and the company has a “solid platform” for 2013,
Clarke said in a statement on Jan. 17. Premier Foods said that
Clarke chose to leave after leading the company’s initial
turnaround and will be available until mid-2013 to help with the
transition.  “Given his relatively short tenure and the still
significant challenges facing the business we regard his
decision to resign with immediate effect as a surprise and is
likely to raise concerns over the longer term outlook of the
company,”  Graham Jones , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. with
a hold rating on the stock, said in a note to clients.  Even so, “Darby certainly looks a strong replacement with
a good consumer pedigree,” Credit Suisse’s Mills said. Clarke’s
departure “doesn’t reflect any boardroom disagreements,” he
said.  CEO Experience  Darby was most recently chief executive officer of Cable &
Wireless Worldwide Plc before it was sold to  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
last year. Before that he worked at Vodafone, and was an
executive at Coca-Cola Co. for more than 16 years.  “Michael Clarke and the team have done a first-class job
in stabilizing the business, strengthening its balance sheet,
divesting non-core businesses and generating momentum,”
Chairman David Beever said today in the statement. “The board
very much looks forward to working with Gavin to continue
driving sustainable profitable growth.”  Premier is scheduled to report full-year earnings on Feb.
21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  