-- Qihoo Drops to 1-Week Low After Saying Apple Cut Its Apps
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-28T21:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/qihoo-drops-to-1-week-low-after-saying-apple-cut-its-apps.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd. (QIHU)  fell
to the lowest level in more than a week in New York after the
Chinese  software company  said that its applications were removed
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes store and as it received an unfair
competition warning.  American depositary receipts of Qihoo, owner of China’s
most popular Web browser, slipped 1.5 percent to $31.5 in New
York, the lowest close since Jan. 16. The stock earlier slid as
much as 5.4 percent.  Qihoo’s apps were “abruptly removed” from the iTunes
store last week for no apparent reason, Qihoo Chief Financial
Officer Alex Xu said by e-mail today. Qihoo’s  management  was
also called in to the Beijing Industrial and Commercial
Administration Bureau and issued an executive warning that its
use of anti-virus software in Internet browsers was considered
unfair competition, according to a Jan. 24 posting on the
watchdog’s  microblog .  “Competition is intensifying,” Echo He, a senior analyst
at Maxim Group LLC, which rates Qihoo buy, said by phone. “If
the authorities call Qihoo to answer some questions then
investors in the U.S. will think that’s serious.”  Beijing-based Qihoo told its users today that Baidu Inc.,
owner of China’s most-used search engine, is using a plug-in
that can determine whether users are on Qihoo’s browser, Xu said
in a separate e-mail. A pop-up window will warn users that the
Qihoo browser is incompatible with Baidu’s system and “lure
users to change browsers,” according to the e-mail.  Patricia Graue, a spokeswoman for Baidu based in  San
Francisco , declined to comment when contacted by phone.  Qihoo started offering a search engine in August, putting
it in competition with Beijing-based Baidu.  Baidu ADRs (BIDU)  jumped
3.1 percent to $111.39 in New York.  Apple spokesman  Tom Neumayr  declined to comment on whether
Qihoo’s apps had been removed from iTunes when contacted by
phone. Qihoo doesn’t expect the incident to have any meaningful
financial or operational impact and other Chinese companies have
had similar treatment from Apple, the CFO said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  