-- Rand Weakens to 4-Year Low as Investors Sell Bonds; Yields Rise
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-01-28T16:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/rand-declines-1st-day-in-3-as-foreign-investment-flows-reverse.html
The rand fell to its weakest level
in almost four years as foreigners reduced holdings of South
African assets on concern labor unrest and mining output cuts
will weigh on the nation’s current-account deficit.  The rand dropped as much as 2.3 percent to 9.1458 a dollar,
the lowest intraday level since April 21, 2009, and traded at
9.1150 at 5:37 p.m. in Johannesburg. That extended its decline
this year to 7 percent, the worst of 25 emerging-market
currencies monitored by Bloomberg. Yields on 10.5 percent
government bonds due December 2026 rose 8 basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 7.47 percent, the highest since Dec. 5.  Foreign investors  sold  544 million rand ($61 million) of
South African equities last week, increasing net sales this year
to 1.77 billion rand. They bought 278 million rand of bonds on
Jan. 25 after three days of net sales. Foreigners have  sold  2.4
billion rand of the nation’s debt since  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS)  announced on Jan. 15 it may cut its workforce by 14,000 as
it restructures its operations and farm workers continued
striking over wages.  “Domestic-specific factors are weighing heavily on both
underlying flows and market sentiment, and further explosive
labor-market events cannot be ruled out,” Bruce Donald, a
Johannesburg-based currency strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said in e-mailed comments. “The country’s large external
funding requirement means that the currency is very vulnerable
to any upset in capital flows.”  ‘More Challenging’  Financing of the country’s  current-account gap , which
reached 6.4 percent of gross domestic product in the third
quarter of 2012, “may be more challenging” as sentiment toward
 South Africa  has deteriorated, Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus
said at the conclusion of the Monetary Policy Committee meeting
on Jan. 24.  The rand extended its decline after orders for durable
goods in the U.S. climbed more than forecast in December,
showing manufacturing is rebounding from a mid-year slump and
boosting demand for the dollar. The U.S. currency gained against
all but one of the 25 emerging-market currencies monitored by
Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s real gained 0.8 percent.  “The market is still pretty nervous,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at Johannesburg-based Bidvest Bank,
the nation’s biggest chain of money-changers, said by phone.
“There is eager buying of dollars out of the U.S. and emerging-
market currencies are taking a beating.”  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
4.6 percent, exceeding the highest forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, after a 0.7 percent gain in November, a
Commerce Department report showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 2 percent advance.  Gold and platinum prices declined, weighing on the rand, De
Vleeschauwer said. Metals and other commodities accounted for 61
percent of South Africa’s exports in the first 11 months of
2012, according to government data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  