-- TransCanada Wins Deal to Halt Keystone Protests in Texas
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-01-28T17:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/transcanada-wins-agreement-to-halt-keystone-protests-in-texas.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  reached an
agreement with some protesters to end months of blockades and
demonstrations aimed at disrupting construction of the Keystone
XL Canadian tar-sands pipeline in Texas and  Oklahoma .  The protesters agreed not to trespass on pipeline easements
or at TransCanada offices anywhere along the southern leg of the
pipeline, which stretches from Cushing, Oklahoma, to the
refinery-industry complex on the Texas Gulf coast, according to
an agreed judgment and permanent injunction signed Jan. 25.  The accord includes any attempt at “chaining, shackling,
binding or attaching a person’s body or any other object,
article or mechanism to Keystone equipment to immobilize, stop,
halt or arrest Keystone equipment or construction activities or
operations on Keystone property,’’ according to papers signed by
attorneys for both sides.  The agreement was negotiated by lawyers for TransCanada and
 Tar Sands  Blockade, who were gathered in state court in Quitman,
Texas, about 60 miles (97 kilometers) east of  Dallas , for a
hearing to extend a temporary restraining order granted against
some protesters in October, David Dodson, a spokesman for
Calgary-based TransCanada, said in a phone interview today.  Environmental Groups  The agreement covers several environmental groups and 20
individual protesters, Dodson said in an e-mailed statement.  Ron Seifert, an activist with Tar Sands Blockade, said the
agreement doesn’t bind anyone unaffiliated with the parties to
the deal. He said the activists were being threatened by the
pipeline company with a $5 million lawsuit for delaying
construction.  “There are no limitations on speech by any of these
individuals or organizations, and the Blockade will continue to
speak out against this dangerous project,” Seifert said today
in a telephone interview. “TransCanada is just wrong if they
think that limiting the rights of a few Texans will squash the
grassroots resistance to this project.”  Wood County District Judge G. Timothy Boswell had urged the
sides to settle their differences out of court, Dodson said. The
resulting deal extended beyond that single county to include
demonstrations aimed at interfering with pipeline construction
activities throughout Keystone’s entire southern leg.  Diluted Bitumen  TransCanada has been battling environmental protesters and
landowners in multiple locations along its 2,151-mile Keystone
XL pipeline, which is intended to carry diluted bitumen obtained
from Canadian tar sands. The protesters sought to highlight what
they claim is the Keystone’s potential for environmental
catastrophe, should the line leak or rupture.  Tar Sands Blockade supported protesters who occupied
treetop encampments and chained themselves to construction
equipment along the pipeline route through East  Texas  since the
middle of last year.  “TransCanada has obtained all of the permits and legal
approvals to build the Gulf Coast Pipeline, and this judgment
reinforces that,’’ Dodson said in the statement. “We hope this
will allow our construction activities to move forward without
harassment and the safety concerns that these protestors and
organizations have created.’’  Seifert said activists are urging “other organizations and
other groups that have become mobilized by these protests” to
continue the fight.  “This is far from over,” he said.  The case is TransCanada Keystone Pipeline LP v. Beebe,
2012-605, 402th Texas Judicial District Court (Wood County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  