-- RBI Signals India Rate-Cut Limits as Policy Revamped: Economy
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-01-29T02:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/rbi-signals-policy-overhaul-may-ease-interest-rate-constraints.html
The  Reserve Bank of India  signaled
elevated inflation is limiting room to cut  interest rates  even
as its focus may shift to spurring growth as the government
implements an overhaul of economic policies.  “The scope for supportive monetary policy action is
constrained,” the Reserve Bank of India said in a  report 
yesterday ahead of its interest-rate decision in Mumbai today.
“However, as reform actions get executed, monetary policy could
increasingly focus on growth revival.”  The central bank report suggests there are “clear risks” to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s expectations for a front-loading of
rate cuts this month, economist  Tushar Poddar  said in a note
yesterday. While the government has vowed to curb the budget gap
to damp price pressures, costlier diesel and risks from a trade
deficit will limit the central bank to a 25 basis-point rate cut,
according to 30 of 35 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Going forward, the central bank’s actions are going to be
based on the government’s ability to execute a credible deficit-
cut plan,” said Shubhada Rao, Mumbai-based chief economist at
 Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  “Given the tone of the statement, aggressive
easing from the central bank is highly unlikely.”  Rao forecasts Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will lower the
repurchase rate to 7.75 percent from 8 percent. India’s
 inflation   eased  to a three-year low in December even as it
remained the fastest in major  emerging markets  at 7.18 percent.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has overhauled
economic policies since mid-September to pare subsidies, lure
more foreign investment and spur infrastructure projects.  Twin Deficits  Singh is trying to revive an  economy  expanding at the
weakest pace in a decade and tame fiscal and current-account
gaps that have increased the risk of a credit-rating downgrade.  The rupee, up about 2.7 percent since the policy changes
began, weakened 0.4 percent to 53.915 a dollar at the 5 p.m.
close in Mumbai yesterday. The BSE India Sensitive Index was
little changed. The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds maturing in
June 2022 dropped to 7.86 percent from 7.89 percent on Jan. 24.  “The balance of macroeconomic risks suggest continuation
of the calibrated stance while increasingly focusing on growth
risks,” the central bank said in the report. “Reforms since
September 2012 have reduced immediate risks, but there is a long
road ahead to bring about a sustainable turnaround for the
Indian economy.”  Smaller Steps?  Aside from inflation, a record current-account deficit of
$22.31 billion in the quarter ended Sept. 30, as well as the
fiscal shortfall, are constraints on easing, it said. The
government aims to narrow the budget gap to 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the 12 months through March, from 5.8
percent.  The use of “calibrated” in the central bank’s comments
suggests that the RBI may be more comfortable in easing in steps
of 25 basis points rather than a front-loaded easing, said
Poddar at Goldman Sachs.  “While we continue to expect a cumulative 50 basis points
of easing in the first quarter, and indeed in calendar 2013,
there are clear risks to our forecast of a 50 basis-point rate
cut in the Jan. 29 policy meeting,” the economist said.  Moderating Inflation  The  Reserve Bank  said if inflation trends down, “monetary
policy could increasingly shift focus” to aid expansion. While
higher diesel tariffs may lead to price pressures, inflation may
continue to moderate this quarter, it said.  Subbarao has kept the repurchase rate at 8 percent since a
50 basis-point cut in April last year. He has cut the  cash
reserve ratio  four times since the start of 2012. The central
bank signaled in December it may ease policy in coming months to
aid growth.  The economy may expand 5.5 percent in the year through
March 2013, based on a compilation of forecasts from other
organizations, yesterday’s report showed. October’s projection
was 5.7 percent. Inflation may average 7.5 percent, based on the
compilation, compared with an earlier 7.7 percent estimate.  Subbarao will lower borrowing costs to 7.5 percent, four
analysts said in the Bloomberg survey. One forecast no change.  “Even if inflation recedes further, the wide CAD may slow
the pace and extent to which monetary policy can be eased,” the
central bank said in yesterday’s report, referring to the
current-account deficit.  Diesel Prices  India  on Jan. 17 partially freed diesel prices from state
control to curb fuel subsidies. A rise of 0.45 rupees a liter
every month until March 2014 will add around 64 basis points to
benchmark inflation, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  The Finance Ministry forecasts economic growth of as little
as 5.7 percent in 2012-2013, the least since 2002-2003. The
expansion will reach 6.5 percent in 2013-2014, according to the
median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Elsewhere in  Asia  today, a government report showed  New
Zealand ’s annual trade deficit unexpectedly narrowed in December
as imports fell to an eight-month low. In  Australia , a private
report showed business confidence for December rebounded by the
most since 2001 after the central bank’s sixth interest-rate cut
in 14 months.  In  Europe  later today, reports may show retail sales in
 Spain  declined in December from a year earlier, a French
 consumer confidence  measure was unchanged from its December
reading, and a German import price index may have fallen last
month for the third time in the past four months, surveys of
economists showed.  In the U.S., private reports may show  home prices  in
November posted their biggest year-on-year advance since August
2006, while consumer confidence as measured by the New York-
based Conference Board likely weakened in January for a third
straight month, surveys showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  