-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Rises to 2% 1st Time Since April
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-28T22:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/treasuries-remain-lower-as-u-s-sells-two-year-notes.html
Treasury 10-year note yields touched
2 percent for the first time since April as higher-than-forecast
orders for durable goods in the U.S. added to signs the economic
recovery may be strengthening.  The  benchmark yield  pared gains as investors saw a buying
opportunity before Federal Reserve officials start a two-day
meeting tomorrow.  Fitch Ratings  said the temporary suspension of
the U.S. debt limit removes the near-term risk to the nation’s
AAA credit rating. The U.S. sold $35 billion in two-year notes,
the first of three auctions this week totaling $99 billion.  “We’ve had a decent selloff, but at these levels investors
are finding value,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate
strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of the 21
primary dealers required to bid at government-debt auctions.
“The Fed is still buying and we are not out of the woods
economically. We may weaken further, but we will need more news
for an extended sell-off.”  Ten-year note yields  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.96 percent as of 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It earlier touched 2
percent for the first time since April 25. The price of the
1.625 percent security due in November 2022 fell 3/32, or 94
cents per $1,000 face value, to 97. The yield’s average over the
past decade is 3.64 percent.  The current  two-year note  was little changed at 0.27
percent.  ‘More Stability’  “The data show there’s more stability -- more people are
looking for value away from Treasuries,” said  Sean Murphy , a
trader at primary dealer Societe Generale SA in New York. “You
are not out of the woods yet, but it’s a better atmosphere and
it should promote better sellers of strength.”  U.S. government debt  extended losses as orders for durable
goods in the U.S. rose 4.6 percent in December after a 0.7
percent gain the prior month, a Commerce Department report
showed in  Washington . The median forecast of 76 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 2 percent gain in overall
orders.  Employers added 161,000 workers in January, after a 155,000
increase in December, a separate survey showed before the Feb. 1
report from the Labor Department. Other data this week may show
manufacturing is stabilizing and  consumer spending  increased,
based on responses from economists.  Fed policy makers said they may end their $85 billion
monthly bond purchases sometime in 2013, with members divided
between a mid- or end-of-year finish, according to the record of
the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Dec. 11-12 gathering.  ‘Keep Jumping’  “The Treasury market is trading like a beach ball -- you
just can’t hold rates down, they keep jumping back up,” said
 William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC’s RBS
Securities unit, a primary dealer. “There is a lot of
resistance lining up about 2 percent, at 2.09/10 area. A lot of
bearish channels and trend lines come in there -- that’s why
we’ve been sporting this 1.7-to-2.1 range.”  Resistance is an area on a price graph where analysts
anticipate sell orders to be clustered.  RBS forecasts the 10-year yield to decline to 1.90 percent
by end of 2013. The yield will rise to 2.25 percent at year-end,
according to the weighted average forecast of 76 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Notes Auction  The two-year securities sold today drew a yield of 0.288
percent, compared with the average forecast of 0.289 percent in
a Bloomberg News survey of eight of the Fed’s primary dealers.
The record low was 0.22 percent at July’s auction.  The bid-to-cover  ratio , which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with amount of securities offered, was 3.77, versus
3.59 last month and an average of 3.82 at the past 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 18 percent of the notes, compared with
an average of 29.8 percent at the past 10 sales. Direct bidders,
non-primary dealer investors that place their bids directly with
the Treasury, purchased 30 percent of the notes, versus the 10-
auction average of 18 percent.  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.9 percent loss in
January, the worst monthly performance since March, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of shares gained 5.4 percent in January including
reinvested dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  difference  between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
same-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge
of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, widened to 2.56 percentage points last week. The average
over the past decade is 2.19 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  