-- Reckitt Benckiser Investor JAB Won’t Sell More Stock, Becht Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   D a v i d   d e   J o n g
-- 2013-01-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/reckitt-benckiser-investor-jab-won-t-sell-more-stock-becht-says.html
Joh. A. Benckiser Sarl, the
 investment company  co-led by Bart Becht that’s been buying up
coffee assets, has no plan to further reduce its ownership of
 Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc. (RB/)   A sale would sacrifice JAB’s seat on the Dettol maker’s
 board  as well as  dividend payments , Becht, Reckitt Benckiser’s
former chief executive officer, said in a phone interview. In
May, Luxembourg-based JAB sold 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion)
worth of shares, reducing its stake to about 10.5 percent from
15 percent. That sent  RB stock  down the most in six months.  “We are not keen to go below 10 percent, as we would lose
our board seat,” Becht said. “The RB stake generates  cash flow 
for JAB, with its dividends. We are happy with our investment.”
Prior to the May sale, JAB hadn’t sold the stock since 2003.  JAB, the investment vehicle of Germany’s billionaire
Reimann family, last year made a trio of deals to bolster its
presence in the $45 billion global coffee market, acquiring
Caribou Coffee Co., Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. and a stake in the
maker of Douwe Egberts coffee. The moves came after JAB
subsidiary  Coty Inc. (COTY)  unsuccessfully attempted a takeover of
door-to-door cosmetics seller Avon Products Inc.  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at Liberum Research, expects JAB
to dispose of its stake in Slough, England-based Reckitt
Benckiser sometime after the end of a commitment not to sell any
further shares for at least 365 days after the May 2012 sale.
Such a move would free up capital to invest in faster-growing
sectors of the consumer-products market, he said.  Coffee Expansion  “In my opinion, they will sell the RB stake, on the
assumption they want to expand in coffee or in personal care
with Coty,” said Zuanic, who recommends selling the stock.  JAB is run by Becht, Peter Harf, who has worked there for
more than three decades, and Olivier Goudet, who joined last
year. Goudet and Harf once served together on the board of
directors of  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest
brewer. The trio collectively own 8 percent of JAB.  In addition to the coffee holdings, JAB owns 80 percent of
Coty, which makes Calvin Klein fragrances, and Labelux Group
GmbH, which manages luxury brands Bally, Belstaff and  Jimmy
Choo . It has about $16 billion in assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
David De Jong in  New York  at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  