-- Reddy Plans Will to Avoid Ambani-Like Dispute: Corporate India
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-01-29T10:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/reddy-plans-will-to-avoid-ambani-like-dispute-corporate-india.html
Prathap C. Reddy, the 80-year-old
founder of  India ’s biggest hospital operator, is breaking with
tradition to avoid the sort of dispute which led to a feud
between the nation’s richest brothers.  The chairman of  Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. (APHS)  has formed
a team to draft a will, a process which many Indians believe to
be inauspicious as it is associated with preparations for death.
The seven-member family council includes Reddy, his four
daughters and two professional advisers, he said in an interview
in the southern city of Chennai.  Reddy’s plan to apportion the family fortune valued at
about 38.5 billion rupees ($714 million) follows the 2004
fallout between billionaire brothers Mukesh and Anil Ambani that
led to the division of the Reliance group after their father
died intestate. The rich in India are increasingly drafting the
document after the Ambani dispute, said Gaurav Jaggi, senior
associate with Vaish Associates Advocates, who gets five
inquiries a month compared with one a quarter five years ago.  “We are talking to the next generation on the future
course of action,” Reddy said. “Other investors who are with
us have completely supported us. But between the family,
everybody asked what next.”  In 2005, Mukesh and Anil split the oil-refining, chemicals
and mobile-phone services group after a seven-month long
ownership fight at  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , founded by their
father  Dhirubhai Ambani .  Billionaire Brothers  Mukesh, ranked the world’s 17th richest man with assets
valued at $27.1 billion according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , retained control of the flagship, while younger brother,
Anil, took power, mobile-phone services and financial services.  Kokilaben, widow of Dhirubhai, mediated a settlement
between the brothers. Anil has assets valued at $8.5 billion.  Preparing the document isn’t popular among Hindus, who
believe that “if you write your will you will die,” said New
Delhi-based Jaggi. “I am hearing this for the last 10 years
from many influential people.”  Wills written by Hindus, the dominant community in India,
Sikhs, Buddhists, Parsis and Christians, are governed by the
Indian Succession Act of 1925, while the followers of Islam
adhere to the Muslim Personal Law.  If someone doesn’t leave a will, by default the property
goes to the legal heirs, said K. Bhawatharini, a lawyer
practicing in  Chennai .  Family Council  Reddy, a trained cardiologist, who started Apollo as a 150
bed hospital in Chennai in 1983 after a stint at the Missouri
State Chest Hospital, said the family council may come up with a
plan for his assets in the next one to two years.  Apollo, which counts private-equity fund Apax Partners LLP
as an  investor , manages 8,500 beds across 50 hospitals, runs
1,350 pharmacies, 100 primary care and diagnostic clinic and 100
telemedicine units across 9 countries.  IHH Healthcare Bhd. , an arm of  Malaysia ’s state investment
company Khazanah Nasional Bhd., holds about 11 percent of
Apollo, according to its website. The Indian chain sold shares
in an initial public offering in 1983.  An orderly transfer of assets may help Apollo focus on
expansion to tap clients from overseas as well as at home.
Medical tourism to India is growing 25 percent a year, according
to Firstcall India Equity Advisors Pvt. Rising urbanization in
the world’s second-most populous nation is leading to an
increase in lifestyle diseases, boosting demand for Apollo’s
services.  Reddy, along with his family  controls  35 percent of Apollo,
valuing the stake at 38 billion rupees. The family and Apollo
also own 51 percent of  Indraprastha Medical Corp. (IPMC)   Succession Plan  The hospital service provider’s shares have more than
doubled in the past five years. They  gained  1.5 percent to
789.95 rupees in Mumbai. Apollo Hospitals’ profit may rise to 30
percent to a record 2.99 billion rupees in the 12 months ending
March 31, according to a median  estimate  of five analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  While Reddy is planning a will, he already has a succession
plan in place. His eldest daughter Preetha, who is the managing
director of the hospital, will succeed him and the “other
sisters have accepted that,” he said.  “All the siblings have been in the business for quite a
long time,” said Siddhant Khandekar, an analyst with ICICI
Direct. “The reins are going to be in stable hands.”  Second daughter Suneeta is the joint managing director,
while the third Shobana Kamineni is  executive director  for new
initiatives. The youngest sibling Sangita is the executive
director for operations.  “Whenever I step down, she is ready to take the mantle,”
Reddy said. “I don’t think there is any controversy in that,”
he added. Preetha was ranked in the list of “50 Most Powerful
Women in Business” by Fortune magazine in 2010 and 2011,
according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  