-- Richard Cordray Deserves to Lead the CFPB
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-28T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/richard-cordray-deserves-to-lead-the-cfpb.html
Richard Cordray’s tenure as director
of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is now as uncertain
as it has been reassuring. As they focus on his upcoming
confirmation vote, U.S. senators should focus on Cordray’s
record, not his status.  Cordray’s legal standing, as well as an entire year’s work
by the  bureau , is in jeopardy after a federal court’s rejection
last week of President  Barack Obama ’s recess appointments to the
National Labor Relations Board. Cordray was appointed on the
same day a year ago as those board members, and the ruling
raises the question of whether their decisions of the past year
are valid.  Republicans, who object to the very idea of the CFPB, say
the decision validates their view of the bureau as illegitimate.
This is absurd. Rather than focusing on the case -- which, after
all, involves another federal agency and uses what may
charitably be called novel reasoning -- they should examine the
agency’s history. Once they do, the case for confirming Cordray
is clear.  Cordray has operated the bureau in an open and transparent
manner,  meeting  regularly with market participants, issuing
regulations for public comment and changing final rules in
response to concerns. He has  listened  to community banks and
largely  exempted  them from regulations they feared would place a
financial strain on small institutions that didn’t cause the
financial crisis. Both industry and consumer groups have found
the bureau’s regulations largely unobjectionable.  Worrying Rule  Consider its recent mortgage-underwriting  rule , which
requires that banks document a borrower’s ability to repay a
loan. Lenders and consumer groups both worried the rule could
restrict the flow of credit and raised objections to the scope
of legal protection afforded to lenders (banks wanted more
protection, consumer groups less).  The final rule took a Solomonic approach, providing a legal
harbor for safer loans and giving borrowers with riskier loans
more legal recourse if they ultimately default. The regulation’s
framework, along with the inclusive nature of rule making,
garnered plaudits from both the  Mortgage Bankers Association  and
the  Center for Responsible Lending .  This record is also evidence that the CFPB’s mission is
vital to protecting consumers and the U.S. economy. Established
by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the agency was created in response
to lax consumer protections that exacerbated the last meltdown.
It’s charged with overseeing a broad swath of consumer finance
players, including banks, credit card companies, mortgage
brokers, and payday and student lenders.  Invalidating Cordray’s appointment would grind the CFPB’s
work to a halt, as the law requires that the agency have a
permanent director to issue rules and assume most of its
supervisory powers. As Richard Hunt of the Consumer Bankers
Association told Bloomberg News, the court decision “creates
chaos in the marketplace.”  That’s not good for industry, consumers or the economy, but
it may be inevitable. Once the validity of the CFPB’s
regulations is called into legal question, then begins a legal
process that is slow, unpredictable and frustrating.  That doesn’t mean the Senate has to be. As senators
consider Cordray’s nomination, they should separate the legal
issues from the operational ones. Many of the rules the CFPB is
charged with writing are integral to jump-starting consumer
credit, such as mortgages.  Simplified Disclosure  In the coming year, the bureau is expected to issue a long-
awaited, simplified  mortgage disclosure form  to help borrowers
better understand the dizzying array of information they get
when taking out a loan. The form will require standard and
understandable explanations for interest rates and fees incurred
by the loan, such as title and processing fees. The agency is
also expected to  wade  into the murky prepaid-debit-card market,
which has grown in popularity -- and risk. The cards, which
often feature celebrity endorsements, typically come with high
fees and poor disclosure, making them ripe for abuse.  Senate Republicans may have once had genuine fears about
the CFPB and its potential to issue onerous and invasive rules.
Those fears haven’t come to pass, and it’s getting harder to
take them seriously. If senators take the same balanced and fair
approach to their work as the CFPB has to its, they will confirm
Cordray to a full term.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 