-- RIM Falls on Concern That BB10 Can’t Beat Smartphone Foes
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-01-28T21:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/rim-falls-on-concern-that-bb10-can-t-beat-smartphone-foes.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , slated to
introduce its new BlackBerry 10 product lineup later this week,
fell 7.8 percent on concern that the phones won’t reverse the
company’s decline in smartphone sales.  The shares fell to $16.18 at the close in  New York , the
biggest decline in more than a month. Before the drop, the stock
had climbed almost 50 percent this year, fueled by optimism that
the BlackBerry 10 can put the company on the path to recovery.  “Everything we’ve seen suggests they are catching up to
the competition, but there’s nothing here that says this is why
you need this device more than anything else,” said Jan Dawson,
chief telecommunications analyst with the New York office of
London-based Ovum Ltd.  RIM Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins will unveil new
BlackBerry 10 phones Jan. 30 in in New York. The new product
line is RIM’s attempt to maintain its current customers and win
back people who have switched to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Galaxy, which runs on Google Inc.’s popular
Android platform.  Apple and Android phones represented 92 percent of
smartphone shipments in the fourth quarter, according to a
 report  today from  Strategy Analytics . Waterloo, Ontario-based
RIM’s BlackBerry subscribers numbered 79 million at the end of
the last quarter, down about 1 million from the previous three-
month period.  “The new phones will give them a good year in 2013 selling
mostly to the BlackBerry faithful, but that is a shrinking niche
of customers,” said Dawson.  The stock has posted declines of at least 6 percent 10
times in the past year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  