-- Trina Predicts U.K. Solar ‘Boom’ to Double Installations
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-28T08:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/trina-predicts-u-k-solar-boom-to-double-installations.html
U.K. solar electricity may more than
double this year as a boom in solar farms and domestic
installations adds 2 gigawatts of new capacity, according to
 Trina (TSL)  Solar Ltd., the third-biggest solar cell maker.  The U.K. industry benefits from a stability that “every
other country in the world pretty much envies right now,” Ben Hill, president of Trina Solar  Europe , said in a Jan. 25 phone
interview from the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .
Government incentives for rooftop panels and ground-mounted
farms are spurring both types of development, he said.  “The U.K.’s in a boom right now, so in the first quarter,
I’d expect 800 megawatts to a gigawatt to be installed in
fields,” Hill said. “We have a continual and understandable
program for the next two to three years, so market players can
understand what’s going to happen. We expect good growth from
our residential and commercial business there.”  The comments mark a turnaround in the U.K. where ministers
in 2011 cut guaranteed prices for solar power after
installations increased 10-fold. That led to industry complaints
about the unpredictability of policy and a legal challenge that
the government lost from Solarcentury Holdings Ltd. and Homesun
Ltd., which disputed the timing of the reduction.  20-Gigawatt Targeted  Hill’s prediction for 2 gigawatts of U.K. installations
this year compares with the current installed base that Energy
Minister  Greg Barker  put at 1.8 gigawatts in a Jan. 16 speech.
London-based Bloomberg New Energy Finance predicts installations
this year will total 1.1 gigawatts, up from 830 megawatts in
2012.  The government is chasing 20 gigawatts of solar capacity by
2020, and on Dec. 27 added the technology to a list of nine
deemed crucial for the nation to meet renewable-energy and
carbon-reduction targets. That followed the second wettest year
on record, with U.K. rainfall averaging 1,330.7 millimeters
(52.4 inches), just 6.6 millimeters short of the record set in
2000, according to the  Met Office , the government forecaster.  Guaranteed prices for electricity, known as feed-in
tariffs, or FITs, are the main spur for rooftop installations,
and changes to them were the subject of the legal challenges in
2011. Since then, the government has introduced a system of
rolling cuts to ensure predictable reductions as solar costs
come down and installations mount.  A coalition of 17 companies is still seeking 140 million
pounds ($221 million) in damages from the Department of Energy
and Climate Change for loss of jobs, and earnings as a result of
the 2011 cuts, they said in an e-mailed statement last week.  ROC Program  Hill’s forecast for a surge in ground-mounted panels this
quarter is because assistance to larger solar projects under the
government’s Renewable Obligation is being cut from April 1.
Under that program, electricity generators receive tradable
Renewable Obligation Certificates, or ROCs, for every megawatt-
hour of power from clean energy sources. The solar rate is being
cut from 2 ROCs per megawatt-hour to 1.7 for rooftop panels and
1.6 for ground arrays.  “The residential and commercial business is very exciting
there, and now we have a big boom in the bigger projects, and
even with 1.6 ROCs that will allow the free field business to
continue,” Hill said. “What industry has managed to achieve in
the U.K. is a sustainable view for the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  