-- Rogoff Says France Key to Political Union Needed to Solve Crisis
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-01-28T09:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/rogoff-says-france-key-to-political-union-needed-to-solve-crisis.html
France needs an economic overhaul to
revive growth and help underpin the political union required to
stabilize the euro area, Harvard economist  Kenneth Rogoff  said.  European governments’ policy responses to the debt crisis,
such as a “half-hearted” banking union and national budget
oversight by the European Commission, aren’t enough, Rogoff was
quoted as saying in an interview published in German newspaper
Die Welt today. European leaders need to start now with a push
toward political integration that includes a European government
with taxation powers, he told the Berlin-based daily.  France, Europe’s second-biggest economy after  Germany , is
decisive because if the French don’t reform and restore growth,
“we can forget about everything else,” Rogoff was cited as
saying. “If France changes, Europe can make it.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  pointed to France’s lag in
 competitiveness  last year by criticizing the gap between German
and French unit labor costs. She has cited research on debt and
economic growth by Rogoff and fellow Harvard professor  Carmen Reinhart  to back up her debt-reduction policies.  The French economy is expected to contract 0.1 percent this
quarter after shrinking an estimated 0.3 percent last quarter,
according to the Bloomberg survey of forecasts published Jan.
17. That suggests France has slipped into a recession for the
first time since 2009.  Swedish Resistance  Merkel’s proposal for a Europe-wide “competitiveness
pact,” unveiled at the Davos Economic Forum on Jan. 24, faces
resistance in European Union countries that aren’t part of the
euro area. Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said that
 Sweden  opposes shifting more powers to Brussels, though he would
agree to voluntary measures, Handelsblatt cited Reinfeldt as
saying yesterday.  The  European Central Bank ’s unconventional measures to stem
the debt crisis lack political legitimacy and probably can’t buy
time for more than seven years, Rogoff said, according to Die
Welt. Euro-area political unification, including a European
president who stands above national leaders, might take 20 years
to put in place and has to start now, he said.  The example of the U.S. shows that  Europe  can become a
single economic space with joint policies, Rogoff told Die Welt.
Since Germans would have to feel that they are getting something
in return for underwriting such a union, each euro-area country
has to deploy its strengths to the fullest, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  