-- Rosneft Said to Seek $13 Billion in Loans for Second TNK-BP Deal
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-01-28T15:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/rosneft-said-to-seek-13-billion-in-loans-for-second-tnk-bp-deal.html
OAO Rosneft (ROSN) ,  Russia ’s largest oil
company, is seeking $13 billion of loans to help finance the
second part of its acquisition of TNK-BP, according to three
people with knowledge of the deal.  The state-run company asked lenders for a $3.2 billion
five-year loan and a $9.8 billion two-year facility, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the transaction
is private. The funds will pay for the half of TNK-BP held by
the group of billionaires represented by the  AAR Consortium , the
people said.  Rosneft is offering lower interest margins on the debt
compared with the $16.8 billion of loans the Moscow-based
company raised in December to pay for  BP Plc (BP/) ’s stake. Lenders
will be paid 200 basis points more than benchmarks on the five-
year transaction, 10 basis points less than last month’s five-
year deal, and a 140 basis-point margin for the shorter loan,
five basis points less than the previous bridge loan, the people
said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  AAR will get $28 billion in cash for its stake in TNK-BP,
it said in October. Much of the rest will come from bond sales
and loans from Russian banks, people with knowledge of the deal
said in November. Rosneft, run by former Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Sechin , is set to become the world’s biggest publicly
traded oil producer by volume after the $55 billion purchase.  Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. are coordinating
the deal which is scheduled to sign at the start of February,
two of the people said.  The interest margin on the bridge deal will rise over time
to a maximum of 240 basis points while 40 percent is due to
repay at the end of the first year, two of the people said.
Bridge financings usually mature within two years and are often
used as backstops to bond offerings or longer-dated bank debt.  A Rosneft press official, who asked not to be identified
citing company policy, declined to comment on the financing when
contacted by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  