-- Rupiah Forwards Decline on Concern Fed Will Scale Back Stimulus
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-01-28T10:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/rupiah-forwards-decline-on-concern-fed-will-scale-back-stimulus.html
Indonesia’s rupiah forwards fell by
the most in two weeks on speculation a pickup in the  U.S.
economy  will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to scale back pro-growth
policies that have spurred fund flows into  emerging markets .  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index dropped to a two-
month low before a report that economists predict will show
demand for  durable goods  rose the most in three months in the
world’s largest economy. Global funds pulled 730 billion rupiah
($75 million) from their holdings of local-currency government
 debt  this month through Jan. 23, according to the latest data
from the  finance ministry .  “The forwards purely reflect overseas investors’ sentiment
on the rupiah,” said Fahrudin Haris Prastowo, a foreign-
exchange trader at PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia in Jakarta.
“Economic recovery in the U.S. would increase the likelihood
that the Fed will halt its stimulus at the end of the year.”  The currency’s one-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.6
percent to 9,865 per dollar as of 4:28 p.m. in Jakarta, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s 1.6 percent weaker than the
spot rate, which declined 0.6 percent to 9,710, prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. A daily  fixing  used to
settle the derivative contracts was set at 9,783 today by the
Association of Banks in Singapore.  Bank Indonesia  is boosting the supply of dollars in the
market to help increase confidence in the  capital market ,
Hendar,  executive director  for monetary policy, said in an
interview today. The central bank aims to narrow the gap between
the rupiah’s onshore and offshore quotes, he said.  One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, which measures
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, was
steady at 6.25 percent, the least since Jan. 9.  Fed Outlook  Minutes of the Fed’s December meeting, released earlier
this month, indicated that officials began debating an end to
their unprecedented bond-buying program as early as this year.
The central bank has already scooped up $2.3 trillion of
Treasuries and mortgage-related bonds since 2008 in two rounds
of quantitative easing that debased the U.S. currency. Fed
officials begin a two-day policy meeting tomorrow.  The yield on the 5.625 percent government bonds due May
2023 dropped three basis points to 5.18 percent in Jakarta, the
lowest level since Jan. 9, according to closing prices from the
Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  