-- Russia Stocks Rise to March High as Oil Gains, Volatility Falls
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-01-28T15:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/russia-stocks-rise-to-9-month-high-as-oil-advances-on-recovery.html
Russian (INDEXCF)  equities advanced to the
highest level since March as oil, the nation’s chief export,
increased on signs of a global economic recovery. The benchmark
stock gauge had the smallest price swings this year.  The Micex Index added 1.2 percent to 1,562.93 by the close
in Moscow, the highest level since March 26. The dollar-
denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  rose 1 percent to 1,635.50. OAO Sberbank,
the nation’s largest lender, jumped 3.2 percent, the strongest
close since July 7. OAO Surgutneftegas, an oil producer,
increased 6 percent, the most since Feb. 24. The Micex’s 10-day
volatility declined to 11.071, the lowest level since Dec. 28.  Crude oil gained 0.6 percent to $96.42 in  New York , trading
near its highest in four months, on speculation a global
economic recovery will boost fuel demand.  Russia  receives about
half of its budget revenue from oil and natural gas. Chinese
industrial companies’ profits rose for a fourth month in
December, the National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing said
yesterday.  “Optimism in the global markets” is lifting Russian
stocks,Sergey Kucherenko, who manages about $50 million in
Russian equities at Nomos Bank in Moscow, said by phone.  The  European Central Bank  said lenders will this week repay
more of its emergency three-year loans than economists forecast,
in another sign the euro region’s debt crisis may be abating.
The U.S. House last week voted to temporarily suspend the
nation’s borrowing limit, removing the debt ceiling for now as a
tool for seeking deeper spending cuts.  “The U.S. is trying to manage its debt ceiling problems,
 Europe  seems to have a grip on its issues,” Kucherenko said.  The  relative strength index  for Sberbank shares was at
77.5, indicating the shares may fall. An indicator above 70
means the shares have been overbought, while a value below 30
signals a stock has been oversold.  Polyus, RusHydro  Polyus Gold International Ltd. rose for a third day,
climbing 1.5 percent to 224.75 pence in  London  trading. The
shares of its Moscow-listed unit jumped as much as 5.6 percent.
The amount of shares traded in Moscow was 124,409, equivalent to
about 4.6 times the three-month average. Refined gold output
rose 12 percent last year, beating estimates, the company said
in a statement today.  OAO RusHydro, Russia’s biggest renewable energy producer,
added 1 percent to 79.20 kopeks, the highest level since Oct.
24. The company’s power generation rose 5 percent last year from
a year earlier, RusHydro said today.  The number of shares traded on the Micex was 24 percent
below the gauge’s 10-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Pension Fund  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities was little
changed at 663.26. Tin retreated in London, while lead, nickel
and copper climbed.  President  Vladimir Putin  said last week there should be no
restrictions on Russians investing in initial public offerings
of shares and state asset sales should happen mainly on Russian
exchanges.  About 1 percent of Russia’s 143 million population
participate in the financial market, while pension fund
investments account for around 4.5 percent of the nation’s gross
domestic product, Putin said at his residence in Novo-Ogarevo,
according to a transcript on the Kremlin website on Jan. 25.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, added 1.9 percent to $30.95 last
week, the highest level since Sept. 14. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in the  stock futures ,
declined 0.3 percent to 19.84.  The Micex trades at about 5.8 times  estimated earnings  and
has added 6 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10.9 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has gained
0.7 percent over the same period.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  