-- Sanofi Filing for Lemtrada MS Drug Accepted for Review by FDA
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-01-28T07:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/sanofi-filing-for-lemtrada-ms-drug-accepted-for-review-by-fda.html
 The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  accepted  Sanofi (SAN) ’s application for approval of the
multiple sclerosis drug Lemtrada, five months after rejecting an
initial filing because of the way data was formatted.  Sanofi’s Genzyme unit expects a decision by the agency in
the second half of the year, the Paris-based company said in a
statement today. The FDA refused to accept the first Lemtrada
filing and asked that the company modify the presentation of
data to allow regulators to “better navigate the application,”
Sanofi said Aug. 27.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  is counting on new
drugs to help boost earnings at France’s biggest drugmaker.
Investors still underestimate the company’s pipeline of
experimental medicines, he said in an interview Jan. 25.  Sanofi also has applied for marketing authorization for
Lemtrada in the European Union, and the European Medicines
Agency is expected to rule in the second quarter, according to
the statement. Sanofi, which obtained Lemtrada in the $20.1
billion purchase of Genzyme in 2011, is developing the medicine
in collaboration with  Bayer AG. (BAYN)   Sanofi rose 0.5 percent to close at 73.09 euros Jan. 25 in
Paris trading. The stock has gained 2.4 percent this year.  The FDA in September approved Aubagio, an oral treatment
for MS. More than 80 percent of doctors specializing in the
disease in the U.S. have prescribed the drug, Sanofi said in
today’s statement.  “The initial uptake of Aubagio by U.S. prescribers shows
the importance of a once-daily oral option in MS,” said David Meeker, Genzyme’s president. “The acceptance of the Lemtrada
file in the U.S. marks another important milestone in bringing
this potentially transformative therapy to MS patients.”  Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  Gilenya, approved in 2010, was the first pill
to treat the illness, and  Biogen Idec  is seeking regulatory
backing for the BG-12 oral medicine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  