-- Saudi Arabia to Keep Crude Exports Stable, Prince Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-01-29T08:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/saudi-arabia-to-sustain-crude-exports-through-2030-prince-says.html
Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest
crude exporter, will be able to sustain the current level of
shipments for the next two decades even as local demand for fuel
rises, the assistant minister of petroleum said.  The kingdom will be able to keep exports at the present
level until at least 2030 without adding capacity, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said yesterday by phone from Riyadh. The
nation’s crude production capacity is 12.5 million barrels a
day, he said.  “We will maintain our current oil exports levels for the
next twenty years and beyond despite the rise in demand,” the
minister said. “Those who are forecasting the kingdom to turn
into an oil importer are ignorant bordering idiocy.”  Saudi Arabia is working to improve energy efficiency to
ensure availability of crude for export, Abdulaziz said. The
kingdom produced 9.57 million barrels of crude a day in
December, down from 9.7 million in November, according to
Bloomberg estimates.  Global crude markets will remain well supplied in 2013,
Abdalla El-Badri, secretary-general of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, said yesterday in London. OPEC,
which produces about 40 percent of the world’s oil, cut output
by 465,000 barrels a day last month to 30.4 million, led by a
reduction in Saudi Arabia, the group said in a Jan. 16 report.  Saudi Consumption  Saudi Arabia’s total consumption of crude and other types
of oil liquids will almost double in 17 years to slightly exceed
8 million barrels a day, Abdulaziz said. That includes 4 million
barrels a day of crude and petroleum products and 4.2 million
barrels of natural gas liquids, he said.  The kingdom exported 7.15 million barrels a day of crude in
November, according to data from the Joint Organizations Data
Initiative, which publishes figures for oil-producing and
consuming nations. The nation burned 367,000 barrels a day of
crude at domestic power plants that month, down 23 percent on a
year earlier, according to Riyadh-based JODI.  Demand for electricity is rising at 8 percent a year,
according to government figures. Saudi Arabia uses natural gas
in half of its installed power turbines, and crude and fuel oil
for the rest, according to the electricity generation authority.
The country sells crude to the local electricity company at
$4.50 a barrel, and heavy fuel oil at $3.50, Prince Abdulaziz
said.  Citigroup Inc. said in a Sept. 4 research report that Saudi
Arabia risks becoming a net oil importer by about 2030 if it
continues to use oil and its derivatives for 50 percent of its
power generation and if electricity consumption keeps rising at
8 percent a year. Greater use of renewable or nuclear energy
would reduce that risk, the bank said.  Brent crude for March settlement traded 8 cents higher at
$113.56 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
at 7:56 a.m. local time. The European benchmark has risen 6
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  