-- HSBC, ICBC Among 15 Banks With Qianhai Cross-Border Yuan Loans
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-01-28T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/hsbc-icbc-among-15-banks-with-qianhai-cross-border-yuan-loans.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Industrial &
Commercial Bank of  China  (Asia) Ltd. and 13 other lenders will
provide about 2 billion yuan ($321 million) of cross-border
loans to companies in the  Qianhai  district of Shenzhen.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. , BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd.,
China Construction Bank Corp. and Standard Chartered Plc were
also among the lenders selected, the municipal government said
in a statement distributed today in the Chinese city that
borders Hong Kong. The loans will support development and
construction in the area, according to the statement.  Qianhai, a 15-square-kilometer (5.8-square-mile) zone, has
been chosen as a testing ground for freer yuan usage and capital
account convertibility. Companies in the area will be encouraged
to sell yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong and to experiment
with cross-border loans in the currency, the National
Development and Reform Commission said last year.  “Cross-border loans in Qianhai will further accelerate the
two-way flows of  yuan ,” Steve Wang, Hong Kong-based head of
fixed income research at BOCI Securities Ltd, a subsidiary of
China’s fourth-biggest bank, said by telephone before the
announcement. “China’s target is to make Qianhai a new financial
hub similar to Hong Kong, which is free and vibrant.”  The  People’s Bank of China  has listed expanding cross-
border yuan usage as one of its main goals this year. The
central bank continues to support the development of offshore
yuan markets in Hong Kong and as in other cities, according to a
Jan. 14 statement on its website. Premier Wen Jiabao reiterated
calls for financial reforms and gradual yuan convertibility last
week.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of Communications
Co., China Citic Bank International,  China Development Bank
Corp. , China Merchants Bank Co., Dah Sing Banking Group Ltd.,
Hang Seng Bank Ltd., Nanyang Commercial Bank Ltd. and Wing Lung
Bank Ltd. comprised the remaining lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  