-- Shell, Kinder Morgan to Export Natural Gas From U.S.
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-01-28T17:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/shell-kinder-morgan-to-export-natural-gas-from-u-s-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Kinder
Morgan Inc. (KMI)  announced their intention to form a company to
export liquefied natural gas from a site in  Georgia , the latest
of more than 20 export terminals seeking to ship U.S gas
overseas.  The liquefaction project would be at an  El Paso Pipeline
Partners LP (EPB)  import terminal on Elba Island, near Savannah,
Georgia, according to a statement today. El Paso Pipeline,
controlled by Houston-based Kinder Morgan, will own 51 percent
of the entity and operate the facility. Shell, based in The
Hague, will own 49 percent and buy all of its output.  LNG terminals built to import the fuel to the U.S. have
begun seeking permission to export, as new production methods
have boosted North American supply. There are  more than 20 
proposed LNG export terminals in the U.S. seeking permits
allowing processing of about 31 billion cubic feet a day,
according to the U.S. Department of Energy  “This announcement underscores how the abundance of
natural gas in the U.S. is changing the energy landscape,”
 Marvin Odum , president of Shell’s U.S. subsidiary, said in the
statement.  Elba Island already has permission from the Energy
Department to ship gas to countries that have free-trade
agreements with the U.S. That may allow exports to start faster
than competing projects, Richard Wheatley, a spokesman for
Kinder Morgan, said in an e-mail today.  $1 Billion  If both phases of the project are built it will cost “a
little more than $1 billion,” Shell spokeswoman Kayla Macke
wrote in an e-mail. Construction may start in the middle of this
decade, Wheatley said. The project still needs permits from the
U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ’s project at Sabine Pass already has
regulatory permits and may begin exports in 2015.  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , the biggest U.S. energy company by market value, has
applied for a permit to export gas from a site in  Texas .  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , the second-biggest energy company, bought a 50 percent
stake in the Kitimat export project in British Columbia in
December.  The Elba Island terminal was built to import LNG and
already has a connection to the U.S. gas pipeline network. Shell
will use its movable modular liquefaction system, which is small
enough to fit into cargo containers, to cool the gas to -260
Fahrenheit (-162 Celsius), allowing it to be loaded on tankers.  The project’s two phases will have a total export capacity
of 350 million cubic feet a day, or about 16 percent of
Cheniere’s planned capacity of 2.2 billion cubic feet a day.  Using Elba Island would give Shell the opportunity to ship
gas to Europe or  Brazil , said William Frohnhoefer, an analyst at
BTIG LLC in New York who doesn’t cover Kinder Morgan.  “My guess is that amount could be easily absorbed into
Royal Dutch Shell’s marketing portfolio,” he said in an
interview. “They’ve got a lot of options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  