-- Singapore Targets S$13 Billion in Investment Commitments in 2013
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-01-28T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/singapore-targets-s-13-billion-in-investment-commitments-in-2013.html
Singapore is targeting as much as
S$13 billion ($11 billion) of investment commitments in
manufacturing and services this year even as the city state
struggles with rising business costs amid curbs on foreign
workers.  The country lured fixed-asset investments of about S$16
billion last year, the  Economic Development Board  said today in
its annual review today. The government is also targeting as
much as S$8 billion in business spending in 2013 from
manufacturing and services industries such as information and
communications, education and health care.  Singapore, which has been ranked the easiest place to do
business for seven straight years by the World Bank, is
competing with lower-cost countries such as neighbors Malaysia
and Indonesia for foreign investment as an uneven global
recovery hurts demand for exports. A government push to reduce
the island’s reliance on cheap workers has tightened the labor
market, pushing the  unemployment rate  to a six-quarter low.  “The adjustments that companies have to make in Singapore
of course is a concern to us,” Leo Yip, the board’s chairman,
said at a press briefing today. “We continue to work with
companies to support their adjustments to the manpower policy
changes.”  Investments this year should help generate 19,000 to 22,000
skilled jobs and add as much as S$18 billion to gross domestic
product annually when completed, the board said. Drugmaker
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products maker, are among companies that are
expanding their operations in the island smaller than  New York 
City.  Projects that were committed in 2012 by companies such as
will create about 18,600 jobs when realized and add S$20.3
billion to GDP every year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  