-- Snow Changes to Rain in New York as Eastern Flight Delays Linger
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-28T20:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/snow-changes-to-rain-in-new-york-as-eastern-flight-delays-linger.html
Snow has changed to rain at the  New
York  City area’s major airports, where more than 300 flights
were canceled and air travel delays of more than an hour linger.  “Within the past hour many of our terminals have gone over
to rain,” said Mike Layer, a  National Weather Service 
meteorologist in Upton, New York. “LaGuardia, Kennedy and
Newark and Islip are all reporting rain.”  The storm contributing to 723 flight cancellations in the
U.S. as of 1:30 p.m. Eastern time, according to FlightStats
Inc., a tracking company in  Portland , Oregon. Most of the
scrubbed trips were at Newark Liberty International Airport on
 New Jersey  and LaGuardia in New York, with a combined 330.  Delays of more than one hour were reported at LaGuardia,
Newark, John F. Kennedy International, Philadelphia
International and Reagan Washington National, according to the
 Federal Aviation Administration .  A winter weather advisory stretches from southern Maine to
central Pennsylvania, according to the weather service.  Boston, which was just overcast as of 2:30 p.m. East Coast
time, was expected to receive less than 2 inches (5 centimeters)
of snow from the storm, according to the Weather Service. New
York got a sprinkling before the snow changed to sleet and then
rain.  After today, temperatures along the East Coast are expected
to rise, shaking off last week’s cold, said  Tom Kines , a
meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania.  Warmth Coming  Temperatures may reach 58 degrees Fahrenheit (14 Celsius)
in New York and 57 in Boston in two days, according to the
Weather Service. Philadelphia’s high may reach 60 and
Washington’s 62.  The warmer air later opens the possibility of some “wild
temperature swings” in the next two weeks, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  Temperatures in the U.S. Northeast may drop 3 to 5 degrees
below normal from Feb. 2 to Feb. 6 before rising once again from
Feb. 7 to Feb. 11, Rogers said.  Weather patterns that would bottle up the cold along the
U.S. East Coast aren’t developing, so the chance the frigid air
will linger are small, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  