-- Snow, Sleet on U.S. East Coast May Make ’A Mess’ for Travel
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-28T15:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/snow-sleet-in-eastern-half-of-u-s-may-make-a-mess-for-travel.html
Snow and freezing rain expected from
 Washington  to Boston have begun to tie up air traffic and make
travel difficult in the mid-Atlantic region.  Snow that began falling in  New York  City today will change
to sleet and then rain later today, said  Tom Kines , a
meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
Pennsylvania. Light snow was also falling in Philadelphia,
according to the  National Weather Service .  ‘We have a little bit of a mess coming,’’ Kines said. “It
is not the type of storm that is going to bring down tree limbs
or power lines but there is going to be a mix of snow, sleet and
freezing rain before it changes over to rain. There will be some
delays caused by this.”  Winter weather advisories and storm warnings stretch from
southern Maine to  North Carolina  and westward to the Great Lakes
and Ohio, according to the weather service. New York may receive
half an inch (1.2 centimeters) of sleet, while Boston may get 2
inches of snow before the rain starts to fall.  Delays of more than an hour are being reported at
Philadelphia International Airport and Newark Liberty in  New
Jersey , the  Federal Aviation Administration ’s website showed. As
of 9:30 a.m. East Coast time, 465 U.S. or U.S.-bound flights
were scrubbed, with Newark, Toronto and New York’s LaGuardia
posting the most cancellations, according to FlightAware, an  air
travel  tracking service based in Houston.  Boston Outlook  Snow will probably begin in Boston about 2 p.m. and make
the end-of-the-day commute difficult, Kines said.  “Of the major cities in that I-95 corridor, Boston is the
one that is going to struggle the most to get into the moderate
air,” Kines said.  After today, temperatures along the East Coast are expected
to rise, shaking off last week’s cold, Kines said.  Temperatures may reach 58 degrees Fahrenheit (14 Celsius)
in New York and 57 in Boston in two days, according to the
Weather Service. Philadelphia’s high may reach 60 and
Washington’s 62, according to the agency.  The warmer air later opens the possibility of some “wild
temperature swings” in the next two weeks, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Temperatures in the U.S. Northeast may drop 3 to 5 degrees
below normal from Feb. 2 to Feb. 6 before rising once again from
Feb. 7 to Feb. 11, Rogers said.  Weather patterns that would bottle up the cold along the
U.S. East Coast aren’t developing, so the chance the frigid air
will linger are small, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  