-- SNS Junior Bonds Stem Decline on Speculation It Will Sell Stake
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-01-28T11:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/sns-junior-bonds-stem-decline-on-speculation-it-will-sell-stake.html
SNS Reaal NV (SR) ’s subordinated bonds
rallied, stemming a decline of as much as 29 percent since Jan.
10, amid speculation the Dutch bank and insurer will be able to
sell a stake and avoid taking a bailout.  The company’s 250 million euros ($336 million) of 6.26
percent undated junior subordinated notes gained 5.08 percent to
38.88 cents on the euro, after falling to as little as 36.34
cents last week. The Utrecht-based bank said today it’s seeking
“a comprehensive solution” to its capital shortfall, involving
a share issue and transactions in outstanding subordinated
bonds.  “The small rally was on the back of press reports that SNS
was talking to potential investors in the private sector,” said
 Simon Adamson , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London , who
said there is too much uncertainty for the junior bonds to be
attractive. “I can’t think why a private investor would get
involved at this stage. Some form of state capital and/or
guarantee seems inevitable to me.”  Losses on real estate loans have hindered SNS’s efforts to
repay a government bailout received during the 2008 financial
crisis and may prevent a successful outcome to its talks with
private investors as the parties struggle to assess their scale
of the shortfalls, according to the company statement. The real-
estate unit, bought from  ABN Amro  in 2006, may be spun off.  SNS spokesman Roland Kroes declined to comment.  While authorities have no power to write down debt under
current legislation, according to Adamson, they are able to
intervene by selling or transferring assets, deposits and other
liabilities out of a failing entity.  “Bondholders could be affected indirectly by a sale or
transfer of liabilities that leaves them in an entity in which
repayment is less probable,” he said. The distressed level of
the junior bonds “is not surprising given the likely need for
external support and for a group restructuring that could have
negative implications for bondholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  