-- SNS May Sell Shares, Involve Bond Holders in Rescue Plan
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-01-28T10:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/sns-plans-to-raise-capital-via-stake-sale-involve-bond-holders.html
SNS Reaal NV (SR) , a Dutch bank and
insurer struggling with real estate losses, plans to strengthen
capital buffers by selling a stake to private investors and
involve bond holders to help limit the burden on taxpayers.  “The efforts of SNS Reaal are focused on a scenario that
involves the participation of private investors,” the Utrecht-
based company said in an e-mailed statement today. The plan
would include “a significant share issue” while “transactions
with regard to outstanding subordinated instruments are
anticipated,” SNS said. No decisions have been made, it said.  SNS Reaal, which acquired ABN Amro’s property-finance unit
in 2006, has been hurt by losses on real estate loans that left
it struggling to repay a government bailout. The bank’s core
Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, fell to
8.8 percent at the end of the third quarter, below the European
Banking Authority’s 9 percent minimum, as risk-weighted assets
and loan losses in the property-finance unit increased.  SNS  swung  from a gain of as much as 9 percent to a drop of
as much as 5.1 percent in Amsterdam trading today. The stock was
up 2 cents, or 2.4 percent, to 80 cents as of 10:37 a.m., for a
market value of 228 million euros ($307 million).  ‘Comprehensive Solution’  “The situation remains clearly uncertain with respect to
feasibility,” said Albert Ploegh, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
 ING Groep NV. (INGA)  “The main issue whether a private solution can be
found in our view is related to the size of estimated losses at
Property Finance, demanded guarantees by potential investors”
and their credibility, he said. “It seems that time is short.”  SNS, which went public in 2006, is seeking a
“comprehensive solution” for cutting credit risks at the
property-finance unit and to strengthen its capital. The
property unit may be split-off, it said in today’s statement.  It is unclear whether the path SNS is pursuing is feasible
as the parties involved are assessing future losses on real
estate loans, the company said.  SNS started withdrawing from commercial real estate lending
in 2009, when the unit reported a loss of 219 million euros.
With loan losses spreading from the U.S. to its home market, it
has remained unprofitable every year since. From August 2009
until the end of September, SNS Reaal has cut back its
commitments by 48 percent to 8.3 billion euros, according to a
presentation on Nov. 15. The run-off hit a glitch as property
values decreased and as refinancing of loans became more
difficult, it said.  Dutch Bailout  SNS may have to write down as much as 1.8 billion euros on
the property-finance portfolio, newspaper Het Financieele
Dagblad reported on Jan. 16. SNS hasn’t confirmed the number.  SNS received 750 million euros from the Netherlands in 2008
and 500 million euros from Foundation Beheer SNS Reaal, its
largest shareholder. SNS sold shares in 2009 to help repay 250
million euros of aid, of which 185 million euros was returned to
the government. The aid, granted in the form of core Tier 1
securities issued to the state, may be converted into ordinary
shares, it said in November.  SNS Reaal is the smallest of four Dutch banks designated as
“systemically important,” or too big to fail, by the Dutch
central bank. It had 32.5 billion euros in savings at the end of
the third quarter, according to the Nov. 15 presentation. ING,
Rabobank Groep and ABN Amro Group NV are its three largest
competitors.  Following the financial crisis that led the government to
nationalize the Dutch parts of Fortis and ABN Amro Holding NV
and the bankruptcy of DSB Bank NV, the Netherlands adopted
legislation allowing its central bank to transfer banks’ assets,
liabilities or stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  