-- Sugar Rebounds as Bets on Lower Prices Reach Record; Cocoa Rises
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-28T10:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/sugar-rebounds-as-bets-on-lower-prices-reach-record-cocoa-rises.html
Sugar rebounded in  London  and New
York on speculation supplies from top producer  Brazil  are
tighter than initially anticipated just as speculators’ bets on
lower prices climbed to a record. Coffee fell and cocoa gained.  Raw sugar from Brazil was offered for sale at the same
price as the March futures on ICE Futures U.S., while buyers
were looking to get a discount of 0.1 cent to the exchange
price, according to Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty. The
discount narrowed 0.3 cent a pound from a week earlier, the
Brisbane, Australia-based researcher said in an e-mailed report.
Speculators held record bets on lower prices in the week ended
Jan. 22, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data  showed.  “The new fund record could cause another knee jerk
reaction to the upside,”  Michael McDougall , head of the Brazil
desk at Newedge Group in New York, said by e-mail on Jan. 25.  White, or refined, sugar for March delivery gained 0.7
percent to $490 a ton by 10:23 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London,
after dropping as much as 0.8 percent on Jan. 25. Raw sugar for
March delivery was 0.8 percent higher at 18.52 cents a pound in
New York. It closed 0.6 percent down in the previous trading
session, after falling as much as 1.2 percent.  Large and small speculators excluding  index funds  boosted
their net-short position, or bets on lower prices, by 49 percent
in the week ended Jan. 22, the Washington-based commission said
in its Commitments of Traders report. Net-short positions were a
record 90,249 contracts, up from 60,509 a week earlier. NYSE
Liffe will update trader holdings later today.  Brazil Availability  A “slightly surprising” tight sugar availability in
Brazil is making it less likely that sweetener from the South
American nation will be delivered when the New York March
contract expires on Feb. 28, Paul Bannister, head of sugar
brokerage at Marex Spectron Group in New York, said in a report
e-mailed today. The market will be “roughly balanced” in the
period to the expiration, as India and  China  have been importing
the commodity, he said. The  International Sugar Organization  in
London has forecast a third year of surplus in the 2012-13
season.  Robusta coffee for March delivery was down 0.3 percent to
$1,954 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Arabica coffee for March delivery
was little changed at $1.4835 a pound on ICE.  “The increasingly concerning roya fungus, or leaf rust, is
forcing Central American origins to trim down production
estimates for upcoming crops as well as invest significant
amounts of money in an attempt to combat and eradicate it,”
broker ABN Amro Markets (U.K.) Ltd. said in a report e-mailed
today. “Fears are that the outbreak of roya could have longer
term effects well into the 2013-14 season.” Central American
nations produce mostly arabica beans.  Cocoa for March delivery was up 0.4 percent at 1,423 pounds
($2,240) a ton in London. Cocoa for March delivery was little
changed at $2,171 a ton in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 