-- Swap-to-Future Conversion Has Regulators Studying Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-01-28T20:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/swap-to-future-conversion-has-regulators-studying-rules.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is reviewing whether energy futures contracts that
are replacing swaps on the largest exchanges have enough
transparency before they are traded, Chairman  Gary Gensler  said.  The commission has scheduled a roundtable meeting with
industry representatives for Jan. 31 to consider whether changes
in oversight are needed after  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. began converting energy swaps to
futures, a move that helps oil and gas traders avoid the
stiffest Dodd-Frank rules for swap dealers.  The CFTC, which has regulated futures contracts since 1974,
won authority under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to oversee swaps,
which had been largely unregulated since they developed in the
early 1980s. Under a Dodd-Frank rule that took effect in
October, energy and other firms that annually deal in more than
$8 billion in swaps fall under the most costly capital,
collateral and business conduct requirements for dealers.  “Futures and swaps are both derivatives and with
Congress’s movement, they’re now both to be fully overseen,”
Gensler said in a telephone interview. The CFTC is looking at
whether new futures contracts are being traded transparently and
competitively, he said.  Areas where the CFTC could make changes include tightening
the rules for deciding when a futures contract can be traded
outside the central exchanges.  Clearing Swaps  As part of Dodd-Frank, Gensler has sought to increase the
ability to see bids and offers for derivatives before they are
traded to improve transparency, competition and liquidity in
markets. The switch in energy trades, and the potential for a
similar conversion in interest-rate and credit derivatives, has
prompted the agency to consider if its rules are strong enough.  Half of traders responding to a survey said they are likely
to move some of their business to futures from swaps compared
with 18 percent in a similar survey in 2011, Alex Kramm, a New
York-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  analyst, said in a note today. The survey
results suggest that between 20 percent and 25 percent of the
business done in the swaps market has potential to shift to
trades in the futures market, Kramm wrote.  Still, asset managers, banks,  hedge funds  and insurers
included in the survey had concerns about the ability to
substitute swaps with futures.  Customized Strategies  Futures are agreements to buy or sell an asset or commodity
at a specific price and time. They have standard sizes and
maturities, are traded on exchanges and guaranteed at
clearinghouses that take collateral from buyers and sellers.
Swaps are traditionally traded directly between buyers and
sellers, sometimes with customized maturities and sizes, and
often aren’t guaranteed at clearinghouses.  Credit swap contracts helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis
that followed the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
led to the U.S. rescue of insurer  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  and prompted lawmakers to write new rules for the market.
The law seeks to have most swaps guaranteed at clearinghouses
and traded on exchanges or on alternative platforms known as
swap-execution facilities, or SEFs.  The market for energy swaps, which include contracts for
commodities including oil, natural gas and jet fuel, has grown
for years, allowing traders to get around the regulatory
supervision of futures and customize their strategies.  Moving Contracts  As the new CFTC rules took shape, ICE and CME in October
began moving swap contracts to the futures market. During the
first half of January, ICE said, 52 percent of its energy
futures volumes came from contracts that prior to Oct. 15 were
traded as swaps. CME said about 90 percent of energy trades on
its ClearPort system are executed as futures, compared with 10
percent before the switch.  “What it does is highlight that once you light the swaps
market with trading and clearing, there is no substantial
difference between swaps and futures,” John Parsons, professor
at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , said in a
telephone interview.  The conversion in certain markets because of new
regulations may not be problematic, according to  Mark Carney ,
the head of the Financial Stability Board.  “Futurization is not necessarily a bad thing” if it is
consistent with the FSB changes, Carney said today in Zurich.
“That said, we are not trying to futurize everything. We leave
it to the market to adjust.”  The FSB is a global financial policy group comprised of
regulators and central bankers.  Switch Encouraged  The switch may be encouraged because clearinghouses require
less collateral backing futures tied to interest rates and
credit contracts than for related swaps. The CME and ICE
clearinghouses require five days’ worth of margin for interest-
rate and credit-default swaps, while for futures, the period
ranges from one to two days.  Firms setting up SEFs that would compete with CME and ICE
have raised concerns about the futures conversions, saying they
could move beyond energy swaps and increase risk to the
financial system by requiring inadequate collateral. CME has
introduced a so-called swap future contract tied to  interest
rates , while ICE announced a plan to tie futures to indexes of
credit defaults.  A lobbying group, Companies Supporting Competitive
Derivatives Markets, told a House Financial Services Committee
hearing in December that the shift to futures was a consequence
of the CFTC’s regulations. The agency should re-examine its
rules because conversions could reduce transparency and
competition in swaps, the group said in its testimony.  ‘High Costs’  “After nearly 2 1/2 years of rulemaking, the CFTC’s
cumulative approach to swaps regulation has imposed such high
costs on the industry that the U.S. swaps market is on the verge
of becoming too costly and too regulated (particularly as
compared with futures) to be a viable means for end users to
hedge and manage their financing risk,” said the group.  The coalition includes interdealer brokers and companies
with trading platforms, including  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) ,  Icap Plc (IAP) ,
 Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  and Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg
News .  The conversion to futures “was unprecedented in that a
vital U.S. market changed its entire trading activity largely to
avoid pending regulatory structure rather than for significant
commercial or economic advantage or public good,” J. Christopher Giancarlo, GFI Group’s executive vice president,
told Congress on behalf of the Wholesale Market Brokers
Association, Americas.  Promoting Choices  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of CME, said in written
testimony that the exchanges are focused on promoting choices
for their customers. Critics of the futures conversion are
speaking out of self-interest rather than concern for the
overall risks in the market, Duffy said.  “Each trading arena carries its own regulatory burdens,”
Duffy said. “It is a disservice to those customers for a
participant in one of those markets to promote its private
interests at the expense of customers who are quite capable of
making a choice that best fits their needs.”  When the CFTC convenes its  roundtable  discussion on so-
called futurization, one area of focus will be block trades,
which are transactions deemed large enough to be carried out
without having to make their size and price public right away.  While the agency under Dodd-Frank authority will set the
block size for swaps, it is the exchanges that now largely set
the threshold for futures. If the exchanges lower the futures
threshold, more contracts would be excluded from public view.  “The futures market has worked very well,” Gensler said.
“We wouldn’t want to see something diminished. We wouldn’t want
to see pre-trade transparency undercut or diminished by some
approach to futures that would lower block sizes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  