-- U.A.E. Sends 94 to Court for Planning Overthrow of State
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-01-28T07:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/u-a-e-sends-94-to-court-for-planning-overthrow-of-state-1-.html
The  United Arab Emirates  sent 94
citizens to the supreme federal court, charging them with an
attempt to seize power in the Persian Gulf state, the official
 WAM service  said, citing General Prosecutor Salim Saed Kbesh.  The investigations showed that the defendants established a
secret organization opposed to the basic principles of the
state, WAM reported, citing the general prosecutor. They also
tried to establish contacts with foreigners, including the
Muslim Brotherhood, the news service said.  The U.A.E. has cracked down on Islamic groups, which the
government says have been emboldened by the so-called Arab
Spring in the region after the toppling of leaders in  Egypt ,
Libya and  Tunisia . After the ousting of  Hosni Mubarak  in Egypt,
the Muslim Brotherhood moved from being the main opposition
group to a driving force in Egypt’s politics, particularly after
Mohamed Mursi was elected president in June 2012.  In coordination with Saudi Arabian officials, the U.A.E.
arrested last month members of a terror cell that it said was
planning to carry out attacks in the two oil-exporting nations
and the broader region. U.A.E. authorities said in September
they arrested more than 50 Islamists who were conspiring against
the state.  ‘Undeclared Aims’  The “undeclared aims were, in fact, to seek to seize power
and the state’s system of governance and to oppose the basic
principles of this system,” Kbesh was cited as saying by WAM.
The members allegedly communicated with individuals and
international and foreign entities outside the U.A.E. “to
distort the image of the state,” WAM reported.  The group tried to increase “their financial resources”
by investing donations into commercial and real estate
companies, WAM said. They also bought and sold residential,
industrial and agricultural properties, the news service said.  Most of those detained in the U.A.E. belong to a domestic
Islamic group known as al-Islah. Al-Qaeda has no known
affiliations with local Islamist groups in the Gulf that are
politically active.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  