-- U.K. Sets Out Plans for High-Speed Rail to the North
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-28T09:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/u-k-government-releases-plans-for-high-speed-rail-into-north.html
The British government said it will
go ahead with plans to build the second phase of a high-speed
rail line that will run from  London  through Birmingham in
central  England  to cities such as Manchester and Leeds.  The line, known as High Speed 2, will be integrated with
the existing rail network and will cut journey times and expand
capacity, the  Department of Transport said  in a statement today.
The government is bringing forward a public consultation on the
proposed route by a year to start in 2013. The London-to-
Birmingham route was set last year.  “Our rail services are overcrowded,” Transport Secretary
Patrick McLoughlin told BBC Radio 4 in London today. “Looking
at this route you’ll know you’re going to upset a number of
people. This is the first railway to be built north of London
for 120 years.”  Employers’ groups and the opposition Labour Party are
calling on the government to speed up capital spending projects
to give the economy a boost as it heads for its first triple-dip
recession on record. The project faces opposition from
conservationists and lawmakers mostly in the governing
Conservative Party who say the expansion is unnecessary and will
scar the natural landscape.  ‘Increased Demand’  “HS2 cannot be built in isolation, so we need sustained,
additional capital investment in existing road and rail networks
to meet increased demand,” John Cridland, director-general of
the Confederation of British Industry, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Ministers must work hard to secure real consensus
on the route, to avoid the project being hit by years of
delays.”  The final route for the 211-mile (338-kilometer) northern
phase will be decided by the end of 2014, the government said.
The line will branch off in a Y-shape from the Birmingham-to-
London line.  The government said today that it wants the project to be
completed ahead of a previous 2032 deadline. About 8,000 jobs
will be created in Birmingham alone. Provincial cities such as
Leeds, Sheffield and will be connected with journey times
reduced to as little as 20 minutes between them.  “There is no excuse for further delays,” Bob Crow,
general secretary of the RMT rail workers’ union, said in an e-
mailed statement. “While RMT welcomes any belated investment
and development we must not forget that it is decades of
political inertia that have left Britain’s railways in the slow
lane.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  