-- U.K. Stocks Climb as U.S. Durable Goods Beat Estimates
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-28T16:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-before-u-s-goods-report.html
U.K. stocks  rose, extending their
highest level since May 2008, as a report showed that durable-
goods orders in the U.S., Britain’s biggest trading partner,
rose at a faster rate than economists had estimated.  HSBC Holdings Plc and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led banks higher as they
each advanced at least 1 percent.  Premier Foods Plc (PFD)  tumbled 12
percent after the company said  Michael Clarke  has resigned as
chief executive officer.  The FTSE 100 added 9.96 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,294.41
at the close in London. The equity benchmark has gained 6.7
percent so far in 2013, its best start to a year since 1989, as
U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget. The broader FTSE
All-Share Index rose 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index was little changed.  “People are wary of further advances because markets have
risen an awful lot in a very short period of time,” Gerard Lane, a strategist at Shore Capital Group Ltd. in Liverpool,
 England , said in a telephone interview. “There’s also a pause
because a lot of U.S. companies are reporting earnings this week
and investors are waiting for that.”  In the U.S.,  orders for durable goods  climbed 4.6 percent
in December, exceeding the median economist estimate for a gain
of 2 percent. They increased 0.7 percent in November.  A separate report showed  pending sales of houses  declined
last month for the first time since August. The index of
contracts for the purchase of previously owned homes fell 4.3
percent after a revised 1.6 percent increase in November, the
National Association of Realtors said.  Economists had called  for
the gauge to be unchanged.  Chinese Profits  In  China , industrial companies’ profits rose 17 percent to
895 billion  yuan  ($144 billion) in December from a year earlier,
the National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday in Beijing.  A  gauge of banks  in the FTSE 350 Index rose 0.8 percent.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest lender, added 1 percent to
717.1 pence for the largest contribution to the FTSE 100’s
advance. Barclays Plc gained 1.7 percent to 305.9 pence.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its price target on the
shares of both lenders. The brokerage said that the Financial
Services Authority will probably find no capital shortfall at
HSBC when it conducts a regulatory exercise. Goldman Sachs said
Barclays can attract additional capital if needed without having
to dilute its existing shareholders.  Premier Foods  Premier Foods slumped 12 percent to 106 pence after the
owner of the Hovis bread and Bisto gravy brands said Gavin Darby
will replace Clarke as CEO from Feb. 4.  Martin Deboo , an analyst
at Investec Plc, put his buy recommendation on the shares under
review, saying that the leadership change failed to help the
company’s growth prospects.  “The loss of CEO Mike Clarke is a major blow to Premier
Foods,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by Charlie Mills
said in a note.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  slipped 2.1 percent to 5.39 euros in
Dublin. Europe’s biggest discount airline forecast net income of
540 million euros ($727 million) in the year ending March 31.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note that the full-year
projection may disappoint investors.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  lost 1 percent to 935.5 pence after the company
said Mike Rake will step down as chairman and non-executive
director in the summer. The board has begun to review internal
and external candidates to replace him, the airline said.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  was 5.6 percent lower than the average of the last
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  