-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Rises to 2% 1st Time Since April
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-01-28T16:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/u-s-yields-are-highest-versus-g-7-peers-in-18-months.html
Treasury 10-year note yields touched
2 percent for the first time since April as orders for durable
goods in the U.S. rose more than forecast, another signal the
U.S. economic recovery may be strengthening.  The  benchmark yield  rose even as  Fitch Ratings  said the
temporary suspension of the U.S. debt limit removes the near-
term risk to the nation’s AAA credit rating. Federal Reserve
officials start a two-day meeting tomorrow as investors
speculate when policy makers will begin to slow stimulus. The
U.S. will sell $35 billion in two-year securities today, the
first of three note auctions totaling $99 billion this week.  “The economy is probably getting on better footing,” said
 Scott Sherman , an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Credit
Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade directly
with the central bank. “People down the road will start
speculating when the Fed is going to unwind.”  Benchmark 10-year note   yield  rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.98 percent as of 11:11 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data, after rising as
high as 2 percent, the highest since April 25. The price of the
1.625 percent security due in November 2022 fell 9/32, or $2.81
per $1,000 face value, to 96 26/32. The yield is still less than
the average over the past decade of 3.64 percent.  ‘Beach Ball’  “The Treasury market is trading like a beach ball -- you
just can’t hold rates down, they keep jumping back up,” said
 William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of  Scotland ’s RBS
Securities unit, a primary dealer. “There is a lot of
resistance lining up about 2 percent, at 2.09/10 area. A lot of
bearish channels and trend lines come in there -- that’s why
we’ve been sporting this 1.7 to 2.1 range.”  Resistance is an area on a price graph where analysts
anticipate sell orders to be clustered.  RBS forecasts the 10-year yield to decline to 1.90 percent
by end of 2013. The yield will rise to 2.25 percent at year-end,
according to the weighted average forecast of 76 economists in a
Bloomberg survey,  Orders for durable goods in the U.S. rose 4.6 percent in
December after a 0.7 percent gain the prior month, a Commerce
Department report showed in  Washington . The median forecast of
76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 2 percent gain
in overall orders.  Payrolls Report  “The headline looks pretty strong,”  Tom Porcelli , chief
U.S. economist at primary dealer RBC Capital Markets LLC, said
of the durable-goods report. “The biggest report is the
payroll, and that’s where our attention will shift this week.”  Employers added 161,000 workers in January, after a 155,000
increase in December, a separate survey showed before the Feb. 1
report from the Labor Department. Other data this week may show
manufacturing is stabilizing and  consumer spending  increased,
based on responses from economists.  Treasuries pared losses as pending  U.S. home sales  declined
in December for the first time since August, with the index
falling 4.3 percent to 101.7 after a revised 1.6 percent
increase the prior month, the National Association of Realtors
reported today in Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey projected no change.  U.S government debt has handed investors a 0.9 percent loss
in January, the worst monthly performance since March, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of shares gained 5.4 percent in January including
reinvested dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Central Banks  Yields climbed last week when the  European Central Bank 
said lender will repay more of its loans than forecast, spurring
optimism the worst of the region’s debt crisis is over.  The ECB said lenders will pay back 137.2 billion euros
($184.7 billion) of its three-year loans, so-called Longer-Term
Refinancing Operations, this week. The figure compares with the
median forecast of 84 billion euros in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Fed policy makers said they may end their $85 billion
monthly bond purchases sometime in 2013, with members divided
between a mid- or end-of-year finish, according to the record of
the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Dec. 11-12 gathering.  Central banks in the U.S., the U.K. and  Japan  are all
buying bonds to pump money into their economies as they try to
spur growth. The ECB has indicated it is willing to do so.  “Bond yields depend on how long Fed stays low & when/if
U.S. reaches 6.5% unemployment, 2.5% inflation,” Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, wrote in a Twitter post. “My estimate:
2015.”  The  difference  between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
same-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge
of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, widened to 2.56 percentage points last week. The average
over the past decade is 2.19 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  