-- Ukraine Kicks Off IMF Push as Reserves Dip Below Key Level
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-01-29T11:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/ukraine-kicks-off-imf-loan-push-as-reserves-dip-below-key-level.html
Ukraine will press for a third
international bailout in four years this week as the former
Soviet republic gears up for $10 billion of debt payments and
foreign reserves languish near a two-year low.  Under pressure from a shrinking economy and an energy
dispute with  Russia ’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the government will seek a
$15.4 billion loan when an International Monetary Fund mission
arrives today in the capital, Kiev. Its last  aid package , which
ended Dec. 27, was halted for failure to meet the fund’s terms.  Ukraine is grappling with falling output of steel, its top
export earner, a widening current-account gap and reserves that
have fallen below three months of imports. While the government
can finance itself in global debt markets at present, an IMF
accord is required to put the country on a “sustainable path,”
according Viktor Szabo, who helps manage $10 billion at  Aberdeen
Asset Management (ADN)  in  London .  “They need a deal,” said Szabo, whose fund exited
Ukrainian state and corporate debt in November because of the
absence of an IMF agreement. “The current-account deficit isn’t
sustainable as seen from the pressure on the currency and
reserves.”  The hryvnia has fallen 1.7 percent during the last year to
to 8.1435 per dollar, prompting the central bank to sell foreign
currency. Reserves dropped to $24.5 billion in December from
$38.2 billion in August 2011 as the current-account gap widened
to a record $14.4 billion in all of 2012, when imports averaged
$8.6 billion a month, according to the central bank data.  Debt Repayments  Ukraine must repay $5.7 billion to the IMF in 2013,
according to the lender’s  website , with an initial payment of
$404 million due Jan. 30 and an additional $2.4 billion by May
10. It also has $1 billion of Eurobond repayments due in June
and a further $2.2 billion from local bonds issued in foreign
currencies.  The government will seek a loan equivalent to about 10
billion Special Drawing Rights, or SDRs, the same amount it
agreed on in 2010, according to First Deputy Prime Minister
Serhiy Arbuzov.  “We want to discuss those figures and conditions that were
fixed in the previous loan program,” he told reporters Jan. 14.  While Ukraine complied with IMF demands to raise the
pension age, it refused to increase domestic heating tariffs, a
condition designed to narrow the budget gap, resulting in loan
disbursements being frozen in 2011.  Russian Gas  Efforts toward an alternative solution -- trimming the
price of natural gas imports from Russia -- have been
unsuccessful. Gazprom is demanding $7 billion for Ukraine’s
failure to take contracted volumes of the fuel in 2012.  The government may raise utility tariffs for the wealthy,
Premier  Mykola Azarov  said last week, without providing details.
The Washington-based IMF, which sought an across-the-board price
increase of 30 percent or more in 2011,  has suggested  that
scrapping untargeted benefits for the rich may free up funds to
help offset the cost of higher tariffs to the poor.  While gross domestic product may have advanced 1 percent in
2012, according to the government, the economy probably shrank
in the second half because of lower metals prices,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and  Erste Bank Group AG (EBS)  estimate. GDP is set to contract 1.8
percent this year,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said Jan. 24,
contradicting Azarov’s forecast for 3 percent to 4 percent
growth.  ‘Double-Edged Sword’  Industrial production fell for the first time since 2009
last year, dropping 1.8 percent after a 7.6 percent jump in 2011
as metals output plunged 5.2 percent, official data show.
Fourth-quarter GDP data are scheduled for release this week.  Ukraine sold $1.25 billion of 10-year Eurobonds Nov. 20.
The yield on that debt rose to 7.328 percent today after
yesterday reaching the lowest level since it started trading,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Access to international debt markets may be “a double-
edged sword” that may steer the country away from an IMF pact,
according to Andreas Kolbe, a credit strategist at Barclays
Plc’s investment arm in London.  “The availability of financing is likely to reduce the
incentive for the government to implement unpopular reforms
required to come to an agreement,” he said. “We remain
skeptical regarding the prospects of an IMF deal this year.”  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring state debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps has fallen to 573 basis
points from as high as 803 in July, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The IMF delayed a planned Dec. 7 visit to Kiev as President
 Viktor Yanukovych  picked a new Cabinet and central bank governor
after October’s parliamentary elections. Moody’s Investors
Service and Standard & Poor’s later cut Ukraine’s credit rating
one step on weak economic prospects and significant external
financing needs, and said further downgrades may follow should
talks with the IMF fail.  Moody’s rates Ukraine at B3, six levels below investment
grade. S&P rates it one level higher at B.  While Ukraine is attempting to delay an IMF deal for as
long as possible by tapping bond markets, it will eventually
have to reach an agreement with the lender, according to Andrew Matheny, an analyst at Goldman Sachs in Moscow.  “In employing this strategy, the government is
accumulating more debt, at a higher cost and in foreign
currency,” he said Jan. 22 in an e-mailed note. “A well-funded
IMF program is necessary to ensure external and fiscal
sustainability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  