-- Hungary Has Highest Borrowing Need in East Europe, Moody’s Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-01-28T17:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/hungary-has-highest-borrowing-need-in-east-europe-moody-s-says.html
Hungary’s government financing needs
are the highest in eastern  Europe , accounting for almost a fifth
of its economy, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Hungary needs to borrow the equivalent of 19 percent of its
gross domestic product this year, higher than 10 of its regional
peers, Moody’s said in a report today. It’s followed by the
Czech Republic, which needs to raise the equivalent of 12.7
percent of GDP.  Estonia ’s borrowing requirements are the lowest
at 3.2 percent, according to Moody’s.  Eastern Europe’s total borrowing needs will shrink from
last year relative to the region’s economic output as
governments keep spending under control and economic growth
picks up, Moody’s said. The outlook for the region is improving
as contagion risks from the euro area’s debt crisis recede.  Borrowing needs will increase 4.1 percent from last year to
184 billion euros ($247 billion), Moody’s said. Relative to GDP,
they will fall “slightly” to 9.9 percent from 10.2 percent
last year, according to the company.  External bond issuance will total $21 billion, while
domestic market issuance will amount to about $151 billion
euros, the ratings company said.  As governments continue to cut spending, average government
deficit will shrink to 2.3 percent of GDP from 2.5 percent in
2012, Moody’s said.  Even so, government debt will rise to 47 percent of
economic output in 2013 from an estimated 45 percent last year,
before stabilizing over the next two years, according to
Moody’s. Average debt in the region jumped from 29 percent of
GDP in 2008 when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse
triggered the global financial crisis.  The 11 countries included in the Moody’s survey ranked by
2013 borrowing needs in descending order are Hungary, the Czech
Republic, Slovakia,  Turkey ,  Romania , Poland, Slovenia,
 Lithuania ,  Latvia , Bulgaria and Estonia.  Editors: Peter Branton, Vernon Wessels  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  