-- Hungary Cuts Rates as Central Bank Warns on Policy Tools
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-01-29T17:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/hungary-set-for-sixth-rate-cut-before-central-bank-change.html
Hungarian policy makers cut the  main
interest rate  for a sixth month, helping to ease investor
uncertainty over a change in the central bank’s leadership with
a warning on the use of new monetary-policy tools.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  lowered the two-week deposit rate
by a quarter-point to 5.5 percent, the lowest since 2010 and
still the European Union’s highest, matching the forecast of 27
of 28 economists in a Bloomberg survey. One saw no change.
Widening the bank’s “unconventional” policy toolkit is only
useful in the event of “acute financial-market turmoil,” the
Monetary Council said in a statement after the announcement.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will select a new central bank
chief to succeed Governor  Andras Simor , whose six-year mandate
expires March 3. Non-executive rate-setters picked by Orban’s
lawmakers in 2011 already hold a majority on the rate-setting
panel and have wrested control from Simor and his deputies to
push through rate cuts to stimulate the recession-bound economy.
The forint fell in the past month on speculation the new
governor may adopt new methods of easing.  “While it still cannot be ruled out that the new
leadership will want to carry out drastic steps after March,
without the support of the majority of Monetary Council members
this may be more difficult,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an analyst at
Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a research report today.  The Monetary Council’s urging of caution on unconventional
tools helped strengthen the forint, Arokszallasi said.  Forint Falls  The currency, which rose 0.8 percent to 295.79 at 5:47 p.m.
in Budapest, has declined 1.5 percent against the euro this
year. Strategists including those at Citigroup and  Bank of
America  Corp., said Hungarian assets may weaken because of the
potential shift in monetary policy.  Investors have pared expectations for rate cuts over the
coming year to 96 basis points, compared with 128 basis points
on Jan. 3, as indicated by forward-rate agreements for the
three-month  interest rate  in 12 months. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  For further rate cuts, “favorable” market conditions need
to remain in place and the inflation outlook must be in line
with reaching the target of 3 percent, the Monetary Council said
in a statement after the decision.  “They’re going to keep cutting because the Monetary
Council is dominated in terms of numbers by the four external
members and they’re obviously fairly dovish,”  Nigel Rendell , an
analyst at Medley Global Advisors in London, said by phone
today. “They’re quite comfortable that the rate can go down
further and if it causes weakening in the forint, that’s
probably backing their case as well.”  ‘Sufficient’ Tools  The council was unanimous in formulating its opinion on
monetary-policy tools, Simor said at a press conference in
Budapest today, commending fellow policy makers for recognizing
the need for caution.  “Unconventional tools must be used cautiously in a small,
open economy such as  Hungary  where inflation has unfortunately
not reached the target level, and where the country’s risk
assessment isn’t among the best in the world,” Simor said after
the decision. “It’s very important that the Monetary Council
also mentioned that in its statement.”  The new central bank chief should “bravely use unorthodox
tools” to provide monetary stimulus, including measures used by
the  European Central Bank  and the  Federal Reserve , Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , Simor’s most likely successor
according to the Index news website, said last month.  Orban may name his candidate at a three-day ruling-party
retreat that starts Feb. 5, Index reported Jan. 17, without
citing anyone.  Undermining Confidence  “Excessive rate cuts and/or monetary-policy measures
leading to quantitative easing may undermine confidence and risk
sudden forint weakening,”   Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based
economist at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said in an e-mailed report sent
yesterday, citing slowing inflation.  The new leadership is “almost certain” to stop paying
interest on commercial banks’ mandatory reserves held at the
central bank and will probably cut the rate on two-week bills,
Mihaly Patai, the former head of the Hungarian Banking
Association and chief executive officer of the local  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  unit, said Dec. 20, according to the Budapest-based
newspaper Vilaggazdasag.  Cutting the return on two-week bills would be tantamount to
“significant” monetary easing, Simor said Jan. 18.  ‘Credibility Problem’  The central bank needs to step up its fight against
inflation as policy makers have a “credibility problem” when
investors forecast even lower borrowing costs and predict price
growth faster than policy makers’ 3 percent target on a two-year
horizon, he said.  Consumer prices  rose 5 percent last month from
a year earlier, the slowest pace in a year.  Further monetary easing after five quarter-point rate cuts
should be considered “very cautiously,” the  International
Monetary Fund  said yesterday in a statement after an annual
review of the economy. Lower rates are “unlikely to have a
material impact” on lending and demand as long as the banking
environment remained unchanged, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  