-- Hungary to Miss Budget Goal, Needs New Policies, IMF Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-01-28T16:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/hungary-to-miss-budget-goal-needs-new-policies-imf-says.html
Hungary  will probably overshoot its
budget deficit goals through 2015 and needs a policy shift to
make fiscal consolidation sustainable and boost growth, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  The 2013 shortfall may be 3.25 percent of gross economic
output, compared with the government’s 2.7 percent goal, and may
exceed 3 percent in 2014 and 2015, the Washington-based lender
said in a statement today after an annual review of the economy.
Hungary needs “additional steps” to keep the gap within 3
percent, the European Commission said in a separate report.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has relied on extraordinary
levies on banking, energy, retail and telecommunications
companies as well as the nationalization of private pension fund
assets to reduce the budget deficit and public debt levels. The
measures contributed to a second recession in four years.  “A new policy course is needed to deliver the required
medium-term fiscal adjustment in a sustainable way to support
growth and confidence, repair the financial sector, and promote
structural reforms to boost the potential of the Hungarian
economy,” the IMF said.  The forint fell to its weakest against the euro in almost
eight months, trading at 298.83 at 5:12 p.m. in Budapest. It has
lost 2.5 percent this year against  Europe ’s common currency.  ‘Notable Effort’  Without altering its course, the government risks the
country’s debt level, the highest among the EU’s eastern
members, staying around 78 percent of gross domestic product,
the IMF said. That is about 10 percentage points higher than the
pre-crisis level after Hungary’s “notable consolidation
effort” last year and after spending assets citizens had put
away to complement state pensions, the IMF said.  Hungary’s budget measures are sustainable and ensure that
the  budget deficit  stays below 3 percent of GDP, the  Economy
Ministry  said in a statement today. The government is committed
to exiting the EU’s excessive-deficit procedure this year, it
said. Budget overruns under the procedure may lead to cuts in EU
funding.  The government should reduce spending, including by better
targeting social benefits, and phase out “distortive” industry
taxes, the IMF said among its recommendations. The Commission
“stressed the importance” of improving the banking environment
to boost lending and investments.  ‘Likely Harmful’  “The government was encouraged to review the increased
reliance on revenue side measures -- mostly sectoral taxes, --
which are likely to be harmful for business confidence, economic
growth and employment, not just in the short run, but even more
so in the medium and longer term,” the EU executive said.  Further monetary easing after five quarter-point rate cuts
to 5.75 percent, still the EU’s highest  benchmark rate , should
be considered “very cautiously,” the IMF said, adding that
lower borrowing costs were “unlikely to have a material
impact” on lending and demand as long as the banking
environment remained unchanged.  The IMF statement followed a so-called Article IV
consultation and was not a negotiating mission for a loan which
Hungary requested in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  