-- Vale Is Most Traded as Iron Miner Cuts Dividend Plan
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-01-29T15:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/vale-reduces-dividend-proposal-to-4-billion-as-profit-slides.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, declined to the lowest in seven weeks after
reducing the minimum dividend payment it plans for this year by
a third to $4 billion amid lower profits.  Vale  fell  0.7 percent to 37.41 reais at 1:13 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo  after sliding to 37.27 reais, the lowest intraday level
since Dec. 10. The stock was the  most  traded by value on the
benchmark Bovespa index, which fell 0.2 percent.  Vale shareholders of common and preferred stock will get
about 77.6 cents per share in two installments on April 30 and
on Oct. 31, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said late yesterday
in a  statement . The proposed minimum matches a $4 billion
estimate from Banco Itau BBA SA in a Jan. 21 note and compares
with a $6 billion target set a year ago by the company.  The announcement “confirms that the company is adjusting
its dividend  distribution to an expected decrease in cash flow
generation,” Itau analysts Marcos Assumpcao and Andre Pinheiro
said in a note to clients dated yesterday. “Vale’s cash flow
will be tight in 2013,” they wrote.  Vale  paid  $6 billion in 2012 dividends, half the record $12
billion returned to shareholders including share buybacks the
prior year, as the company is set to post its lowest annual
profit since 2009. Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira sold
coal, shipping and energy assets and cut investments to the
lowest in three years amid weakening minerals and metals demand.  “The proposed minimum dividend is consistent with Vale’s
financial policy, which aims to provide strong support to the
exploitation of profitable growth opportunities alongside the
preservation of a sound balance sheet,” the company said in
yesterday’s statement.  The dividend proposal requires board approval, Vale said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  