-- Venezuela to Pump More Dollars Into Economy, Cut Tax on Oil
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-01-28T22:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/venezuela-to-pump-more-dollars-into-economy-cut-tax-on-oil-1-.html
Venezuela  will channel more
resources from its oil exports to the central bank this year as
it seeks to alleviate a shortage of dollars that has crimped
imports, Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said today.  The government plans to reduce levies on the oil industry
by changing rules on the so-called windfall tax that will now
only be triggered when crude trades above $80 a barrel, instead
of $70 barrel. The move will reduce funding to President Hugo Chavez’s off-budget development fund known as Fonden and pump
more dollars into the central bank, Ramirez said. The changes
need to be approved by Congress.  The measure is part of an economic growth plan approved by
Chavez as he undergoes treatment for an undisclosed type of
cancer in Cuba, the minister said. A shortage of foreign
currency led to a 53 percent plunge in the bolivar to 18.35 per
U.S. dollar in the black market in the past year, stoking
inflation and fueling shortages of staple goods such as chicken,
milk and corn flour.  “We are making every effort to make an adjustment to the
distribution of foreign currency to attend to the demands of our
country,” Ramirez said today at a news conference in Caracas.
The measure was taken to “increase the availability of foreign
currency and relieve tension on our currency created principally
by the speculative sector.”  Black Market  The tax changes will increase state oil company Petroleos
de Venezuela SA’s cash flow by $1.42 billion this year and
increase the amount of dollars it sells to the central bank by
$2.47 billion, Ramirez said. Fonden received about $15.5 billion
last year from PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known, and
will get about $12.6 billion this year with the updated tax
plan.  PDVSA will sell a total of about $49 billion to the central
bank this year, Ramirez said, adding that he would not comment
on the country’s exchange rate policy.  Venezuelans use the black market when they can’t get access
to the central bank’s Sitme exchange, which sells dollars to
businesses for 5.3 bolivars, or the so-called Cadivi system that
sells dollars at 4.3 bolivars for priority imports.  The tax changes will allow PDVSA to increase inflows of
currency as well as oil output, said Jose Luis Saboin, an
economist with Caracas-based financial consultancy Ecoanalitica.  “In the short term, the central bank will have more room
for maneuver and a better capacity to provide funds to Cadivi,”
he said in a telephone interview.  No Bonds  Venezuela has also proposed payment changes to the
Petrocaribe accord that provides subsidized oil to Central
American and Caribbean countries, Ramirez told reporters today
in Caracas without providing additional information.  PDVSA has no plans to issue dollar bonds this year, Ramirez
told reporters, adding that the company had previously issued
dollar bonds to supply the Sitme market.  “We’re not selling any bonds,” said Ramirez. “It doesn’t
make economic sense for us to continue issuing debt in dollars
to obtain bolivars. It’s a mechanism to supply the Sitme, and
we’re not going to keep doing it. Sitme forces us to issue at a
rate that makes international loans more expensive.”  Venezuela will maintain its preference for issuing local
over foreign debt in 2013, Finance Minister Jorge Giordani said
last month. The country hasn’t offered bonds denominated in
dollars since 2011, when it issued a total of $7.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. PDVSA, South America’s
largest oil producer, last sold dollar-denominated debt in May.  PDVSA said Jan. 22 that its total debt climbed 15 percent
to $40 billion last year. The company’s debt soared 40 percent
in 2011 when it issued $10 billion of dollar bonds.  China, Russia  Venezuela needs oil at around $100 a barrel because of
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ production
quotas, Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez told reporters today in
Caracas.  The South American country is developing plans to expand
its gold mining industry and is in talks with  China ’s Citic
Group Corp and South African companies to do so, Ramirez said.  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known, will host a
trade delegation of Russian oil companies tomorrow including
Igor Sechin, the Chief Executive Officer of  Rosneft OAO (ROSN) , he
said.  Ramirez denied a Bloomberg News report published Jan. 25
that said foreign oil companies were slowing investments in the
country over the uncertainty surrounding Chavez’s health.  “Ask Sechin. It’s false. Everyone is here, and we’re all
working,” said Ramirez. “The oil business has never been easy,
but there’s always a pulse because it’s a great business. The
resource is ours, and we’ll enforce our laws. People can decide
to invest here or elsewhere. Let everyone take their own
risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  