-- Vietnam’s Trade Surplus Narrowed in January on Import Rebound
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-28T04:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/vietnam-s-trade-surplus-narrowed-in-january-on-import-rebound.html
Vietnam  recorded a smaller  trade
surplus  in January as demand for imports increased in an economy
that is forecast to rebound from the slowest growth since 1999.  Exports exceeded imports by $200 million in January, after
a revised $498 million in December, according to preliminary
figures released today by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi.
The median  estimate  of four economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  was for a surplus of $109 million.  Vietnam recorded its first annual surplus since 1992 last
year, easing concern about the stability of its currency and the
economy. Faster growth in 2013 is “realistic” as credit
expansion gradually increases and overall confidence improves,
the U.K.-listed Vietnam Property Fund Ltd. said this month.  “We’re hoping to see consumption pick up,” as growth is
expected to quicken to 5.5 percent this year from 5 percent in
2012, Robert Zielinski, the Ho Chi Minh City-based head of
research at Viet Capital Securities, said before the report,
describing his forecast as a “decent level” for Vietnam.  The dong was little changed at 20,850 per  U.S. dollar  as of
11:08 a.m. in Hanoi.  Imports rose to $9.9 billion in January from a revised
$9.86 billion in December, according to today’s data. Purchases
from abroad jumped 42.3 percent compared with a year ago. Asian
nations will celebrate the Lunar New Year, known as Tet in
Vietnam, in February this year, and factories from China to
 Singapore  typically shut or reduce production during the holiday.
Tet was celebrated in January last year.  Exports fell to $10.1 billion in January from a revised
$10.36 billion in December. Shipments climbed 43.2 percent from
a year ago, according to the Statistics Office. A global
recovery is helping support demand for the Southeast Asian
nation’s goods and the  World Bank  said shipments have been
driven mainly by foreign companies.  The strength of the dong enabled the  State Bank  of Vietnam
to rebuild its foreign-exchange reserves in 2012 to cover about
2.3 months of imports by the end of the year from 1.5 months at
the end of 2011, according to the World Bank.  Trade surpluses in Vietnam allow policy makers “the option
of allowing some foreign-exchange appreciation if they want to
limit  inflation  or to continue to build up reserves,” said
Dominic Bunning, a Hong Kong-based associate foreign exchange
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. With assistance from Minh Bui in Sydney. Editors: Shamim Adam, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  