-- Volvo Stock Jumps on Dongfeng Truck Partnership in China
-- B y   T o m   L a v e l l
-- 2013-01-28T08:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/volvo-stock-jumps-on-dongfeng-truck-partnership-in-china.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB)  rose to an 18-month high
after agreeing to buy a stake in a unit of  China ’s  Dongfeng
Motor Group Co. (489) , a step that may help the Swedish company become
the world’s biggest maker of heavy-duty trucks.  Volvo  jumped  as much as 3.4 percent to 100.5 kronor, the
highest intraday price since Aug. 1, 2011, and was trading up
0.9 percent at 9:51 a.m. in  Stockholm , valuing the manufacturer
at 208.9 billion kronor ($32.3 billion). Volume exceeded the
three-month daily average by 20 percent.  The Swedish truckmaker agreed to pay 5.6 billion  yuan  ($890
million) for a 45 percent stake in Dongfeng’s commercial-vehicle
unit. The venture will produce and sell Dongfeng-brand trucks,
buses and so-called special-purpose vehicles, Gothenburg,
Sweden-based Volvo said on Jan. 26 in a statement. Volvo, which
also builds Renault trucks, ranks second in the worldwide
industry to Daimler AG, owner of the Mercedes-Benz, Freightliner
and Fuso commercial-vehicle brands.  Volvo is expanding in China as manufacturing in the world’s
second-biggest economy grows at the fastest rate in two years,
according to a survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Market Economics.
Truck deliveries are forecast to rise to 3.33 million units this
year after two annual declines, according to the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Dongfeng Motor, China’s second-biggest automaker by vehicle
sales, makes passenger cars in its home market with Japanese
manufacturers Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. as well as
with Paris-based  PSA Peugeot Citroen. (UG)  Nissan said in a statement
that it agreed to the divestment of the medium and heavy
commercial vehicle business unit of its joint venture with
Wuhan, Hubei province-based Dongfeng.  Dongfeng will have four seats on the seven-member board of
the venture and Volvo three, the Swedish company said. Dongfeng
will nominate the managing director, while Volvo will designate
the chief financial officer. Completion of the deal is expected
within a year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Lavell in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  