-- Waste Management Climbs on REIT Conversion Speculation
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2013-01-28T16:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/waste-management-climbs-on-reit-conversion-speculation.html
Waste Management Inc. (WM)  rose the most
in 17 months after analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG said
investors would benefit if the biggest U.S. trash hauler was
converted into a real estate investment trust.  Waste Management  increased  2 percent to $36.41 at 11:56
a.m. in  New York . Shares of the Houston-based company earlier
climbed 6.4 percent, the biggest intraday gain since Aug. 23,
2011.  Republic Services Inc. (RSG) , a Phoenix-based competitor,
climbed 1.7 percent to $31.63.  Waste Management and Republic Services are “best suited”
within the waste-disposal industry for conversion into a REIT,
Credit Suisse analysts led by New York-based Hamzah Mazari said
today in a report. Discussions with tax lawyers and accountants
show landfills and their air rights qualify for REIT status,
Mazari said.  The shares lost most of their gains after Lynn Brown, a
Waste Management spokeswoman, said by phone today the company
has no plans to do a REIT conversion.  Darcie Brossart, a spokeswoman for Republic Services,
declined to comment.  Investors generally prefer REIT conversions because of
future tax benefits and because 90 percent of taxable income
must be distributed to shareholders, Mazari said. The effect of
conversion on operational flexibility is less of a concern at
Waste Management and Republic than at faster-growing
competitors, he said.  “Nobody wants their garbage back, which means it can be in
the landfill in perpetuity much like a perpetual real estate
lease agreement,” Hamzah said in the note. “We believe tip
rates at the landfill and transfer station revenue qualify as
REIT income.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  