-- Watchdog Says U.S. Treasury Failed to Curb AIG, GM Pay
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-28T22:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/watchdog-says-u-s-treasury-failed-to-curb-aig-gm-pay.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department
“failed to rein in excessive pay” at bailed-out  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY) , the rescue program’s inspector general said.  Sixteen of the 69 top employees at the  three companies  had
2012 pay packages worth at least $5 million and all but one had
total compensation of $1 million or more, the Special Inspector
General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program said in a report
today. Since much of the pay is in stock, only three of the
executives had cash salaries of more than $1 million.  Despite previous warnings by the special inspector general
that the Treasury “lacked robust criteria, policies and
procedures” to curb excessive pay, the department “made no
meaningful reform to its processes,” according to the watchdog
known by the acronym SIGTARP. “SIGTARP found that once again,
in 2012, Treasury failed to rein in excessive pay.”  Christy Romero , the special inspector general, said AIG, GM
and Ally “convinced Treasury to roll back its guidelines by
approving multimillion-dollar pay packages, high cash salaries,
huge pay raises, and removing compensation tied to meeting
performance metrics.”  Taxpayers’ Interests  “Treasury cannot look out for taxpayers’ interests if it
continues to rely to a great extent on the pay proposed by
companies that have historically pushed back on pay limits,”
she said in an e-mailed statement.  Patricia Geoghegan, the Treasury’s acting special master
for TARP executive compensation, said she disagreed with the
special inspector general’s findings.  The Treasury “has limited excessive compensation while at
the same time keeping compensation at levels that enable” the
three companies to remain competitive and repay their bailout
money, Geoghegan said in a Jan. 25 letter to Romero.  She said a draft of the SIGTARP report was “inaccurate in
numerous ways” and Treasury’s comments and objections were
largely ignored.  Pay for top executives at seven bailed-out companies was
scrutinized and restricted by the Treasury special master’s
office starting in 2009. AIG, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup
Inc., Chrysler Group LLC and Chrysler Financial Corp. have left
TARP and are no longer subject to the special master’s rulings.  Special Master  “AIG worked closely with the Special Master to make sure
we paid our employees market-based compensation, including
appropriate amounts of incentive pay,” Jon Diat, an AIG
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  AIG, the insurer that left TARP in December, has said pay
limits imposed as part of a rescue package that swelled to
$182.3 billion harmed the New York-based company’s ability to
attract, retain and motivate employees. Proceeds from the
Treasury’s sale of its remaining AIG shares boosted U.S. profit
on that bailout to $22.7 billion.  AIG’s managers may now get more incentive pay, Chairman
 Steve Miller  said in a Bloomberg Television interview last week.
He said the compensation committee met to design the bonus
program, and targets may be set within two months.  “AIG is evaluating certain pay structures to ensure the
appropriate allocation of incentive compensation as a portion of
total pay to employees that reflects our absolute commitment to
pay for performance in a post-TARP environment,” Diat said.  CEO Benmosche  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, received
less than some peers in 2011. He got about $14 million in total
compensation, including a $3 million salary and $10.9 million in
stock awards, according to a regulatory filing. Jay Fishman, the
CEO of Travelers Cos., the only insurer in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , received $16.5 million. John Strangfeld, CEO
of  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the No. 2 U.S. life insurer, got
$23.7 million.  The Treasury is seeking to sell its remaining shares in GM
in the next 12 to 15 months to end its ownership in the
automaker, which received $50 billion in taxpayer money in a
bailout that began in 2009.  “General Motors is performing at its highest levels in
years with a string of  11 profitable quarters  and soon will have
one of the industry’s newest product lineups, while complying
with all TARP restrictions and Special Master’s decisions,”
Dave Roman, a GM spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  Auto Lender  Ally, the auto lender that received a $17.2 billion rescue,
is the non-bankrupt parent of bankrupt Residential Capital LLC.
ResCap filed for reorganization in May. An examiner is due to
issue a report in April concerning a proposed settlement between
Ally and ResCap.  “Ally is focused on strengthening its leading auto
services and direct banking franchises, while also executing on
a number of transformative strategic actions that will best
position the company to repay the remaining Treasury
investment,” Ally spokeswoman Gina Proia said in an e-mail.
“Ally’s executive compensation is in line with all TARP
restrictions and Special Master determinations.”  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated in October that
TARP would ultimately cost taxpayers $24 billion, less than the
$109 billion projected in March 2010.  Congress authorized $700 billion for the financial rescue
in October 2008, and the bill was signed into law by President
 George W. Bush . About $418 billion of the $700 billion has been
used, and the Treasury has recovered $389 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  