-- Wells Fargo Pay Links Mortgage Quality to 5-Day Turnaround
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-28T23:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/wells-fargo-adapts-mortgage-pay-to-reward-speed-and-file-quality.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, changed its compensation for some mortgage
salespeople to include a reward for submitting complete loan
applications to processors and underwriters within five days.  Pay for  salespeople  this year will include a 0.03
percentage point incentive to submit a loan file that meets a
list of requirements attesting to its quality, according to a
Jan. 18 presentation obtained by  Bloomberg News . That means
salespeople who refinance an existing $400,000 Wells Fargo
mortgage can earn $120 on top of the $1,720 commission.  Home lenders are changing how they pay salespeople after
the financial crisis showed some staff were paid on volume
without regard to whether the loans were sound. Lenders are
trying to speed processing and boost originations as competition
rebounds. The  Mortgage Bankers Association  has forecast a
19 percent drop in 2013 production.  “Timing is a big issue for Wells Fargo because they, like
a number of other big banks, took some big hits for having very
extended loan-closing times,” said  Guy Cecala , publisher of
Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry publication based in
Bethesda,  Maryland . Last year the San Francisco-based bank took
60 days or more to complete a loan, compared with smaller
lenders who could do it in three weeks, he said.  “As the refi boom subsides nobody, especially Wells, wants
a reputation for not being able to close loans in a timely
fashion.”  Delayed Action  Bank of America Corp. told some customers last year to wait
90 days before starting an application, two people with
knowledge of the policy said in February. The firm began a
reservation system in February that asks those who call during
busier times if they wish to be contacted again in 60 to 90
days, the people said.  To keep up with mounting applications, Wells Fargo added
about 7,000 full-time employees who process, complete and
underwrite  mortgage loans  from the second quarter of 2011
through last September, Michael Heid, president of Wells Fargo’s
home-loan unit, said in a November presentation in  Boston .  The change in compensation, which goes into effect March 1,
is meant to “focus on complete quality applications turned into
processing in a timely manner,” according to the Jan. 18
presentation. “This is the first step in a predictable and
consistent experience for our customers and referral partners.”  Pay Stubs  Vickee Adams, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail that “the 2013 enhancement allows us to align
compensation with our business objectives.” The bank has
provided “quality” incentives to mortgage salespeople since
2011, she said.  Wells Fargo, run by Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf ,
59, will make the 2013 bonus contingent on the loan file
containing documents such as pay stubs, bank statements and
forms required by the  Internal Revenue Service , according to the
presentation. The completeness of the loan file will be judged
by loan processors, and salespeople who try to unduly influence
the scoring may be fired, the presentation said.  “You have to balance speed with making sure it’s still
done in a comprehensive and riskless way,” Cecala said. “One
thinks of the lawyers fulfilling foreclosures on the servicing
side who were paid based on speed and we end up with the robo-
signing controversy. You want to make sure that doesn’t happen
in the origination side.”  U.S. Accord  The five largest home lenders signed a $25 billion accord
with the U.S. and state attorneys general last year after
revelations that employees and law firms signed thousands of
documents without verifying their accuracy in the name of speed.  Wells Fargo’s incentive compensation will also include a
0.03 percentage point bonus based on customer loyalty, according
to the presentation. Together the 2013 bonus opportunities
replace a 0.06 percentage point incentive in last year’s pay.  As it did in 2012, Wells Fargo will pay so-called home
mortgage consultants a 2013 base pay of $12 an hour that is an
advance against their commission, the presentation shows.  Salespeople are entitled to a base compensation rate of
0.43 percentage point of each loan. Those who get 13 or more
loans funded or bring $1.9 million or more in production each
month are entitled to 0.63 percentage point, the presentation
shows. The maximum commission Wells Fargo pays is $10,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  