-- Western Wind Gains on Increased Offer From Brookfield
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-01-28T22:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/western-wind-gains-on-increased-offer-from-brookfield-renewable.html
Western Wind Energy Corp. (WND) , the
renewable-power developer that put itself up for sale in July,
rose the most in two months after  Brookfield Renewable Energy
Partners LP (BEP-U)  increased its bid for the company.  Western Wind gained 5.5 percent to close at C$2.51 in
Toronto, the most since Nov. 26, when Brookfield initially
offered to buy the company for C$2.50 a share.  Brookfield increased its offer for Vancouver-based Western
Wind to C$2.60, calling it the “best and final offer,”
according to a statement today. That values the renewable-energy
developer at about C$183.3 million ($182 million), according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company said it “has support
from approximately 44 percent of the common shares required for
the minimum tender,” according to the statement.  Western Wind said in a statement today that the 44 percent
figure cited by Brookfield “was meant to confuse.” Brookfield
has 44 percent of the required 50 percent “other than itself,”
or just 22 percent of shares, Lawrence Casse, a spokesman for
Western Wind, said on the phone today.  Brookfield said last week it wouldn’t go any higher after
Western Wind’s board recommended that shareholders reject the
C$2.50 price. Brookfield already  owns  about 11.3 million Western
Wind shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Western Wind Chief Executive Officer Jeff Ciachurski will
earn a C$2 million bonus if he can sell the company for at least
C$3 a share.  Western Wind asked the Ontario Securities Commission
yesterday to require that Brookfield disclose the results of a
valuation study. Brookfield said the move was “part of Western
Wind’s continuing strategy to frustrate the offer and prevent
the sale,” according to today’s statement.  Western Wind  operates  wind farms in  California  and a
combined wind-and-solar plant in  Arizona .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  