-- Why Republicans Should Ignore Obama
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-01-28T23:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/why-republicans-should-ignore-obama.html
Conservatives need to get over
President  Barack Obama . It’s time to adjust to a world in which
he is never going to be on the ballot again.  That’s going to require a big change in the psychology of
Republicans both in Washington and around the country. They
disagree with Obama’s policies. They see in his personality
narcissism untempered by warmth. They find his lectures
irritating, and resent his soft press coverage.  They spent four years trying to discredit him with the
public. They need to accept that they failed.  It’s still in Republicans’ interest for the public to turn
on Obama, as it was in Democrats’ interest for the public to
turn on President George W. Bush the way it did in his second
term. But if that happens, it will be because Obama’s health-
care plan becomes an undeniable failure, or the economy gets
worse, or events overseas make his foreign policy look naive. It
won’t be because Republicans keep denouncing him.  Republicans can and should continue to stand for their
principles on the many occasions when they conflict with
Obama’s. What they shouldn’t do is conceive of their near-term
political task as winning a series of confrontations with the
president. Because they’re unlikely to win very often. Obama has
inherent advantages in political debates with more than 200
House Republicans, and his re-election will only strengthen his
hand, at least for now.  The Republicans are better off sidelining Obama to the
extent they can and fighting congressional Democrats -- or,
better yet, getting congressional Democrats to fight one
another.  Guns, Money  There are signs the party is beginning to understand this.
John Boehner, the Republican speaker of the House, has said he
will consider whatever gun legislation the Senate passes,
putting the onus on Democrat Harry Reid, the Senate majority
leader. The Senate has enough pro-gun Democrats -- including,
historically, Reid himself -- to make it an open question
whether an assault-weapons ban can pass the chamber. If it fails
there, Boehner can get the policy result he wants without
lifting a finger. Supporters of the ban would then be
disappointed with Democrats rather than enraged by Republicans.  Republicans are making the same calculation on the budget.
The House temporarily lifted the debt limit on Jan. 23 in return
for making the Senate pass a budget, a legal obligation it
hasn’t met since 2009. Speaking for other Democratic senators,
Charles Schumer of New York says they will comply. This year,
then, Democrats won’t be able to just take shots at Republican
spending cuts. They will have to pass and defend the taxes and
deficit spending contained in their own plan. Then they will
have to take that bill to conference with the House bill.  Obama will, of course, have a strong influence on those
negotiations. But he will be outside the room, and he won’t be
the main subject of the news stories. When Congress uses its
regular procedures to legislate instead of setting up high-
stakes talks with the president, its members make him a less
important figure.  The president’s liberal inaugural  address  furthers the
Republican strategy of shrinking his presence in the
congressional debate. Pundits said he had “thrown down the
gauntlet,” but much of his agenda had little to do with
congressional Republicans. Major changes on climate policy will
come from the federal bureaucracy, not Congress, and everyone
knows it. Measures recognizing same-sex marriage will probably
advance, but neither Congress nor the president will have much
to do with them. The president’s call for new gun laws is as
much a challenge to his own party as to Republicans.  Avoid Pettiness  A strategy of disengagement from Obama won’t yield great
policy breakthroughs for conservatives. Yet neither will a
strategy of confrontation. Republicans hold a minority share of
power in Washington. They shouldn’t conduct themselves in a way
that gives their supporters excessive hope. And they shouldn’t
give themselves a disproportionate share of ownership in the
mostly dismal results of national politics.  The less they define themselves as an anti-Obama party, the
more Republicans will avoid a pitfall that conservative pollster
David Winston has identified: The public sees hostility as
playing a more important role than principle in Republicans’
opposition to Obama. A party that aspires to governing the
country should avoid looking petty.  There are limits to how far this strategy can be pursued.
Obama is going to be president for four more years, after all,
and Republicans will sometimes be duty-bound to work with him
and more often to criticize his actions.  At the same time, they should keep in mind that it’s more
important to build a post-Obama future for conservatism. That
future will probably be led by a governor who has played little
part in any of Washington’s battles between Republicans and
Obama.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  