-- WADA Won’t Work With ‘Deceitful’ UCI on Armstrong Probe
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-01-29T16:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/world-cycling-body-drops-armstrong-commission-seeks-truth-panel.html
The  World Anti-Doping Agency  won’t
cooperate with the  International Cycling Union  on a truth and
reconciliation panel after the UCI disbanded a commission set up
to review its handling of the Lance Armstrong case.  Pat McQuaid, president of the cycling body known by its
French acronym UCI, said yesterday the decision to scrap the
commission was taken after he spoke to the  World Anti-Doping
Agency , or WADA, last weekend. McQuaid said the agency was
willing to help the UCI set up a commission looking at doping in
cycling and other sports.  “Instead of any continuing professional dialogue with
WADA’s president, UCI has publicly announced by way of a press
statement that WADA has agreed to work with it on some form of
truth and reconciliation,” WADA President John Fahey said in a
statement on the  agency’s website  today. “This is not only
wrong in content and process, but again deceitful.”  Fahey said the independent commission established by the
UCI “was intended to review the allegations of complicity of
UCI in the  Lance Armstrong  doping conspiracy as raised by the
U.S. Anti-Doping Agency in its thorough decision.  “Instead UCI has again chosen to ignore its responsibility
to the sport of cycling in completing such an inquiry and has
determined to apparently deflect responsibility for the doping
problem in its sport to others,” Fahey said.  WADA won’t consider joining any venture with the UCI
“while this unilateral and arrogant attitude continues,” he
said.  U.S. Anti-Doping Agency Chief Executive Travis Tygart said
he is skeptical about the cycling body’s ability to
independently review its own conduct.  ‘Doping Culture’  “The UCI blindfolded and handcuffed its independent
commission and now hopes the world will look the other way while
the UCI attempts to insert itself into the investigation into
the role it played in allowing the doping culture to flourish,”
Tygart said in an e-mailed statement.  “We have always fully supported a well-structured truth
and reconciliation process in order to clean up the sport and
protect the rights of athletes,” Tygart added, “but it is
clear that the UCI cannot be allowed to script its own self-
interested outcome in this effort.”  UCI spokesman Enrico Carpani wasn’t immediately available
to comment after WADA and USADA’s statements.  In August, USADA stripped Armstrong of his seven Tour de
France titles and banned the American for life for using
prohibited substances after he opted not to contest doping
charges in arbitration.  Following more than a decade of denials, Armstrong this
month told talk show host  Oprah Winfrey  he’d cheated by using
drugs while winning all seven titles.  ‘Without Detection’  The UCI was criticized in the aftermath of the Armstrong
affair for failing to act sooner. It set up the commission in
October to investigate, among other things, the relationship
between Armstrong and the UCI.  McQuaid said yesterday the commission would not be able to
succeed without cooperation from WADA or USADA, whose officials
withdrew from the process two weeks ago over the UCI’s refusal
to grant witnesses amnesty.  Philip Otton, chairman of the commission, said at a hearing
in London last week that his group had been determined to probe
“why and how Lance Armstrong and the U.S. Postal Service team
were able to engage, as recently publicly admitted, in
systematic doping without detection or sanction.”  The commission today said in a press release that it’s
calling on “all those who have an interest in cycling,” to
make sure an independent truth and reconciliation process is set
up.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  