-- Wynne to Face Tough Economic Challenge as Ontario Premier
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-01-28T12:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/wynne-to-face-tough-economic-challenge-as-ontario-premier.html
Kathleen Wynne , selected as the
first female and openly gay premier of Ontario, said education
and balancing the budget are among her priorities as head of
 Canada ’s most-populous province.  Wynne, 59, was elected by ruling Liberal Party members to
replace Dalton McGuinty as the province’s leader at a weekend
convention in Toronto, beating out five other candidates.  She steps into her role after nearly a decade in provincial
politics with the promise of working with opposition lawmakers
to bypass what she’s called a “poison” within the region’s
politics. Wynne leads a minority government that needs the
support of opposition lawmakers to pass legislation.  “The rancor and the viciousness of the legislature can’t
continue,” Wynne told reporters yesterday in Toronto. “We
absolutely have to continue to work out our disagreements.”  Wynne succeeds McGuinty, who announced Oct. 15 he would
step down after his government was accused of hiding costs
related to the cancellation of two power-plant projects, and he
was unable to persuade opposition lawmakers to support a public
sector wage freeze to curb the province’s deficit.  While she calls her distinction as the first openly gay
premier of a Canadian province “historic,” she won’t focus on
it during her term.  “I’m not a gay activist, that’s not how I got into
politics,” she said. “I’m not going to spend the next months
talking about this.” More important is the fact that women now
lead six Canadian provinces and territories, she said.  Wynne’s victory puts women in charge of provincial and
territorial governments overseeing about 90 percent of Canada’s
economy and population.  Quebec Premier  In  Quebec , the French-speaking region with about 24 percent
of the population, Pauline Marois, 63, of the Parti Quebecois
party took power in the Sept. 4 election. In  Alberta , the
Western province that’s home to the country’s booming oil
industry, Conservative Alison Redford, 47, became leader in
October 2011 and won an election six months later. And in
British Columbia, Liberal Christy Clark, 47, took over from
Gordon Campbell as premier in 2011.  Conservative Kathy Dunderdale has been premier of
Newfoundland and Labrador since 2010, and Eva Aariak is premier
of Canada’s northern territory of Nunavut.  Trailing Opposition  The Liberals hold 53 of the 107 seats in the provincial
legislature, meaning they need some support from opposition
lawmakers to pass budgets and remain in power. The Progressive
Conservatives, led by Tim Hudak, have 36 seats and the  New
Democratic Party , led by Andrea Horwath, has 18.  “Wynne is going to have big problems because she is more
closely identified with McGuinty,” Nelson Wiseman, a University
of Toronto associate professor of political science, said in an
interview.  Ontario’s Liberals trail both the opposition Progressive
Conservatives and New Democratic Party in voter support.
According to poll-tracking  website  ThreeHundredEight.com,
Liberal support in recent surveys has averaged about 27 percent,
putting them seven percentage points behind the Progressive
Conservatives and three behind the  New Democrats .  “The next provincial election in Ontario will be difficult
for the incumbent Liberals,” said  Nik Nanos , an Ottawa-based
pollster. “The economy remains flat and the Liberals will face
a two-front war against the Hudak Conservatives and the Horwath
New Democrats.”  ‘Best-before Date’  Nanos said that, in addition to challenges from the right
and left of the political spectrum, “after three successive
election victories it’s quite likely that the Liberals will also
be fighting against their own best-before date politically.”  Wynne told reporters that she had spoken with Hudak after
her victory and was trying to speak with Horwath. “Many of the
issues we face as a province are not issues that are partisan,”
she said.  Wynne, a mother of three who lives in Toronto, won the
leadership with 1,150 votes in the final ballot, compared with
866 for Sandra Pupatello, 50. Wynne gained support of candidates
Gerard Kennedy, 52, and Charles Sousa, 54, who both withdrew
from the contest after the second ballot, and Eric Hoskins, 51,
who was eliminated after the first round of voting.  “This is going to be a great government,” Wynne said in
her victory speech. “We’re going to build on the work that
Dalton McGuinty has done over the last nine years.”  Wynne was first elected to Ontario’s provincial parliament
in October 2003, representing the Toronto riding of Don Valley
West. Wynne was re-elected to her third term in October 2011.
She served under McGuinty as minister of education,
transportation, municipal affairs and housing, and aboriginal
affairs.  School Trustee  Before provincial politics, Wynne was a Toronto school
trustee, according to her  biography . She has a master’s degree
in linguistics from the  University of Toronto  and a master’s
degree in adult education from the Ontario Institute for Studies
in Education. She also completed mediation training at  Harvard
University .  Youth unemployment, social assistance, public sector wages
and education are “very high” priorities, Wynne said yesterday
in the Toronto press conference. She also said balancing
Ontario’s budget will remain a priority.  “She’s got a heck of a challenge ahead of her,” Jeffrey Gandz, professor of strategic leadership at Western University’s
Richard Ivey School of Business, said in a telephone interview
from  London , Ontario. “She has an economy that’s growing very
slowly, a massive deficit and rapidly accumulating debt.”  Struggling Economy  Ontario is home to much of Canada’s manufacturing industry,
which has struggled in recent years amid a strong Canadian
dollar and sluggish demand from the U.S. The province’s
unemployment rate was 7.9 percent in December, above the
national rate of 7.1 percent.  Ontario has about C$256 billion ($254 billion) of debt
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Finance
Minister Dwight Duncan said Jan. 22 the province’s deficit in
the fiscal year that began in April will be C$11.9 billion,
narrowing from the C$14.8 billion he previously forecast. The
province plans to return to a balanced budget in 2017.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Ontario’s credit
rating in April, citing the province’s growing debt burden and
slowing economic growth. Since the downgrade, the Ontario
government has fought with public workers unions to institute a
wage freeze and levied a 2 percent surtax on wage earners of
C$500,000 or more.  “The  Liberal Party  has decided to tack to the center left
from the center right,” said Wiseman, who expected Pupatello to
win. “The focus will be more on the social policy side, rather
than economic policy, which is what it would have been under
Pupatello.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  