-- Zimbabwe May Be First to Legislate 50% Female Parliament
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-01-28T16:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/zimbabwe-may-be-first-to-legislate-50-female-parliament.html
Zimbabwe  may become the world’s
first country to pass a law requiring that women hold at least
50 percent of posts in parliament and other government bodies,
according to a new constitution.  “The state must take all measures, including legislative
measures, needed to ensure that both genders are equally
represented in all institutions and agencies of government at
every level,” according to a copy of the charter obtained by
 Bloomberg News  from an official who helped write it. Women must
“constitute at least half the membership of all commissions and
other elective and appointed governmental bodies.”  The constitution must be approved in a national referendum
before an election can be held. President  Robert Mugabe ’s
Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front and Prime
Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ’s Movement for Democratic Change
agreed on the constitution, the leaders said on Jan. 18. The
document hasn’t been made public.  Women hold 15 percent of the seats in Zimbabwe’s House of
Assembly, according to  Quotaproject , a global database of female
representation in political institutions that’s backed by
International IDEA, the Inter-Parliamentary Union and  Stockholm
University . One of Zimbabwe’s two vice president posts is held
by a woman, Joice Mujuru.  ‘More Voices’  “You are hearing more and more voices, especially from
 Africa , saying equality in politics means parity,” Zeina Hilal,
manager of the gender program at the Inter-Parliamentary Union,
said today in an phone interview from Geneva. The challenge for
Zimbabwe will to be “operationalize” the constitution through
an electoral law that ensures the achievement of equal gender
representation in parliament, she said.  While  Tunisia  and  Belgium  have tried to reach a similar
objective by mandating that 50 percent of electoral lists are
female, that didn’t ensure that parliament was fully
representative, she said. Women hold 27 percent of the seats in
Tunisia’s parliament and 39 percent in Belgium, according to
Quotaproject.  Rwanda has the highest percentage of women in parliament at
56 percent, according to the Inter-Parliamentary Union. By law,
30 percent of representatives in the country’s decision-making
organs must be female, according to Quotaproject.  Across sub-Saharan Africa, the average female
representation in both the upper and lower houses of parliament
is 20.8 percent compared with a 20.3 percent  world average ,
according to the Inter-Parliamentary Union. Nordic countries
have the highest percentage of women legislators at 42 percent,
while countries in the Pacific have the lowest at 12.7 percent.  While Zimbabwe’s constitution maintains the death penalty
for certain crimes, it bars sentencing women to death. It also
kept a ban on marriages between members of the same sex.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  