-- Zloty Weakens to Five-Month Low Ahead of Polish GDP Data Release
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-01-28T14:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-28/zloty-weakens-to-five-month-low-ahead-of-polish-gdp-data-release.html
The zloty fell to the weakest level
in five months as investors expect gross domestic product data
set to be published tomorrow will confirm the economy is
slowing, bolstering the case for further interest rate cuts.  The zloty retreated 0.7 percent to 4.1973 per euro at 2:47
p.m. in Warsaw, the weakest since Sept. 5 and the fifth-steepest
depreciation among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on 10-year notes rose 1 basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point to 3.94 percent.  Economic growth fell to 2 percent last year from 4.3
percent in 2011, median from Bloomberg survey of 37 economists
show.  Poland ’s  Central Statistical Office  will release the data
tomorrow after it said on Jan. 24 that Polish December  retail
sales  declined the most since 2005.  “Weakness in the zloty has been due to combination of
regional currency weakness and growing recognition that the
depth of the cyclical downturn in Poland warrants deep interest
rate cuts,”  Koon Chow , London-based head of emerging-market
currency strategy at Barclays Plc, said in an e-mail today.  Poland’s Monetary Policy Council will meet on Feb. 6 to
decide  interest rates . Retail sales slumped 2.5 percent in the
12 months to December, data showed last week, confirming a weak
outlook for Polish consumers, whose resilience in the face of
the crisis helped boost economic growth since 2009.  “A fresh reminder of the compromised Polish consumer will
come too soon for the market, which should keep sentiment on the
zloty flat to bearish for this week,”  Roderick Ngotho , London-
based emerging-markets currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc., wrote in e-mailed report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  