-- `Webcam Abortion’ Laws Would Ban Practice Where It Doesn’t Exist
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-02-11T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/-webcam-abortion-laws-would-ban-practice-where-it-doesn-t-exist.html
Almost five years ago, Amy Hagstrom
Miller, the founder of Whole Woman’s Health LLC, became one of
the first U.S. abortion providers to use technology allowing
doctors to prescribe drugs to end unwanted pregnancies.  Doctors at Miller’s clinic in Austin,  Texas , could consult
and prescribe the pills to women in McAllen, about 300 miles
(483 kilometers) away on the Mexican border, via phone and
videoconference. The so-called telemedicine eliminated drive
time for physicians and doubled to 24 the number of days per
month the service was offered.  It didn’t last long. A state law that took effect last year
requires doctors to show and describe ultrasound images of the
fetus to women seeking an abortion. Because the provider must be
in the same room as the patient, Miller’s telemedicine business
ground to a halt.  “We still do it in our Maryland clinic and plan to start
it up in our Minnesota clinic, but our five Texas sites are very
limited now,” Miller said.  In the past two years, as states approved a record 135
abortion restrictions,  nine  followed Texas’s lead to pass
legislation outlawing what opponents call “webcam” or “push-
button” abortions. In fact, no provider in any of those states
offered abortions that way, illustrating how successful foes
have been at not just curbing access to the procedure, but also
in preventing the potential for expansion.  New Weapon  Telemedicine bans are the latest weapon in a broader fight
over abortion-inducing drugs, which since their advent over a
decade ago have transformed the procedure. Instead of an
invasive surgery sought in clinics, which can be blockaded and
tightly regulated, now a woman early in her pregnancy can start
one at her physician’s office with a pill and finish the process
at home. To anti-abortion forces, the drugs are seen as vehicles
for the procedure to become more widely available.  This year, legislation introduced in at least five states
would effectively ban telemedicine abortions by requiring that
doctors be physically present to examine patients before
prescribing abortion-inducing drugs. All but one law are based
on model legislation written by Americans United for Life, the
legal arm of the anti-abortion movement, which calls medication
abortion “the new profit-boosting frontier” for providers.  Charmaine Yoest , president of the Washington-based group,
calls a telemedicine ban one of her favorite strategies.
Abortion-rights advocates have long emphasized the sanctity of
the patient-doctor relationship when claiming that anti-abortion
laws violate privacy rights, she said.  Telemedicine abortions belie that argument, she said.
“Now, it’s between a woman and her Skype program.”  Astronaut Checkups  Telemedicine was first used in the 1960s to check on
astronauts in outer space and has since revolutionized how
people in rural and underserved areas receive a range of health
services, according to the American Telemedicine Association.
The technology’s reach has quadrupled in the past five years to
10 million Americans, aided by millions of dollars in public and
private investment. It’s now used to help treat everything from
pediatric head injuries in Montana to infectious disease on
Alaska’s Aleutian Islands in the Bering Sea.  Abortion is the sole area where lawmakers have curbed
telemedicine or prevented its use from expanding, said  Jon Linkous , chief executive officer of the Washington-based
association.  The most recent example took place last year in Michigan.
In June, Republican Governor  Rick Snyder   lauded  a measure
promoting telemedicine as an “incredible opportunity” to best
deliver medical information and services. Six months later, he
signed an omnibus  bill  of abortion restrictions that included a
ban on using the method for drug-induced abortions.  Showing ‘Hypocrisy’  The Michigan law shows hypocrisy, said Jordan Goldberg,
state advocacy counsel at the New York-based Center for
Reproductive Rights, which fights abortion laws in court.  “There is a very clear division: Women are different,
women who are attempting to access medication abortion are
different,” she said.  The groundwork for telemedicine abortions was laid in
2000, when the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved a
French drug that induced miscarriage. The drugs have
increasingly replaced surgical abortions, accounting for 17
percent of nonhospital abortion procedures in 2008, the latest
year for which data are available, according to the Guttmacher
Institute, a New York-based reproductive health research group.  Home Use  Women up to nine weeks pregnant typically take the first
dose at a health provider, the second at home 48 hours later,
and follow up with a doctor two weeks after that. Physicians now
prescribe the drugs after consulting with patients via phone and
videolink at Planned Parenthood clinics in Iowa and Minnesota,
and at Whole Woman’s Health in Maryland.  Abortion drugs are too dangerous for women to take when not
in the presence of a doctor, said Yoest of Americans United for
Life.  “It’s appalling that the self-described defenders of
women’s health demonstrate over and over that they’re willing to
put their economic interests ahead of actually protecting
women,” she said of providers in a recent interview at the
group’s Washington headquarters.  This year, Republican lawmakers in  Iowa , Alabama, Indiana,
Missouri and Mississippi have introduced telemedicine abortion
bans, while a proposal in Texas would build upon what’s already
passed.  Iowa, the sole state that would ban a practice already in
place, is home to 16 clinics offering telemedicine abortions,
more than in all other states combined. There, researchers
conducted a study published in 2011 in the journal Obstetrics &
Gynecology that compared the provision of abortion-inducing
drugs via telemedicine to those done face to face. It found the
complication rate, at 1.3 percent, to be no different.  At Whole Woman’s Health in the Lone Star State, the
availability of telemedicine didn’t increase the number of
abortions, Miller said. It did, however, enable women to obtain
the procedure earlier in their pregnancies, which research shows
is safer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  