-- BOJ Potential Candidate Kuroda Favors Easing in 2013
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-02-12T00:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/adb-s-kuroda-says-additional-boj-easing-can-be-justified-for-13.html
The Bank of Japan could usher in a
growth spurt unseen in a generation by stepping up stimulus and
ending deflation, according to  Haruhiko Kuroda , the head of the
Asian Development Bank and a potential contender for BOJ chief.  “Japan’s economy has suffered from prolonged deflation
that must be eradicated -- that would raise short-to-medium term
growth prospects significantly,” Kuroda, 68, said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. “Two percent plus for calendar
year 2013 would be quite possible and for some years could be
sustained,” he said, referring to a pace of expansion not
maintained in Japan since stagnation set in in 1992.  Kuroda, who said he was “satisfied” with his current job
amid Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s preparations for unveiling a
nominee to succeed  Masaaki Shirakawa , said that additional BOJ
stimulus could be justified for 2013. The BOJ last month said it
would start open-ended asset purchases only in January 2014, and
the board is forecast to keep its policy unchanged at a Feb.
13-14 gathering, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts.  Japan, along with other nations, has “really substantial
room for monetary easing,” he said. There’s the equivalent of
trillions of dollars of financial assets that could be bought by
the BOJ, according to Kuroda.  He didn’t specify how policy makers ought to add liquidity.
Asked whether the BOJ could buy stocks, Kuroda noted that it has
already been purchasing some. Decisions on how to add
quantitative easing are up to the central bank, he said.  Job Prospects  Kuroda, a former career Finance Ministry civil servant and
Tokyo University graduate who studied economics at Oxford,
declined to comment on whether he was a contender to lead the
central bank. He said he was “satisfied” with his current job
at the ADB, with about four more years left on his term.  Japanese Economy Minister  Akira Amari  told reporters today
that Kuroda is among those qualified to be BOJ governor, adding
that Abe has yet to decide on a nominee.  The head of the Manila-based development lender supported
the yen’s slide as a “natural adjustment” from overvaluation
and said that the “global standard” for central banks to
achieve their inflation targets is about two years.  “The identities of the new BOJ executives are of critical
importance” to the policy outlook,  Masayuki Kichikawa , chief
Japan economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Tokyo, wrote
in a Feb. 8 note. “We anticipate the BOJ will move steadily to
adopt the course charted by the Fed, including a stepped-up
expansion of its balance sheet” and extension of the maturities
of government debt bought for its asset-purchase fund, he wrote.  Top Pick  Kuroda, who advocated an inflation target more than a
decade before the BOJ set its 2 percent objective last month,
has been cited as the leading contender to succeed Shirakawa by
economists at banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit
Suisse Group AG.  Shirakawa this month said he will leave almost three weeks
before his term is up, on March 19, to align his departure with
that of his two deputies.  With Abe making the end of deflation a key to his campaign
ahead of a December election that swept his Liberal Democratic
Party back to office, the yen has weakened and stocks have
climbed since mid-November in anticipation of greater monetary
stimulus.  The  yen  has declined about 16 percent in the past three
months against the dollar, to 94.16 at 9:06 a.m. in Tokyo. The
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  has jumped about 30 percent over the
same period, extending its gains with a 2.3 percent rise today.  ‘Natural’ Slide  “Basically this is natural adjustment from an excessively
high or extremely high rate of exchange toward a more
sustainable level,” Kuroda, who was in charge of currency
policy at the Finance Ministry from 1999 to 2003, said
yesterday. He declined to specify a fair value for the yen.  Japan has been criticized for driving down the yen by
officials from South Korea to Russia in the run-up to a meeting
of finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations in Moscow this
week. Abe administration officials have said that they are
focused on ending deflation, rather than seeking a specific
level for the yen.  Kuroda indicated that expectations for Abe’s policies had
affected the exchange rate. “So-called Abenomics -- monetary
easing, fiscal stimulus and growth strategy -- may have
influenced exchange rate movements.”  Japan’s economy has suffered under a decade and a half of
deflation, which has pushed up the real burden of debt and
caused companies and households to put off spending, Kuroda
said.  BOJ Target  Even as it unveiled its 2 percent target last month, the
central bank’s own forecasts showed consumer prices won’t rise
that much in the coming two years.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food  fell 0.2 percent in
December. The price gauge hasn’t advanced 2 percent for any year
since 1997, when a national sales tax was increased. In December
2002, Kuroda said, as vice finance minister, that the BOJ should
aim to push up prices by 3 percent in three years. He said
yesterday that 2 percent is an “appropriate” target.  “A clear inflation target is absolutely necessary, and a
commitment by the Bank of Japan to eradicate deflation, 15 year-
long deflation, through whatever measures available,” said
Kuroda, who took the helm of the ADB in 2005.  Japan’s  gross domestic product  grew in the final three
months of 2012 for the first time since March last year,
according to the median estimate of 32 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The GDP report is due on Feb. 14.  Growth Potential  In the long run, the nation’s growth potential is about 1
percent to 1.5 percent, or roughly the same as the U.S. and
developed European nations when adjusted for population, Kuroda
said.  Kuroda also said that the yen’s depreciation doesn’t come
too late to help his nation’s economy, which has seen
manufacturers including Sharp Corp. and Sony Corp. hurt by a
surging currency in recent years.  Toyota Motor Corp.  has risen more than 50 percent in the
past three months, with the automaker last week boosting its
profit forecast for the year ending in March to a five-year
high.  The jump in equities raises the risk of disappointment as
Abe prepares to unveil his choice of central bank chief. The
government should announce its nominations for the new BOJ
leadership team by the end of February, the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party said last month.  Kuroda is “the leading candidate” to head the central
bank,  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Tokyo and a former Bank of Japan official
said this month, joining JPMorgan’s chief Japan economist
 Masaaki Kanno  in the call.  Iwata Duo  Koichi Hamada , a retired Yale University economics
professor who is advising Abe on monetary policy, said in
December that Kuroda was a potential candidate, along with  Kikuo Iwata , an economics professor at Gakushuin University,  Kazumasa Iwata , president of the Japan Center for Economic Research and
 Heizo Takenaka , a former economic policy minister.  Toshiro Muto ,
a former deputy BOJ governor, is also perceived in the running.  Abe’s nominee must be confirmed in Parliament. While the
LDP has a majority in the lower house, it will need support from
opposition lawmakers in the upper body.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  