-- Afghan Probe Supports UN Claims of Torture in Government Jails
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-02-11T12:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/afghan-probe-supports-un-claims-of-torture-in-government-jails.html
An investigation ordered by Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai  found evidence of torture and
mistreatment in the country’s prisons, supporting the
conclusions of a United Nations  report  last month that said
abuse remained widespread.  Members of the Afghan commission told reporters in Kabul
today that 48 percent of 284 detainees they interviewed said
they had been tortured or ill-treated in facilities run by local
authorities in the provinces of Kabul, Herat and Kandahar. Most
were being held for alleged involvement in the 11-year Taliban
insurgency.  The Afghan investigators said they had no information to
support assertions made in the Jan. 20 report by the United
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan that some prisoners
may have been detained at hidden installations run by the
nation’s intelligence agency or had been raped.  “No secret prisons run by the National Directorate of
Security or others are based in Afghanistan,” Abdul Qadir
Adalatkhwah, who headed the government-appointed commission,
said. “We did not find any evidence to support UN reports of
rape cases.” The panel has submitted its suggestions to Karzai.  “The president is trying to show openness in his
administration,” Waliullah Rahmani, executive director of the
Kabul Center for Strategic Studies, said in a phone interview.
“Karzai wants to show the international community that he’s
serious over implementing reforms.”  Still, Rahmani said the panel’s recommendations were likely
to be “implemented verbally but not in action.”  Forced Confessions  The UN last month said that more than half of 635 conflict-
related detainees it interviewed in 30 provinces had experienced
ill-treatment and torture in the year to October 2012. The study
said abuse was especially present in 34 facilities run by the
Afghan National Police and the NDS. Local police forces and the
Afghan army also hold detainees as they await trial. Of those
interviewed, 105 were children.  Afghan officials inflicted “severe pain and suffering on
detainees during interrogations aimed mainly at obtaining a
confession or information,” the UN said in its report.
Prisoners had been left hanging by their wrists for long
periods, and beaten with cables, pipes, hoses or wooden sticks,
including on the soles of the feet, it said. Others had been
threatened with execution or sexual violence.  As a result, the international coalition fighting the
Taliban had stopped transferring detainees to some locations,
the UN said.  Recognizing that Karzai’s government had taken some steps
to address abusive practices,  Jan Kubis , the UN mission’s head,
said in the report that “more needs to be done to end and
prevent torture.”  No Prosecution  While Afghan authorities had probed claims of abuse, the UN
found no evidence of any prosecution of those responsible for
torture or for failing to stop it. The country needed a more
robust investigation process and a court system that refuses to
accept confessions gained through torture, the UN said.  The NDS provided access to all its jails throughout
Afghanistan except buildings run by the agency’s Counter
Terrorism Department 124 based in Kabul, according to the UN.
Monitors were allowed into all police lock-ups, with access
cleared by the Interior Ministry, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  