-- Ahold Seen Returning ICA Sale Cash Over Acquisitions
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-02-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ahold-seen-returning-ica-sale-cash-over-making-big-acquisitions.html
Royal Ahold NV,  the Dutch owner of
Stop & Shop grocery stores, is likely to redistribute some of
the 20 billion kronor ($3.1 billion) proceeds of its ICA stake
sale to shareholders as it shies away from large acquisitions.  The retailer, which said yesterday it  agreed to sell  its 60
percent stake in Sweden’s largest food retailer to ICA’s other
shareholder Hakon Invest AB, will probably use the cash to pay a
dividend, according to  Erwin Dut , an analyst at Kempen & Co. NV.  “Ahold is not interested at all in doing a large
acquisition,” Dut said in a phone interview from Amsterdam.
“Ahold is happy to buy shops both in the U.S. and in Benelux,
though those stores can easily be bought out of free cash flow.
They can return a dividend tax free, so it’s quite an easy way
to return cash. A buyback will take more time.”  Ahold may be deterred from making a major purchase after an
accounting fraud 10 years ago brought it to the brink of
collapse. The Amsterdam-based company has spent much of the last
decade selling off the remnants of an acquisition spree and
under Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  has focused on expanding
into neighboring markets and online.  Ahold jumped as much as 6 percent in Amsterdam trading
yesterday, the  steepest gain  since November 2009, as the sale
price was well received by investors. The amount was “very
positive” and will result in a tax-free capital gain of about
1.5 billion euros ($2 billion), said  James Anstead,  an analyst
at Barclays Plc in London, revising a forecast he made earlier.  Cash Available  The retailer isn’t disclosing the value of the capital
gain, spokesman  Jochem van de Laarschot  said. It will say more
on what it will do with the sale funds closer to the completion
date, Chief Financial Officer  Jeff Carr  said. Hakon estimates
that the transaction will be completed in April.  The deal marks the conclusion of a five-month review by
Ahold of its stake in ICA, which it has owned jointly with Hakon
since 2000. While owning 60 percent of ICA’s shares, the Dutch
retailer only controlled 50 percent of the voting rights. It
said in September that it was exploring alternatives for the
stake, including an initial public offering. Hakon, which is
controlled by ICA franchisers, had the right of first refusal.  The amount of cash available for redistribution to Ahold
investors will be 1 billion to 1.5 billion euros, said  Marco Gulpers , an analyst at ING Groep NV.  “I would see the majority of this used through a share
buyback,” Gulpers said. Paying down debt is “not a priority”
and he doesn’t see Ahold “engaging in large M&A transactions.”
The analyst said he expects Ahold to receive about 1.7 billion
euros of tax-free cash once the deal is closed.  Cash Flow  Gulpers’ views were echoed by  Fernand de Boer , an analyst
at Petercam SA, who said a buyback is more likely than a “super
dividend” as the retailer has a “clear” dividend policy that
aims for “sustainable growth” in the payout.  Ahold already has a large amount of cash available for
expansion compared with competitors. Free cash flow was 932
million euros in 2011, more than 344 million euros for  Delhaize
Group SA , the Belgian owner of U.S. Food Lion supermarkets.  Yesterday’s disposal represents one of the last steps in
reversing Ahold’s acquisition strategy of decades past. The
retailer, which was on the verge of a bankruptcy in 2003 amid an
accounting scandal that forced it to divest several assets, sold
the U.S. Foodservice unit to buyout firms in July 2007 for $7.1
billion. It later sold Tops food stores for $310 million and its
Polish stores for 375 million euros.  Online Sales  “ICA is a hangover from the times when they overreached in
the 1990s,” said Daniel Lucht, an analyst at  ResearchFarm , a
London-based retail and consumer-goods forecaster, by phone.
“They couldn’t get control of ICA because of the structure of
the deal, so that’s why they sold it.”  Investing in its stores and online business will make most
sense for the Dutch retailer, Lucht said. “The big thing going
forward for Ahold is the online business and that’s what they
will invest cash in,” he said. “They know the multichannel
shopper is worth more for them.”  CEO  Boer  has expanded Ahold by buying Web retailer Bol.com,
adding C1000 and Jumbo stores in the Netherlands and acquiring
Genuardi shops in the U.S. The executive said in November 2011
that he will open a minimum of 50 supermarkets in Belgium in the
next five years, while the company aims to triple online sales
to 1.5 billion euros.  Ahold rose 3.8 percent to 11 euros as of the close of
trading in Amsterdam. The company is trading at about 12 times
its estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If you take out ICA, Ahold trades at 4 times Ebitda,
which is the typical multiple for a U.S. food retailer,” Dut
said. “If the shares remain at this level, there’s a valuation
case to be made for a private-equity or a strategic bidder.”  The company, which makes about 60 percent of its sales in
the U.S., had earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 2.1 billion euros in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  