-- Hakon Agrees to Buy ICA Stake From Ahold for $3.1 Billion
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-02-11T10:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ahold-to-sell-60-percent-ica-stake-for-3-1-billion-to-hakon.html
Hakon Invest AB, the minority owner
of Sweden’s largest food retailer ICA, agreed to take full
control by acquiring partner  Royal Ahold NV ’s 60 percent stake
for 20 billion kronor ($3.1 billion).  The purchase will secure Hakon’s future ownership of the
2,215-store chain and clarify ICA’s ownership structure, the
Solna-based buyer said today in a statement. For Ahold, the
owner of Albert Heijn stores in the Netherlands and Stop & Shop
in the U.S., the disposal represents one of the last steps in
reversing its acquisition strategy of the previous two decades.  Hakon  rose  as much as 18 percent in Stockholm trading to
the highest in six years, while Ahold  jumped  as much as 6
percent in Amsterdam, the steepest gain since November 2009. The
price is “very positive” for Amsterdam-based Ahold and will
result in a tax-free capital gain of about 900 million euros
($1.2 billion) that should go direct to shareholders, according
to  James Anstead , an analyst at Barclays Plc in London.  Today’s deal marks the conclusion of a five-month review by
Ahold of its stake in ICA, which it has owned jointly with Hakon
since 2000. While owning 60 percent of ICA’s shares, the Dutch
retailer only controlled 50 percent of the voting rights. It
said in September that it was exploring alternatives for the
stake, including an initial public offering. Hakon, which is
controlled by ICA franchisers, had the right of first refusal.  “We think it’s the right deal for our shareholders at this
time,” Ahold Chief Financial Officer  Jeff Carr  said on a
conference call today. “ICA as a business is doing really well
and that’s reflected in the price of this transaction.”  Shares Gain  Should anything “go wrong in the transaction,” an IPO of
the stake is “something that we could fall back onto and it’s
something we will continue to look at,” Carr said.  Ahold, which was on the brink of bankruptcy a decade ago
partly due to overstating its revenue from the ICA venture, is
selling because it wants to focus its expansion on businesses it
controls. The retailer isn’t disclosing the value of its capital
gain on the sale, spokesman  Jochem van de Laarschot  said.  Ahold rose 4.3 percent to 11.06 euros at 11:20 a.m. in
Amsterdam, valuing the company at 11.7 billion euros.  Hakon, which was formed in 2000 after Ahold bought into
ICA, said it will finance the purchase with cash and bridge
financing. Hakon will later  repay the debt  via a share issue of
about 5 billion kronor. Ahold will also get a 1.2 billion-krona
dividend payment from ICA, the grocer said in a statement today.  ‘Simpler Structure’  “We gain a simpler structure and a greater resolve in the
organization,” Hakon Chief Executive Officer  Claes-Goran Sylven 
said in a statement. Due to the bridge financing and subsequent
share issue, Hakon said it won’t pay a dividend this year.  Hakon shares were up 16 percent at 155.8 kronor at 11:25
a.m. in Stockholm, heading for the highest close since 2007.  ICA had sales last year of 96.9 billion kronor, according
to Ahold. The business also operates Rimi stores in Norway and
the Baltics. After completion of the deal, Hakon will change its
name to ICA Gruppen and Per Stroemberg will be its CEO.  Ahold Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  has expanded Ahold
by buying online retailer Bol.com, adding C1000 and Jumbo stores
in the Netherlands and acquiring Genuardi shops in the U.S. The
executive said in November 2011 that he will open a minimum of
50 supermarkets in Belgium in the next five years, while the
company aims to triple online sales to 1.5 billion euros.  The Dutch retailer will probably return most or all of the
sale proceeds to shareholders as the company is “broadly in-
line” with its targeted leverage ratios, said  John Kershaw , an
 analyst  at Exane BNP Paribas in London.  Sale Funds  Ahold will say more on what it will do with the sale funds
closer to the completion date, CFO Carr said on the call. “I
won’t speculate at this moment on the potential use,” he said.  The transaction will have no direct impact on the joint
activities of ICA and Ahold in areas such as sourcing and
responsible retailing, Ahold said. ICA will not be shown as
discontinued operations in 2012, Carr said on the call.  Hakon Chairman Hannu Ryopponen was chief financial officer
at Ahold until 2005, when he left to join Finnish paper company
Stora Enso Oyj. Ryopponen and then-CEO  Anders Moberg  revived the
food retailer by selling more than 30 businesses and slashing
debt. Ryopponen was elected Hakon Chairman in April 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net 
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  