-- Air Force Finding Pilot Erred in F-22 Crash Disputed
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-11T19:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/air-force-finding-pilot-erred-in-f-22-crash-disputed.html
An Air Force finding that the fatal
2010 crash of a  Lockheed Martin Corp.  F-22 Raptor fighter was
caused by pilot error “is not supported by the facts” in the
service’s inquiry, according to the Pentagon inspector general.  The watchdog office, in a report released today, examined
the Air Force’s review of the November 2010 crash in Alaska of
an F-22 assigned to the 525th Fighter Squadron.  The crash that killed the F-22 pilot, Captain Jeff Haney,
came before a series of incidents in which a dozen pilots flying
the F-22 became dizzy and disoriented from lack of oxygen, a
condition called hypoxia. The Air Force said in July of last
year that it was correcting the oxygen deprivation by replacing
a valve in pressure vests worn by pilots at high altitudes.  The Air Force review released in December 2011 said that
“clear and convincing evidence” showed the crash that killed
Haney near Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson was caused by his
failure to take timely action to prevent it.  Disputing that conclusion, the inspector general said it
wasn’t supported in a manner “consistent with” the service’s
own “clear and convincing standard of proof.”  The Air Force investigation discounted oxygen deprivation
as contributing to the crash. The inspector general criticized
the service for not providing “a detailed analysis describing
why hypoxia was not considered a contributory factor.”  Oxygen Review  In May 2011, the Air Combat Command announced a temporary
suspension of training flights because of “recent reports of
potential oxygen system malfunctions.” That led to a full
review of the F-22’s oxygen system.  After studying everything from hoses and masks to the
planes’ radar-absorbing stealth skin, the Air Force determined
the trouble was the valve in the pressure vest.  Today’s inspector general report recommended that the Air
Force judge advocate general reevaluate the accident report
findings in Haney’s crash and “take appropriate action.”  The Air Force said in comments contained in the report that
it stood by the 2011 conclusions while saying some aspects of
the report “could have been written more clearly.”  The Air Force said it relied for its rebuttal of the
inspector general’s review on the findings of a special task
force it convened.  Remedial actions would be taken on deficiencies in the
accident report, including the lack of detailed analysis of
contributing factors, the Air Force said.  Investigative Leads  The inspector general said it didn’t agree with the Air
Force’s contention that the service “exhausted all
investigative leads” before rendering its 2011 conclusion.  The Air Force failed to follow its own regulations that
called for a “thorough discussion of the facts relevant to the
accident” that are “fully supported by documentary evidence”
and “self-contained” in the report, according to the inspector
general.  The inspector general also said the Air Force’s 2011
conclusions violated a regulation that says findings “must be
supported by credible evidence that shows it is highly probable
that the conclusion is correct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  