-- Malone’s Telenet Unit Plans to Return $1.3 Billion to Investors
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-02-12T08:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/malone-s-telenet-unit-plans-to-return-1-3-billion-to-investors.html
Telenet Group Holding NV , the
Belgian cable operator controlled by Liberty Global Inc., will
return 950 million euros ($1.3 billion) to investors after
shareholders blocked a plan by  John Malone ’s company to win full
control of the unit.  Telenet plans a  cash distribution  of about 7.90 euros a
share, or 900 million euros in total, and will buy back as much
as 50 million euros of its own stock this year, the Mechelen,
Belgium-based company said in a statement yesterday. Englewood,
Colorado-based Liberty Global owns about 58 percent of Telenet.  While the distribution may assist Liberty Global in
financing its $16 billion purchase of Virgin Media Inc. in the
U.K., Telenet’s parent will have to share the funds with
minority investors after a 35 euros-per-share bid for full
ownership fell through last month. The Belgian cable operator
had 906.3 million euros of cash and equivalents at year-end
after raising 700 million euros in August to fund stock
buybacks, prior to Liberty Global’s offer.  “This is an exception to our distribution policy of share
buybacks,” Chief Financial Officer  Renaat Berckmoes  told
reporters in Mechelen.  Telenet shares advanced 5.1 percent to 37.74 euros as of
9:02 a.m. in Brussels.  Telenet reiterated its Oct. 29 forecast that adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
will rise 7 percent to 8 percent this year, compared with 7.5
percent growth in 2012, as revenue will increase as much as 11
percent.  Earnings Growth  Adjusted Ebitda  growth  slowed to 3.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, mostly because of marketing expenses which resulted in
a record 180,700 net mobile client additions. Telenet also
introduced subsidized rates for devices including Apple Inc.’s
iPhone 5 during the quarter. Those subsidies drove up expenses
by about 10 million euros, Berckmoes said.  Telenet more than doubled its market share to about 7
percent of mobile SIM cards in Belgium’s northern Flemish region
last year, according to company estimates. The introduction of
King and Kong rate plans in July, made possible by renegotiating
an agreement to use Mobistar SA’s wireless network, pushed
average mobile revenue per user above 30 euros a month in the
fourth quarter.  Telenet plans to announce the details of the payment by
March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  