-- Pactera Slips on Europe as Yingli Climbs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-11T22:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ambow-leads-adr-slump-on-europe-concerns-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in New York
fell, extending last week’s steepest slump in the benchmark
index since May, as renewed concern over Europe’s economy damped
the outlook for the world’s biggest exporter.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. slid 0.6 percent to 96.16 yesterday,
after sinking 4.2 percent last week. Technology stocks dropped,
with Pactera Technology International Ltd. slipped 3 percent
while  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc.  led declines among
tourism companies.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.  drove solar
stocks higher as Wacker Chemie AG boosted polysilicon output,
citing growing demand from panel makers.  Concern over Europe’s debt crisis is reviving as finance
ministers from the 17-member euro area meet in Brussels to
discuss aid to Cyprus and Greece. China surpassed the U.S. to
become the world’s biggest trading nation last year, official
figures from both countries showed. Europe is China’s biggest
 export market , according to International Monetary Fund data.  “There still remains significant downside risk in global
markets related to the Europe crisis,”  Kevin Pollack , a
managing director at Paragon Capital in New York, which invests
in Chinese stocks, said by e-mail yesterday. “These issues have
been temporarily swept to the side by investors. Markets are
getting ahead of themselves given the serious issues that have
yet to be fully resolved.”  Hong Kong’s stock market is closed for the first three days
of this week for the Chinese New Year holiday, while trading in
Shanghai will resume Feb. 18. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index  slumped 4.6 percent last week, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index  of domestic Chinese shares added 0.6 percent in
a second straight week of gains.  ETF Declines  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., fell 0.2 percent to $39.77 in
New York, after losing 4.7 percent last week. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  was little changed at 1,517.01.  U.S. exports and imports of goods last year totaled $3.82
trillion, the U.S. Commerce Department said last week. China’s
customs administration reported last month that the country’s
trade in goods in 2012 amounted to $3.87 trillion.  Pactera, a provider of technology outsourcing services
based in Dalian, China, sank to $7.48. The company is scheduled
to report fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 27.  Tourism Industry  Home Inns , the largest operator of budget hotels in China,
slid 1.7 percent to $31.27, the steepest slump in a month. The
Shanghai-based company will report earnings on March 11, it said
Feb. 6. Its competitor China Lodging Group Ltd. dipped 1 percent
to $19.21 in its third day of declines, slipping the most this
month. China Lodging plans to release fourth-quarter results on
March 6.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. , which runs casino
facilities in Macau, lost 1.9 percent to $20.48, retreating for
the first time in three days.  Ctrip.com International Ltd.  fell
1.4 percent to a four-day low of $21.18.  Baoding, China-based Yingli, the world’s biggest silicon-
based solar panel maker by capacity, jumped 5.5 percent to
$3.26, the highest close since May 15. Suntech Power Holdings
Co. advanced 4.8 percent to $1.52, rising the most in February.  Wacker Chemie, based in Munich, Germany, said in a
statement yesterday it will increase output of polysilicon, the
material used in solar cells, after sales exceeded forecast in
January and as orders are outpacing production. Polysilicon
prices rose above $16 per kilogram last week for the first time
in three months, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. , a tutoring service provider
based in Beijing, gained 3.7 percent to $1.4 in New York after
dropping as much as 13 percent earlier in the day. The advance
was the first in nine days.  Thirty-day  volatility  on the China-US gauge rose to 19.5
yesterday, the highest level since Dec. 10 and compared with an
average of 18.1 over the past six months. The  Bloomberg Chinese
Reverse Mergers Index , which tracks a basket of companies that
gained U.S. listings after buying firms that already trade,
declined 0.2 percent to a one-week low of 79.32.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  