-- Lane Says Canada Household Debts Pose Significant Risk
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-02-11T22:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/lane-says-canada-household-debts-pose-significant-risk.html
Bank of Canada Deputy Governor
 Timothy Lane  said a long period of rising consumer debt and low
interest rates pose a major risk to the country’s economy.  “Consumers have taken advantage of the stimulative
financial conditions, including low borrowing costs and easy
availability of financing,” Lane, 57, said in the text of a
speech today at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
“In doing so, they have pushed household debt to levels that
pose a significant risk.”  Canada’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent Jan. 23, where it has been since September 2010, and
said the case for an increase was “less imminent” while
cutting its economic growth forecast. Lane’s speech didn’t
mention the outlook for the policy rate, and comes before
Governor  Mark Carney ’s testimony tomorrow on the economy to
Canadian lawmakers in Ottawa.  More houses are being built than what is in line with
“demographic trends,” and some housing markets have
“stretched valuations,” Lane said today.  Canada required stimulative policies to deal with a period
of weak global growth following the world financial crisis,
including the time it’s taking for the U.S. to reduce its debt
levels, Lane said.  “This headwind has, in particular, been holding back
Canada’s exports, which are far from recovering from their
plunge at the start of the recession,” he said.  The risks from a period of “low for long” interest rates
include investors that take excessive risks to generate bigger
returns, as well as household imbalances, Lane said.  Canada’s housing market has “moderated” in recent months,
Lane said, echoing comments Carney made in January. The central
bank has predicted that consumer debt will stabilize around the
current record of 165 percent of disposable income.  There are still risks that “household spending could
regain momentum or that a more sudden weakening could occur,”
Lane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  