-- Margaux Experiments With Tea, Moon Phases in Winemaking
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2013-02-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/margaux-experiments-with-tea-moon-phases-in-winemaking.html
Whenever a first growth Bordeaux
chateau is ready to share some behind-the-scene secrets, there’s
no way I’d miss out.  I joined an eager-tongued group of New York journalists and
sommeliers at  Corkbuzz Wine Studio  a week ago to sample results
from Chateau Margaux’s research program. There were several
surprises.  “Bordeaux has a reputation for stuffy tradition, but we’re
not stick-in-the-mud,” says the grand estate’s managing
director Paul Pontallier. Slim and elegant in a hand-tailored
suit and pink tie, he bounces slightly on the balls of his feet,
typically a sign he’s feeling expansive.  It turns out Margaux has been a hotbed of experiments for
more than a decade, even underwriting a dedicated two-person
research and development team, all in the name of trying to make
the best wine possible.  The chateau’s wine is often thought of as the “beautiful”
first growth, with fragrant aromas of violets and a seductive
silky texture. Recent vintages go for more than $1,000 a bottle,
and at those prices, you’d better do whatever it takes to stay
on top of the competition.  Research Secrets  As a group, Bordeaux’s first growths, including Chateau
Lafite and Mouton, jointly sponsor research on technical issues,
and each chateau also pursues its own studies. Margaux seems
keenest to let outsiders in on what it has learned.  Pontallier describes himself as a scientist who tests new
viticultural and wine making ideas thoroughly before embracing
them. “I believe in doubt,” he says, more than once.  He gives us five blind taste tests to demonstrate the most
fascinating experiments, starting with a comparison of wines
made from grapes cultivated conventionally (with ordinary
chemical sprays), organically, and using biodynamics. (The
latter uber-organic method, increasingly in vogue in Burgundy
and the Loire Valley, includes treating vines with herbal teas
and picking in sync with phases of the moon.)  In 2008, Pontallier separated a two-hectare (4.9-acre) test
parcel of 35-year-old cabernet sauvignon vines into plots, and
the chateau’s team began farming them with the three methods.
The grapes are harvested and vinified separately in exactly the
same way.  Blind Tasting  It seems obvious that organic and biodynamic viticulture do
good things for the environment. But do the wines actually taste
better?  In front of me are three unlabeled wines from 2011 and
three from 2012.  I find the wines in each flight quite different. Two in
each vintage have more intensity, purity of fruit, depth, and
brightness -- these turn out to be the organic and biodynamic
ones. Among the 2012s, I prefer the organic, but the biodynamic
is my clear favorite of the 2011s. The results are more
complicated than I thought they’d be.  Pontallier admits, “The one I prefer is not always
consistent.” He’s been at Chateau Margaux since 1983 and is
pushing the estate towards organic viticulture. The vineyards
have been insecticide and pesticide-free for more than a decade.
In 2012, he planned to be 100 percent organic, but sprayed
chemicals once to combat mildew.  Gallic Shrug  “It was a difficult year,” he says, with a Gallic shrug.
“And I couldn’t risk losing the crop.”  After all, he’s not the owner, and a Bordeaux first growth
is big business: in a top vintage, the retail value of the
chateau’s 130,000 bottles of grand vin Chateau Margaux would be
around $150 million.  So far Pontallier is less convinced about the virtues of
biodynamics. “But if the facts prove the method is better, I’ll
do it even if I don’t understand it,” he says.  Margaux looks pretty cautious compared to fifth growth
Chateau Pontet-Canet, certified biodynamic since the 2010
vintage, and producing brilliant wines. Chateau Latour, another
great first growth, plans to be completely biodynamic in several
years.  Since 2002, Margaux has also been experimenting with
different types of closures. “We knew very quickly that plastic
corks were a disaster,” says Pontallier. So we compare only two
versions of 2002 Pavillion Rouge ($150), the estate’s second
wine, one sealed with a cork, another with an impermeable screw-
cap.  Screw Cap  Again, the wines are quite different. The one under cork is
more open, fragrant, and with its smoother texture, more
pleasant to drink; the one with a screw cap is fresher, younger-
tasting, more structured.  But Chateau Margaux won’t be switching from corks anytime
soon. They need to know how the wines will develop over 50
years.  Sampling the elements of the 2012 vintage -- merlot,
cabernet, petit verdot, press wine -- before the final blending
is another treat. They’ve never been shown outside the chateau
before.  The dark, intense petit verdot, one of Bordeaux’s oldest
varieties and rarely tasted on its own, is a surprise. “I think
of it like pepper in a dish,” says Pontallier. “One or two
percent in the blend makes the other flavors show better.”  Construction starts this spring on a new cellar designed by
architect  Norman Foster . At its center will be a 1,600-square-
meter space for yet more experiments.  For those interested in another kind of Margaux research
project,  Paulson Rare Wine  is hosting a major retrospective of
40 vintages of Chateau Margaux at Hotel Kronenschlosschen in
Eltville, Germany, in April. You’ll need to uncork 2,000 euros.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on television.  To contact the writer of this story:
 Elin McCoy  at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 