-- Harkin Seeks Reason for Missouri Water Release After Snub
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-11T21:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/harkin-seeks-reason-for-missouri-water-release-after-snub.html
An Iowa senator demanded the U.S.
 Army Corps of Engineers  explain why it refused to use Missouri
River water to replenish the drought-stricken Mississippi a day
after it approved releasing water for oil drilling.  “Corps leaders have a responsibility to explain this turn
of events -- and not just to Congress, but to Iowa communities
and others like them up and down the Mississippi River that rely
on the river for moving goods,” Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa
Democrat, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Army on Dec. 5 agreed to let a unit of Select Energy
Services LLC withdraw from North Dakota’s Lake Sakakawea, formed
by a dam on the Missouri. The next day, it told U.S. senators
including Harkin and  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, that
it wasn’t authorized to provide additional water from the
Missouri to aid navigation downstream on the Mississippi River.  Low water levels, caused by the worst drought since the
1930s, have threatened barge traffic for operators including
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co . of Decatur, Illinois;  American
Electric Power  Co. of Columbus, Ohio; and Cargill Inc. of
Minneapolis. Companies ship as much as $2.8 billion in goods
including grain, crude oil and coal along the Mississippi in a
typical January, according to The American Waterways Operators,
an Arlington, Virginia-based industry group.  Last month the Corps completed emergency rock removal on
the river near Thebes, Illinois, which was the most hazardous
point for barges, at the prodding of lawmakers led by Durbin.  ‘Negative Effects’  Releasing water from the Missouri, which joins the
Mississippi at St. Louis, would have “significant negative
effects” including potentially less supply for drinking water
and loss of marine-wildlife habitat,  Jo-Ellen Darcy , the Army’s
assistant secretary for civil works, wrote in a Dec. 6 letter to
lawmakers.  The previous day, the Corps notified its Omaha, Nebraska
district that Darcy had approved an agreement to release surplus
water from Lake Sakakawea, the Army disclosed in a Feb. 7
 statement . International Western Co. of Southlake, Texas, a unit
of Houston-based Select Energy, will remove 1.6 billion gallons
of water, according to the Corps. Company officials haven’t
responded to requests for comment about the use of the water.  Water from the lake will support hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, a process used in drilling for oil and natural gas,
Michelle Klose, assistant state engineer for the North Dakota
State Water Commission, said today in a phone interview. The
water will be used for oil drilling.  “Corps officials told senators that water in the Missouri
River reservoirs needed to be carefully preserved,” Harkin
said. “Yet, the Corps now seems to have taken a very different
view regarding a new use of water out of Lake Sakakawea.”  He said the issue will probably be raised when Congress
considers legislation for the development of water resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  