-- Maryland Ocean Turbines Seen Powering U.S. Offshore Power
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-02-11T15:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/maryland-ocean-turbines-seen-powering-offshore-energy.html
A stripped-down wind-energy proposal
backed by Maryland’s governor and gaining support in its
legislature may be the first step in creating a network of
offshore turbines and sub-sea cables spanning the U.S. Atlantic
coast.  The project would power the equivalent of 61,600 of
Maryland’s 2.1 million households. However, clean-energy
advocates say it could signal the emergence of an industry that
has so far been unable to erect a single tower in U.S. waters,
giving the project impact beyond its megawatts.  “You have to start with initial steps, sometimes small
steps, and that’s what this Maryland bill is,” said  Mike Tidwell , director of the Chesapeake Climate Action Network in
Takoma Park, Maryland.  The project has attracted interest from the U.S. unit of
 Electricite de France SA  and may eventually be linked by an
undersea transmission backbone  Google Inc.  is helping build.  Land-based wind farms in the U.S. have surged thanks to
federal tax credits and renewable-energy mandates in 29 states.
New installations in 2012 added more than 13,100 megawatts of
capacity, including 8,380 megawatts in the fourth quarter,
exceeding for the first time the potential output of natural
gas-powered plants added to the grid last year. Wind produced
about 3 percent of all U.S. power in 2011, up from less than 1
percent in 2007, according to the American Wind Energy
Association.  Offshore Costs  Offshore wind has been a harder sell. Installing turbines
that can withstand harsh maritime environments is more costly
than planting them in the middle of a field, said Chris Long,
manager of offshore wind and siting policy for AWEA, a
Washington-based trade group whose members include  General
Electric Co . and the U.S. unit of Spain’s  Iberdrola SA .  However, offshore winds are stronger, more consistent and,
unlike onshore breezes that pick up at night when power demand
falls, tend to blow the hardest during the day, he said. While
wind speeds are higher off the U.S. Pacific coast, shallower
depths in the Atlantic make it more economical for wind energy
projects, according to the  Interior  Department.  Maryland’s Democratic Governor  Martin O’Malley  introduced a
bill last month that requires utilities to buy power from
offshore wind farms by 2017. Backers said they’re confident it
will pass after two previous efforts were defeated.  “I hate to celebrate before the touchdown, but we’re in
the strongest place we’ve ever been,” said Maryland Delegate
 Tom Hucker , a Democrat who has pushed offshore wind bills for
the past four years. Hucker spoke as the House of Delegates
Economic Matters Committee debated the bill during a Feb. 5
hearing. A state Senate panel will take up the bill on Feb. 13.  Massachusetts Delay  The wind farm O’Malley is now pushing is about one-third to
one-half the size of a project he backed in 2011. That effort
drew opposition from utilities that didn’t want to be locked
into 20-year contracts to purchase the power, a common
arrangement for wind projects.  There are no offshore turbines in the U.S., even though
developers have been planning multiple projects for years and
lawmakers are encouraging the technology.  Cape Wind Associates LLC has been trying to build a 468-
megawatt wind farm off the coast of Massachusetts for more than
a decade. The Energy Department is still considering whether to
guarantee a loan for the project. Opponents of the project,
including members of the family of the late Massachusetts
Senator  Ted Kennedy , are trying to block it in court.  No Approvals  New Jersey passed the  Offshore Wind Development Act  in
August 2010, which calls for at least 1,100 megawatts of
offshore wind power. The state has yet to approve any proposals.  “Everything is still one step away,”  Amy Grace , lead wind
analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in an interview.  Abigail Hopper, an energy adviser to O’Malley, said leases
for the Maryland project may be granted as early as next year,
followed by a two-year environmental assessment.  The proposed project will be about 211 megawatts, create
850 construction jobs over five years, and result in 160
permanent jobs in operations and maintenance. The U.S. has
designated an area 10 to 30 miles off Maryland’s northeast shore
for wind projects in an effort intended to speed federal
environmental reviews.  “This project alone is going to make an impact far beyond
its size,” Hopper said in an interview. It will “show the
industry, ‘OK, this works.’”  A U.S. Energy Department report from February 2011 set a
goal of 10 gigawatts of offshore wind power installed by 2020
and 54 gigawatts by 2030. Sea-based turbines may “contribute
significantly” to meeting President  Barack Obama ’s goal of
meeting 80 percent of U.S. energy needs with clean sources by
2035.  Ideal Waters  Strong wind and relatively shallow waters off the East
Coast make the region ideal for offshore wind farms, Tidwell
said. “Plus, it’s close to where everyone plugs in their
iPhones, from Boston to Richmond,” he said.  Under the Maryland legislation, operators of offshore wind
farms are granted offshore wind-energy credits, or ORECs, for
every megawatt-hour of electricity produced. Utilities that buy
the power must also purchase the credits, a subsidy designed to
make costly marine projects economically viable.  The cost of buying the credits is eventually passed on to
utility customers. Under the bill, residential ratepayers will
pay no more than an additional $1.50 per month and commercial
customers would pay a blended average of 1.5 percent more.  Renewable Standard  Maryland also requires utilities to obtain 20 percent of
their power from non-fossil-fuel sources by 2022, and offshore
wind may supply a maximum of 2.5 percent of the total.  Maryland’s proposed credits differ from standard power-
purchase agreements that tend to be long-term commitments, often
20 years, to buy electricity at a set rate.  The energy-credit model is making power from offshore wind
farms more palatable to utilities, because they don’t like
having lengthy purchase agreements, which are “treated as a
debt on their balance sheets,” Hopper said. Including ORECs
“took away utility opposition” to the Maryland bill.  Fishermen’s Energy LLC has proposed a 25-megawatt offshore
project in New Jersey, about three miles away from  Atlantic
City .  Stefanie Brand , director of the Division of Rate Counsel in
New Jersey, said the state hasn’t approved the Fishermen’s
project for offshore wind-energy credits because it hasn’t been
shown to provide net benefits to the state’s ratepayers. The
consulting firm that provided the report to Brand didn’t give a
per-ratepayer breakdown, like Maryland’s $1.50 cap, she said.  ‘Time Pressures’  Approving the project will have economic benefits for the
state, said  Bob Gordon , a Democratic New Jersey state senator.
Factories will be built and jobs will be created, and the
project may qualify for as much as $47 million in additional
federal funding, he said.  “We don’t want to do this badly in a way that’s going to
be costly to ratepayers or taxpayers, but we should not let the
bureaucrats get in the way either,” Gordon said. “There are
some time pressures here that are important to recognize. The
clock is ticking loudly.”  Manufacturers haven’t committed to building factories and
creating jobs, and assuming companies will create jobs in the
first state with an offshore wind farm is “all hypothetical,”
Brand said.  “I would rather do it right than do it first,” she said.
“No one’s said that whoever is first is going to get the
manufacturing.” After the federal government awards offshore
leases later this year, Brand said she expects developers to
compete to build wind farms in New Jersey waters.  Chinese Growth  Offshore wind has proved popular elsewhere. Installations
in Europe rose 33 percent last year to 1,166 megawatts, as total
capacity climbed to 4,995 megawatts, according to data compiled
by New Energy Finance, the London-based research firm. And China
last year accounted for more than a third of all offshore
installations.  Tidwell, of the Chesapeake Climate Action Network, said
it’s only a matter of time before the East Coast harnesses
offshore wind. “It’s inevitable,” he said. “And while it may
take a few more years to fully develop it, it’s going to be
developed and it’s going to be a major source of clean energy on
the East Coast. It’s an energy resource that is to the scale of
the problem.”  Doug Copeland of EDF Renewables Energy said a project the
size of Maryland’s still would attract interest from developers.  “It’s not a gigawatt,” he said in an interview. “It’s
not going to be a simple feat. We get that. But it’s doable. And
that’s our perspective. This is part of a regional approach. All
these products together add up to an industry. But you have to
start somewhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  