-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Fall After ECB Official Comments on Euro
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-11T22:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/aussie-n-z-dollars-fall-after-ecb-official-comments-on-euro.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell versus the euro after European Central Bank council
member  Jens Weidmann  said the shared currency isn’t seriously
overvalued.  The Aussie, as the Australian dollar is nicknamed, dropped
versus a majority of its most-traded peers after raw materials
fell and the number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments declined for a third month. The Australian business-
confidence index for January will be released today, while a
consumer confidence index will be issued tomorrow.  “The Aussie is under pressure before the confidence
surveys and as investors look for borrowing rates to be cut by
the Reserve Bank of Australia next month,”  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, said by
telephone from Washington, D.C. “The kiwi had a sideways
session, as investors were lightening up on risky assets before
growth numbers from Japan and Europe and in front of the G-20
meeting on Friday.”  The Aussie weakened 0.9 percent to A$1.3072 per euro
yesterday in New York trading. It fell 0.6 percent against the
dollar to $1.0254.  The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, lost 0.4
percent to NZ$1.6054 per euro and was little changed at 83.54
U.S. cents.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell as
much as 0.8 percent before paring the loss to 0.1 percent.  Weidmann Comments  The euro gained against a majority of its 16 most-traded
peers after Weidmann, who heads Germany’s Bundesbank, warned
governments against trying to weaken the 17-nation currency.
Weidmann’s comment followed a report that the Group of Seven
nations are considering releasing a statement on exchange rates
this week to calm concern the world is on the brink of a
currency war, three officials from G-7 countries said.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the G-20 meet
Feb. 15-16 in Moscow.  Australia’s statistics bureau said the number of loans
granted to build or buy houses and apartments declined 1.5
percent in December from the previous month, when they fell a
revised 0.7 percent.  The Aussie fell 2.5 percent during the past three months
among the 10 developed-nation currencies monitored by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi gained 1.7
percent, and the euro climbed 4.8 percent. The greenback dropped
1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  