-- Australia Commits Gas Supply for Rio Unit’s Alumina Refinery
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-11T07:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/australia-commits-gas-supply-for-rio-unit-s-alumina-refinery.html
Australia’s Northern Territory
government committed to supply gas to  Rio Tinto Group ’s Gove
alumina refinery after the world’s second-biggest mining company
said it may shut the plant due to high fuel oil costs.  “The Northern Territory government has now guaranteed a
gas supply for the Gove refinery, and it is now up to Rio Tinto
to make a commitment to keep the operation open,” Chief
Minister Terry Mills said today in an e-mailed statement.  Gove needed a clear and unconditional commitment to supply
gas in order to remain operational,  Sandeep Biswas , the chief
executive officer of Rio unit Pacific Aluminium said last month
before the London-based company completed a review of the
refinery. Rio started a review of the operation in October
because of higher fuel oil costs and low alumina prices.  “Rio Tinto will give full consideration to the Northern
Territory government’s important gas supply proposal,” Biswas
said today in an e-mailed statement. “Due to the rising cost of
heavy fuel oil, coupled with a high exchange rate and low
alumina price, the refinery has sustained heavy losses for some
time,” according to the statement.  The government has agreed to release enough gas to keep the
refinery open for the next 10 years, according to the
government’s statement. The commitment is subject to gas
supplier Eni SpA confirming details of their guarantee to supply
the fuel to the Northern Territory’s Power & Water Corp. until
2026, it said.  Rio Tinto  announced plans in October 2011 to sell 13
aluminum assets, including Gove, to improve the group’s
financial performance and transferred smelters, mines and
alumina plants to the new unit. Gove in 2012 produced 2.7
million metric tons of alumina and 7.9 million tons of bauxite,
according to its website. Both alumina and bauxite are raw
materials in the production of aluminum metal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  