-- Australia’s Sugar Output to Rise 9.8% as Storm Brings Moisture
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-11T16:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/australia-s-sugar-output-to-rise-9-8-as-storm-brings-moisture.html
Sugar output in Australia, the
world’s third-biggest exporter, will rise 9.8 percent this year
as ex-tropical cyclone Oswald brought moisture to growing areas,
according to Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty.  Millers in Australia will make 4.5 million metric tons of
sugar this year, up from 4.1 million tons a year earlier, said
 Tom McNeill , a director at the Brisbane, Australia-based sugar
and biofuels researcher. While there has been damage in some
areas including Bundaberg in Queensland state, the storm brought
moisture to other regions after two months of dryness, he said.  “There has been some serious damage in a few areas, but I
think the overall state of the industry is that it should have
been slightly beneficial because December and January were
extremely dry,” McNeill said by phone from Brisbane today. “It
was unseasonably dry for Australia.”  Rising production in Australia may add to a global surplus
that Lausanne, Switzerland-based researcher Kingsman SA, owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos., forecast at 11.5 million tons in the 12-
months through Sept. 30. Sugar futures, which fell 39 percent in
the past two years, are down another 5.8 percent in 2013. A
third year of declines would mean the longest slump since 1992.  Sugar cane production in Australia will rise to 32 million
tons this year, up from 29.8 million tons a year earlier, Tracey
Allen, an analyst at Rabobank International, said in an
interview in Dubai on Feb. 5. Rainfall brought by the storm will
benefit yields in some areas of the country, she said.  Raw sugar for delivery in March added 1.6 percent to 18.43
cents a pound by 11:56 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 