-- Autonomy Finances Before HP Deal Probed by U.K. Regulator
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-02-11T13:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/autonomy-finance-reports-before-hp-deal-probed-by-u-k-regulator.html
Autonomy Corp.’s financial reporting
in the years leading up to  Hewlett-Packard Co. ’s acquisition is
being investigated by the U.K. accounting regulator.  The Financial Reporting Council is probing the published
accounts of Autonomy for the period between January 2009 and
June 2011, the London-based agency said in a statement today.
Hewlett-Packard, which took an $8.8 billion writedown a year
after acquiring Autonomy, on Nov. 20 accused the company of
miscategorizing sales and financial misreporting.  Hewlett-Packard said Autonomy booked hardware sales to
appear as more profitable software, and used transactions with
resellers of its software to accelerate revenue recognition or
fabricate sales.  Former Autonomy executives, including ex-Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Lynch , have denied improper accounting and said
today that they “look forward” to the FRC investigation.
 Deloitte LLC  said in November that it didn’t find evidence of
misrepresentations or improper accounting when it last audited
Autonomy’s  finances  for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.  “Autonomy received unqualified audit reports throughout
its life as a public company,” a spokeswoman for Autonomy’s
former management said in a statement. “This includes the
period in question during which Autonomy was audited by
Deloitte.”  Fully Cooperate  Deloitte said it wasn’t hired to carry out due diligence on
the Hewlett-Packard acquisition.  “We intend to cooperate fully with the FRC’s investigation
into these matters,” Deloitte said in a statement today. “We
conducted our audit work in full compliance with regulation and
professional standards.”  The FRC will next decide whether to bring disciplinary
proceedings against anyone responsible for accounting errors and
the matter may ultimately be referred to a tribunal. Sanctions
from the regulator can include reprimands, fines and orders to
withdraw accounting firms’ licenses, according to its  website .  Hewlett-Packard has also given its evidence to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.K. Serious Fraud
Office.  A spokeswoman for the company and SFO spokesman  David Jones 
declined to immediately comment on the FRC probe.  Former Hewlett-Packard Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker , who bought Autonomy to diversify away from hardware
and expand in software for businesses, left in 2011 after less
than a year on the job following repeated strategy shifts and
forecast cuts.  Meg Whitman , who took over from him, said the
misrepresentations caused Hewlett-Packard to value Autonomy
incorrectly before the deal, which ultimately cost the Palo
Alto, California-based company $11.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  