-- BBVA Refinanced Loans Reach $39 Billion Amid Spanish Recession
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-11T13:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/bbva-refinanced-loans-reach-39-billion-amid-spanish-recession.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,
Spain’s second-biggest lender, said customers have refinanced or
restructured 29 billion euros ($39 billion) of loans as the
economic slump makes repayments more difficult.  About 80 percent of those loans were in its Spanish parent
company and Unnim, a grouping of former savings banks acquired
last year, the Bilbao, Spain-based lender said in its 2012
 annual report  posted on its website. Of the total, 8.6 billion
euros is already classed as impaired, the bank said.  The practice of refinancing or restructuring loans has
raised questions about how accurately banks are recognizing
asset  losses  as a five-year economic slump drags on. Excluding
real estate lending, Spanish banks refinanced about 140 billion
euros of loans, according to data from Oliver Wyman, a
consulting firm that did a stress test on lenders last year.  “It’s a negative sign,” said  Juan Pablo Lopez , a banks
 analyst  at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in Madrid. “It does
show the stress that the loan books of even the strongest banks
are under.”  Refinancing for individual customers at group level reached
11 billion euros, with 7.94 billion euros for property
developers, the bank said.  BBVA SA, the Spanish parent, had 46,238 restructuring or
refinancing operations worth 5.2 billion euros linked to
mortgages with individuals, the  bank  said. Of that amount, 1.1
billion euros is already classed as impaired, the bank said.  The Bank of Spain last year ordered lenders to start
publishing information on loan refinancing as part of efforts to
increase the transparency of their balance sheets.  Refinancing Option  BBVA lending to customers in Spain was 201 billion euros at
the end of 2012, while gross loans restructured or refinanced in
the country totaled 23 billion euros. The bank ended 2012 with
6.9 percent of its Spanish loan book in default compared with
11.4 percent for Spain’s banking industry as a whole in
November.  BBVA said in the annual report that the bank doesn’t
refinance or restructure loans to delay recognition of losses.
Such operations are “carried out with customers who have
requested such an operation in order to meet their current debt
payments if they are expected, or may be expected to experience
financial difficulty in making the payments in the future,” the
lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  