-- Benedict Resignation Echoes Gregory XII’s Six Centuries Ago
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-02-11T16:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/benedict-xvi-resignation-echoes-gregory-xii-six-centuries-later.html
Pope Benedict XVI  is the first
pontiff to resign since Gregory XII, who stepped down in 1415 to
resolve a dispute over who should lead the Catholic Church.  The resignation of a modern pope is “new territory,” said
Norman Housley, professor of history at the University of
Leicester in central England. “It’s astonishing. It is
groundbreaking,” he said.  Gregory XII was born Angelo Corrario in Venice in about
1327 to a noble family, according to the  Catholic Encyclopedia .
His resignation led to the end of the Western Schism, which
arose after two popes were elected in 1378, with one sitting in
Avignon, France, and the other in Rome.  Gregory was elected the pope of Rome in 1406 with the
understanding that he would quickly resign if the pope of
Avignon, Benedict XIII, would do the same. After a decade of
negotiation and maneuvering, in which a third pope was elected,
Gregory finally stepped down and became a bishop. When Benedict
refused to resign, he was excommunicated, and Martin V was
elected in 1417 as the sole pope.  “At the end of the schism, they cleared the decks by
getting rid of all three popes and having a fresh election of
Martin V,”  Housley  said.  Low Point  The Avignon Papacy came about in 1309 after Clement V, a
Frenchman, was elected pope and refused to move to Rome. Under
Clement and his successors, the papacy had a reputation for
lavish spending, nepotism and corruption.  The schism was a low point for the papacy, which was facing
questions about its relevance from monastic orders, said
 Diarmaid MacCulloch , a professor of the history of the church at
the University of Oxford.  “The whole purpose of the papacy is that it is a symbol of
unity and when it ceases to be that, it is in trouble,”
MacCulloch said in a telephone interview today. “The papacy
could easily have gone. It could easily have turned over to
being run by councils of bishops.”  The great powers of the era were the Holy Roman Empire and
France, which was then waging the Hundred Years War with
England, MacCulloch said. The Battle of Agincourt, in which
England’s Henry V triumphed over France, was fought the same
year as Gregory XII’s resignation.  “The popes were fairly big players in international
politics, mostly because they were drawn into it, or to preserve
the independence of their own mini-state in central Italy,”
said  David d’Avray , a historian at University College London.  Presidential Skills  Popes could be called upon by kings to arbitrate their
disputes and running the church required the skills of a modern
U.S. president, d’Avray said. Popes without those abilities
didn’t succeed, he said.  “It’s running a world government, just that their
government deals with sacraments and churches,” he said.  The papacy also had the scandals and corruption of any
political entity, he said. Many popes were connected to powerful
families that flourished during their papacies.  “They were Italians of their times, which meant family was
very important, and they did their best to help their family
clan,” d’Avray said. “If someone in your family become pope,
your family would do well because of it.”  Because Gregory XII’s resignation was part of a brokered
settlement, a more appropriate comparison to Benedict’s
situation might be Pope Celestine V, who resigned in 1294,
Housely said. Celestine was a hermit when he was elected pope
and he quickly quit to return to solitude after “he found the
office too onerous,” he said.  Since Gregory, there hasn’t been a doctrinal reason for a
pope to step down, and until Benedict, illness hasn’t prevented
a pope from serving out his duties, Housley said.  “They carry on,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Staley  in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  