-- Bill to Limit Too-Big-to-Fail Risk Is Readied in U.S. House
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-02-11T23:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/bill-to-limit-too-big-to-fail-bank-risk-prepared-in-u-s-house.html
U.S. Representative  John Campbell 
said he plans to offer legislation intended to shrink too-big-
to-fail banks by requiring them to hold more capital including
long-term debt.  Lawmakers and regulators from both parties -- including
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  -- argue that the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act failed to curb the growth of large banks and
express support for renewed efforts to limit the kind of
systemic risk that fueled the 2008 financial crisis.  “Being big is not a problem in and of itself, but being
big in a sense that it creates a competitive disadvantage and a
systemic problem is a bad thing,” Campbell, a California
Republican, said in an interview today with Bloomberg
Government. “If you want to stay big that’s fine, you can stay
big. But it’s going to be rather expensive.”  Three of the four largest U.S. banks --  JPMorgan Chase &
Co ., Bank of America Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co. -- are bigger
today than they were in 2007, heightening the risk of economic
damage if one gets into trouble.  Banks typically fund their longer-term assets with short-
term debt, making a profit on the interest-rate difference
between the two. In a bank failure, stockholders typically are
wiped out, and short-term debt can evaporate quickly as
creditors refuse to renew commercial paper and short-term notes.  Balance Sheets  Campbell’s bill would require banks with at least $50
billion in assets to hold an additional layer of capital in the
form of subordinated long-term bonds totaling at least 15
percent of consolidated assets. If an institution were to fail,
the long-term bondholders would be guaranteed at no more than 80
percent of the face value of the debt. As a result, banks would
face pressure to shrink their balance sheets.  The bill calls for banks to be placed into receivership if
credit-default swaps on the new long-term subordinated debt
closes at an average of more than 100 basis points, or 1
percentage point, over 30 days. Such swaps don’t yet exist.  Five-year swaps on subordinated debt on the four largest
U.S. lenders -- JPMorgan, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and
Citigroup Inc. -- have traded above 100 basis points in the past
30 days. Five-year swaps on senior debt of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley, the fifth- and sixth-biggest U.S. banks
by assets, also trade above that threshold.  Extra Capital  The extra layer of capital would be in addition to higher
levels required as part of the  Basel III international
regulatory accords . The goal is to protect taxpayers from
bailouts and equalize competitiveness between large and small
institutions, which face higher  costs of capital , Campbell said.  He also proposed using credit default swaps to help gauge
when regulators should step in and assess a bank’s riskiness.
Under Campbell’s bill, if the price of a bank’s credit-default
swaps increases more than 50 basis points, the Fed would have to
take steps to assess the firm’s soundness.  “We want this layer of debt to effectively be the canary
in the coal mine,” he said.  His legislation also would repeal Dodd-Frank’s heightened
standards for systemic institutions and its ban on proprietary
trading, known as the Volcker rule. Campbell said that with
additional capital requirements, a ban on proprietary trading
would be unnecessary.  The Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
are also weighing similar proposals. The two regulators are
having preliminary discussions on a rule that would require
holding companies for the largest U.S. banks to maintain a
minimum amount of long-term debt.  Tarullo said in a Dec. 4 speech in Washington that a
minimum long-term debt rule “could lend greater confidence that
the combination of equity owners and long-term debt holders
would be sufficient to bear all losses at the firm.”  Campbell said he plans to introduce his bill tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  