-- Bill Gates-Backed Researchers Get Funds From Carlos Slim
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-02-11T17:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/bill-gates-backed-researchers-get-funds-from-carlos-slim.html
Carlos Slim , the world’s richest
person, donated to a group supported by fellow billionaire  Bill Gates  that performs research for agricultural productivity.  Slim contributed research facilities that Mexico’s
International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, known by its
Spanish initials as CIMMYT, will open this week, according to a
a  statement  published today on his website and signed by Slim
and Gates.  “The new infrastructure donated by the Carlos Slim
Foundation will allow CIMMYT to apply its latest agriculture
findings through the use of the most recent digital
innovations,” the billionaires said in the statement. “The
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation will assure that these
practices, and the necessary resources to increase productivity,
reach farmers in Africa and Southeast Asia.”  Slim and Gates didn’t disclose the amount of the donation.
The Gates Foundation is  identified  on CIMMYT’s website as a
supporter of its Drought Tolerant Maize for Africa project.  The two billionaires have teamed up before, announcing
plans in 2010 to form a $150 million fund to promote child
nutrition and fight diseases such as malaria in Mexico and
Central America.  Gates has a fortune of $66 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index, surpassed only by Slim’s $78
billion. Gates has pledged to give away almost all of his
fortune before he dies. Slim has said he’s not interested in
committing to a similar promise.  The Gates Foundation’s asset trust  endowment  is $36.2
billion, according to its website. The Carlos Slim Foundation
has $5 billion in assets,  Arturo Elias , the billionaire’s
spokesman, said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  