-- Black Market Dollars Put Egyptian Economy on Alert: Currencies
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-11T10:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/black-market-dollars-put-egyptian-economy-on-alert-currencies.html
When two Egyptian banks refused to
give Ahmed El-Rifai the dollars his digital media company needed
to pay Facebook Inc. last month, he turned to a more reliable
source: the black market at a premium of about 8 percent.  “I even had to wait two days to be able to cash a dollar
check at the bank,” El-Rifai, 33, managing director of Cairo-
based Egyweb, which sells online ads for Facebook, said by phone
Feb. 5.  The emergence of an unregulated market shows wavering faith
in Egypt’s pound as the biggest slide in currency  reserves  in at
least 15 years prompts the central bank to curb access to
dollars. The pound has weakened 5.3 percent in 2013, making it
the world’s third-worst performer after the Malawian kwacha and
the yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Non-
deliverable forwards  show traders expect it to weaken 9 percent
in three months from 6.7182 a dollar today.  Two years after the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  in an
uprising, an escalation in violence between opponents of
Islamist President  Mohamed Mursi  and police has dashed hopes of
an economic recovery. More than 50 people were killed in clashes
in the past two weeks. The upheaval has delayed talks with the
International Monetary Fund for a $4.8 billion loan that
analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch say is crucial to
stabilize the currency.  Rate Pressure  Net international reserves have tumbled to $13.6 billion,
the lowest level since at least 1997, from $36 billion in 2010,
according to  central bank data  on Bloomberg, prompting the
regulator to take steps to limit the supply of dollars and
exchange rate movements.  “I know that the central bank is taking steps to reduce
the black and gray markets for foreign exchange,” U.S.
Ambassador  Anne Patterson  said in a speech at the Rotary Club of
Alexandria Mariout yesterday. Still, the “longer Egypt
restricts access to foreign exchange, the more it will undercut
investment interest in the country. It is a simple fact of
life.” The U.S. is the biggest IMF shareholder.  The currency crisis pushed monthly inflation to the highest
in more than two years in January, according to government data
released yesterday. As a result, Central Bank Governor  Hisham Ramez , who assumed the post Feb. 3 amid the worst slump in the
pound since 2003, may raise  interest rates  this year by as much
as 2 percentage points to 11.25 percent, the highest since 2009,
even as growth slows, according to  Mohamed Abu Basha , an
economist at EFG-Hermes Holding SA in Cairo.  ‘Thin Ice’  Ramez and other central bank officials didn’t respond to
three e-mails seeking comment about the unregulated currency
market. The governor also didn’t answer a call to his mobile
phone yesterday.  Some banks, including state-owned National Bank of Egypt,
the country’s biggest, have already raised their rates by that
amount to entice clients to keep savings in pounds. Illegal
dealers are charging customers a premium of between 3 percent to
5 percent for dollars, EFG-Hermes said last week.  Egypt is “walking on thin ice,”  Jean-Michel Saliba , a
London-based economist at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a Feb.
6 report to clients. “Domestic dollar demand is likely to
strengthen and the gap between and official and parallel rates
is likely to widen.”  Standard & Poor’s cut Egypt’s credit rating in December by
one level to B-, putting it six steps below investment grade and
on par with Greece. The rating company assigned a “negative”
outlook, indicating a further downgrade is likely.  Managed Float  In the bond market, the average yield on five-year local-
currency bonds jumped 61 basis points at the last sale on Feb. 4
to 14.79 percent, the highest since October, central bank data
on Bloomberg show. Rising interest rates prompted the Finance
Ministry to cut the target for bond sales this quarter by 44
percent, choosing to focus on short-term Treasury bills,
according to data released Feb. 7.  Egypt, the Arab world’s most populous nation, abandoned a
dollar peg for a managed float in 2003 amid a currency crisis
that prompted police to shut down several exchange houses on
allegations of hoarding dollars. The central bank introduced an
interbank market for the U.S. currency in 2004 in an effort to
restore stability.  Pound Restricted  A 60 percent drop in reserves since the 2011 revolt
prompted the regulator to start dollar auctions on Dec. 30,
capping the amount each lender can buy to control supply. Less
than 33 percent of bids have been accepted by the central bank,
signaling overwhelming demand for dollars even as the pound
depreciated, according to the Bank of America report.  Ramez later restricted the pound’s move on the interbank
market to 1 piaster against the dollar from the weighted average
price at the most-recent dollar auction, instead of the previous
0.5 percent band. He also capped the price at which banks can
sell dollars to as low as 1 piaster above the official rate,
from 3 piasters. There are 100 piasters to the pound.  The implied yield on one-month NDF, which reflects the
costs of borrowing pound in the overseas market, jumped to a
record 71 percent last month, surpassing the levels seen during
the so-called Arab Spring, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge was at about 18 percent in February 2011
when Mubarak was ousted, and 61 percent in December. Barclays
Capital sees the currency falling 5.6 percent to 7.11 per dollar
by June.  Buying Time  Ramez’s policies may restore “some confidence to the
market by conserving dollars,”  Khaled Abdel Hamid , head of
treasury at Cairo-based United National Bank Egypt, said in a
telephone interview Feb. 7. “The measures are buying the
central bank time until political stability is restored and the
economy starts to recover.”  Prime Minister  Hisham Qandil  said last week the government
will invite the IMF to review an economic program linked to the
$4.8 billion loan. The IMF “remains committed to support Egypt
and its people,” Wafa Amr, a spokeswoman for the fund, said in
an e-mailed response to questions Feb. 5.  Patterson, the U.S. ambassador, criticized Egyptian
politicians for their management of the economy.  “The most catastrophic path is for the government and the
political leadership of the country - whether in power or in
opposition - to avoid decisions, to show no leadership, to
ignore the economic situation of the country,” she said,
according to an e-mail transcript of her speech. “The talks
with the IMF need to be brought to closure.”  Political Tension  The opposition wants Mursi to accept responsibility for the
latest violence, set up a national unity government and a
committee to amend an Islamist-backed constitution they say was
forced through a referendum. The president has repeated a call
for a national dialogue, while dismissing the unity government
option ahead of parliamentary elections that could be held in a
couple of months.  The escalating political tension will curb the $256 billion
economy, according to Fitch Ratings, which downgraded the credit
rating of the Northern African nation one level to B on Jan. 30.
Growth will average 3.3 percent in fiscal 2013 and 2014, “well
below” the pace necessary to accommodate the 700,000 people
joining the labor market every year, Fitch said. Growth averaged
5.3 percent between 2005 and 2011.  Cairo Tailor  Central bank policy has brought the exchange rate premium
on the black market from 7.2 a dollar in mid-January to 6.87 on
Feb. 7, according to a dealer who asked not to be identified
because the practice is outlawed. That hasn’t slowed the flow of
customers to his Cairo tailor shop, helping maintain a volume of
about $100,000 a day, he said.  Others, like Motaz Mohamed, who works for a limousine
service in Cairo, are trading currencies to boost their income
amid Egypt’s worst slowdown in a decade. Mohamed, whose salary
hasn’t exceeded $300 after a 16-year career, said in a Feb. 7
interview that he buys dollars from tourists who need pounds and
sells them to dealers including the Cairo tailor.  “The market’s sole stabilizer remains the IMF, though the
potential deal is slowly losing its significance as the gap
between demand and supply for dollars continues to rise,
especially given the intensification of the political
deadlock,” Abu Basha at EFG-Hermes wrote.  The crisis has made Egyweb owner El-Rifai “abandon
optimism, and just focus on reality,” he said.  “People are optimistic about Hisham Ramez, but it’s now
more than just managing reserves or the exchange rate, the
country is in a real crisis,” he said. “One man can’t perform
miracles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  