-- Boomerang Patients to Penalize Hospitals Under U.S. Law
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-02-11T21:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/boomerang-patients-to-penalize-hospitals-under-u-s-law.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. , the third-
largest U.S. hospital chain, keeps an eye on Medicare patients
after they’re released. This isn’t just about professional
integrity. Tenet has a financial stake in their well-being.  Fines are being levied against hospitals with high rates of
patient  readmissions  under a provision of the  Affordable Care
Act  targeting $8 billion in Medicare cost savings within six
years. That has hospitals across the country going the extra
mile to prevent the return of these boomerang patients. Tenet
gets in touch with former patients after they’ve been released,
urging them to keep doctor appointments. It also provides free
medicine to some patients who can’t afford prescriptions and
contacts pharmacies to make sure pills are ready for pick-up.  Still, many hospital administrators warn there is only so
much their organizations can do once patients leave. That’s
especially true at hospitals that treat the sick and indigent in
poor areas.  “You could and should expect hospitals to do more than we
have, but we can’t fix a broken infrastructure in a community,”
said Nancy Foster, vice president of quality and patient safety
policy at the American Hospital Association, the industry’s main
lobby group, in a telephone interview.  Almost 1 in 5 Medicare patients hospitalized in the U.S.
are readmitted within a month of their release, adding to
hospital costs that grew to $17.5 billion in 2010, according to
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, known as CMS.  Potential Penalties  Under the health-care law, hospitals with a high number of
readmissions within 30 days can lose as much as 1 percent of
their Medicare payout for fiscal 2013 and 3 percent in 2015. The
program, which started with discharges beginning Oct. 1, focuses
on Medicare patients suffering from heart failure, heart attack
and pneumonia.  The penalties may cost the industry $280 million this year,
according to an  August report  by Medicare, the U.S. health plan
for the elderly and disabled. Average fines for a hospital with
a penalty is about $125,000, according to September report from
the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, which advises
Congress. About 67 percent of hospitals will be penalized.  For the for-profit hospital chains that often serve more
affluent neighborhoods, the penalties will have varying effect.
Only about 2 percent of the 162 hospitals owned by Nashville,
Tennessee-based  HCA Holdings Inc. , the largest for-profit U.S.
chain, could face fines this year, according to  CMS data .
Dallas-based Tenet may face fines at about 4 percent of its 49
hospitals.  Changing Mindset  Kelvin Baggett , Tenet’s chief medical officer, said his
company is up to the challenge.  “This is a philosophical shift,” he said. “There has to
be a recognition that some patients will return to our doors
where we could have done something differently.”  Chains that serve rural and other more modest areas may
face stiffer penalties. One of those chains is  LifePoint
Hospitals Inc. , with about 24 percent of its more than 50
hospitals facing penalties, according to the CMS data.  The Brentwood, Tennessee-based company, with hospitals in
about 60 mostly rural communities, is working to reduce
readmissions by 20 percent, said Mary Margaret Huizinga, vice
president of quality, said in a telephone interview.  LifePoint is teaming with nursing facilities, churches and
community groups to help ensure patients receive the care they
need when they go home. In some cases, that may mean having a
church group go to a patient’s house to check on them during the
day. In some communities where such services don’t exist,
 LifePoint  has opened their own home health agencies or started
programs to provide the care, Huizinga said.  Teaching Hospitals  Tenet fell less than 1 percent to $39.56 at the close in
New York. The shares have gained 73 percent in the past 12
months. LifePoint fell less than 1 percent to $43.79 and has
risen 6.4 percent in the past 12 months. HCA dropped 1.5 percent
to $36.66 and has  increased  32 percent in the past 12 months.  Teaching hospitals and nonprofits serving the poor, who are
more likely to have serious ailments, may fare the worst under
the provision.  “This is a significant penalty. Hospitals with thin
margins may have to lay off staff, or curtail other health-care
activities,” Foster, of the hospital association, said.  Hospitals that deal with poorer patients have higher
readmissions because the population may lack access to
transportation to see doctors or have a hard time finding a
primary care doctor. They may have more trouble paying for their
medications, leading to readmissions, or be less likely to
follow special diets required of those with heart problems.  Broken Hips  Teaching hospitals that handle especially challenging cases
may also get hit under the law’s readmission provision, said
Catherine Keating, chief of regional hospitals medical affairs
at the  Cleveland Clinic  in Ohio.  “We don’t want to penalize hospitals for taking the
riskiest or sickest patients. And we don’t want hospitals to
feel they have to shuttle patients off to another center,”
Keating said.  In a research letter last month in the Journal of the
American Medical Association, Karen Joynt, a cardiologist at
Boston-based  Brigham and Women’s Hospital , wrote that 7 in 10
hospitals face Medicare payment cuts under the law, with
“safety-net” and teaching facilities hardest hit. The study
reviewed records for 3,282 U.S. hospitals and medical centers.  The fines would be imposed even though readmissions often
occur for reasons beyond a hospital’s control, she said in a
telephone interview.  “If I have a pneumonia patient and they break their hip,
I’m sorry, but should the hospital be penalized?” Joynt asked.  Arbitrary Timeline  Many doctors, while all for reducing readmissions whenever
possible, tend to oppose the penalties on medical and ethical
grounds.  Ashish Jha , a doctor at Boston’s Harvard School of
Public Health, said he recently let a pneumonia patient leave to
spend a weekend with his son, who was home from serving in the
U.S. Army in Afghanistan. Doctors should be able to make such
decisions even when they know a patient may need to be
readmitted without worrying about readmission scores, he said.  “When policy makers intervene, they have to think about
all the implications,” Jha said by telephone. “There is
something so arbitrary about 30 days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  