-- BP Takes U.S. LNG Export Capacity at Freeport Terminal in Texas
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-02-11T17:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/bp-takes-u-s-lng-export-capacity-at-freeport-terminal-in-texas.html
BP Plc , Europe’s second-biggest
energy company, signed a deal to export U.S. gas from the
Freeport terminal in Texas, joining Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon
Mobil Corp. and Total SA in the race to ship burgeoning North
American production overseas.  BP’s 20-year contract is for 4.4 million tons a year, the
same size as earlier agreements with  Osaka Gas Co . and  Chubu
Electric Power Co . of Japan to start supplies from 2017 from the
plant’s first unit, Freeport said in a statement. The
liquefaction tolling agreement with BP will commence upon
completion of Freeport LNG’s second production unit, or train.  The glut of natural gas that has caused the lowest U.S.
prices in a decade is prompting companies to seek permission to
ship fuel overseas. Freeport, Texas is one of more than 20
proposed LNG export terminals in the U.S. seeking permits
allowing processing of about 31 billion cubic feet a day,
according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  “With the first two liquefaction trains of the project
fully contracted, we intend to approach the financing markets
imminently so that we can begin construction on the initial two-
train facility as soon as we receive Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission approval,” said  Michael S. Smith , chief executive
officer of Freeport LNG.  Royal Dutch Shell , Europe’s largest oil company, and Kinder
Morgan Inc. last month said they intend to form a company to
export LNG from a site near Savannah, Georgia. That site already
has permission from the Energy Department to ship gas to
countries that have free-trade agreements with the U.S.  Total has a deal at Cheniere Energy Inc.’s Sabine Pass
terminal. Exxon is backing the Golden Pass terminal in Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  