-- Brazil Ethanol Above Sugar Shows Mills May Favor Biofuel
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-12T14:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/brazil-ethanol-topping-sugar-signals-millers-may-favor-biofuel.html
Brazilian ethanol prices trading
above raw sugar futures for the first time in almost two years
are spurring speculation that millers will favor making the
biofuel over the sweetener in the season starting in April.  Hydrous ethanol, used in flex fuel cars in Latin America’s
largest economy, is trading at about 19 cents a pound, according
to Lausanne, Switzerland-based Kingsman SA, which has provided
sugar and biofuels research for more than 20 years. The price is
4.8 percent higher than raw sugar futures trading at 18.13 cents
a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York today. Ethanol surpassed
sugar for the first time since April 2011 on Feb. 7, said
Beatriz Pupo, a Kingsman analyst.  “If ethanol prices continue rising, millers may well
prefer to produce ethanol and sell it in the domestic market,
which will provide them with cash quicker,” Pupo said by phone
from Montreal yesterday.  The global sugar surplus that sent prices down the past two
years may be eliminated within 18 months depending on the amount
of cane that is used in Brazil for ethanol,  Jonathan Drake ,
chief operating officer at RCMA Commodities Asia Ltd. and former
head of sugar trading at Cargill Inc., said in an interview in
Dubai on Feb. 4. Sugar futures fell 1.8 percent today after
rallying 1.4 percent yesterday.  Currency Gains  Millers in Brazil, the world’s biggest producer of sugar,
convert cane into ethanol to sell mostly on the domestic market
for reais or into the sweetener, which is largely sold overseas
for dollars. The strengthening local currency, which has gained
4 percent against the greenback this year, the most among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, also diminishes
the allure of exporting sugar. Brazil’s currency had fallen 22
percent between June 2011 and the end of last year.  “The strengthening real is also making sugar exports less
attractive in relation to ethanol as sugar is sold in dollars,”
Pupo said. That would be another incentive for millers to make
more ethanol, she said.  Brazil Finance Minister Guido Mantega signaled a new
ceiling for the real last week, saying in an interview with
Reuters that the government will curb gains in the currency
should it strengthen to 1.85 per dollar. Exchange-rate policy
hasn’t changed and Brazil won’t allow speculative appreciation
of the currency, the Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement to Bloomberg on Feb. 8.  Carnival Holiday  The real strengthened beyond 2 per dollar for the first
time since July last month as Brazil exempted foreigners from a
tax on real-estate funds traded on the stock exchange,
encouraging speculation that inflows would sustain the currency.
Trading in the real, which closed last week at 1.9727 per
dollar, resumes tomorrow after the two-day Carnival holiday.  Should sugar prices remain below ethanol, millers in
Brazil’s center south, the country’s main growing region, may
direct 44 percent to 45 percent of their cane crop in the 2013-
14 season to making sugar, London-based futures and options
broker Marex Spectron Group said in a report e-mailed yesterday.
That’s down from 49.6 percent in the current season,  data  from
Sao Paulo-based industry group Unica showed.  “If prices remain below the parity during the peak of the
center south Brazil harvest period (say June to September), then
the mix could fall to about 44 percent to 45 percent and thus
‘lose’ some 4 million tons of sugar production,”  Paul Bannister , the head of sugar brokerage at Marex Spectron, wrote
in the report.  Ethanol Tax  Sugar may need to climb to 19.75 cents a pound to make it
attractive enough for millers to favor the sweetener over
ethanol should the government eliminate taxes on the biofuel,
Marex Spectron estimates. Brazil is planning to reduce taxes on
ethanol to stimulate domestic production and consumption of the
biofuel, Trade and Development Minister  Fernando Pimentel  said
in an interview with Valor Economico newspaper last week.  “If there was to be a change in the taxes then,
definitely, there is a substantial change in the outlook for
sugar,”  Tom McNeill , a director at Brisbane, Australia-based
researcher Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty., said by phone.  Sugar is down 7 percent this year after falling 39 percent
in 2011 and 2012 as supplies are set to outpace demand by 11.5
million tons in the 12 months starting Oct. 1, Kingsman
estimates. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
has climbed 5.1 percent this year and the S&P index of 500
stocks is up 6.4 percent.  Less Sugar  Denatured fuel ethanol futures in Chicago, where corn is
the chief feedstock, climbed 7.7 percent this year. Crude oil
gained 6.1 percent in New York.  Brazil’s center south sugar production may total 4 million
tons to 7 million tons less than currently forecast should
millers switch more production to ethanol, according to Green
Pool. Sugar output in the region will be 36 million tons,
according to a Feb. 4 estimate from Copersucar SA.  A 20 percent increase in Brazil’s ethanol consumption would
eliminate the sugar surplus, Ben Pearcy, chief development
officer and managing director of sugar and bioenergy at White
Plains, New York-based  Bunge Ltd ., said in an interview in
London on Nov. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  