-- Brazilian Raw Sugar Seen Trading at a Premium on Rising Demand
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-11T11:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/brazilian-raw-sugar-seen-trading-at-a-premium-on-rising-demand.html
Buyers of raw sugar from Brazil, the
world’s largest producer of the commodity, are paying a bigger
premium for their sweetener on demand from the Middle East and
Far East regions, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Raw sugar for loading next month at the port of Santos,
Brazil’s biggest, last traded at a premium of 0.15 cent a pound
to the price of the March contract on the ICE Futures U.S.
exchange in New York, the Rolle, Switzerland-based company said
in a report e-mailed yesterday. That compares with a premium of
0.1 cent a pound on Jan. 30, data from the broker showed.  Higher premiums are pointing to “tightness in Brazil
supply during their intercrop, and unquestionably coming from
regular demand from the Middle East refineries,” said  Naim Beydoun , a broker at Swiss Sugar Brokers. Demand is also gaining
because of lower futures prices and sales to Far East, he said.  Sugar futures, which fell 39 percent in the past two years,
are down 6.5 percent this year as supplies are set to outpace
demand by 6.2 million metric tons in the 2012-13 season started
in October in most countries, the  International Sugar
Organization  in London estimates.  In Brazil’s center south, the country’s main growing
region, harvesting of the 2012-13 crop ended, with sugar
production at 34.1 million tons, data from industry group Unica
showed. The new crop will start being gathered in April.  Brazilian raw sugar for loading in April was at a premium
of about 0.2 cent a pound to the exchange price, up from 0.08
cent on Jan. 30, data from the broker showed. For loading this
month, the sweetener was at a discount of 0.05 cent a pound,
unchanged from Jan. 30, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Asian Demand  “A combination of strong Asian demand (mostly Indonesia)
and port congestion from soy helped Brazilian raws strengthen
further,”  Tom McNeill , a director at Brisbane, Australia-based
researcher Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty. said in a
separate report e-mailed today.  A record soybean crop in Brazil is creating a backlog of
ships at the country’s main ports as the harvest begins and corn
is still being shipped. As many as 106 ships were waiting at
Brazil’s main ports to load soybeans, animal feed or cooking oil
on Feb. 8, according to broker and consultancy SA Commodities in
Santos, Brazil. A year earlier, 66 were waiting.  In Thailand, premiums also rose, with the sweetener for
loading from March to May 15 being quoted at a premium of 0.8
cent to 1 cent a pound over the futures price, Swiss Sugar
Brokers data showed. That compares with a premium of 0.65 cent
to 0.85 cent a pound on Jan. 30.  Raw sugar for delivery in March rose 0.6 percent to 18.24
cents a pound by 6:25 a.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 