-- WTI OIl Rises as Euro Gains on ECB Comment
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-02-11T21:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/brent-drops-from-9-month-high-to-narrow-premium-over-wti.html
West Texas Intermediate oil advanced
for the first time in four days as the euro strengthened against
the dollar. The U.S. crude’s discount to Brent narrowed the most
this year.  WTI rose 1.4 percent after  Jens Weidmann , a European
Central Bank council member, said the euro isn’t seriously
overvalued and warned governments against trying to weaken it.
Brent, the European benchmark, pared a decline of as much as 1.1
percent. Brent dropped after prices failed to break above
technical resistance at $120 a barrel last week. The Brent-WTI
gap narrowed from the widest level in two months.  “That talk by Weidmann reversed the momentum in oil
trading,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price
Futures Group in Chicago. “The $120 level is a major focus for
Brent. The Brent-WTI spread got too far ahead itself last
week.”  WTI crude for March delivery increased $1.31 to $97.03 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Feb. 1. Futures have increased 5.7 percent this
year. Earlier today, it dipped below $95 for the first time
since Jan. 23. The volume of all contracts traded was 59 percent
above the 100-day average as of 3:20 p.m. New York time.  Brent for March settlement slid 77 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $118.13 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
number of futures exchanged was 13 percent above the 100-day
average.  The European benchmark’s premium to WTI weakened for the
first time in nine days, narrowing $2.08 to $21.10. That’s the
most the gap between the two front-month contracts has shrunk
since Dec. 17. The spread settled at $23.18 on Feb. 8, the
widest level since Nov. 26.  Spread ‘Unraveling’  “You are seeing the unraveling of the spread,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. “It’s really blown out over the past few weeks.
People are buying back WTI.”  The euro advanced as much as 0.5 percent against the dollar
after falling 0.3 percent earlier. A stronger euro and weaker
dollar boost oil’s appeal as an investment alternative. The
single currency touched $1.3711 on Feb. 1, the strongest level
since November 2011.  “Latest indicators don’t signal a serious overvaluation of
the euro despite its recent appreciation,” Weidmann, who heads
Germany’s Bundesbank, said in a speech in Freiburg, Germany,
today. “An exchange-rate policy to specifically weaken the euro
would lead to higher inflation in the end.”  French President  Francois Hollande  last week urged
government leaders to steer the value of the euro lower to boost
growth. His call was rebuffed by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who on Feb. 7 suggested the ECB could lower interest
rates if the stronger euro were to damp inflation too much.  Brent Drops  Brent fell after advancing to $119.17 in intraday trading
Feb. 8, the most since May. Futures have risen for four straight
weeks, the longest weekly streak since July.  “Brent hit a wall at $120,” said  Bill Baruch , a senior
market strategist at Iitrader.com in Chicago. “That’s a key
psychological resistance level and a major one that everybody is
watching.”  The Brent-WTI spread had widened since Enterprise Product
Partners LP said Jan. 31 that capacity will be limited until
late 2013 on its Seaway pipeline to the Gulf Coast from Cushing,
Oklahoma, the delivery point for the New York contract.  “The Brent market just got a little bit too ahead of
itself as the Brent-WTI spread did also,” said  Tariq Zahir , a
New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital Advisors.  Goldman Forecast  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s New York-based
head of commodities research, forecast last week that the spread
will shrink by about two-thirds by the second quarter to $7.50
as new pipeline capacity relieves a build-up of crude at
Cushing.  Brent will drop to $110 a barrel over the next three to six
months and WTI will be $102.50 in three months, the bank said.  Rising global demand, coupled with disruptions in Canadian
oil supply growth, a reduction in  Saudi Arabian  production and
constraints on Iranian exports, are limiting world supplies,
according to Goldman Sachs.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 741,173
contracts as of 3:20 p.m. It totaled 692,999 contracts on Feb.
8, 33 percent above the three-month average. Open interest was
1.62 million, the highest level since Sept. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  