-- British Columbia’s Dix Says He’ll Reclaim Pipeline Powers
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-02-11T15:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/british-columbia-s-dix-says-he-ll-reclaim-pipeline-powers.html
Adrian Dix , British Columbia’s main
opposition leader who opposes Enbridge Inc.’s proposed Northern
Gateway pipeline, says he will take back the power to block such
projects if his New Democratic Party forms the next government
in the Canadian province.  Dix, who leads in public opinion polls ahead of the May 14
election, said he’d scrap the  Environmental Assessment
Equivalency Agreement  with Canada’s National Energy Board. That
would restore provincial environmental oversight of proposed
projects such as  Enbridge Inc. ’s planned C$6 billion ($6
billion) Northern Gateway pipeline, which would carry crude from
Alberta’s oil sands, the world’s third-largest deposits, to
overseas markets.  The equivalency agreement means “a federal decision is the
province’s decision,” Dix said in a Feb. 7 interview in
Vancouver. “There’s a 30-day withdrawal clause in the agreement
and we would invoke that in the first week in government.”  Dix, 48, is positioning himself and the NDP as defenders of
B.C.’s rights on proposed energy transportation projects,
foreshadowing battles with Calgary-based Enbridge and advocates
such as Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and neighboring oil-rich
Alberta.  Harper’s government is encouraging new pipeline
construction to reach coastal refineries and overseas markets to
relieve a supply glut that has constrained prices. Environmental
and political opposition has delayed TransCanada Corp.’s
Keystone XL pipeline from Alberta to the U.S. Gulf Coast, and
there are no immediately available routes to ship oil north or
east.  Bitumen Discount  The lack of pipeline capacity and processing costs have cut
the  price  of Western Canada Select, a blend of oil-sands bitumen
produced in Alberta, to about $25 a barrel below U.S. benchmark
West Texas Intermediate oil. That discount may lead Alberta to
collect C$6 billion less in revenue this year, Premier Alison
Redford said last month, and is cutting into the country’s
income and economic growth, according to the Bank of Canada.  Dix’s NDP has 46 percent voter support, ahead of the 31
percent for the ruling Liberals, according to an Angus Reid
Public Opinion online  poll  of 802 people published on Jan. 21.
In terms of who would make the best premier, Dix rated 29
percent, ahead of current Premier  Christy Clark ’s 19 percent,
according to the poll.  Signed by B.C. and the federal regulator NEB in 2010, the
equivalency agreement was designed to avoid costly overlap in
provincial and federal environmental reviews.  Provincial Jurisdiction  After withdrawing from the agreement, Dix said B.C. will
conduct its own environmental review of the project. “I’m
respectful of provincial jurisdiction and I expect other
provinces to be respectful of B.C.’s jurisdiction,” he said.  The Northern Gateway project has sparked concern about
potential environmental damage along the pipeline’s route and
governments’ ability to respond to oil spills that would
threaten coastal ecosystems. Project supporters say those
concerns are overblown.  “British Columbia already has approximately 2,700
kilometers of provincially-regulated oil and natural gas liquid
pipe,” John Winter, chief executive officer of the B.C. Chamber
of Commerce, said in a  letter  in August to the joint  panel 
that’s reviewing Northern Gateway. “These pipelines have been
operating since the 1950’s with an excellent safety record and
very little concern raised by the public.”  ‘Fair Share’  Clark said in July her government had five conditions for
supporting the project, including receiving a “fair share” of
economic benefits, according to a statement from her office.  A decision by the panel on Northern Gateway is expected by
the end of this year, said Todd Nogier, an Enbridge spokesman.  “We continue to engage all political parties on the
progress of the project in order to address any questions or
concerns, including the British Columbia NDP,” Nogier said in
an interview from Calgary Feb. 8.  Dix said his party’s position is clear: “Northern Gateway
is not in the economic or environmental interests of British
Columbia.”  Northern Gateway isn’t the only oil pipeline on Dix’s
radar. He said he has “concerns” about a proposal by  Kinder
Morgan  Energy Partners LP, the biggest U.S. pipeline operator,
to expand its Trans Mountain pipeline that originates in Alberta
and terminates at Vancouver.  Spill Risks  Environmentalists and Canadian aboriginal groups have said
they oppose Houston-based Kinder Morgan’s plans to expand the
line because it will increase oil-tanker traffic in the harbor
and may lead to spills.  About 34 percent of British Columbians in an October Angus
Reid poll of 800 respondents said they completely opposed
Northern Gateway and another 23 percent said they are opposed
but could change their minds, according to a statement on the
polling company’s website.  Enbridge  rose  14 percent to C$44.65 in the past 12 months
through Feb. 8 on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Kinder Morgan
 gained  1.6 percent to $88.38 in New York trading over the same
time span.  Dix’s position on the pipelines contrasts with efforts by
his party to portray him and the NDP as being friendly to
business.  Film Industry  Dix in recent months has addressed the  Vancouver Board of
Trade , met with movie moguls in Los Angeles to help to revive
the province’s film industry and rung the opening bell at the
Toronto Stock Exchange, Canada’s largest bourse. The NDP
historically has had close ties to organized labor.  “We’re going to be a serious government with serious plans
to support economic growth” that won’t overwhelm itself with
new legislation as the NDP did when it last held power in the
1990s, Dix said. “We have a thoughtful, but modest, agenda and
we’re going to be prudent.”  That agenda includes addressing a looming shortage of
skilled workers, lifting labor productivity, and reinstating a 3
percent capital tax on banks with headquarters outside the
province -- which was eliminated by the Liberals in 2008 -- to
help tame the province’s expanding debt.  Moody’s Investors Service signaled a possible downgrade of
the province’s top-tier Aaa credit rating in December, when it
cut B.C.’s outlook to “negative” from “stable.” The ratings
company cited weak commodity prices and an increasing debt
burden for the change.  Deficit Forecast  Liberal Finance Minister  Mike de Jong  forecasts a budget
deficit of C$1.47 billion in the fiscal year that ends March 31,
followed by a surplus of about C$200 million in the next year.
He is scheduled to release the B.C.’s next fiscal plan Feb. 19.
The province of  4.6 million  people has about C$38.5 billion of
taxpayer-supported debt, according to the government’s latest
economic  update .  Implementation of the NDP’s pledge to reinstate the tax on
banks will “cast a shroud” over B.C.’s finance sector,
discouraging investment, de Jong said in a Jan. 29 interview in
Vancouver. The recent underperformance of B.C. bonds relative to
other provinces may be related to investor concern about
potential “regime change,” he said.  The province’s 6.3 percent unemployment rate is below the 7
percent national average and 7.7 percent rate in Ontario, but
above the 4.5 percent seen in Alberta. The finance department
projected 2 percent growth in real gross domestic product last
year, slightly above the 1.9 percent growth forecast for all of
Canada by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  