-- Bus Companies Sue N.Y.C. Over Job-Protection Requirement
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-11T22:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/bus-companies-sue-n-y-c-over-job-protectio-rrequirement.html
Three school bus companies sued the
 New York City Department of Education , alleging that they have
been unfairly required to maintain costly employment
protections, putting them at a disadvantage to new bidders.  Staten Island Bus Inc., Lonero Transit Inc. and Pioneer
Transportation Corp. filed lawsuit Feb. 8 in Manhattan state
court over the provisions, which are also at issue in a strike
by city school bus drivers. The three companies say they
collectively provide about 70 percent of the transportation for
the city’s school children.  The companies seek to have the provisions in their
contracts, which last through the 2014-2015 school year,
declared unlawful and the department barred from awarding new
contracts without the requirements until they are stricken from
existing agreements, according to court filings.  “We’re caught in a bind,”  Steven J. Shore , a lawyer for
the companies, said in a phone interview. “If the clause is
illegal, it should be deleted from our existing contracts.”  City officials have said that a decision by the Court of
Appeals, the state’s highest court, prohibits them from imposing
job security requirements. A December 2012 request for bids for
special-education bus routes didn’t include the provisions, a
first for the city in more than 30 years, according to the suit.  152,000 Students  Partly because of the bid request, city bus drivers last
month started a strike affecting about 152,000 of the city’s 1.1
million public-school students.  A lawyer for the city’s education department didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit. New
York Mayor Michael Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Carolyn Daly Brink, a spokeswoman for a coalition of New
York City school bus contractors, said in an e-mailed statement
that the disparity “makes it impossible for a substantial
number of qualified school bus contractors to competitively bid
and ultimately results in higher prices to the Department of
Education.”  The case is Staten Island Bus Inc. v. New York City
Department of Education, 100304-2013, New York Supreme Court,
New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  