-- Carbon Markets Threatened If EU Backload Plan Fails, CEPS Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-02-11T14:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/carbon-markets-threatened-if-eu-backload-plan-fails-ceps-says.html
Europe will struggle to convince the
rest of the world that carbon trading is the best way to tackle
climate change if a plan to revive the price of the region’s
permits fails, said the Centre for European Policy Studies.  The European Commission’s proposal to fix a glut of carbon
allowances by restricting issuance must be approved, or market-
based systems won’t be attractive to United Nations negotiators
working on a new global climate-protection pact,  Andrei Marcu , a
Brussels-based adviser at CEPS, said in a Feb. 8 interview.  European nations make up most of the signatories to the
Kyoto Protocol, which covers about 12 percent of the world’s
emissions and is designed to curb the economic costs of climate
change until 2020. Prices of EU carbon permits, the biggest
emissions market by traded volume, plunged 50 percent in the
past two years with the December 2013 benchmark reaching a
record-low 2.81 euros ($3.76) a ton last month.  “It’s going to be tough to make the case at 1 euro a
ton,” said Marcu, a former adviser at Mercuria Energy Group
Holding SA and chief executive officer of the International
Emission Trading Association in Geneva.  The EU is proposing to temporarily remove 900 million
metric tons of carbon permits from planned auctions through 2015
and return them toward the end of the decade, a process known as
backloading.  The plan “is a necessary but insufficient measure to make
the market do what it was designed to do under current
conditions,” Marcu said.  Swedish Endorsement  Lena Ek, Sweden’s environment minister, reiterated the
nation’s support for political intervention to fix a supply glut
“and prop up the too-low price which hinders the functioning of
the entire system,” Erik Bratthall, a government spokesman in
Stockholm, said today. The Nordic country called on EU nations
including Germany to clarify their positions on the plan.  The debate on the measure has become “a test of political
support” for the region’s climate-change policy, Marcu said.  The market’s rules need to be reviewed because the program
isn’t achieving its environmental goals, he said.  “People deep down don’t want to accept there’s a
shortage” of space in the atmosphere for additional heat-
trapping gases, Marcu said. UN envoys are seeking approval for a
global climate-protection agreement by the end of 2015 that will
start about five years later.  The European Parliament’s environment committee is
scheduled to vote on Feb. 19 on the first element of the
backloading plan, an amendment to the EU emissions-trading law.
The draft measure, designed by the European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, also requires approval by the whole assembly and
by national governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  