-- Carnival Ship Fire Strands 3,100 Guests Off Mexican Coast
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-11T22:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/carnival-cruise-ship-fire-strands-3-100-guests-off-mexican-cost.html
A fire on board a  Carnival Corp. 
cruise ship yesterday has left 3,143 guests stranded off the
coast of Mexico. No one was harmed and the ship is awaiting two
tugboats.  The tugboats will bring the Carnival Triumph to the closest
port, Progreso, Mexico, late on Feb. 13, Carnival, the world’s
largest cruise line operator, said in a statement today. Guests
will be flown back to the U.S. on chartered aircraft.  The Triumph, with 1,086 crew on board, had a fire in its
engine room as the vessel was sailing approximately 150 miles
(241 kilometers) off the Yucatan Peninsula. The ship, which
departed Galveston, Texas, Feb. 7, has maintained emergency
generator power -- with public and cabin toilets operational on
only certain sections of the ship -- after its automatic
extinguishing system put out the fire, Carnival said.  There have been more than 90 fires aboard cruise ships
since 1990, according to Jim Walker, a South Miami attorney who
writes a  blog  about cruise industry-related law. They included
an engine room fire on Carnival’s Splendor more than two years
ago, which also cut short a cruise.  “It happens more often than the public knows,” Walker
said of cruise fires in an interview.  The Triumph’s voyage was set to end today after a stop in
Cozumel. All guests will receive a full refund and credit toward
another cruise. The Triumph’s next two voyages, set to leave
today and Feb. 16, have been canceled. Those guests will receive
a full refund and 25 percent discount on future sailings.  Carnival , based in Miami, fell 0.7 percent to $38.72 at the
close in New York. The stock has gained 5.3 percent this year,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 6.4 percent.  Costa Concordia, a Carnival ship, ran aground off the coast
of Italy on Jan. 13 of last year, leaving 32 people dead. The
company faces at least 11  lawsuits  in connection with the
accident, according to a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  