-- CDO With Name of St. Tropez Beach Melted With S&P’s Top Mark
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-02-11T22:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/cdo-with-name-of-st-tropez-beach-melted-with-s-p-s-top-mark.html
A $1.6 billion collateralized debt
obligation issued by Vertical Capital LLC in March 2007 with the
same name as a portion of the beach at St. Tropez, France,
burned out just 228 days after it was issued.  The Pampelonne CDO II, underwritten by Barclays Plc, is one
of dozens of deals listed in the Justice Department’s Feb. 4
lawsuit against Standard & Poor’s that received the company’s
highest AAA grade. The U.S. is accusing the world’s largest
credit rater of deliberately misstating the risks of mortgage
bonds to keep its share of the booming business of repackaging
home loans for sale as securities.  Eastern Financial Florida Credit Union lost its investment
after purchasing a portion of the Pampelonne CDO II, relying in
part on S&P’s assessment of the securities, according to the
complaint filed in federal court in Los Angeles. The U.S. is
seeking penalties against S&P and its New York-based parent,
McGraw-Hill Cos. that may amount to more than $5 billion, based
on losses suffered by federally insured financial institutions.  S&P was aware of its influence over such firms, and
knowingly “devised, participated in, and executed a scheme to
defraud investors,” according to the complaint.  Ed Sweeney, an S&P spokesman, Kem Blacker, a partner at
Vertical Capital, and Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays spokesman,
all in New York, declined to comment.  Default Event  Pampelonne CDO II was originated on March 26, 2007 and
suffered an event of default on Nov. 9 that year, according to
an S&P  statement .  Eastern Financial, founded in 1937 as the original credit
union for Eastern Airlines, was forced to merge with Space Coast
Credit Union after being seized by regulators in April 2009.  S&P gave more than half of the Pampelonne CDO II deal its
highest AAA grade, according to a prospectus from March 5, 2007.
Its largest competitor, Moody’s Investors Service, offered an
equivalent Aaa on the same portions.  The majority of the deal was linked to mortgage bonds,
according to the prospectus. It also contained credit-default
swaps used to wager on the likelihood of home-loan defaults. The
completion of the deal was contingent upon garnering AAA grades
from the rating companies.  Top Ranking  When S&P blessed the deal with top rankings in March 2007,
it wasn’t yet known exactly which securities would be included
in the transaction. CDO issuers could lay out which types of
bonds would be included in deals at the time of the sale while
still in the process of acquiring the debt.  CDOs pool assets such as mortgage bonds and package them
into new securities with varying risks in which revenue from the
underlying bonds or loans are used to pay investors.  Plage de Pampelonne is a beach in St. Tropez, and
Pampelonne is a town in the south of France with a population of
718 in 2007, according to the  website  cartesfrance.fr.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  