-- Chavez Devaluation Puts Venezuelans to Queue on Price Raise
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-02-11T21:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/chavez-devaluation-puts-venezuelans-to-queue-before-price-raise.html
Venezuelans lined up to purchase
airline tickets and TVs this weekend in a bid to protect
themselves from price increases after ailing President  Hugo Chavez  devalued the bolivar for a fifth time in nine years.  Chavez, who is recovering from cancer surgery in Havana,
ordered his government to weaken the exchange rate by 32 percent
to 6.3 bolivars per dollar starting Feb. 13, Finance Minister
 Jorge Giordani  told reporters Feb. 8. Yesterday, a sign at an
electronics store in southeastern Caracas restricted customers
to one purchase each as Venezuelans rushed to buy flat-screen
televisions.  A weaker currency may further fuel the fastest inflation
rate in the region as about 70 percent of products consumed in
Venezuela are imported or assembled from raw material shipped
from abroad, according to the Consecomercio trade chamber in
Caracas. The move, which seeks to narrow the budget deficit, may
undermine support for Chavez and his allies ahead of possible
elections this year as the cost of living increases.  “Any economic measure always has winners and losers,”
said  Luis Vicente Leon , president of Caracas-based polling firm
Datanalisis. “No one devalues for fun. If you devalue to
correct a problem, there’s always going to be a price to pay.”  South America’s biggest oil producer may have to call
elections if Chavez, who hasn’t been seen for two months after
leaving to Cuba for health treatment, dies or steps down. Before
leaving, he named Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  as his successor
in case he was unable to continue as president.  Spending Spree  A spending spree that almost tripled the fiscal deficit
last year helped Chavez, 58, win a third six-year term. The
devaluation can help narrow the budget deficit by increasing the
amount of bolivars the government receives from oil exports.  Yet the move may also quicken inflation to more than 30
percent a year from 22 percent in January,  Siobhan Morden , the
head of Latin America fixed income strategy at  Jefferies Group
Inc.  in New York, said in a note to clients.  Juan Carlos Lopez, 52, said he joined a queue of 43 people
at an  American Airlines Inc . desk at a supermarket in eastern
Caracas yesterday to see if he could still purchase summer
holiday flights to Miami and New York at the 4.3 bolivar rate.  “I came because I heard  American Airlines  is going to
raise fares by 100 percent, that’s to say, above the
devaluation,” Lopez said.  Carmelo Alvarez, a salesperson at a Samsung franchise in
eastern Caracas, said sales quadrupled to about 800,000 bolivars
on Feb. 9 from what the store would normally sell on a normal
Saturday. The government announced the devaluation ahead of a
four-day holiday to celebrate Carnival.  Political Cost  “There is surely going to be a political cost, which may
weigh against the Chavistas and hence be viewed favorably from
the markets if it shifts protest votes to the opposition,”
Morden said.  Holders of Venezuelan bonds stand to be the biggest winners
as the devaluation helps close the fiscal deficit, said  Robert Abad , who helps manage $48 billion in emerging-market assets at
Western Asset Management Co.  Venezuela’s dollar bonds have returned 4.9 percent this
year after Chavez’s deteriorating health triggered a 50 percent
advance in the nation’s debt last year, almost three times the
average for emerging market bonds, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark dollar bonds due 2027
fell 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.63 percent
at 3:55 p.m. in New York, the lowest level since November 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price
increased 0.51 cent on the dollar to 105.04 cents.  Weaker Bolivar  Consumer companies with a “significant exposure to
Venezuela” include  Arcos Dorados Holdings Inc .,  Coca-Cola Femsa 
SAB and  Grupo Nutresa SA , according to a Morgan Stanley report
e-mailed today. Other companies that may be impacted by the
devaluation include industrial companies  Masisa SA  and  Copa
Holdings SA , and  MercadoLibre Inc , an operator of online trading
websites, Morgan Stanley wrote.  Gruma SAB, the world’s largest tortilla maker, fell the
most in seven months today on speculation that Venezuela’s
currency devaluation will cut revenue in the company’s third
biggest market. Masisa, a Chilean wood panels manufacturer that
gets a quarter of its revenue from Venezuela, tumbled the most
in three months.  Foreign Currency Losses  Large cap, diversified oil services companies including
 Schlumberger Ltd ,  Halliburton Co  and  Baker Hughes Inc  also have
exposure in to Venezuela, RBC Capital Markets said in a note
yesterday. Halliburton said today that it would probably take a
foreign currency loss of $30 million in the first quarter of the
year because of the devaluation.  The weaker exchange rate will give the central government
an additional 84.5 billion bolivars ($13.4 billion) in revenue,
mostly from oil sales done in dollars, according to Caracas-
based research company Ecoanalitica.  Chavez increased spending in real terms by 25.5 percent in
the year prior to the election in which he defeated opposition
challenger  Henrique Capriles Radonski  by 11 percentage points,
according to calculations by Bank of America Corp. That helped
widen Venezuela’s fiscal gap to 11 percent of gross domestic
product last year from 4 percent in 2011, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  ‘Fleeting’ Gains  “The gains from this devaluation will be fleeting as we
think that the government is unlikely to tighten fiscal and
monetary policy sufficiently to contain inflation,” Credit
Suisse analysts  Casey Reckman ,  Daniel Chodos  and Di Fu wrote in
an e-mailed report yesterday.  “We would not rule out another
devaluation towards the end of this year or in early 2014.”  Bank of America said on Feb. 8 that the devaluation will
reduce the country’s fiscal gap for 2013 to 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product from the previously forecast 9.7 percent and
that it expects another devaluation to 8 bolivars per dollar in
the first quarter next year.  Chavez has been studying satellite images of Venezuela and
giving orders about land use, Technology Minister Jorge Arreaza,
who is the president’s son-in-law, said today in posts on his
Twitter account.  Unregulated Market  The devaluation “is a big positive for Venezuelan credit
overall -- the government’s bonds and PDVSA debt,” Abad said in
an e-mail from Pasadena, California, where Western Asset
Management is based. Although “a devaluation improves parts of
the economy while exacerbating problems elsewhere, overall it
improves Venezuela’s creditworthiness.”  In the unregulated market, the bolivar weakened 2.5 percent
today to 20.02 per dollar, according to Lechuga Verde, a website
that tracks the rate.  After devaluing the bolivar by 50 percent in January 2010,
Chavez seized 41 retail stores that were majority-owned by
France’s  Casino Guichard Perrachon SA  and threatened to
nationalize others that raised prices in a bid to curb
inflation.  The scarcity index, which measures the amount of goods that
are out of stock on the market, rose to 20.4 percent, its
highest level, according to the central bank’s inflation report
published on Feb. 8.  Retail  Shares of consumer companies such as  Colgate-Palmolive Co ,
which already felt the impact of price controls imposed last
year, fell on news of the devaluation. Colgate, the world’s
largest toothpaste maker, dropped 1.5 percent to $108.49 at
close of trading in New York Feb. 8. The company said today that
it would incur a one-time after tax loss of about 25 cents a
share in the first quarter of the year.  Copenhagen-based  East Asiatic Company Ltd.,  whose affiliate
Venezuela Plumrose is the country’s biggest meat company, said
it will take 8 to 12 months to restore demand after the
devaluation. The company will mitigate effects through “dynamic
price management,” it said in a statement yesterday.  The central bank’s so-called  Cadivi system , which sells
dollars to importers at the official exchange rate, will provide
$35 billion this year, bank President  Nelson Merentes  said.
That’s the same amount Cadivi sold last year, according to a
Dec. 31 central bank report. The Sitme exchange, which sold at a
weaker rate of 5.3 bolivars per dollar, provided about $8
billion last year and will be closed, said Merentes.  Web Purchases  With Friday’s devaluation the bolivar has weakened 91
percent from 0.56 per dollar since Chavez took power in 1999,
while oil prices have risen tenfold from $9.4 a barrel. Chavez
last devalued in December 2010 when he weakened an exchange rate
on so-called essential goods by 40 percent, unifying the two
fixed foreign exchange rates it had at the time.  Eduardo Mendez rushed to buy himself an  Amazon.com Inc .
gift card worth $380 on Feb. 9. Mendez, head of digital sales at
a Caracas media company, said he wanted to use up a $400
allowance the government permits him to spend each year on
Internet purchases before the official rate of the bolivar
declined.  The rush by Venezuelans to use their foreign currency
quotas before the exchange rate weakens prompted Information
Minister  Ernesto Villegas  to calm fears by saying the old rate
of 4.3 will be respected until Feb. 12.  “I had doubts about buying the card,” Mendez said in an
e-mail after nabbing his card at the old rate. “But then I
thought: the worst business you can do in this country is delay
buying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 