-- Chelsea Targets Chilean Teenager, Mail Reports: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-02-11T11:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/chelsea-targets-chilean-teenager-mail-reports-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Teen Target  Chelsea is trying to sign 17-year-old Chilean midfielder
Cristian Cuevas, who is valued at 3.4 million pounds ($5.3
million) by his club O’Higgins,  the Daily Mail said.   The west London side has made a 2.2 million-pound offer but
the Chilean team is holding out, the newspaper said. Chelsea has
been following the teenager for several years, and he could join
this summer, the Mail said.  Cuevas has played for Chile’s under-20 team, and his agent
said a move to the U.K. is close, the newspaper reported.  Travel Strife  Tottenham may fine striker  Emmanuel Adebayor  for missing
his deadline to return to Spurs after the Africa Cup of Nations,
 the Daily Mirror said .  Adebayor missed the 3 p.m. deadline on Feb. 8 to return,
and his London club sent a private jet to bring him back as it
had no fit strikers for last weekend’s game against Newcastle,
the newspaper said.  Adebayor’s Togo team was eliminated the previous weekend,
but the player was still in South Africa in midweek, the
newspaper said.  Long Gone?  Lazio and Sevilla are considering bids for West Brom
striker Shane Long, whose contract expires at the end of next
season,  the Mirror said.   The 26-year-old is also wanted by Liverpool, Newcastle and
Tottenham, the newspaper said. West Brom will open negotiations
to try to extend the contract of the player, who cost 6.5
million pounds from Reading in the middle of 2011, the newspaper
said.  Liverpool Fears  Liverpool winger  Stewart Downing  says coach  Brendan Rodgers 
has the entire squad playing for their futures after threatening
to sell underperformers,  the Sun said.   Downing took the warning to heart and has got back into the
side, which struggled earlier in the season, the newspaper said.
Rodgers’s warning was aimed at players including Downing,  Jordan Henderson  and Jose Enrique, the newspaper said.  Gazza Update  Arsenal forward  Jack Wilshere  is among players who chipped
in to fund treatment for former England player  Paul Gascoigne ,
who is undergoing therapy to deal with his alcoholism,  the Sun
said.   Gascoigne is in Arizona and faces a 100,000-pound bill
after being placed in intensive care as he struggles with
detoxification, the newspaper said. The 45-year-old may be in
the hospital for months, the Sun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  