-- Citadel’s Equities Co-Chief Weller Said to Leave Firm
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-02-11T19:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/citadel-s-equities-co-chief-weller-said-to-leave-firm.html
Steve Weller , co-head of Citadel
LLC’s global equities group, left after more than a decade at
the hedge fund run by Kenneth Griffin, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  Weller departed from the Chicago-based firm last week, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  Brandon Haley , 38, who ran the group
with Weller, was picked as the unit’s sole head, Katie Spring, a
spokeswoman for Citadel, confirmed by phone today. Investors
were told about the management change on Feb. 6, she said.  Citadel, which oversees $14 billion, chose to have one
person running the equity business rather than a shared
management role, Spring confirmed. Weller didn’t return messages
left on his home phone seeking comment.  Weller, 42, became one of three co-heads of global equities
in 2009 along with Haley and  Jeff Runnfeldt , who left last year.
The $3 billion equity fund, started in 2009, returned 17 percent
last year and 0.9 percent in January, according to a person with
knowledge of the returns.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned 16 percent,
including reinvested dividends, in 2012 and 5.2 percent in
January. Long-short equity hedge funds posted a 5.6 gain last
year and 1.3 percent in January, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Weller’s Background  Weller joined Citadel in 2001 and was picked to oversee
communications, media and entertainment stocks in 2004,
according to a biography provided by the company. Weller was
named head of the group that invests in technology stocks two
years later.  Before Citadel, he worked at Alliance Capital Management,
where he was an equity analyst for four years, and previously he
worked at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., according to the biography.  Haley joined Citadel in 2005 as sector head for consumer
stocks, according to a company biography. He previously worked
at North Sound Capital LLC for three years and before that he
was a financial analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  