-- Come Clean on Drones
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2013-02-11T23:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/come-clean-on-drones.html
The rule of law is the moral
underpinning of U.S. foreign policy. President  Barack Obama  must
now reaffirm that principle.  This task became all the more urgent with the disclosure
last week of a secret document that provides the Justice
Department’s legal analysis of the targeted killings of
suspected terrorists. After NBC News obtained the memo, members
of Congress complained that they had been kept in the dark, and
the president agreed to share his reasoning.  He needn’t discuss the details tonight. The drone strikes,
after all, are classified, as are the details of what
constitutes an “imminent threat” warranting a kill order.  However, Obama must send a message to the world by standing
up for constitutional accountability in making life-or-death
decisions in the gray zone between peacetime and war. The
specifics -- for example, a court such as the one authorized for
electronic surveillance by the 2008 Intelligence Authorization
Act or a template for consultation with Congress -- are less
important right now than making clear the need for explicit
rules.  Whatever legal rationales Obama offers will be tested in
international bodies, and they will probably be found wanting.
Although foreign governments are relieved that the U.S. handles
the dirty work of killing terrorists, they are also quick to
criticize its failure to win United Nations approval for every
international action it takes.  But legal standards that don’t pass global muster are
better than no public standards at all, which has been the
approach since drone strikes and other targeted killings began.  The lack of such rules increases the risk of retaliation
(often many years later) by nations and groups for the perceived
sins of the U.S. Lawlessness breeds lawlessness.  Nothing the president says in a speech can prevent the
brother or son of a terrorist or of an innocent victim of
collateral damage from seeking vengeance in the future.  Even so, by placing his anti-terrorism policy firmly in a
legal framework, Obama can offer support to those fighting
abusive, unaccountable regimes and reassure his own citizens
that he is in full compliance with the U.S. Constitution.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own. This is one of 11 suggestions
Bloomberg View columnists made for the foreign policy section
of Barack Obama's State of the Union address. Read more  here .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 