-- NYC Commuting Near Normal as Boston Struggles After Storm
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y ,   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-02-11T13:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/commute-normal-in-new-york-as-boston-travel-is-slower-after-snow.html
Commuters in the New York area had a
near-normal commute today while those in  Boston  were urged to
allow extra travel time as transportation officials reboot
transit systems shut down by a record-setting blizzard.  New York City subways and buses and most commuter railroads
were running as usual.  Metro-North Railroad  was to have regular
operations between Manhattan and Stamford, Connecticut, with
about half the normal service beyond to New Haven. Service on
much of the  Long Island Rail Road  resumed except in eastern
areas hard-hit by the snowstorm, and all lanes of the Long
Island Expressway reopened. Amtrak offered limited operations
between New York and Boston.  In the Boston area, about half of the Massachusetts Bay
Transportation Authority’s subways were running as usual, with
the rest serviced by buses. All commuter rails were operating
normally, according to the agency’s  website .  “I know that people are impatient, but I remind everybody
that this was a record snowfall, the likes of which our state
has never seen, or had not seen since the 1880s,” Connecticut
Governor  Dannel Malloy  said yesterday at a news briefing.  Transit crews worked to dig out tracks and bus routes
blanketed by as much as three feet of snow that began falling
Feb. 8. The storm, which lasted about 24 hours in Boston, left
as much as 40 inches (102 centimeters) of snow in parts of
Connecticut and more than 30 inches in some Massachusetts areas.
It set a record of nearly 32 inches in Portland, Maine.  Suspended Trains  About 126,000 homes and businesses in Massachusetts and
Rhode Island remained blacked out as of 7 a.m. local time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from utility websites.  Malloy asked all nonessential state employees to stay home
today to help avert traffic build-up, while evening and midnight
shift employees should report as normal.  On New York’s Long Island, where parts of Suffolk County
received more than 30 inches of snow, LIRR trains were suspended
east of Speonk and east of Ronkonkoma to Greenport, according to
a Metropolitan Transportation Authority statement. Buses will
run between Ronkonkoma and Greenport only if roads have been
cleared, and there will be no busing on the Montauk Branch.
Dozens of schools were closed, Newsday reported.  Long Island  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement that the
Long Island Expressway had reopened, as he urged caution because
some roadways are likely to remain coated with snow and ice.
Snow made parts of the expressway during the height of the storm
so impassible that motorists had abandoned their vehicles.  All New Jersey Transit bus and rail service was restored
Feb. 9, according to the agency’s website. Bus service on the
Suffolk County Transit system remained suspended until tomorrow,
according to the agency’s  website .  Boston’s major thoroughfares are in “great shape,”  Peter Judge , a spokesman for the Massachusetts Emergency Management
Agency, said yesterday in an interview with Fox News. Still, the
city’s public schools will have another day off, said Mayor
 Thomas M. Menino , who ordered them shut on Feb. 8 as the storm
approached. Four daycare centers would be open for the children
of parents who have to work, he said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  