-- Consumers Co-op Shuts Coker at Saskatchewan Plant After Fire
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-02-11T20:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/consumers-co-op-shuts-coker-at-saskatchewan-plant-after-fire-1-.html
Consumers’ Co-Operative Refineries
Ltd.’s coker at the  Regina refinery  in Saskatchewan, Canada,
will be shut for an “indeterminate” period after a fire, a
company executive said.  Crude demand will be cut by a “minimum” of 10,000 barrels
a day to about 80,000 barrels while the company forms a
contingency plan,  Bud Van Iderstine , senior vice president of
refining, said in a conference call today.  Production at Unit 1, the heavy oil upgrader, was reduced
by 11,000 barrels a day to 45,000, Van Iderstine said. Unit 2,
which was refining 28,000 barrels a day of sour synthetic oil,
was shut for a restart after the accident and will be running at
that rate again within 24 to 36 hours, he said. Unit 3, which
processes sweet synthetic, was unaffected.  There will be no impact on the retail network operated by
Federated Co-op Ltd., parent of Consumers’ Co-Operative. Van
Iderstine said the company’s gasoline and diesel inventories are
adequate.  “Even if the coker is shut down for an extended period of
time, we’ll still be able to produce the gasoline and diesel
that we need,” Van Iderstine said.  Coker Fire  The fire broke out at about 12:30 a.m. in the coker at the
heavy oil upgrader section of the plant and was put out by
refinery personnel, according to the Regina fire department. It
came as the plant was planning to start units that were shut
after an October 2011 explosion.  The company didn’t know if the fire was related to the
restart of those units, Daryl Oshanek, a Consumers’ Co-Operative
spokesman based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, said in an e-mail.  The Regina refinery’s heavy unit processes Lloydminster
heavy oil, which is a component in the Western Canada Select
heavy oil blend. The price of  Western Canada Select  weakened
against U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate oil for the first
time in six days, falling 75 cents to a $25-a-barrel discount,
according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc.  In October, Consumers completed an expansion that increased
Regina’s capacity by about 30,000 barrels a day to 130,000
barrels, making it Canada’s fourth-largest refinery, the company
said. The project allows the plant to process more light
synthetic crude and will add 15,000 barrels a day more in the
future.  The 2011 explosion damaged a middle distillate and light
naphtha unifiner, along with a gasoline isomerization unit.
Those units were expected to restart late this month, Oshanek
said in an e-mail Feb. 7. The company initially expected the
units to start in November.  There were no injuries in today’s fire, Oshanek said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  