-- Crowded Emergency Rooms Linked to PTSD in Chest Patients
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-02-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/crowded-emergency-rooms-linked-to-ptsd-in-chest-patients.html
Chaotic, overcrowded emergency rooms
may cause some heart patients to develop post-traumatic stress
disorder, a condition commonly associated with combat on the
battlefield that can shorten life spans.  Patients suffering from chest pain who came to the
emergency room of a New York City hospital during the busiest
times were more likely to have symptoms of the disorder than
those who showed up at quieter periods, according to a report
released yesterday in  JAMA Internal Medicine.   PTSD occurs in about  12 percent  of heart attack patients
and has been found to double their risk of dying over the next
one to three years, said Donald Edmondson, a researcher on the
study and assistant professor at Columbia University whose
research focuses on the behavioral effects of disease. A hectic
emergency room may intensify the emotional stress and fear of
having chest pain causing patients to feel they are in greater
danger, out of control and not being communicated to properly.  “A heart attack is in and of itself a life-threatening
terrifying event, your body has turned against you, and you
don’t know if you’re going to live through this thing,” said
Edmondson in an interview. “An overcrowded ER can exacerbate
that.”  The study tracked 135 patients who came to the emergency
room at a New York City hospital with a condition called acute
coronary syndrome. The researchers compared the traffic at the
emergency room during the time they were there with whether the
patients experienced symptoms of PTSD a month later. They found
a direct correlation between the level of crowding at the ER and
PTSD symptoms. On average, the patients spent nine to 11 hours
at the ER, and the emergency room admitted 25 percent more
patients during its busiest 24-hour periods, Edmondson said.  Anxiety Disorder  PTSD , which is best known for occurring in veterans of war
or victims of an assault, is an anxiety disorder in which people
experience flashbacks, nightmares and mood swings that disrupt
their daily lives.  The finding adds to growing evidence that overwhelmed
emergency departments can have greater consequences for patients
than lengthy weight times, researchers said. Patients were more
likely to die at the emergency room when it was overcrowded
compared to during less busy times, according to a study
published in December in the Annals of Emergency Medicine.  Emergency rooms across the U.S. may get even more crowded
as the 30 million Americans expected to get health insurance
under the 2010 health law drive up demand for health services,
Edmondson said.  “This is not just heart attack patients coming through the
ER and being frightened, it is all of our patients,” he said.
“The way we do this and decide to allow our ER to function may
be impacting both the psychological quality of life and
prognosis of our patients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  