-- Cyber Attacks a Boon to Radware Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-12T08:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/cyber-attacks-a-boon-to-radware-sales-israel-overnight.html
Radware Ltd.  may end two years of
slower sales growth as cyber attacks on U.S. lenders including
Bank of America Corp. bolster demand for the Israeli company’s
security software, Chief Executive Officer  Roy Zisapel  said.  “Banks and the financial sector are looking for the
carriers to provide some kind of protection for them,” Zisapel
said yesterday at an investor meeting in New York. “That’s
where the opportunity is for us in the coming years.”  Shares of the Tel Aviv-based company, which rallied 10
percent in January, marking the best start to a year since 2004,
slipped 0.8 percent to $35.36 in New York yesterday. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index  of the largest New York-traded
Israeli stocks rose to the highest level in a month. MagicJack
VocalTec Ltd. led gains on the index, while  Elbit Systems Ltd. 
jumped after a report that it gained a satellite contract.  Radware’s revenue expansion has slowed an average 34
percentage points since 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as the company faced contracting economic growth in
Europe, part of its second-biggest market. That trend should
reverse as the company receives more contracts with financial
firms and service providers, Zisapel said. The websites of major
U.S. banks including Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
faced renewed cyber attacks in December that caused disruptions
and slowdowns for online customers.  “Bank of America has a lot of security tools in their
infrastructure, and still they’re going down,” Zisapel said.
“That’s the challenge, and that’s where we’re unique.”  Growth Focus  The Bloomberg Israel-U.S. gauge added 0.5 percent to 88.47,
the highest level since Jan. 2. Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 Index 
rose 0.1 percent to 1,220.03 as of 9:54 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  Radware’s revenue has trailed analysts’  estimates  for the
past three quarters after beating projections in the previous 11
earnings periods, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Faster growth in Europe, the Middle East and African -- where it
received 35 percent of revenue in 2011 -- combined with
continued growth in the U.S. should boost sales acceleration,
Zisapel said.  Other technologies developed by Radware will drive faster
sales growth this year,  Alex Henderson , a New York-based analyst
at Needham & Co., said by phone yesterday.  “The ability to isolate applications, that is what
ultimately drives performance over time,” said Henderson, who
has a buy rating on the stock. Radware’s security business will
grow “at a good clip,” he said.  Strangeloop Networks  Radware announced on Feb. 7 that it purchased Strangeloop
Networks, which provides online applications for e-commerce, for
$8.4 million in cash. The acquisition, which will be integrated
in Radware’s FastView product, will help customers speed up
website response times, Zisapel said.  The company plans to focus on growth as a way to boost
shareholder value instead of trying to attract buyers, Zisapel
said. Radware’s shares jumped 21 percent on Dec. 6, 2010 after
Israeli newspaper Calcalist reported Riverbed Technology Inc.
would seek to acquire it.  “Every offer that comes goes to the board,” said Zisapel,
who holds a 3.4 percent  stake  in the company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. His father  Yehuda Zisapel  is the largest
shareholder, with a 15 percent stake. “As a private
shareholder, I can tell you that I don’t think a 10 percent, 20
percent, or 30 percent premium makes sense. Maybe the board will
approve, but I would vote against.”  Satellite Contract  MagicJack , the Netanya, Israel-based company whose founders
invented the technology used to make telephone calls over the
Internet, gained 4.7 percent to $13.66, the highest price in two
weeks. Shares have lost 14 percent in the past three weeks.  Elbit Systems, Israel’s largest non-government defense
company, climbed 4 percent to $38.98 in New York, the biggest
jump in a month. ImageSat International NV, a provider of
satellite earth-imagery, may order an EROS satellite from Israel
Aerospace Industries Ltd. and Elbit’s Elop Ltd. unit in a
contract worth more than $100 million, daily Yedioth Ahronoth
reported yesterday, without saying where it obtained the
information. Elbit shares traded in Tel Aviv gained 0.7 percent
today to 144 shekels, or the equivalent $38.92.  Perrigo Co. , the largest U.S. maker of generic over-the-
counter drugs, rose 2.9 percent $111.4, the highest price since
Nov. 6, after purchasing U.K.-based Rosemont Pharmaceuticals
Ltd. for about $283 million. Shares traded in Tel Aviv rose 1.5
percent to 412.30 shekels, or $111.43, today.  Perrigo, which bought B’nei Brak, Israel-based Agis
Industries Ltd. in 2005,  boosted  its 2013 earnings forecast to a
range between $5.53 and $5.73 a share. This compares with an
average $5.57 estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This introduces another platform for which we could see
additional deal activity going forward, and, importantly, adds
diversification to the more volatile U.S. prescription
business,”  Randall Stanicky , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in
New York, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. He rates the
shares buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  