-- Czech Inflation Slowest in 16 Months as Spending Falls
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-02-11T12:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/czech-inflation-slowest-in-16-months-as-consumer-demand-weakens.html
Czech inflation was the slowest in
16 months in January as weak consumer demand kept the economy in
a recession.  The  inflation  rate dropped to 1.9 percent from 2.4 percent
in December, the Czech Statistics Office in Prague said in a
statement on its website today. The reading was less than the
median forecast for 2.1 percent in a Bloomberg  survey  of 12
analysts and below the central bank’s 2 percent estimate for the
month. Consumer prices rose 1.3 percent from December, partly
due to a sales-tax increase, the office said.  Czech households and businesses are spending less due to
government austerity programs and the euro area’s debt crisis,
dragging down the  economy . The central bank last week kept the
benchmark interest rate at effectively  zero , while Governor
Miroslav Singer said the need for further monetary-policy easing
appeared less urgent due to a weakening of the koruna against
the euro.  “Demand-led inflation doesn’t exists in the Czech
economy,” Radomir Jac, chief analyst at Generali PPF Asset
Management in Prague, said in an e-mail today. “With the Czech
koruna currently trading at stronger levels than what would be
justified by the central bank’s forecast, central bankers may
try to navigate the koruna toward weaker levels, to circa 25.50
versus the euro, in the weeks to come, first using verbal
interventions.”  Koruna Gains  The koruna strengthened after the central bank’s policy
meeting on Feb. 6, gaining 1.8 percent to the euro, its best
weekly rally in 14 months. It traded at 25.244 against the euro
as of 1:03 p.m. in Prague.  The Czech  economy  shrank for a third three-month period
from July to September, matching the longest quarterly declines
recorded three years ago and in 1997. Gross domestic product
contracted 0.3 percent in the final three months of 2012,
according to the median  forecast  of 10 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, was 1.1 percent,
unchanged from December and near the lower end of the central
bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target band, the bank said in a
statement today.  Forecasts Confirmed  “The published data confirm the message of the current CNB
forecast,” the central bank said. “The sources of inflation
are tax changes, growth in food prices and a gradual easing of
growth in import prices. On the other hand, the development of
the domestic economy is having a suppressing effect on price
growth.”  The central bank last week lowered its forecast for 2013
GDP to a 0.3 percent contraction compared with a previous
estimate of 0.2 percent growth. It sees inflation rate at 1.7
percent in the first quarter of 2014.  “The gist of the forecast is that we may need monetary-
policy easing, the need may look less urgent, but it is still
here,” Singer said last week after the bank board left the two-
week repurchase rate at 0.05 percent for a second meeting.  Retail Sales  Retail sales  fell 5.1 percent in December, the most in
three years, partly due to fewer working days than a year
earlier.  Unemployment  rate rose to 8 percent in January, the
highest reading on record, according to Labor Ministry data.  The government of Prime Minister Petr Necas has cut
investments and raised taxes to trim the  budget gap . With the
prospects of a recession stretching into the longest ever, Necas
wants to ease the pace of fiscal cuts from the election year of
2014 as he tries to avoid the fate of European leaders who were
ousted following austerity measures that stunted economies from
Romania to Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  