-- Thrilled by EU Budget, Tories Demand More Europe Spats
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-11T16:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/delighted-by-eu-budget-u-k-tories-demand-more-rows-with-europe.html
David Cameron  appeared before U.K.
lawmakers to report on his negotiation of a reduction in the
European Union budget, with euro-skeptics in his party
congratulating him and urging more confrontations in Brussels.  “May I congratulate the prime minister on a hugely
impressive achievement,”  Mark Reckless , who organized a record-
breaking Conservative lawmaker rebellion over the budget, said
in the House of Commons after Cameron spelled out the details of
the deal in London today.  “The diplomats, the Liberal Democrats all said the best he
could hope for was a freeze, but he delivered for Britain,”
Reckless said in a telephone interview. He argued that the prime
minister’s speech last month promising a renegotiation of EU
membership terms and then a referendum “hugely increases
leverage in Brussels -- they know if they don’t give us what we
want, we’ll leave.”  EU leaders agreed on Feb. 8 to a seven-year budget that
reduces spending for the first time after Cameron demanded cuts.
In Germany, the biggest contributor to the EU budget, coalition
lawmakers praised Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for forging the
budget deal in an alliance of convenience with Cameron.  “We delivered a real-terms cut on what Brussels can
spend,” Cameron  told the House of Commons . “It’s a good deal
for Britain, a good deal for Europe and, above all, a good deal
for taxpayers.”  Merkel’s ‘Understanding’  It was in Merkel’s interests to go along with Cameron’s
calls for a budget cut and the prime minister can’t rely on her
future support in European negotiations, said  Carsten Brzeski ,
an economist at ING Group in Brussels.  “When it comes to further integration, I don’t think
Merkel will be as kind and as understanding as she might have
been on the budget,” Brzeski said today in a telephone
interview. “Cameron should not overdo it. This is a weapon he
cannot use too often.”  Mark Pritchard , another euro-skeptic U.K. lawmaker,
described the deal on his Twitter Inc. feed as “historic,”
while noting it was “bittersweet” that the U.K.’s overall
contribution to the EU budget will still rise, the result of
previous negotiations.  “We have slashed 24 billion euros ($32 billion) off a real
freeze on the last completed budget,” Cameron told lawmakers
today.  ‘Real Steps’  Reckless led a rebellion of Tory lawmakers, who joined
forces with the opposition Labour Party to pass a vote on Oct.
31 demanding that Cameron negotiate a budget cut, rather than
the freeze he had stated as his goal. The scale of antipathy
towards Europe within his party was one reason Cameron last
month pledged a referendum on EU membership.  Cameron last week said the results of the negotiations
showed the referendum pledge hadn’t hurt his ability to
negotiate in Europe.  “It shows that, working with allies, it’s
possible to take real steps towards reform in the EU,” he told
reporters. “I don’t find it makes it more difficult to build
partnerships, whether it’s with the German Chancellor or the
Swedes or the Danes or the Dutch.”  Reckless offered his own analysis of the new dynamic.
“Clearly our membership of the EU is in the EU’s interest, if
not in ours,” he said. “Other countries have decided they want
some money from us, rather than none.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  