-- Dell Buyout Lacks Support as T. Rowe Joins Southeastern
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-02-12T21:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/dell-closes-above-offer-price-for-first-time-since-proposed-deal.html
Dell Inc. ’s plan to be taken private
lacks support from two of the company’s largest shareholders
after T. Rowe Price Group Inc. said it won’t back the $24.4
billion transaction.  T. Rowe, the second-largest outside investor, said today
that the proposal places too low a value on Round Rock, Texas-
based Dell. That came after top outside shareholder Southeastern
Asset Management sent a Feb. 8 letter to Dell’s board expressing
“extreme disappointment” with the $13.65-a- share  offer.  Opposition is gaining steam a week after Dell outlined a
leveraged buyout offer from founder  Michael Dell  and private-
equity firm Silver Lake Management LLC. The deal -- now resisted
by investors who hold more than 10 percent of the stock -- can’t
go through without backing by a majority of shareholders
excluding Michael Dell. The buyers may need to make the terms
more attractive, said  Shaw Wu , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. in San Francisco.  “It’s a possibility that they have to raise the price,”
said Wu, who rates the stock neutral.  Given the amount of debt already factored into the
proposal, it won’t be easy to increase the terms materially, Wu
said.  “We believe the proposed buyout does not reflect the value
of Dell and we do not intend to support the offer as put
forward,” T. Rowe Price Chairman  Brian Rogers  said in a
statement via e-mail.  ‘Ruckus’ Threatened  Richard Pzena , founder of Pzena Investment Management, said
last week that he will vote against the transaction. Donald
Yacktman of Yacktman Asset Management said that the proposal may
not go through at the current price, and Harris Associates LP’s
 William C. Nygren  said on Feb. 5 that he would “raise a
ruckus” if his firm were to find out that better alternatives
exist to the one that Dell’s board approved.  Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Michael Dell and other
directors were sued last week in  Delaware Chancery Court  by
investor Catherine Christner, who said the board is
shortchanging shareholders.  Dell rose less than 1 percent to $13.79 at the close in New
York. That was the  highest  since May 2012. The buyout offer is
25 percent higher than the $10.88 closing price on Jan. 11, the
last trading day before Bloomberg News reported the talks to go
private.  Servers, Services  Southeastern, which holds a 8.4 percent  stake  in Dell, said
the computer maker is worth at least $24 a share. In the letter,
Southeastern said Dell’s business-computing  acquisitions , along
with its server and technology-services operations, are worth
more than the offer. Southeastern hired D.F. King & Co. for
consulting and related services, according to a filing today.  “They’re probably going to sweeten it a little bit,” said
 Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group in San Francisco, who
has a neutral rating on Dell shares. “These deals aren’t
usually inked on the first offer.”  Michael Dell is seeking to take back majority control of
the company he founded in 1984 after losing ground in the PC
market and as consumer-demand shifted to tablets from
competitors, including Apple Inc.  Pzena’s firm held 12.7 million Dell shares, or 0.7 percent
of the company, as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, referred to a statement
issued last week saying that the proposed deal “offers an
attractive and immediate premium for stockholders and shifts the
risks facing the business to the buyer group.” A so-called
“go-shop” period “provides stockholders an opportunity to
determine if there are alternatives that are superior to the
present offer,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  