-- Doctor Used Tour de France Guide to Plan Doping, Court Hears
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-02-11T17:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/doctor-used-tour-de-france-guide-to-plan-doping-court-hears.html
Sports doctor Eufemiano Fuentes used
a page of the Tour de France’s official guide to plan where
riders would have blood infusions during cycling’s most
prestigious race, a German competitor testified today.  Joerg Jaksche, 36, who raced on the Liberty Seguros team in
2005 and 2006, told a court in Madrid that Fuentes circled a map
of France where the performance-enhancing infusions would take
place. There were so many circles “you could hardly see
France,” Jaksche said.  Jaksche, who’s now an economics student, said he paid about
4,000 euros ($5,362) per transfusion to Fuentes via an HSBC bank
account in Geneva. He paid in cash for banned drug
erythropoietin, or EPO.  Fuentes is among five defendants on trial for a “crime
against public health” by overseeing a doping ring that was
uncovered in a 2006 Spanish police investigation called
“Operacion Puerto,” or “Operation Mountain Pass.”
Prosecutors are seeking a two-year prison sentence for each.  Jaksche, the first of several cyclists called to give
evidence in the trial, quit cycling in 2007 after becoming
implicated in the investigation and has since given televised
interviews in which he confessed to doping.  Cyclists have been known to collect and later transfuse
their own blood to increase their body’s volume of oxygen-
carrying red blood cells that boost stamina. EPO stimulates
production of red blood cells.  Armstrong Punished  Ivan Basso , runner-up to  Lance Armstrong  in the 2005 Tour
de France, told the court he got in contact with Fuentes later
that year because of his “dream” to win the French race and
subsequently had blood extracted on three occasions. He didn’t
have the blood re-infused, he said.  Speaking via a video link, Basso, 35, said he paid 15,000
euros in cash to Fuentes. Basso, an Italian, served a two-year
ban after he admitted his link to the doping ring in 2007. In a
separate case, Armstrong last year was stripped of all seven of
his Tour de France wins for doping.  Police initially linked as many as 58 pro cyclists to the
ring, based on wire taps, training notes and other evidence
found in raids on apartments in Madrid. Fewer than half of that
number have faced disciplinary proceedings.  Fuentes testified he helped athletes from cycling, soccer
and other sports “guarantee their health was not harmed by the
rigors of competition,” the Associated Press reported, citing
his testimony last month. The trial, in its third week, is
scheduled to end March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  