-- Dollar Declines Against Peers Before Fed Speech; Yen Pares Gains
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-02-11T07:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/dollar-declines-against-peers-before-fed-speech-yen-pares-gains.html
The dollar declined against the
euro, snapping a three-day gain, ahead of a speech by a Federal
Reserve official who may reiterate the case to maintain monetary
stimulus.  The  Dollar Index  fell before Fed Reserve Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  speaks in Washington today. The yen trimmed gains
after  Haruhiko Kuroda , a potential candidate to head the Bank of
Japan, said additional monetary easing can be justified for
2013. The BOJ holds a policy meeting this week. The Australian
dollar weakened after data showed home-loan approvals slid.  “Yellen is one of the doves in the Fed committee,” said
 Alvin Pontoh , Asia-Pacific strategist at TD Securities Inc. in
Singapore. “If she says anything, it’s likely to be dovish and
maybe because of that, we’re seeing a bit of euro strength
against the dollar.”  The dollar weakened 0.1 percent to $1.3379 per euro at 7:29
a.m. in London, after gaining 1.6 percent in the past three
sessions. The greenback slid 0.1 percent to 92.55 yen from the
end of last week.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, slid 0.1 percent to 80.172. The Japanese
currency traded at 123.83 per euro, after climbing 2.6 percent
in the past three sessions to 123.87.  The Federal Open Market Committee last month linked its
policy to economic indicators for the first time, saying it will
keep rates low as long as the unemployment rate is above 6.5
percent and the outlook for inflation is no more than 2.5
percent.  Industrial Production  The Fed previously said it will maintain low rates through
at least mid-2015. Yellen is considered a likely successor to
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke when his term ends in a year. Kansas
City Fed President  Esther George  is due to speak on the U.S.
Economy at the University of Nebraska-Omaha tomorrow.  Gains in the euro were limited on signs the region’s
economy is slowing amid political uncertainty in Italy and
Spain.  Industrial production  in France, Europe’s second-largest
economy, probably declined 0.2 percent in December from the
previous month, when it rose 0.5 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the statistics office releases data today.  European finance chiefs meet in Brussels today to discuss
aid to Cyprus and Greece as a tightening election contest in
Italy and corruption allegations in Spain disrupt market calm.  Ministers Meet  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has faced calls to
resign after newspaper reports alleged he accepted illegal cash
payments, and opinion polls have shown former Italy Premier
 Silvio Berlusconi  closing the gap on front-runner  Pier Luigi Bersani  ahead of elections on Feb. 24-25.  Kuroda, president of the Asian Development Bank, said in an
interview in Tokyo today the BOJ has “many” policy tools to
achieve its 2 percent inflation target. Credit Suisse Group AG
Chief Japan Economist  Hiromichi Shirakawa  has said Kuroda is
“the leading candidate” to succeed Shirakawa.  The yen rallied at the end of last week following comments
by Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso that the pace of the
currency’s decline was too fast.  “Positioning in the yen got too stretched, and it looks as
though it needs a little bit of a correction before it can
proceed lower,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at
Westpac Banking Corp. “We’re going to have mixed rhetoric from
the politicians, which has given the yen quite a lot of
volatility.”  Aussie Weakens  The Australian dollar traded near the lowest since October.
The statistics bureau said in Sydney today the number of  loans 
granted to build or buy houses and apartments declined 1.5
percent in December from the previous month when they fell a
revised 0.7 percent.  “Today’s data is quite soft,” National Australia Bank
Ltd. economist  Spiros Papadopoulos  wrote in a note today.
“Further gains in house prices will be hard to come by in
coming months, and also confirms to us that further interest-
rate cuts will be required to boost overall housing activity.”  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board kept the overnight cash rate target at 3 percent on Feb.
5. Stevens said the inflation outlook “would afford scope to
ease policy further.”  The Aussie declined 0.3 percent to $1.0293 after completing
four weeks of declines. It touched $1.0256 last week, the lowest
since Oct. 23. New Zealand’s dollar depreciated 0.3 percent to
83.31 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Ishikawa  in Tokyo at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  