-- Don’t Be Afraid of China
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-02-11T23:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/don-t-be-afraid-of-china.html
Here’s what President  Barack Obama 
could say in his State of the Union address:  China is rising. Income per capita is climbing steadily,
and within 20 years, its share of world income will rival that
of the European Union.  We shouldn’t be afraid -- or shrink from the economic
opportunities this will present.  I remind those who fear that Chinese banks will take over
our financial system -- or the world -- that people said the
same about Japanese banks in the 1980s. Yes, China’s banks are
becoming larger as the economy grows. They are becoming more
international, too. These changes aren’t a threat.  In fact, the opposite is true: It is financial instability
in China -- and in other parts of the world -- that is the
greater worry. We need to make sure our system is strong and
independent enough to withstand big shocks. I hope our
regulators will continue to push for higher levels of equity
capital throughout our financial system.  Others say that China will steal American jobs. This fear,
too, is greatly exaggerated. More trade means more growth for
all.  Nonetheless, China needs to be a more responsible partner.
Allowing its currency to trade more freely -- and to appreciate
-- in foreign-exchange markets would be good for the world
economy and for the Chinese people.  China is an important market for us. Chinese consumers want
our products. Chinese companies want to work with our companies.
We can cooperate peacefully and fruitfully.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the MIT Sloan School of
Management as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is co-author of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own. This is one
of 11 suggestions Bloomberg View columnists made for the foreign
policy section of Barack Obama's State of the Union address. Read
more  here .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 