-- Don’t Try to Contain China
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2013-02-11T23:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/don-t-try-to-contain-china.html
In his State of the Union speech,
President  Barack Obama  has an important opportunity to dispel
some of the tensions brewing in northeast Asia, and to stress
the political and economic imperatives of a post-Cold War peace
across the region.  The U.S. “pivot to Asia” -- a major shift in foreign
policy priorities -- has already provoked fears of encirclement
and accusations of meddling from China. Last week’s revelation
that the Chinese navy trained its weapons radar on a Japanese
warship, not far from the disputed Senkaku islands, underscores
the real challenges before the U.S in east Asia.  Relations between two of the world’s largest economies have
deteriorated to the point where an overly patriotic pilot or
drunken naval captain could set off hostilities. The U.S. is
bound by treaty to defend Japan, whose position on the Senkaku
islands -- no dispute, and therefore no discussion necessary --
is less than convincing. Increased American diplomatic and
military maneuvers in Asia as part of its pivot are now prone to
even more menacing interpretation by the Chinese.  Fortunately, no one really wants war, least of all the
Chinese, whose growing economy needs Japanese investments.
Chinese leaders seem to be speaking the truth when they claim
they are more concerned with domestic issues than external ones.  At the same time, the country’s modern history, and the
Chinese Communist Party’s influential nationalist narrative of
recovering Chinese greatness, commits China’s leaders to a
forceful public posture in their relationships with the West and
many Asian countries. Consequently, China’s neighbors fear its
growing assertiveness even as they grow economically more
interdependent with it.  But the U.S. should resist seeing this as an opportunity
for a wider “strategic containment” of China. It would further
stoke Chinese nationalism, which remains a potent force. In any
case, Asian countries would dislike being forced to choose
between Beijing and Washington. With words followed by deeds,
Obama could do well to dispel these unworkable Cold War binaries
at this volatile moment.  ( Pankaj Mishra  is the author of “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia” and a
Bloomberg View columnist, based in London and Mashobra, India.
The opinions expressed are his own. This is one of 11 suggestions
Bloomberg View columnists made for the foreign policy section of
Barack Obama's State of the Union address. Read more  here .) 