-- Drugs Don’t Benefit Preschoolers With Attention Disorder
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-02-11T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/drugs-don-t-benefit-preschoolers-with-attention-disorder.html
Most preschool-age children with
moderate-to-severe attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or
ADHD, continue to experience severe symptoms years after their
diagnosis despite treatment, a study shows.  Six years after their diagnosis, about 90 percent of the
186 children followed by researchers still had difficulties with
symptoms such as over-activity, impulse control or
inattentiveness, according to a study released today by the
 Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adult Psychiatry .  ADHD affects 3 percent to 5 percent of school-age children,
mostly boys, according to the  National Institutes of Health .
Treatments include medication and behavior therapy. The ailment
increases the likelihood of drug and alcohol abuse and
difficulty keeping a job later in life, according to the NIH.  “ADHD in preschoolers is a chronic and rather persistent
condition, one that requires better long-term behavioral and
pharmacological treatments than we currently have,”  Mark Riddle , a study author and children’s psychiatrist at Johns
Hopkins Children’s Center in Baltimore, said in a statement.  In the study, children ages 3 to 5 were treated for several
months after being diagnosed, then referred back to community
physicians. Over the next six years, detailed reports from
parents and teachers were used to track the severity of their
symptoms.  The children on medication, who were two-thirds of the
group, didn’t show significant differences in severity compared
with those who weren’t on drugs. Almost two-thirds of the
children on medication had significant hyperactivity and
impulsivity, compared with 58 percent of those who weren’t
taking medications.  The study wasn’t designed to answer the question of why the
different treatments may not have yielded different results, the
author said. Among the reasons may have been that the wrong
drugs or dosages were prescribed, or that the children weren’t
taking their medication properly, the researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  