-- Duet Starts Venture With Former Credit Suisse Latin Chief
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-02-11T19:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/duet-creates-latin-american-unit-with-ex-credit-suisse-executive.html
Duet Asset Management Ltd., the
hedge-fund group founded by Henry Gabay, started a unit with
 Pedro Chomnalez , Credit Suisse Group AG’s former head of
investment banking in Latin America, and  Diego Gradowczyk ,
Barclays Plc’s ex-head of emerging-markets trading.  Duet Latin America is a partnership with CG Capital, an
investment company started by Chomnalez and Gradowczyk, London-
based Duet said today in an e-mailed statement. The company’s
first venture, Merchant Opportunity Fund, will focus on non-
financial assets and private equity in Latin America. Duet Latin
America may also help manage Duet’s Emerging Markets Real Estate
Debt Fund.  Credit Suisse  is losing some of its top talent as the
company reorganizes itself and cuts jobs.  Luigi de Vecchi , who
had been global co-head of investment banking, was hired by
Citigroup last week. The Swiss lender eliminated 120 jobs in New
York City in December after merging asset management with the
private bank to speed cost cutting. UBS AG, Switzerland’s
biggest bank, said last year it will cut 10,000 jobs and shrink
debt trading.  Chomnalez, 48, said last month he is leaving Credit Suisse
after 13 years at Switzerland’s second-largest bank and nine
years leading the firm in Latin America. Gradowczyk left
Barclays in 2010 after nine years as an emerging markets trader.  “Latin America is a strategic region for Duet, and this
partnership with Diego and Pedro, two of the most experienced
professionals in the region, will allow us to increase our asset
management capabilities in emerging markets,”  Gabay  said in the
statement.  ‘Longterm Value’  CG Capital will try to create “value in the long term,”
Chomnalez told Bloomberg last month. Initial investors include
families in Latin America and some in Europe, and the firm will
do business with Credit Suisse, he said.  Duet’s flagship  Global Plus  equity fund returned 11 percent
last year, while its Africa Opportunities fund climbed 28
percent. Its Mena Horizon fund, focused on the Middle East and
North Africa, rose 13 percent and its commodity fund lost 10
percent.  Prior to joining Credit Suisse, Chomnalez worked at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Gradowczyk was a fund manager at Compass
Group LLC before joining Barclays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  