-- EasyJet Founder Stelios to Defy Management at Investor Meeting
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-02-11T11:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/easyjet-founder-stelios-to-defy-management-at-investor-meeting.html
EasyJet Plc  founder  Stelios Haji- Ioannou  will extend a personal battle with the discount
carrier’s management at its annual meeting this month by voting
against Chairman  Mike Rake  even though he already plans to quit.  Rake, who will step down this summer, according to an
EasyJet statement Jan. 26, has “no long-term accountability for
his actions” and shouldn’t be allowed to take part in decision-
making, according to Stelios, who goes by his first name.  The entrepreneur has conducted a four-year campaign against
EasyJet’s growth strategy, arguing that the U.K. carrier should
focus more on delivering shareholder value, targeting a 10
percent profit margin and boosting dividend payouts to 50
percent of earnings. He’s specifically opposed to growing the
fleet with  Airbus SAS  jets, which he says represent poor value.  “We do not believe directors who have resigned should be
allowed to commit to a major program of capital expenditure that
will burden the company for five to seven years,” said Stelios,
who with his family controls almost 37 percent of EasyJet stock.
“I just want someone who hates Airbus and hates taking large
gambles with our money.”  Stelios said he has no opinion on the best candidate to
replace Rake, who was appointed chairman in January 2010 and
holds board positions at BT Group Plc and Barclays Plc. The
connection with the bank, fined 290 million pounds ($455
million) for rigging interbank lending rates, prompted Stelios
to force a resignation vote on Aug. 13, which he lost.  Institutional Support  EasyJet has said its board is reviewing internal and
external candidates to replace Rake, who says he’s willing to
remain chairman until a replacement is found. The airline will
hold its annual meeting at its Luton, England, base on Feb. 21.  “Our institutional shareholders have strongly supported
the board at recent general meetings and we are confident that
they will continue to do so,” EasyJet said yesterday.  Stelios cut his family’s holding for the first time since
2004 last month and says he’ll sell more shares if Europe’s
second-biggest low-cost carrier pursues further jet purchases.
The fleet is young in industry terms and already too big for the
winter schedule, he said, adding that if new planes are needed
models from  Boeing Co.  and  Bombardier Inc.  should be considered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  