-- Egyptians Rally at Mursi on Mubarak Ouster Anniversary
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/egyptians-rally-at-mursi-on-mubarak-ouster-anniversary.html
Thousands of Egyptians rallied
against President  Mohamed Mursi  on the second anniversary of his
predecessor’s ouster, sparking clashes as security forces used
water cannon and tear gas on protesters near the presidential
palace.  Security forces beefed up their presence outside the
presidential complex where dozens of demonstrators hurled stones
in the direction of the water cannon last night, the state-run
Middle East News Agency reported. Earlier, demonstrators
chanting slogans against Mursi and his Muslim Brotherhood,
temporarily blocked the 6th of October bridge spanning the Nile
in central Cairo while hundreds joined protests in the coastal
city of Alexandria, MENA said.  “We will never get tired of protesting against tyranny and
dictatorship,” said 19-year-old Ibrahim Abdullah, one of
hundreds who began gathering at Tahrir Square, the epicenter of
the anti-Mubarak uprising. “Nothing has changed since Mursi
took power. They cannot fool us by empty promises. Mursi is just
a bearded version of Mubarak.” Those around him at the plaza
echoed the same chant of the “People Want to Bring Down the
Regime” that demonstrators used against former President  Hosni Mubarak  two years ago.  The protests, some calling for Mursi’s ouster, are building
on weeks of unrest that have battered the president’s approval
ratings. His critics say he is becoming an Islamist copy of
Mubarak, seeking to advance the interests of his Muslim
Brotherhood and failing to pull Egypt out of its economic woes
or end police brutality.  Pound Weakens  The standoff between the president and his mostly secular
opponents comes after the Egyptian pound weakened to a record
low against the dollar, helping push inflation up, while the
economy has been growing at the  slowest pace  in two decades.
Tensions have boiled over into violence in recent weeks and
resurfaced at protests last weekend that left one person dead.  Some opposition groups, including the Egyptian Popular
Current, one of those that called for “peaceful” marches to
Tahrir yesterday, said Mursi “has broken a record in lying and
breaking promises.” Another group, the April 6 youth movement,
organized a march from the stock exchange to Tahrir Square.  Masked youths dubbing themselves the Black Bloc said on
Facebook that the protest would witness the “storming of the
palace,” asking Mursi to choose between “departure or chaos.”
The authenticity of the statement by the group, which is blamed
by authorities for some of the recent violence, couldn’t be
independently verified.  Protesters Killed  April 6 co-founder Mohamed Adel said his group’s march was
peaceful and demanded retribution for protesters killed in
clashes with security forces last year.  “We have a full list of peaceful measures that we can use
to escalate and to exert pressure until justice is served,”
Adel said by phone. April 6 took part in the anti-Mubarak
uprising and later threw its weight behind Mursi’s presidential
bid during a run-off against Mubarak’s last premier.  Yesterday’s protests in Cairo were peaceful until a small
number of people started trying to remove barbed wire outside
entrances to the palace compound and throwing stones, prompting
security forces to fire tear gas and drive them away, according
to an Interior Ministry statement.  Mursi’s approval rating has fallen since he became Egypt’s
first democratically elected civilian leader in June, according
to a poll by the research group Baseera. Conducted at the end of
January, it showed 39 percent of voters would re-elect him, an
11 percentage-point drop from the previous month.  Popularity Slips  The survey showed Mursi’s approval rating slipped to 53
percent from 63 percent in December, with the lowest level of
approval coming from young people and those with university
degrees. The survey of 2,303 people on Jan. 30-31 cited a margin
of error of about 3 percentage points.  Brotherhood officials have criticized the opposition for
the repeated protests, arguing that the rallies and ensuing
violence have stymied government efforts to stabilize the
country. They have urged parties to focus instead on legislative
elections due in the coming months.  “The opposition should shoulder the biggest share of
responsibility for any violence, for calling for protests while
everyone knows in advance the tensions they will inflame and the
violence they will cause,” Ahmed Aref, a spokesman for the
Muslim Brotherhood, said in a phone interview.  “Some opposition forces use street unrest to try to seize
the power that they could not win through the ballot box,” Aref
said. “They’re not capable of gaining people’s votes through
realistic programs and powerful candidates.”  IMF Talks  Political bickering has prolonged talks between Egypt and
the International Monetary Fund over a $4.8 billion loan.
Egyptian officials say the deal is necessary to help an economy
that stalled as the 2011 uprising and the turmoil that followed
kept investors and tourists away.  Demonstrators on Feb. 8 threw Molotov cocktails and rocks
at the presidential palace as thousands rallied against Mursi
and the Muslim Brotherhood, in protests that spread to other
parts of the country.  More than 50 people were killed in clashes in the week
after the Jan. 25 second anniversary of the start of the
uprising against Mubarak. The violence was exacerbated by death
sentences handed down in  connection to the country’s worst
soccer stadium clash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Salma El Wardany  in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  