-- Egypt Sells Least Dollars Since Auctions Began as Reserves Drop
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-11T13:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/egypt-offers-less-dollars-at-auction-as-u-s-voices-concern.html
Egypt sold the fewest dollars since
the start of foreign currency auctions in December as the
government seeks to stem the decline of foreign reserves. The
pound was little changed.  The central bank sold $37.8 million to local lenders today
at a weighted average price of 6.7082 Egyptian pounds a dollar
compared with 6.7043 pounds at the last sale Feb. 7, according
to the regulator’s data on Bloomberg. Banks received on average
29.6 percent of the amount they bid for. The pound was little
changed at 6.7182 a dollar as of 2:15 p.m. in Cairo, bringing
its decline to 7.9 percent since auctions started on Dec. 30.  Egypt’s foreign reserves fell the most in a year in January
even after the central bank moved to curb the availability of
dollars. The pound’s depreciation helped push consumer prices up
1.7 percent last month, the biggest monthly increase in more
than two years, according to government data.  Inflation concerns have prompted the central bank “to turn
to a crawling peg of the pound,”  Mohamed Kotb , regional asset
management director at Cairo-based  Naeem Financial , said by
phone. “Devaluation will continue but at a slower pace. The
central bank should be able to maintain this policy as long as
the gap between the official and black markets isn’t big.”  Lower Yields  Illegal dealers are charging customers a premium of between
3 percent to 5 percent for dollars, investment bank EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE said in a report last week.  While central bank policy seeks to curb unregulated
trading, restrictions on foreign currency access are helping
“undercut” investor interest in Egypt, U.S. Ambassador Anne
Patterson said yesterday. The exchange rate “needs to respect
fundamental laws of economics,” she in a speech in Alexandria.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 5.75 percent dollar
bonds due in April 2020 advanced two basis points, or 0.02 of a
percentage point, to 6.64 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  Egyptian treasury bond yields fell at an auction today
after the Finance Ministry said last week it will cut sales of
long-term debt by 44 percent. The average yield on notes due
2016 retreated five basis points to 14.48 percent, while that on
2023 debt fell four basis points to 16.48 percent. The
government raised 2.5 billion pounds at the auction, exceeding
its target by 67 percent, according to Finance Ministry data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  