-- Electronic Arts to Convert ‘Real Racing’ to Free Mobile Title
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-02-11T17:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/electronic-arts-to-convert-real-racing-to-free-mobile-title.html
Electronic Arts Inc.  will offer free
downloads of its newest “Real Racing” title as the second-
largest U.S. video-game publisher works to draw the increasing
number of gamers using mobile devices.  Electronic Arts will appeal to a wider audience of casual
players by making the “Real Racing 3” multiplayer game free,
said  Nick Earl , the company’s senior vice president for mobile
and social game development.  “The number of gamers we’re seeing moving to mobile
devices is extraordinary, and there’s just no sign of it slowing
down,” Earl said in an interview.  Video-game publishers have struggled to build momentum in
their packaged-title businesses as consumers flock to digitally
downloaded games that are available for a fraction of the $60
charged for big-budget titles sold at retail. Consumers spent
$8.88 billion on packaged titles last year, including used games
and rentals, down 21 percent form a year earlier, according to
researcher NPD Group Inc.  Electronic Arts, based in Redwood City, California,  rose 
0.8 percent to $17.50 at 11:55 a.m. New York time.  Mobile games generated about $100 million in revenue at
Electronic Arts in its fiscal third quarter, an increase of
about 18 percent. Smartphones and tablets accounted for $79
million, Chief Financial Officer  Blake Jorgensen  said on a
conference call this month.  “Real Racing 3” will be available on Feb. 28 on Apple
Inc.’s iPhone, iPad as well as Google Inc.’s Play and Amazon.com
Inc.’s application store.  Electronic Arts has been shifting popular franchise titles
such as “The Simpsons” and “FIFA” to the mobile model.
“Real Racing 3” features 900 different events and 600 hours of
total gameplay, Earl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  