-- Endo Seen Boosted by Fidelity-Favored Sale: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-02-11T15:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/endo-seen-boosted-by-fidelity-favored-sale-real-m-a.html
Endo Health Solutions Inc. ’s best
hope at regaining investor confidence after losing more than $1
billion in market value is to undo the acquisitions that built
the company or find a buyer.  Chief Executive Officer  David Holveck  is retiring two years
after bolting a medical-device business onto his pain-treatment
operations. Instead of the “ideal strategic fit” he promised,
the stock  lost  27 percent since Holveck agreed to pay almost $3
billion for American Medical Systems Holdings Inc., leaving Endo
with the lowest valuation in the U.S. specialty pharmaceuticals
industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fidelity Investments, Endo’s largest  shareholder , is now
pushing for a sale, people with knowledge of the matter said
last week. On average, analysts see Endo getting at least a 26
percent premium in a deal. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.
or Covidien Plc could go after parts or all of Endo given its
attractive generic-drug, pain-treatment and urology-device
units, according to Stifel Financial Corp. Gabelli & Co. said
Endo could break up or sell its pain drugs to Warner Chilcott
Plc or Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc.  “Endo needs to have some sort of value-creating event, and
splitting up seems like the best path,”  Kevin Kedra , an analyst
at Gabelli in Rye, New York, said in a phone interview.
“Individual pieces of the business would be attractive to
buyers,” he said. “It was the right intention to diversify the
business, but the execution wasn’t there.”  Investor Pressure  Blaine Davis , a spokesman for Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania-
based Endo, said the $3.4 billion company doesn’t comment on
speculation, when asked whether it’s considering a breakup or
sale or if it’s been approached by suitors. Jeffrey Cathie, a
Fidelity spokesman, declined to comment, saying that the firm
doesn’t discuss individual holdings.  Endo said in December that Holveck would leave in May or as
soon as a successor is found. A replacement hasn’t been named
yet. Representatives of Boston-based Fidelity met with the board
several times last year and pressed for his ouster, said one of
the people, who asked not to be named because the talks were
private. A month before the retirement was announced, Endo
reported the first  drop  in quarterly sales since 2006.  The stock was valued at the end of last week at 8.6 times
the past 12 months of earnings, the lowest among U.S. specialty
pharmaceutical companies larger than $1 billion, which fetched a
median multiple of 27, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Globally, only Dublin-based Warner Chilcott, a drugmaker
specializing in women’s health and dermatology, is  cheaper  at
7.6 times earnings.  Deal Estimates  On average, analysts from Buckingham Research Group Inc.,
Cowen Group Inc., Gabelli and Stifel estimate Endo would get at
least $37.50 a share in a sale. The stock ended at $29.75 last
week, with its market value down $1.4 billion since the American
Medical Systems deal was announced in April 2011.  “In 2012, Endo floundered a bit,”  Annabel Samimy , a New
York-based analyst for Stifel, said in a phone interview. “It
looks cheap.”  Today, Endo advanced 0.7 percent, the third-biggest gain in
the Standard & Poor’s MidCap 400 Health Care Index, to $29.95 at
10:10 a.m. New York time.  Endo’s businesses remain appealing, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 Chris Schott  said.  ‘Prudent’ Choice  “A number of industry participants would be interested in
Endo’s generic, pain and urology franchises,” Schott, a New
York-based analyst at JPMorgan, wrote in a Jan. 30 report. “It
would be prudent for Endo’s board to consider all strategic
options while seeking new leadership.”  Endo isn’t running a sale process and has so far focused
instead on replacing Holveck, said one of the people familiar
with the matter.  Mallinckrodt Plc, the drug business that Covidien is
spinning off, could bolster its position in pain medicines by
adding Endo’s drugs and accompanying sales force, Stifel’s
Samimy said. Endo’s top pain treatments are Lidoderm, a patch
that faces generic competition beginning in September, and
Opana. Covidien, the Dublin-based maker of surgical accessories
and operating-room products, could benefit from Endo’s urology
devices and services, she said.  “The urology business at Endo is a nice, neat package,”
the analyst said. “If you want a franchise in an area of
medicine that’s not particularly crowded and that’s got good
relationships, it’s not a bad franchise to add.”  ‘Natural Fit’  The pharmaceutical segment would be a “natural fit” for
Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva, the world’s largest maker of
generic drugs, Samimy said.  Bruce Farmer , a spokesman for Covidien, said the company
doesn’t comment on market speculation, when asked whether
Covidien or Mallinckrodt are interested in Endo. Teva’s  Denise Bradley  also declined to comment.  Warner Chilcott and Valeant, Canada’s largest publicly
traded drugmaker, may also be interested in Endo’s
pharmaceutical business, Gabelli’s Kedra said.  “It would fit in very well,” he said. “I’m not sure how
much the devices appeal to them, though, so a separation of
Endo’s two businesses may have to be the first step before they
can really find a buyer.”  Warner Chilcott, which sells contraceptives and colitis
treatments, was among the companies that Fidelity contacted to
gauge their interest in Endo, a person familiar with the matter
said last week. Warner Chilcott is using Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to advise on the matter, said another person.  Valeant’s Deals  Valeant has done about 50 deals for companies or assets
since  Michael Pearson  became CEO in 2008, Jared Levy, a
spokesman for the Montreal-based company, said in September. Its
most recently announced takeover was Medicis Pharmaceutical
Corp. for $2.4 billion, completed in December.  Rochelle Fuhrmann, a spokeswoman for Warner Chilcott,
didn’t respond to a request for comment. Valeant’s  Laurie Little 
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Endo also may appeal to private-equity firms, which could
break the company up and boost profits at the drug business,
Gabelli’s Kedra said.  Ken Cacciatore , a New York-based analyst at Cowen, says a
deal is unlikely because almost all of Endo’s units are “under
pressure.” Still, he says it should try to find a buyer.  “It would make sense for the board to pursue all strategic
alternatives before they embark upon what could be a really long
and potentially painful restructuring,” Cacciatore said in a
phone interview. “They could stop and check this out before
embarking on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  