-- Engage With the World
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2013-02-11T23:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/engage-with-the-world.html
If I were President Obama, I might
suggest the following on foreign policy:  “As the Cold War fades into memory, voices of isolation
say America should retreat from its responsibilities. I say they
are wrong. The threats we face today as Americans respect no
nation’s borders. Think of them: terrorism, the spread of
weapons of mass destruction, organized crime, drug trafficking,
ethnic and religious hatred, aggression by rogue states,
environmental degradation. If we fail to address these threats
today, we will suffer the consequences in all our tomorrows.  ‘‘Of course, we can’t be everywhere. Of course, we can’t do
everything. But where our interests and our values are at stake,
and where we can make a difference, America must lead. We must
 not be  isolationist.  ‘‘To those nations who would make themselves our adversary,
we offer not a pledge but a  request : that both sides begin anew
the quest for peace, before the dark powers of destruction
unleashed by science engulf all humanity in planned or
accidental self-destruction.  ‘‘We dare not tempt them with weakness. For only when our
arms are sufficient beyond doubt can we be certain beyond doubt
that they will never be employed.’’  These lines are not original; they are from Presidents  Bill Clinton  in 1996 and John F. Kennedy in 1961.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. Her biography, ‘‘Coolidge,’’ will be published in
February 2013. The opinions expressed are her own. This is one
of 11 suggestions Bloomberg View columnists made for the foreign
policy section of Barack Obama's State of the Union address.
Read more  here .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 