-- ESPN Accused in Dish Case of Giving Comcast Better Terms
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-11T23:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/espn-accused-in-dish-case-of-giving-comcast-better-terms.html
Dish Network Corp.  is seeking $152
million from  Walt Disney Co. ’s ESPN for allegedly breaching a
contract by offering competitors including  Comcast Corp . better
licensing terms for sports programming.  Dish, the third largest pay-TV provider, sued ESPN in 2009
for violating a so-called most-favored-nation clause in their
distribution agreement, which it said requires the sports
network to offer Dish the same terms it offers a competitor.  “In violation of the most favored nations provision ESPN
provided more favorable terms to Dish’s competitors and made a
calculated decision not to offer those same conditions to
Dish,” Barry Ostrager, a lawyer for Dish at Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP, said in his opening statement to jurors today at
the start of a jury trial in Manhattan federal court.  ESPN argued in a court filing that it eventually granted
Dish the terms offered to competitors. U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl  denied a motion for judgment without a trial in April
2011, saying it was up to a jury to decide whether the terms
were similar.  “All contracts are confidential and for most-favored-
nation, it’s difficult to maintain compliance,” Aditi Bagchi, a
professor of contract law at  Fordham University Law School  in
New York, said in a phone interview. “Suing is a way to extract
information. Dish can claim the contract’s been violated and
force some information out of ESPN.”  TV distributors pay ESPN and other cable programmers fees
based on ratings and the number of subscribers. According to the
media research firm SNL Kagan, ESPN charges TV providers about
$5.13 a month per subscriber, one of the highest rates in the
industry.  DirecTV Deal  In court papers, Englewood, Colorado-based Dish listed
various deals it said were offered only to competitors. Dish
said ESPN allowed  DirecTV , the second largest pay-TV provider
and a rival in the satellite-TV business, to move the sports
documentary network ESPN Classic to a less-populated tier of
subscribers, which would result in lower payments. ESPN also let
DirecTV pay a lower rate per subscriber for the Spanish-language
network ESPN Deportes, Dish said.  Dish claimed that ESPN offered  Comcast , the largest pay-TV
company, the right to distribute the college sports network
ESPNU to bars and taverns on better terms than it got.  ESPN has denied the allegations and said in court filings
it had “no obligation under the agreement to provide any
networks to Dish other than on terms specified in the
agreement.”  “Dish doesn’t want to live up to the obligations of the
contract it signed,” Diane Sullivan, a lawyer for ESPN from
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, said today in her opening statement.
“Dish wanted a far far better deal than ESPN had with any of
its TV distributors.”  Distribution Agreement  Dish and ESPN signed an eight-year distribution agreement
in 2005. Dish said in its complaint that it learned from press
releases and news reports in 2009 that ESPN had made deals with
Comcast and DirecTV that “contain more favorable provisions
than ESPN has given to Dish.” In June 2009, Dish sent a letter
to ESPN demanding the same terms and claimed that ESPN failed to
offer them.  Since the lawsuit was filed, Dish has said that ESPN also
made more favorable agreements with the TV distributors  Time
Warner Cable Inc.,   Verizon Communications Inc . and  AT&T Inc .
None of Dish’s competitors are named as defendants in the suit.  “This comes down to whether our partner will uphold the
terms of our agreement or not,” John Hall, a Dish spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “We look forward to presenting our case and
prevailing on the merits.”  Three Weeks  Koeltl said during a pre-trial conference on Feb. 7 that
the trial will last three weeks.  Dish fell 53 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $37.11 in Nasdaq
Stock Market  trading . The shares have risen 2 percent this year.
Disney climbed 9 cents to $54.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The  shares  have increased 10 percent this year.  ESPN is 80 percent owned by Burbank, California-based
Disney and 20 percent by New York-based Hearst Corp.  The case is Dish Network LLC v. ESPN Inc., 09-06875, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  