-- Estonian GDP Beats Estimates to Grow 3.7% in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-02-11T12:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/estonian-gdp-grows-3-7-in-fourth-quarter-above-estimate.html
Estonia’s economy unexpectedly kept
its pace of expansion in the fourth quarter after renewed Nordic
export demand.  Gross domestic product rose 3.7 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 3.5 percent increase in the third
quarter, the statistics office, based in the capital, Tallinn,
said today on its website. That beat the 3 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts. GDP grew a
seasonally adjusted 0.9 percent from the previous three months.  The Baltic economy is set for the euro-area’s fastest
growth this year after outpacing the rest of the European Union
in 2011, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip told Bloomberg in an
interview last month. GDP may rise about 3 percent in 2013
following a 2.5 percent to 3 percent expansion last year, he
said.  Growth “appears to have been driven by the strong recovery
in the production of electronics,”  Liza Ermolenko , a London-
based economist with Capital Economics Ltd., said by e-mail.
“As we expect the euro-zone to remain in recession over the
coming quarters, it’s unlikely that external demand will
strengthen further.”  As Europe’s debt crisis sapped Nordic export demand, the
$22 billion Baltic economy has been buffeted by rising corporate
investment and public-sector construction financed by sales of
spare United Nations carbon quotas. GDP may rise 2.5 percent
this year, Ermolenko estimates.  Estonia, which adopted the euro two years ago, has no
outstanding bonds, so investors speculate on its
creditworthiness by trading credit-default swaps. Their cost for
five years has plummeted to 61 basis points, the fifth-lowest in
the euro area, from a peak of 737 in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Toby Alder at 
 talder@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Langley at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net  