-- Ethiopia Coaxes Investors as It Struggles to Finance Growth Plan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-02-11T10:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ethiopia-coaxes-investors-as-it-struggles-to-finance-growth-plan.html
Ethiopia’s government plans to
attract more foreign investment and boost domestic savings as it
struggles to finance infrastructure and other development
projects, State Minister of Finance Abraham Tekeste said.  The government is seeking “concessional loans” from
development banks for roads and power lines and is
“aggressively promoting” investment from Europe and the Middle
East, Abraham said in an interview in the capital, Addis Ababa.
Natural resources, improving infrastructure and cheap labor and
power mean there are “bankable” opportunities in areas such as
chemicals and agro-processing, he said.  Africa’s second-most populous nation plans to spend 144
billion birr ($7.8 billion) developing its economy this fiscal
year as part of a five-year plan that ends in mid-2015.
Investments are to be made in rail, power, sugar, roads and
housing projects as Ethiopia seeks to become an industrialized
middle-income nation by 2025.  “Finance has become a challenge,” Abraham said on Feb. 8.
“As we intensify implementation of the plan, finance is
increasingly becoming a critical constraint.”  Growth in sub-Saharan Africa’s  fourth-biggest economy 
slowed to 8.5 percent in the 12 months to July 7, the end of
Ethiopia’s fiscal year, from 11.4 percent a year earlier, as
agricultural productivity gains slowed, Abraham said. The
expansion is expected to accelerate to more than 10 percent this
year as investment in farming boosts output, he said. The
International Monetary Fund projects growth will be 6.5 percent.  Plan ‘Rethink’  The government has been urged by the IMF to “rethink” its
infrastructure investments and modify a requirement that
commercial banks buy central-bank securities equivalent to 27
percent of the loans to help fund development projects. The
Washington-based lender also advised the government to raise
official interest rates, which are currently at about 5 percent.  Demand for credit from public enterprises is crimping
private industry and an inflation rate well above lending rates
is discouraging saving, the IMF said in October. Annual
inflation slowed to 12.5 percent in January from 12.9 percent
the month before, according to the country’s statistics agency.  The government will conduct a mid-term review of the five-
year growth plan at the end of this fiscal year, Abraham said.
Projects that boost business, such as a railway that links Addis
Ababa to Djibouti, the country’s main trade route, and
hydropower dams, will be prioritized, he said.  China, India  The Export-Import Bank of China loaned Ethiopia $475
million for railways in June, according to Finance Ministry
data. The government is also discussing advances with India and
other countries for the project, Abraham said.  While the country experienced a surge in demand for foreign
exchange due to “uncertainty” at the time of former Prime
Minister  Meles Zenawi ’s illness and death in August, the central
bank’s reserves haven’t dropped below the “critical level” of
covering three months’ worth of imports, Abraham said.
Ethiopia’s trade deficit was $7.5 billion last year.  Ethiopia’s national savings rate as a proportion of gross
domestic product increased to 16.5 percent from 12.8 percent
last year as business saved for investment, bank branches were
opened, people were educated about the benefits of saving and
new instruments were offered, including bonds to fund what will
be Africa’s largest hydropower project, the Grand Ethiopian
Renaissance Dam, Abraham said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  