-- EU Data-Privacy Law Overhaul Backed by Telecom Industry
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-02-11T10:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/eu-data-privacy-law-overhaul-backed-by-telecom-industry.html
Reform of the European Union’s
almost 18-year-old data-protection rules to ensure they apply to
all companies in the EU market equally has the backing of the
bloc’s largest telecom industry group.  “The data-protection regulation is a major move toward
establishing a truly level playing field, allowing all players
in the EU to compete on equal footing,” said Luigi Gambardella,
chairman of the European Telecommunications Network Operators’
Association.  The industry group, with members including Deutsche Telekom
AG, Eircom Group Ltd. and Telefonica SA, put out a joint
statement with EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  today.  Reding in January 2012 presented plans to entirely reform
the data-protection rules that apply to the bloc’s 27 member
nations. The draft rules, which are being studied and need the
backing by EU lawmakers and ministers, would apply to any
company active in Europe, including U.S. companies such as
Facebook Inc. and Google Inc., Reding said in 2011.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, and Facebook
are among several U.S. Internet companies that have faced
scrutiny in the EU for possible privacy-rule violations over
their use of personal data.  Data-protection officials from 30 European countries have
pushed Google, Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo! Inc. to limit the
amount of time they store search records. The same group has
criticized Facebook for policy changes that could have harmed
users’ privacy rights.  “Our proposed rules are creating a level-playing field:
non-EU companies, when offering services to EU consumers, will
have to apply the same rules and adhere to the same levels of
protection of personal data,” Reding said in the same statement.
“If companies outside the EU want to operate on the European
market then they have to play by the European rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 