-- EU Politicians See Pressure of Leadership in Pope Resignation
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-02-11T15:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/eu-politicians-see-pressure-of-leadership-in-pope-resignation.html
The politicians steering Europe
through its three-year financial crisis said  Pope Benedict XVI ’s
decision to step down shows the pressures of leadership.  Pope Benedict, the 265th leader of the Roman Catholic
Church, said today he no longer has the strength to lead the
world’s 1 billion Catholics and will resign at the end of the
month, the first such abdication in almost 600 years.  The resignation shows “the unique pressures of spiritual
leadership in the modern world,” said Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , who last week brokered a deal on bank debt that will save
his country 20 billion euros ($27 billion). “Pope Benedict has
given strong leadership and great service to the church and her
people.”  Benedict will become the first pontiff to resign since
Gregory XII in 1415 and the announcement took even senior church
officials by surprise, Vatican spokesman Father  Federico Lombardi  said at a press conference in Rome.  “I’m very shaken by this unexpected news,” outgoing
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  told reporters today on the
sidelines of an event in Milan, as reported by Ansa.  As the global credit crisis unfolded, Benedict found his
voice as an advocate for a new financial and social order in the
aftermath of the market meltdown. As an octogenarian, he
published a well-timed, 150-page encyclical calling for a new
economic order.  “He will be missed as a spiritual leader to millions,”
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in an e-mailed statement.
“He has worked tirelessly to strengthen Britain’s relations
with the Holy See.”  Guillotine  After his election as pontiff, he compared the job he was
about to accept with a guillotine falling toward his neck, and
to capital punishment.  Succeeding a revered pope who was swiftly put on the path
to sainthood, Benedict discovered not only that he couldn’t
match John Paul II’s charisma but that some of the failings of
his predecessor would come to haunt his own papacy.  The church came in for criticism at the start of his tenure
for doing too little to punish pedophile priests and even
covering up evidence of their abuse.  “This is a human decision and a decision based on a will
that must be respected,” President  Francois Hollande , head of
France, which is legally secular.  The 85 year-old pontiff has been in his position for almost
eight years after succeeding  John Paul II . He came to prominence
when his predecessor tapped then-cardinal Ratzinger in 1981 to
head the body that tried the astronomer Galileo Galilei for
heresy in the 17th century.  “In an era in which we live our lives longer, many will be
able to understand how the pope must also confront the burden of
age,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  told reporters today in
Berlin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  