-- EU Said to Waive Spain’s Bailout Pledge on Bank Risk Controls
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-02-11T11:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/eu-said-to-waive-spain-s-bailout-pledge-on-bank-risk-controls.html
European Union officials waived the
requirement in last year’s bank bailout that Spain tighten risk
controls because policy makers are writing common rules for the
27-nation bloc, two people familiar with the matter said.  Spanish regulators won’t have to implement a plan to revamp
loan-loss provisions and bolster curbs on concentration of
credit in businesses such as real estate, the people said. EU
and European Central Bank officials decided during a visit to
Madrid last month that the region-wide regulations will be
enough, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
talks are private.  The move lifts the threat of a third wave of bad-loan set-
asides since January 2012 by struggling lenders such as  Banco
Popular Espanol SA  and  Bankia SA . It may also help spur the flow
of credit to an economy that has shrunk three of the past four
years.  “The changes in the provisions last year, while they were
arguably needed, contributed to credit restrictions and, in
turn, to the recession,” said  Salvador Ruiz Bachs , a Madrid-
based partner of the banking regulatory practice at Allen &
Overy LLP.  The shift on banking strategy follows budget chief  Olli Rehn ’s signal last month that he’s ready to ease Spanish budget-
deficit targets to ease the economic slump.  Simon O’Connor , a spokesman for Rehn, referred to his Feb.
4  statement , in which he said that “important decisions have
been taken to reinforce the supervision and regulation of the
sector.”  Bank of Spain  A Madrid-based press officer at Bank of Spain, who asked
not to be identified in line with policy, declined to comment. A
press official at the Economy Ministry referred questions to
Bank of Spain officials.  Officials are trying to stitch together the continent’s
banking markets under ECB oversight as a bulwark against future
shocks as Germany shies away from backstopping Spanish lenders
that racked up 180 billion euros ($241 billion) of toxic assets
during the real estate crash.  The Spanish government has spent about 40 billion euros
from an EU bailout package cleaning up the banks.  Bad loans  as a
proportion of total lending at Spanish banks jumped to a record
11.38 percent.  Spain won’t need to propose further measures for lenders to
cap their exposure to risky activities because the ECB, which
will take over the supervision of euro area banks in 2014, will
enforce continent-wide rules, said the people. The Bank of Spain
will continue assessing Spain’s banking provision and risk-
management framework and will pass on its conclusions to the
ECB, one of the people said.  Basel Rules  The EU is working out how to apply the latest version of
the Basel banking rules that will harmonize the capital and
provision charges across the continent as the ECB takes over
supervision. The region is weighing a Jan. 1, 2014, date for the
gradual phase-in of Basel capital rules, one year later than
initially expected.  “We can’t afford going on our own with separate
legislations,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said at a Feb. 7
press conference. “Eventually we’ll have to converge on one
rule for the euro area and possibly for the union. This is in
the interests of everybody.”  Spain got an EU bailout of as much as 100 billion euros to
restructure its financial sector, saddled with bad real estate
loans after a decade-long boom collapsed. Under the conditions,
the country was committed to bolster its regulation and banking
supervision.  Spain increased the provisions lenders need to set aside
twice last year, forcing banks like Popular to cut shareholders’
dividends and weaker lenders led by Bankia were forced to take a
bailout from taxpayers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  