-- Euro Area Discusses Cyprus Amid Depositor Losses Pushback
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-02-11T20:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/euro-area-discusses-cyprus-amid-depositor-losses-pushback.html
Euro-area finance ministers kept all
options open as they worked on a rescue plan for Cyprus, even as
Cypriot officials ruled out imposing losses on depositors in the
country’s banks.  No measure should be taken off the table as policy makers
await the outcome of Cyprus’s presidential election later this
month, Luxembourg Finance Minister  Luc Frieden  told reporters
before a meeting of euro-area finance chiefs in Brussels today.  “This is one of the options that I don’t find very good
because one should try first not to create new rules with every
bailout plan, but we should discuss everything,” Frieden said.  Negotiations in the eight months since Cyprus became the
fifth euro country to seek aid have focused on the size and
terms of a rescue for the government and lenders weakened by
their exposure to the Greek economy. Cyprus also faces questions
about alleged money-laundering and the role of Russian money in
its financial sector.  Cypriot financial institutions such as Bank of Cyprus Plc
and Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl lost more than 4 billion euros ($5.4
billion) in a Greek debt restructuring that was part of a second
international rescue of Greece last year.  Cyprus will need an independent assessment of its anti-
money laundering regulations before an agreement can be reached
on final rescue terms, Dutch Finance Minister  Jeroen Dijsselbloem , who chairs meetings of his euro-area colleagues,
told reporters after the talks. A private-sector firm will need
to do the assessment, he said.  Loss-Sharing Efforts  “We continue to expect that an agreement on the program
could be reached as of March,” Dijsselbloem said.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said the European Commission hasn’t proposed targeting
depositors in loss-sharing efforts. Dijsselbloem said ministers
didn’t discuss specific measures today.  “We zoomed in on the issue of anti-money laundering and
didn’t go into any possible or not possible elements of a
program,” Dijsselbloem said.  Vassos Shiarly , the Cypriot finance minister, rejected a
so-called bail-in of depositors, which he said would violate the
country’s laws.  “The bail-in of depositors is a grossly exaggerated
possibility, unlikely to happen,” Shiarly told reporters. “We
will not accept it under any circumstances and I don’t think it
creates any way forward.”  ‘Independent Assessment’  The  Central Bank of Cyprus  said in a statement that
imposing losses on depositors would violate the country’s
constitution.  “Both we and the Cypriot authorities remain committed to
signing a memorandum of understanding as soon as possible and
are cooperating” with the so-called troika that oversees euro-
area bailouts “on all required measures including the ongoing
independent assessment of our strong anti-money laundering
regime,” the bank said. “Cyprus is strongly committed to
protecting investors and depositors in our country.”  The Institute of International Finance, a Washington-based
trade group that helped negotiate last year’s Greek debt
restructuring, said the euro area faces a challenge as it seeks
to shore up Cyprus.  “Despite its diminutive size, it might still be
systemically important in the sense that there are potentially
important policy precedents in play,” IIF Managing Director  Tim Adams  told reporters in Washington today. “We think there are,
especially in respect of how depositors might be treated going
forward.”  Shiarly said his government has been given to understand
that its request to Russia for an extension of a 2.5 billion-
euro loan will be granted “very soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Brussels at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Brussels at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  