-- Euro-Skeptic Grillo Pushes for Italy Debt Renegotiation
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2013-02-12T16:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/euro-skeptic-grillo-pushes-for-italy-debt-renegotiation-in-vote.html
Beppe Grillo , the Italian comic
poised to play a spoiler in this month’s national elections, is
gaining ground in opinion polls as he campaigns for sovereign
debt relief to revive the country’s stagnant economy.  “The debt must be renegotiated and the interest on the
debt must be renegotiated,” Grillo said yesterday in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Trento. “We won’t have growth
in this country for 10 years if the climate stays as it is.”  Grillo, a self-described populist, has rallied to nearly 20
percent in some polls with a call to reconsider euro membership
and to drive established politicians from parliament. The 64-
year-old former stand-up comic and yogurt  pitchman  is travelling
the country doing two rallies a day before the Feb. 24-25
general election. He spoke to 2,000 people in the mountain town
of Bolzano on Feb. 10 before a rally in Trento.  “The debt is growing, the only thing that’s growing,”
Grillo said. “It’s darkness, a darkness that has oppressed and
is oppressing ordinary people.”  Grillo’s Five Star Movement has gained on both front-runner
 Pier Luigi Bersani  and the coalition led by former premier
 Silvio Berlusconi , currently running second. Support for
Grillo’s party rose to 18.8 percent in a Feb. 8 SWG Institute
poll from 15.9 percent in a Jan 11 survey. That compares with a
decline of 1.1 percentage points to 33.8 percent for Bersani and
gains of 2.5 percentage points for Berlusconi over the same
period.  Political Spoiler  Grillo has embraced the ambition of political spoiler. His
goal, he said, is to get 100 of the 945 elected seats in Italy’s
Chamber of Deputies and Senate. In opposition, Grillo said his
party will bring transparency to parliament and push to bring
down whatever government takes over in six to eight months.  “We’re going to open parliament, as I say, like a can of
tuna and make laws understandable,” Grillo said. “It’s going
to be death for them,” he said of established parties.  Grillo’s gains may make it more difficult for Bersani to
form a government, said  Roberto Perli , managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group in Washington. The
most probable scenario is that Bersani wins enough seats to
govern on his own or in a coalition with Prime Minister  Mario Monti , Perli said.  Still, Bersani, a former communist and labor union
favorite, and Monti, currently running fourth in polls, may not
have enough seats between them to form a government, Perli said
in a Feb. 11 research note.  Greek Situation  “This could happen if Berlusconi and/or if Five Stars does
really well at the regional level, which is not what polls
suggest as of now but again can’t be ruled out,” Perli said.
“Italy would have little choice but to go to new elections in
short order, probably in the late spring or early summer.
Comparisons with the Greek situation last year would be invited,
and the market reaction would likely be very unfavourable.”  Grillo has gained traction among voters in Italy as the
country sinks deeper into recession and unemployment rises.
Europe’s second-biggest debtor after Greece, the Italian
government under Monti raised taxes and cut spending to shield
the country from the sovereign debt crisis. That remedy helped
push joblessness to the highest in more than 13 years.  “If with his shouting and his damaging populism he wants
to transform Italy into Greece, let him do it,” Monti said
today about Grillo’s campaign, speaking on RAI television’s
“Uno Mattina” program. “I don’t want to have anything to do
with such populism and I will do everything in order to fight
it.”  Car Accident  While Grillo is leading the Five Star campaign, he isn’t
running for election himself because he says convicted criminals
should be barred from parliament. Grillo was convicted of
manslaughter stemming from a one-car accident in the 1980s that
killed two friends and their son. He declined to comment about
the incident in the interview.  “This is a marvelous country with extraordinary potential
that has been pulped and torn apart by the truly shameful
politics in this country,” Grillo said. “They all have to be
sent home.”  Grillo tells crowds at his rallies they have been duped by
a system in which groups like political parties, banks, masons
and the mafia conspire to their own advantage. Italy should
institute stipends of 900 euros ($1,207) a month for people who
lose their jobs, while compensation for bankers should be capped
at 12 times worker salaries and parties should be denied funding
from the state, he says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Rotondi  in Trento at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in Trento at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 