-- Europe Stocks Fall as Novo Nordisk Plunges on Drug Delay
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-11T17:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/european-stock-futures-gain-as-ministers-discuss-cyprus.html
European stocks  fell, extending a
two-week decline, as Novo Nordisk A/S sank the most in almost
four years after failing to win U.S. approval for a new drug.  Novo Nordisk , the world’s largest insulin maker, tumbled 13
percent. Lundin Petroleum AB lost 10 percent after the company
said resources at its Johan Sverdrup oil discovery in the North
Sea may be toward the low end of forecasts. Royal Ahold NV
rallied 3.8 percent after agreeing to sell its 60 percent stake
in ICA, Sweden’s largest food retailer, for $3.1 billion.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.6 percent to 285.62 at
the close of trading. The gauge has still advanced 2.1 percent
this year after U.S. lawmakers agreed on a budget avoiding tax
increases and spending cuts that had threatened to push the
world’s largest economy into a recession.  Stocks “were off to the races at the beginning of the year
and it was too much to be sustainable,”  Frances Hudson , who
helps manage about $248 billion as a strategist at Standard Life
Investments in London, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
with Francine Lacqua. “Having a nice pause to consolidate is a
good thing and allows people to take a more measured approach.”  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 29 percent lower than the 30-day average today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, with most markets in Asia, including
Japan, China and Hong Kong, closed for the Lunar New Year.  Ministers Meeting  Ministers from the 17-member euro area met today to discuss
aid to Cyprus and Greece as a tightening election contest in
Italy and a political scandal in Spain threaten to reignite the
region’s debt crisis. Group of 20 finance chiefs and central
bankers will gather in Moscow on Friday.  European companies from Barclays Plc to Total SA and
Heineken NV are due to report earnings this week, Bloomberg data
show. Stoxx 600 members are forecast to increase dividends by
1.8 percent in 2013, according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Companies around the world are rewarding shareholders with
the highest dividends in more than two decades compared with
bond interest payments. Companies in the MSCI World Index paid
out an average 2.7 percent of their share price as of last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the
2.6 percent yield on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Corporate Index of investment-grade bonds and 6.1 percent for
securities in the Barclays Global High-Yield Index.  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX slipped 0.2 percent, while the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 climbed 0.2 percent and France’s CAC 40 added
less than 0.1 percent. Denmark’s  OMX Copenhagen 20 Index , which
is 43 percent composed of Novo Nordisk shares, sank 6.6 percent
for the biggest decline since October 2008.  “Following the very strong performance in January we
believe markets may have temporarily got ahead of
fundamentals,” said  Philippe Bonnefoy , chief investment officer
at Newscape Capital Group in London. “We are therefore
marginally reducing the overall risks equity exposure across our
portfolios to secure some of the strong gains and to protect
investors from some of the correction that we expect lies
ahead.”  Novo Nordisk, which accounts for 0.9 percent of the Stoxx
600 by  weighting , lost 141.50 kroner to 928.50 kroner, the
biggest drop since April 2009. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration said its Tresiba diabetes medication can’t be
approved without additional data on heart safety and the Danish
drugmaker won’t be able to provide the information this year,
according to a statement from Novo Nordisk.  Sanofi Surges  Sanofi, which competes with Novo Nordisk to dominate the
diabetes market with its Lantus insulin, climbed 3.4 percent to
71.40 euros in Paris.  Lundin Petroleum  fell 17 kronor to 147.90 kronor in
Stockholm after saying resources in its part of the Johan
Sverdrup discovery will probably be within the lower half of the
forecast for 800 million to 1.8 billion barrels of oil
equivalent. Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA, which owns parts of the
discovery, declined 4.3 percent to 82.25 kroner.  Fugro NV  dropped 7.8 percent to 38.81 euros in Amsterdam
after supervisory board Vice Chairman Frans Cremers quit the
biggest deepwater-oilfield surveyor. The company said in a
statement that changes in financial organisation of Fugro “were
not adequately carried through.”  Ahold Advances  Ahold climbed 40 cents to 11 euros after the retailer
agreed to sell a stake in ICA to Hakon Invest AB for 20 billion
kronor ($3.1 billion). Ahold will also pay a 1.2 billion-kronor
dividend payment from ICA to Hakon.  Wacker Chemie AG increased 8.8 percent to 60.48 euros after
the polysilicon maker ramped up production at a plant in
Burghausen, Germany, citing growing demand from its solar-power
customers. The company had put about 700 employees at the plan
on shorter hours in October.  Bilfinger SE gained 2.3 percent to 75.65 euros after
Germany’s second-largest construction company  forecast  an
increase in profit in 2013, driven by savings and demands for
engineering work and services in the power industry. The company
reported a 2 percent gain in sales last year to 8.64 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  