-- Galleon’s Far Gets One Year Probation After Aiding U.S.
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ex-galleon-manager-far-gets-one-year-probation-after-aiding-u-s-.html
Ali Far , a former Galleon Group LLC
fund manager, was spared a prison sentence after giving
prosecutors “substantial assistance” by secretly recording
conversations with the fund’s co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam  and
three other insider traders.  Far, 51, who worked for Rajaratnam from 1999 to 2007 and
left Galleon to start Spherix Capital LLC with  Richard Choo-Beng Lee , was sentenced yesterday to one year of probation. He agreed
to cooperate with the government’s then-covert probe of Galleon
after he and Lee were approached by Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents in April 2009. Lee also pleaded guilty and
is cooperating with the U.S. He hasn’t been sentenced.  Far worked covertly for six months for the U.S., recording
at the direction of the FBI about 244 phone calls, Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told U.S. District Judge  Robert Patterson  in Manhattan yesterday. Far’s cooperation continued
for three and a half more years, his lawyer, Andrew Lourie,
said.  “The defendant was instrumental in Mr. Rajaratnam’s
conviction and it’s vital to get credit for that,” Patterson
said. “I’m going to take into account that for all intents and
purposes, the defendant has been in probation for the last four
years when he has had to report to the U.S.”  The judge fined Far $100,000 and ordered him to perform 100
days of community service. At the request of prosecutors, Far
was instructed to continue cooperating with the government. Far
had already agreed to forfeit $667,000 in illicit profit from
his insider trading, Lourie told the judge.  ‘Right Thing’  “We all have to learn from our mistakes; you did the right
thing here, Mr. Far,” Patterson said. “Good luck to you.”  With his voice choking with emotion, Far apologized to the
court and his wife and children for his crimes.  “I’m truly sorry for my mistakes and I’m ashamed,” Far
said. “While I can’t change the past, I promise that I’ll do
what I can to make up for it.”  More than 70 people have been charged and convicted with
insider trading since August 2009 as part of a nationwide
crackdown by the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara 
and the FBI in New York.  Far, who was born in Iran and came to the U.S. as a
teenager, “proactively” aided the government’s covert
investigation from April to October 2009, when Rajaratnam and
others were arrested, Brodsky said yesterday.  Kept Tabs  Far’s recorded calls to Rajaratnam enabled the government
to keep tabs on Rajaratnam’s whereabouts before his arrest,
Brodsky wrote in court papers.  During Rajaratnam’s 2011 trial,  Anil Kumar , a former
McKinsey & Co. partner who pleaded guilty to passing illegal
tips to the fund manager, said Rajaratnam had confided in him in
2009 that he believed the government was wiretapping him.  “You know Anil, I’m really disappointed, I’m told there’s
a gentleman who used to work for me who is now wearing a wire,”
Kumar testified. Kumar said Rajaratnam identified the informant
as Far.  Far also helped the government’s probe of  Ali Hariri , a
family friend who was a former Atheros Communications Inc. vice
president, and  Adam Smith , a former Galleon trader, Brodsky
said. Both Hariri and Smith pleaded guilty and agreed to
cooperate with the U.S., Brodsky said.  Built Cases  Far helped the government build cases against  Mark Anthony Longoria , a former  Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  employee, and
 Jason Pflaum , a former analyst with Barai Capital Management LP.
Longoria and Pflaum have pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate,
the U.S. said.  Brodsky said yesterday that Far also helped the U.S. and
its investigation of Primary Global Research LLC, an expert-
networking firm based in Mountain View, California, which linked
hedge fund managers investors with industry experts at public
companies.  Far’s information helped the U.S. obtain a court-authorized
wiretap on a PGR telephone conference line as well as help make
a case against  James Fleishman , a former PGR executive, who was
later convicted after trial in 2011, Brodsky said.  Far pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud on
Oct. 19, 2009. Securities fraud carries a maximum prison term of
20 years in prison while conspiracy carries a term of five
years’ imprisonment.  “We’re happy the judge saw fit to sentence him to
probation,” Far’s lawyer, Lourie, said after court.  The cases are U.S. v. Far, 09-cr-1009, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan) U.S. v. Fortuna 09-
cr-1003, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  