-- Ex-Hedge Fund Boss Lost Claim Versus RBS on Ponzi Account
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-11T15:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ex-hedge-fund-boss-lost-claim-versus-rbs-on-ponzi-account.html
A former hedge-fund manager who
invested about 20 million pounds ($31.3 million) in a Ponzi
scheme lost a claim against Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
NatWest unit, which operated accounts used in the fraud.  Jeremy Stone , a former portfolio manager at Marble Bar
Asset Management LLP, sued NatWest and an employee, Paul Aplin,
seeking as much as 26 million pounds. He claimed Aplin and the
bank were negligent for not spotting suspicious activity.  Stone and members of his family who were employed by his
investment firm gave testimony that was “heavily colored by a
very strong wish that they had not been duped as they were and a
strong impulse to think” someone else must be to blame, Judge
 Philip Sales  wrote in a ruling today.  Aplin, who managed the accounts, was an honest man, Sales
said, adding he didn’t fault the bank for using automated
systems to detect fraud.  The Serious Fraud Office said last year it was
investigating the company at the center of the allegations,
Essex-based  Saunders Electrical Wholesalers Ltd. , and made five
arrests in 2010. Its founder Jolan Saunders appeared at the
Stone trial and declined to give evidence because he is facing
criminal charges, Sales said.  Stone’s lawyer Dan Morrison didn’t immediately respond to
e-mails seeking comment. Adrian Ring, Saunders’ lawyer, didn’t
respond to an e-mail or phone message seeking comment.  ‘Wholly Fictitious’  David Gaffney, an RBS spokesman, said the judgment
indicated the bank and Aplin “acted entirely properly and
honestly.”  “The court agreed with the bank’s view by dismissing each
of the claimants’ allegations,” he said.  The company’s business supplying electrical equipment to
hotel chains was “wholly fictitious,” Sales ruled, adding
Saunders used money from new investors to repay loans and give
the illusion of profits. Accounts linked to the firm took in as
much as 300 million pounds, according to evidence Stone provided
the court.  David Jones , an SFO spokesman, said in an e-mail the agency
continues to investigate a suspected Ponzi fraud.  The case is: Jeremy D. Stone Consultants Ltd., Jeremy Stone
v. National Westminster Bank Plc, Paul Aplin; High Court of
Justice, Chancery Division; HC11C00276.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  