-- Owner of Presidential Yacht, Lender Agree to Truce
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-02-12T21:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ex-presidential-yacht-s-owner-mired-in-debt-lender-says.html
The owner of the former presidential
yacht  Sequoia  and a lender agreed to a 60-day cease-fire in a
dispute over a $5 million loan.  The lender FE Partners LLC agreed to a temporary
restraining order during a hearing today with Delaware Chancery
Court Judge  Sam Glasscock III . The agreement keeps the status
quo for 60 days while the case plays out in court, a lawyer for
Sequoia’s owner Gary Silversmith and a spokesman for the lender
said in separate e-mails. The agreement couldn’t immediately be
verified in court documents.  The accord follows accusations by FE Partners that
Silversmith’s Sequoia Presidential Yacht Group LLC outstanding
debt and mounting legal violations triggered defaults on the
loan.  “The plaintiffs’ concealment of their significant debts
and their potential contingent liabilities constitute material
breaches of the express warranties in the loan documents,”
lawyers for FE Partners said in the Feb. 10 filing.  Silversmith, president of the partnership that bought the
vessel in 2000, sued FE Partners in the same court on Feb. 1,
accusing the lender of wrongfully attempting to seize the
88-year-old vessel in a dispute over its loan. The owners asked
a judge to bar FE Partners, whose investors include an Indian
business family, from laying claim to the 104-foot boat.  ‘False Claims’  FE Partners funded only half the loan before manufacturing
defaults in an attempt to seize the yacht, lawyers for the
Sequoia partnership said in the complaint.  “This is their attempt to steal this boat by manufacturing
false claims,”  Larry Hutcher , an attorney for Silversmith with
the law firm Davidoff Hutcher & Citron LLP, said today in a
phone interview. “None of these things are true.”  L. Michael Cantor, a director for FE Partners, countered in
an affidavit that the lender uncovered “a string of outstanding
unpaid debts and legal violations,” triggering a modification
to the loan agreement. The changes included an increase in the
initial interest rate and a decrease in the price at which FE
was entitled to purchase the Sequoia or Silversmith’s interest
in the vessel.  The amended agreement also called for an additional 40
percent decrease in the purchase price if FE Partners gave
notice of its intention to exercise its purchase option at the
time of a default.  Multiple Notices  FE Partners claimed it was forced to issue multiple notices
of default after discovering that Sequoia owed more than $28,000
in wages to crew members, faced $10 million in potential
penalties for years of unpaid sales and property tax to the
District of Columbia and had been selling alcohol for more than
a decade aboard the vessel without a liquor license.  Each of the defaults “represented serious violations of
the parties’ agreement,” FE Partners said in the filing.  “They exposed the Sequoia venture to potentially hundreds
of thousands of dollars of liability, if not more, and possible
actions by local and federal governmental authorities,” the
lender said in court papers.  For many of the defaults, the Sequoia owners either failed
to dispute the core facts or failed to respond at all, according
to the filing.  Hutcher denied the allegations, noting that the money owed
to crew were for bonuses not yet due. There is no lien filed by
the District of Columbia and no claims were ever asserted
against Silversmith and the Sequoia group for illegal alcohol
sales, Hutcher said.  ‘Wrongful Conduct’  “It’s shameful that they are resorting to these types of
claims to justify their own wrongful conduct,” he said.  FE Partners paid about $2.5 million to a prior lien holder
but failed to fund the remainder of the first tranche of the $5
million loan due on July 6, 2012, Hutcher said. FE Partners also
didn’t fund the second tranche of the loan.  Hutcher said earlier today that Silversmith was seeking a
court order forcing FE Partners to accept full payment of the
monies paid out so far and release its lien against the Sequoia
so that a new lender could be found.  The temporary restraining order agreed to by both parties
bars FE Partners from taking any action for 60 days, Hutcher
said in an e-mail. Lawyers will decide on a schedule for
gathering pre-trial evidence later this week, Hutcher said.  Cut Expenses  Built in 1925, the Sequoia served as the official
presidential yacht for 50 years before former President  Jimmy Carter , a Democrat, sold the vessel in 1977 as part of an effort
to cut governmental expenses. The wooden-hulled yacht was
designated as a National Historic Landmark in 1987.  The Sequoia served more than nine presidents including
 Harry Truman , who was allegedly on board when he decided to drop
the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, according to a history of the
vessel on the Sequoia group’s website. President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  allowed Britain’s  Queen Elizabeth  to use the yacht
during a visit, and  Winston Churchill  spent time with  Franklin D. Roosevelt  on the Sequoia.  Truman once became so enraged during a poker game that he
damaged a table with a cigar cutter, according to the Sequoia
website. He later installed a piano in the main salon where he
and  Richard Nixon  both played.  Nixon used the Sequoia on at least 88 occasions often
sailing down the Potomac River to Mount Vernon. During
Watergate, he allegedly believed the vessel was bugged and
demanded that an electronic shield be built around the entire
yacht requiring small pinholes drilled six inches apart on the
entire railing, according to the Web site.  President  John F. Kennedy , the crew’s favorite, also
celebrated his last birthday on the yacht, according to the
history.  The case is Sequoia Presidential Yacht Group LLC v. FE
Partners LLC, CA 8270, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Georgetown, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  