-- Mexico Peso Touches One-Month Low on Surprise Output Drop
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-02-11T23:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/mexico-peso-touches-one-month-low-on-surprise-output-drop.html
Mexico’s peso fell to its weakest
level in two weeks after a report showed the Latin American
nation’s industrial production unexpectedly declined for the
first time in more than three years.  The peso slipped 0.1 percent to 12.7337 per U.S. dollar at
4 p.m. in Mexico City, its weakest closing level since Jan. 28.
The currency has advanced 0.9 percent this year, after rallying
8.4 percent in 2012, the biggest gain among the dollar’s 16
most-traded counterparts.  Industrial production fell 1.1 percent in December from a
year earlier, the first decline since November 2009, the
national national statistics institute reported today on its
website. The median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for an expansion of 2 percent.  The peso’s slump “accelerated after the weaker-than-
anticipated” industrial production,  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin
America foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia in
Toronto, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The peso has depreciated 1.2 percent since the central bank
on Jan. 18 indicated it could lower borrowing costs for the
first time in more than three years. In a statement accompanying
their decision to leave the benchmark rate unchanged for a 32nd
straight meeting, policy makers said a rate reduction would
respond to “a situation of less economic growth and lower
inflation.”  ‘Bigger Incentive’  Yields on Mexico’s bonds fell as the drop in industrial
production fueled speculation that policy makers will reduce
rates as inflation remains under control, according to  Gerardo Welsh , a bond trader at Banco Base SA. While the pace of
increases in consumer spending last month was an above forecast
3.25 percent, the rate has declined for four straight months
since peaking in September at 4.77 percent.  “If the inflation is controlled and the economy shows a
deceleration this could give a bigger incentive to Mexico to cut
rates,” Welsh said in a telephone interview from San Pedro
Garza Garcia, Mexico.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2014 fell to record lows today
after the output data. The yield on the debt fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.35 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  