-- Mexico Industrial Production Falls for 1st Month Since ’09
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-02-11T15:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/mexico-industrial-production-falls-for-1st-month-since-09-1-.html
Mexico’s industrial production
unexpectedly fell in December from the year earlier for the
first time in three years. The peso weakened on speculation the
central bank is more likely to reduce borrowing costs.  Industrial output fell an annual 1.1 percent, the first
decline since November 2009, the national statistics institute,
known as Inegi, reported today on its website. The median
estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for growth
of 2 percent. Construction shrank 5 percent and manufacturing
slid 0.9 percent from the year earlier.  The decline was driven in part by concern the U.S.,
Mexico’s top trade partner, would fail to avoid $600 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases, said  Rafael Camarena ,
an economist at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB. Congress
passed a deal on Jan. 1 to avoid most of the so-called fiscal
cliff. While more recent automobile production figures have
signaled a pickup in manufacturing, today’s report increases the
odds the central bank will cut interest rates, Camarena said.  “It seems the drop in manufacturing production was
associated with the uncertainty in the United States,” Camarena
said in a telephone interview. “This data supports the view
that the central bank will cut interest rates. We think there’s
a high probability.”  On a monthly basis, industrial production dropped 2.1
percent in December from November, the most since May 2009, as
construction shrank 2.7 percent and manufacturing contracted 1.1
percent.  The peso weakened 0.5 percent to 12.7893 per U.S. dollar at
9:15 a.m. Mexico City time today.  Mexico’s automobile industry association said on Feb. 7
that production of cars and light trucks increased 19.8 percent
in January from the year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 