-- Farmers Seen Growing More, Earning Less as Drought Eases
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-02-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/farmers-seen-growing-more-earning-less-as-drought-eases.html
Farm income may fall this year even 
as the worst U.S. drought since the 1930s eases,  economists  say.  The government’s first farm-income forecast for 2013 today
may show crop revenues down from last year as increased
production drives prices lower, said  Pat Westhoff , director of
the  Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute  at the
University of Missouri. Livestock sales volume probably will
fall, with the cattle herd at the smallest in 61 years, he said.  “If you assume normal weather, you have to think that
revenue levels for 2013 will be down from 2012,” when the
drought pushed prices higher and farmers qualified for record
insurance payments, Westhoff said. “How much that will affect
individual producers will depend on their own individual
circumstances.”  The U.S. Department of Agriculture in November estimated
farm net income for 2012 at $114 billion, down from a record
 $117.9 billion  in 2011 as the drought devastated crops and
forced ranchers to cull herds. That figure will be updated
today. Farm expenses are higher, with costs including  Monsanto
Co.  seeds up  5.2 percent  in January from a year earlier,
according to the USDA.  Still, Andrew Beck, chief financial officer of  Agco Corp .,
maker of Massey Ferguson tractors, said in a conference call
last week that farmer profits should be enough to “support
healthy demand” for his company’s products.  Crop Insurance  Farmers last year made up for drought-related crop losses
with record insurance payouts. With claims still to be
processed, government-subsidized payments from companies
including  Ace Ltd.  and  Wells Fargo & Co . for 2012 crop losses
have already surpassed  $13.6 billion , exceeding the $10.84
billion paid out for 2011, at the time the highest ever, the
USDA said Feb. 4. Indemnities may reach $16 billion,  then drop 
to $10.1 billion for this year’s crops, according to a
congressional estimate.  While the drought is lingering over much of the Great
Plains, rains have improved prospects further east, with
Illinois, traditionally the second-biggest corn producer after
Iowa, free of severe dryness, according to the  U.S. Drought
Monitor .  Still, even in areas where soil moisture has been
replenished, the effects of the drought may linger in the minds
of some farmers, said  Bob Young , chief economist for the
American Farm Bureau Federation.  Rain Needed  “It affects people’s thinking, and there was so much corn
planted last year you may see some acres go to other crops
simply because of farmers’ rotations,” said Young, who said
profits could still top $100 billion this year. Still, many
farmers will simply put 2012 behind them, he said. “Corn
returns continue to look pretty good,” he said. “It’s all
going to come down to spring rains. If we don’t have timely
rains, we’ll be in trouble.”  Livestock income, the second-biggest source of revenue
after crops, may be limited by a need for ranchers to hold onto
animals and rebuild cattle herds, said  Terry Detrick , who raises
cattle, wheat and rye near Enid, Oklahoma, and is president of
the Oklahoma Farmers Union. Besides having less to sell, Detrick
said his income will be limited this year because wheat he would
normally market is being fed to cattle because of a lack of
grass.  “I bet I haven’t had 2 inches of rain since last June,”
said Detrick, 68, in a telephone interview. “It’s going to take
two or three years of good rains for things to come back.”  Today’s estimates for 2013 will be revised in August, just
before major crops are harvested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  