-- Farm Income Sets Record on Crop Stockpiles, USDA Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-02-11T18:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/farm-income-sets-record-on-crop-stockpiles-usda-says.html
U.S. farm income will set a record
in 2013, reflecting the anticipated rebuilding of crop reserves
depleted by drought that will not be sold until future years,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture said.  Net income will climb to $128.2 billion from a revised
$112.8 billion last year and $117.9 billion in 2011, the USDA
said today in its first farm-profit 2013 forecast. The total
includes $16.6 billion for the value of crops not sold by Dec.
1. Excluding unsold crops, cash profit will fall from 2012.  Revenue to farmers for crops sold to companies such as
Cargill Inc. or  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.  will fall 1.5 percent
to $216.3 billion, and livestock sales will jump 2.2 percent to
$176.5 billion even as cattle herds fall to a 61-year low.  “You’re going to see production go up, but prices go down,
and that will lead to less revenue on corn and soybeans,” said
 Chris Hurt , professor of agricultural economics at Purdue
University in West Lafayette, Indiana. “There is a lot of
optimism right now, and I don’t know that the optimism is
justified given how low prices could go.”  Agricultural profits fell last year as the drought
devastated crops and forced ranchers to cull herds.  Andrew Beck, chief financial officer of  Agco Corp ., maker
of Massey Ferguson tractors, said in a conference call last week
that farmer finances should be enough to “support healthy
demand” for his company’s products.  Expenses Rise  Expenses will be $249.8 billion, up 5.7 percent from last
year, according to the agency.  The decline in cash income is a response to the waning
drought, as increased production drives prices lower, said  Pat Westhoff , director of the  Food and Agricultural Policy Research
Institute  at the University of Missouri.  “If you assume normal weather, you have to think that
revenue levels for 2013 will be down from 2012,” when the
drought pushed prices higher and farmers qualified for record
insurance payments, Westhoff said. “How much that will affect
individual producers will depend on their own individual
circumstances.”  While the drought lingers over much of the Great Plains,
rains have improved prospects further east, with Illinois,
typically the second-biggest corn producer after Iowa, free of
severe dryness, according to the  U.S. Drought Monitor .  Planting Acres  Hopes for favorable weather will encourage farmers to plant
96 million acres of corn, the most valuable crop, a decline of
0.9 percent from last year, the USDA said today in a separate
report. Plantings of wheat, which requires less rainfall, may
rise 3.2 percent to 57.5 million acres.  Even in areas where soil moisture has been replenished, the
effects of the drought may linger in the minds of some farmers,
said Bob Young, chief economist for the American Farm Bureau
Federation in Washington.  “It affects people’s thinking, and there was so much corn
planted last year you may see some acres go to other crops
simply because of farmers’ rotations,” said Young. Other
farmers will simply put 2012 behind them, he said. “Corn
returns continue to look pretty good,” he said. “It’s all
going to come down to spring rains. If we don’t have timely
rains, we’ll be in trouble.”  Farm-related income, which includes government-backed crop
insurance, will rise 18 percent to a record $31.1 billion, the
USDA said.  Crop Losses  With claims still to be processed, government-subsidized
payments from companies including Ace Ltd. and Wells Fargo & Co.
for 2012 crop losses have already surpassed  $14.2 billion ,
exceeding the 2011 record of $10.84 billion, the USDA said
today. Indemnities may reach $16 billion,  then drop  to $10.1
billion for this year’s crops, according to a congressional
estimate.  Crop subsidies, excluding insurance assistance, will be
$10.9 billion, little changed from last year, the USDA said.  Among farmer costs in 2012, feed, the biggest single
component of farm spending, is projected to increase 6.3 percent
to $67.7 billion. Fertilizers made by  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  and other companies will cost $26.5 billion
this year, down 0.4 percent from last year, while seeds from
Monsanto Co. and  DuPont Co.  are up 2.5 percent to $12.7 billion.  Agriculture is responsible for about  1.2 percent  of U.S.
gross domestic product, according to the department.  Today’s forecast will be revised by the USDA in August,
when the department recalculates its estimates before the
harvest of most major crops begins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  