-- Fast-Moving Storm May Bring 3 More Inches of Snow to NYC
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-02-12T02:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/fast-moving-storm-may-bring-6-more-inches-of-snow-to-nyc.html
A fast-moving storm is expected to
drop as much as 3 inches of snow tomorrow on New York City and
parts of southern New England still recovering from a blizzard
that lashed the U.S. Northeast over the weekend.  New York and parts of New Jersey, Long Island, southern
Connecticut and Rhode Island may receive 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to
7.6 centimeters), according to  Mike Pigott , senior meteorologist
at AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania. Washington,
Baltimore and Philadelphia will also be coated, Pigott said.  The band of snow will spread from the Ohio River Valley
into Washington, Baltimore and Philadelphia during the day and
strike New York in the evening around rush-hour, Pigott said.
The storm will probably move into Long Island and southern New
England after dark, he said.  “The majority of the snow will stay south of Boston,”
Pigott said. “The areas already hit hard in southern
Connecticut and parts of Rhode Island could see a couple more
inches of snow, which they will have nowhere to put.”  The weekend storm dropped 24.9 inches on Boston, the fifth-
most on record, and as much as 40 inches on Hamden, Connecticut,
according to the National Weather Service. The storm killed at
least seven people, left about 613,000 customers from Maine to
New York without power at its peak and crippled travel in the
U.S. Northeast.  The coming storm won’t have that kind of power or last as
long, Pigott said. Snowfall should begin tomorrow night and
cease by the next morning, he said by telephone.  The U.S. Northeast may see light snow tomorrow night, “but
the next chance of a bigger storm” will come this weekend,  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland, said by e-mail yesterday.  There is “some indication” that another major storm may
be in store for the East Coast this weekend, according to
AccuWeather. The size and power of that storm depends on the
track it will take.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 