-- Finance Lobbyists Call on FSB to Restrain Fragmenting Regulation
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-02-11T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/finance-lobbyists-call-on-fsb-to-restrain-fragmenting-regulation.html
Lobbyists for the financial industry
called on policy makers to reinforce the Financial Stability
Board’s role in spearheading efforts to stop the fragmentation
of financial regulation in different countries.  Unilateral policies on the ring-fencing of capital and
liquidity by individual nations are on the rise,  Timothy Adams ,
managing director of the Institute of International Finance,
said in a letter released by the group today. The letter was
addressed to  Anton Siluanov , the finance minister for Russia,
which holds the rotating presidency for the Group of 20 nations
whose central bankers and officials are represented in the FSB.  “If we fail to preserve the spirit -- and the fact -- of
international harmonization of financial regulation, we run the
risk of inhibiting the global economic regeneration so
desperately needed by people everywhere,” Adams said in the
letter, which was released by the IIF today. The IIF is a
Washington-based lobby group that represents more than 470
financial institutions.  Different regimes have proposed their own ways of reining
in banks in the wake of the financial crisis. The U.S. Volcker
rule, the U.K.’s proposed Vickers rule and a European Union plan
named after Bank of Finland Governor  Erkki Liikanen  all seek
different ways of splitting riskier trading from other units.
The Federal Reserve also proposed in December that two dozen
foreign banks be subject to stricter U.S. capital rules to lower
risks to the financial system.  End of Easing  The central role of the FSB in coordinating policy should
be reinforced, the IIF said today. The FSB brings together
regulators, government finance ministry officials and central
bankers from the Group of 20, and is chaired by  Mark Carney , the
Bank of Canada governor who takes the helm of the Bank of
England in July.  The IIF also urged nations to develop strategies to handle
a reversal in monetary policy should central banks wind down
asset purchases known as quantitative easing and start to
interest rates. Central banks should work together to guide
market expectations, aiming to avoid exchange-rate volatility
that may result when easing ends, the IIF said.  The EU should “move decisively” towards creating a single
supervisory mechanism under the European Central Bank, as well
as creating common bank deposit insurance and a bank resolution
framework, the IIF said.  “It is critical to maintain and augment” reform momentum
in the EU, Adams wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  