-- Flybe Chief Says He's Not Interested in Air France’s CityJet
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-02-11T17:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/flybe-chief-says-he-s-not-interested-in-air-france-s-cityjet-1-.html
Flybe Group Plc , Europe’s biggest
regional airline, said it’s not in the running to buy  Air
France-KLM Group ’s CityJet unit.  “We looked at it,”  Jim French , Exeter, England-based
Flybe’s chief executive officer, said in an interview in Dublin.
“It didn’t appeal to us at all so we’re not interested.”  CityJet has “tired” equipment and would require too much
capital spending, French said. The unit’s operations at London
City airport, which it serves from more than 20 destinations
across Europe, are also being squeezed by British Airways, and
it’s not clear how long feeder flights into Air France’s Paris
Charle de Gaulle hub would last after a sale, he said.  Air France-KLM wants to narrow the number of bidders for
CityJet to two by the end of next month after whittling down the
group of suitors to six from 10, a person with knowledge of the
talks said last week. Europe’s biggest airline is revamping
regional operations in an effort to end years of losses, with
Brit Air, Regional and Airlinair being folded into one unit.  Aer Lingus Rationale  French said that a Flybe takeover of  Aer Lingus Group Plc 
routes following a proposed purchase of the airline by Ryanair
Holdings Plc would be based around offering an alternative to
Europe’s largest discount carrier rather competing on price.  The U.K. company would seek to capture more business
travelers by increasing the frequency of flights from Dublin to
British provincial destinations using its fleet of  Embraer SA 
regional jets, which are smaller than Ryanair’s Boeing Co. 737-
800s, the CEO said, adding that there’s also scope to develop
new routes from Irish airports such as Cork.  “The dimension we want to bring into this is a new
stimulus, to bring in the Embraer jets to give us greater
frequency on the core routes such as Birmingham, Manchester,
Edinburgh, Glasgow,” he said. “We can be sufficiently low cost
to offer a competitive product at a slight premium. People will
pay a small premium in order not to have the  Ryanair  product.”  The European Commission has given March 6 as the deadline
by which it will announce if it’s willing to approve Ryanair’s
bid for Aer Lingus, French said.  The side-deal with Flybe would include a 100 million-euro
($134 million) payment from the larger company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net  