-- France Meets Opposition to Call for Managed Euro Exchange Rate
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-02-11T15:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/france-meets-opposition-to-call-for-managed-euro-exchange-rate.html
Europe’s traditional strong-currency
countries resisted France’s calls for concerted action to bring
down the rising euro, saying it’s up to markets to set exchange
rates.  Officials from Austria, the Netherlands, Finland and
Luxembourg pushed back against French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici ’s plea for a coordinated international offensive to
adjust currency values.  “An artificial weakening would be inappropriate,”
Austrian Finance Minister  Maria Fekter  told reporters before a
meeting of euro ministers in Brussels today. “We’re at a happy
medium. The euro has been much stronger and much weaker. From my
point of view, the excitement about the exchange rate is
unjustified.”  Divisions within the 17-nation euro region may lessen the
impact of any effort to criticize Japan for seeking to depress
its currency at meetings of international financial policy
makers in Moscow later this week.  The euro has outperformed the world’s nine other leading
currencies in the past six months, rising 7.8 percent, according
to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen
has dropped 19 percent as new Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe 
advocated domestic demand-boosting policies.  ‘Coordinated Approach’  Moscovici today reiterated French concerns that exchange
rates are working against euro-zone exporters, making it harder
for the economy to bounce back from the recession it slipped
into last year.  “Exchange rates can’t be subject to moods or
speculation,” Moscovici said. “I’m pleading for a coordinated
approach at the international level.” Without naming Japan, he
blamed the euro’s acceleration on “more aggressive practices by
some of our partners.”  Past calls for political management of exchange rates --
including by  Silvio Berlusconi  during his time as Italian prime
minister -- have been rebuffed by northern European countries
where inflation is a greater concern.  “I’m in favor of free exchange rates,” said  Frans Weekers , Dutch state secretary for finance. Luxembourg Finance
Minister  Luc Frieden  said the euro’s rise isn’t damaging the
economy, ruling out “any additional, substantial measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  