-- Fugro Falls Most in Three Months on Resignation: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-02-11T09:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/fugro-falls-most-in-three-months-on-resignation-amsterdam-mover.html
Fugro NV  dropped the most in almost
three months in Amsterdam after supervisory board Vice Chairman
 Frans Cremers  quit the biggest deepwater-oilfield surveyor.  Fugro plunged as much as 9.7 percent, the steepest intraday
decline since Nov. 19. Cremers left because of “the pace with
which changes within the financial organisation of Fugro are
implemented and that decisions of the supervisory board in
respect thereof are not adequately carried through,” it  said .  The decision by Cremers, who headed the audit committee and
whose term was due to end in 2014, follows management board
Chairman  Arnold Steenbakker ’s resignation in November over a
“difference of opinion” on the company’s future. Cremers’
action isn’t related to financial figures, either reported or
yet to be published, Leidschendam, Netherlands-based Fugro said.  After “recent management board upheaval, the dust still
hasn’t settled with the exit of this highly regarded supervisory
board member,”  Andre Mulder , a Kepler Capital Markets analyst
who recommends buying Fugro, said in a note to investors.  The company fell 7.3 percent to 39.025 euros by 10:31 a.m.
in Amsterdam, valuing it at 3.23 billion euros ($4.3 billion).  Fugro, which agreed to sell its seismic unit for 1.2
billion euros in September, is conducting a strategic review and
expects to make further announcements in the second half.  Profit after tax is seen falling to about 280 million euros
for 2012 from 288 million euros, with weak fleet utilization in
the fourth quarter, Fugro said Nov. 19. The company had earlier
estimated earnings of at least 310 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  