-- Hedge, Private Equity Managers Must Wait on Bonuses: ESMA
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-02-11T13:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/fund-managers-may-face-longer-wait-for-bonuses-under-esma-rules.html
Senior hedge-fund and private-equity
managers may face long waits for bonus payouts in a push by the
European Union to impose bank-style pay rules on the industry.  Bonuses for risk-taking employees should be withheld for a
period of time to align managers’ interests with the long-term
performance of the fund, the European Securities and Markets
Authority said today.  Deferred parts of bonus awards should be paid out at least
over a three-year to five-year period, ESMA said. Companies
“should consider longer” waiting times for “members of the
management body,”  according to guidelines  published by the
authority.  Payouts in the financial industry have been under scrutiny
since the 2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  and the
government rescue of American International Group Inc., which
were blamed in part on traders and executives making risky bets
to boost results and subsequent bonuses. EU lawmakers called
last year for banks to ban bonuses that exceed fixed pay and are
drafting similar rules for retail fund managers.  The measures ESMA offered in part echo EU rules for banker
bonuses, which took effect in 2011 and include minimum three-
year deferral periods.  Robert Jenkins , a member of a Bank of
England committee charged with ensuring financial stability, has
said that bankers’ bonuses should be deferred for as long as 10
years to hold executives accountable for risks.  Libor Rigging  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Barclays Plc  have both
said they would limit bonuses over criticism about their
involvement in the rigging of interbank lending rates.  “Making sure that these provisions on pay are applied in a
common and consistent way is key to increasing investor
protection and ensuring a level playing field in the alternative
fund sector across the EU,”  Steven Maijoor , chairman of Paris-
based ESMA, said in an e-mailed statement.  European finance ministers in 2010 approved a law, known as
the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, which gave
ESMA power to set rules for hedge funds and private equity
firms, regulating their pay and access to EU investors. Member
states have until July 2013 to implement the directive.  Firms should also have the power to revisit, or claw back,
bonuses in situations where employees are found guilty of
“fraud” or supplying misleading performance information,
according to the ESMA guidance. National regulators will police
fund managers’ compliance with the ESMA pay guidance.  Risk Taking  Between 40 percent and 60 percent of an employee’s variable
pay should be subject to deferral, with the exact amount
depending on the size of the pay award and how involved the
person is in risk taking, according to the agency’s guidance.  In addition to hedge fund managers and private-equity
firms, the rules also apply to other so-called alternative
investment vehicles, such as real estate funds.  The measures should apply to senior management and other
staff that have a “material impact” on risk taking, according
to the agency.  Exemptions to the three-to-five-year deferral rule may be
made for managers of funds with a short life cycle, ESMA said.  Spokesmen for the  Alternative Investment Management
Association , a group representing hedge funds, and the  European
Private Equity and Venture Capital Association , didn’t have an
immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  