-- George Frazer, Market-Beating Canadian Fund Manager, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-02-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/george-frazer-dividend-focused-canada-fund-manager-dies-at-86.html
George Frazer , a proponent of
dividend investing who won notice for market-beating returns
during a seven-decade career as fund manager at Toronto-based
Leon Frazer & Associates, has died. He was 86.  He died on Feb. 6 in Toronto,  according  to Turner & Porter
funeral home. No cause was given.  Frazer in 1947 joined the firm that his father, Leon, had
founded eight years earlier. When his father died in 1964,
Frazer became chairman.  The firm today has 35 employees and about C$2.1 billion
($2.09 billion) in client assets under management, according to
a statement from its parent, Toronto-based Jovian Capital Corp.
Its strategy is to invest in “good companies that sustain and
increase their dividends over time,” the firm said in the
statement.  The C$888 million IA Clarington Canadian Conservative
Equity Fund, which Frazer managed since its inception in 1950,
ranked 18th among 265 Canada-based open-ended growth funds
focusing on shares of Canadian  companies  for the last five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund’s
average annual return of 5.35 percent for the period compares
with the average return for all 265 funds of 0.95 percent, the
data show.  According to the firm, the fund’s average annual return
since its inception in 1950 as Associate Investors Ltd. is 9.4
percent. In recent years Frazer co-managed the fund with
colleagues Douglas Kee and Ryan Bushell.  Beating Benchmark  “With little fanfare, he turned the emotional casino
called the stock market into a machine as predictable as a fine
Swiss watch,”  Bushell  wrote in a note to clients the day after
Frazer died.  In 2000, the fund posted a 31.9 percent return, more than
four times the 7.4 percent return for the Toronto Stock Exchange
Composite Index, making it the top-performing equity fund in
Canada, the Globe and Mail newspaper reported. The fund was then
known as Co-operators Canadian Conservative Focused Equity Fund;
Co-operators Mutual Funds Ltd. was bought in 2003 by Industrial
Alliance Insurance and Financial Services Inc.  “George Frazer is remembered for his great legacy of total
commitment to client satisfaction,”  Mark Arthur , chief
executive officer of Leon Frazer, said in a statement. “He
never wavered from his goal of always ‘doing what’s right for
the client,’ and he always urged his team to stay singularly
focused on that principle.”  Calming Words  As worldwide equity markets reeled from the U.S. subprime
mortgage crisis, Frazer wrote a letter to clients on Oct. 1,
2008, that drew upon his experience to offer what he called “a
voice of reason” to counter fears of another Great Depression.  “Our investment philosophy is unwavering: growth in
dividends provides growth in capital and incomes,” he wrote in
the  letter , which is on the company’s website. “Our disciplined
investment process is expressed by investing in core holdings
that are solid companies in mature industries that make up the
backbone of the economy and that provide an increasing stream of
dividends. Our clients’ income from these dividends is not
decreased by declining markets.”  George Leonard Frazer was born on April 12, 1926, one of
four children of Leonard “Leon” Frazer and the former Helen
Greaves, according to information on the funeral home website.
He studied commerce and finance at the University of Toronto,
then took a job with a chartered trust company, according to a
 profile  on the firm’s website.  Joining Father  Company lore  held that when Frazer proposed joining the
family firm, his father told him to look at the company books
“and see if I can afford you.” The younger Frazer decided he
could be afforded, at C$600 a year -- and he lived at home for
five years to keep within his means. He left when he married his
wife, the former Elizabeth Peacock, and together they had three
children, Bruce, Anne and Jacqueline.  In 1952, Frazer co-founded the Investment Counsel
Association of Canada, today’s Portfolio Management Association
of Canada, a membership organization of investment-management
firms.  An avid sailor, Frazer piloted his 14-foot boat in races
until the late 1960s.  “Sailing suited my personality because I can never go
straight to the point,” he said, according to the firm. “I
have to find a way around it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  