-- Spanish Bonds Fall With Italian Securities Before Summit
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-11T16:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/germany-s-bonds-are-little-changed-before-bill-auction.html
Spain’s government bonds fell for
the first time in three days as ministers from the 17-member
euro area gather in Brussels today to discuss aid to Cyprus and
Greece as they struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Italy’s  10-year yields  climbed toward the highest level in
eight weeks on speculation elections in the nation this month
and in Cyprus will disrupt efforts to reform their economies.
German 10-year yields were about three basis points from the
lowest level in two weeks as the government sold six-month
bills. France auctioned 7.59 billion euros ($10.2 billion) of
securities due in 12 months or less.  “Volatility is slightly increasing and we have some issues
in some peripheral countries,” said  Patrick Jacq , a senior
fixed-income strategist BNP Paribas SA in Paris. “In the near-
term horizon, core markets are well supported versus the
peripherals. There’s limited pressure on Italy and Spain.”  Spain’s  10-year  yield rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 5.42 percent at 4:36 p.m. London time after
falling nine basis points during the previous two days. The 5.4
percent security due in January 2023 dropped 0.46, or 4.60 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 99.82.  Cyprus has been in talks to become the fifth recipient of
rescue aid, though euro-area officials are awaiting a new
leadership that may be more amenable to demands such as
privatizing state assets.  Nicos Anastasiades , who heads the main
opposition party, is poised to win the Feb. 17 election,
according to three final polls.  Cyprus Package  A failure to agree on a package for Cyprus would throw into
jeopardy progress achieved by policy makers to put the nation’s
finance on a surer footing, ECB Executive Board Member  Joerg Asmussen  said. He told  Handelsblatt  he expects a decision by the
end of March.  Polls taken before Italy’s Feb. 24-25 elections show the
vote may fail to deliver a governing majority, with former
premier  Silvio Berlusconi  narrowing the lead of front-runner
 Pier Luigi Bersani .  “Investors are a little bit more cautious,” said  Elwin de Groot , a market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht, the
Netherlands. “There’s a chance they might end with a hung
parliament in Italy, which means there could be some kind of
political paralysis, which is not good from an investor
perspective. In this environment, we could see a widening of
spreads and a strong demand for bunds.”  Italy’s  10-year yield climbed six basis points to 4.62
percent after increasing to 4.63 percent on Feb. 8, the highest
since Dec. 14.  Spreads Widen  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds rose six basis
points to 381 basis points, extending this month’s increase to
31 basis points. The Italian spread over Germany also widened
six basis points, to 300 basis points.  Germany sold 3.39 billion euros of six-month bills at an
average yield of 0.02 percent, compared with minus 0.009 percent
at a previous auction on Jan. 7, and the first positive rate
since June.  Germany’s 10-year bund yield was little changed at 1.61
percent after declining to 1.58 percent on Feb. 8, the lowest
level since Jan. 25. The  two-year  yield was little changed at
0.18 percent.  Risks Contained  Inflation risks in the euro region are contained, allowing
monetary policy “to remain accommodative,” European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said at last week’s policy meeting.
The ECB kept its main  refinancing rate  at a record-low 0.75
percent at the Feb. 7 gathering.  Volatility on Greek bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Italy and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year or similar-maturity debt, the
yield spread between two-year and 10-year securities, and
credit-default swaps.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 1.4 percent this
year through Feb. 8, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Italian securities returned 0.5 percent and Spanish debt gained
1.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  