-- German Renewable Subsidies in Focus as Ministry Views Differ
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2013-02-11T12:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/german-renewable-subsidies-in-focus-as-ministry-views-differ.html
German Economy Minister  Philipp Roesler  stepped up demands for extra cuts to subsidies for wind
and solar power providers, aggravating a clash with his
Environment Ministry Cabinet colleague over the nation’s energy
overhaul.  Roesler, who leads Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Free
Democratic junior coalition partner, wants to go beyond
Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier ’s proposals to reform clean-
energy support laws, a paper obtained by Bloomberg News shows.
The document said that renewable-energy providers should carry
more market risk and so curb the cost to the state of Germany’s
transition from atomic power. It didn’t give specific numbers
for subsidy cuts.  Altmaier, a member of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union
party, foresees a reduction of 1 percent to 1.5 percent in the
so-called feed-in tariff that owners of renewable-power
generators receive as he seeks to shift some of the cost to
producers from consumers to stem a surge in electricity prices.
His plan is due to be discussed with state environment ministers
on Feb. 14.  “Roesler welcomes Altmaier’s plans for a reform of the
renewable-energy law, but also said that additional measures are
necessary to lower electricity prices,” Felicitas Hoch, an
Economy Ministry spokeswoman, said by telephone today. “The
Economy Ministry is taking part in this debate on further
measures and the paper has to be seen against this background.”  The Economy Ministry paper proposes that new renewable-
energy plants, with the exception of “small” providers, should
not profit from feed-in tariffs. Subsidies for on-shore wind
energy should be lowered, while compensation for producers
switching off their generators when power grids lack capacity
should also be reduced, according to the paper, which was passed
to the Environment Ministry Feb. 8.  Internal Discussions  The government denied that there was a clash between the
ministries. “We have always said that the proposal of an
electricity-price break made by Altmaier will be discussed
within the government,”  Steffen Seibert , Merkel’s spokesman,
said at a regular government press conference in Berlin today.  Germany is adding wind and solar parks to its power-
generation capacity after Merkel’s 2011 decision to shutter all
nuclear plants by about 2022 following the Fukushima disaster in
Japan. With national elections on Sept. 22, Merkel’s coalition
is looking for ways to limit electricity price rises associated
with the shift while keeping their commitment to an
unprecedented overhaul of the energy market in Europe’s biggest
economy.  The opposing ministry stances “are yet more proof of the
incapability of the Merkel government to find sustainable
solutions in the energy policy turnaround,”  Hubertus Heil ,
general secretary of the main opposition Social Democrats, said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  