-- Cardinals From Canada, Africa Lead in Papal Betting
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-02-11T15:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ghana-s-turkson-favorite-to-be-next-pope-after-benedict-resigns.html
Cardinals from Canada, Nigeria and
Ghana are among the leading candidates to succeed  Benedict XVI 
as pope, according to bookmakers’ odds.  Nigeria’s  Francis Arinze , 80, is the 2-1 favorite at
London-based William Hill Plc, meaning a 1-euro ($1.34) winning
wager would return a 2-euro profit.  Peter Turkson , 64, of Ghana
is second favorite at 5-2. At Paddy Power Plc, Canadian Cardinal
 Marc Ouellet , 68, is the 5-2 frontrunner, while Turkson is 3-1
and Arinze is 7-2.  Pope Benedict, formerly Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger,
announced today that he will resign on Feb. 28, two months
before his 86th birthday, for health reasons, after serving for
almost eight years. This is the first such abdication of a
leader of the Roman Catholic Church in almost 600 years.  The surprise resignation may reopen rifts within the church
as pressure builds to name a pope from the developing world
where Catholicism is growing, offsetting declines in Europe and
the U.S. Arinze, Turkson and Ouellet are also the favorites at
 Ladbrokes Plc , according to the bookmaker’s website.  “When Joseph Ratzinger took over as pope, Francis Arinze
ran him close in the betting,”  Graham Sharpe , a spokesman for
William Hill, said in an e-mailed statement. “We think he may
be well placed to succeed him now, although age could be against
him.”  African Pope  Paddy Power is also offering odds of 6-4 that the next
pontiff will be Italian, with an African at 2-1 and a Central or
South American at 10-3. The German-born Pope Benedict become the
265th leader of the Catholic Church after succeeding  John Paul II  of Poland. John Paul was the first non-Italian pope since
Adrian VI in the 16th century.  The Italian candidate on the shortest odds at Paddy Power
is  Gianfranco Ravasi , at 7-1. William Hill has  Angelo Scola ,
another Italian and the archbishop of Milan, at 5-1.  A traditionalist, Benedict became pope after spending a
quarter century as the enforcer of doctrine in an office
formerly known as the Inquisition.  “After having repeatedly examined my conscience before
God, I have come to the certainty that my strengths, due to an
advanced age, are no longer suited to an adequate exercise of
the Petrine ministry,” the pontiff said today.  The new pope will be chosen through a conclave, a special
gathering of cardinals who are sequestered in the Sistine Chapel
at the Vatican until they agree on a successor. Pope Benedict
will have no role in choosing his successor, Vatican spokesman
Father  Federico Lombardi  said at a news conference in Rome. He
will initially retire to his summer residence in Castel Gandolfo
before transferring to live in a convent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  