-- MGM Formally Asks New Jersey to Reconsider Casino License
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-11T22:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/mgm-formally-asks-new-jersey-to-reconsider-casino-license.html
MGM Resorts International , the Las
Vegas-based casino operator that agreed to leave New Jersey in
2010, formally petitioned the state’s regulators to re-establish
its casino license there.  MGM agreed to leave New Jersey in March 2010 amid questions
about the company’s Macau business partner  Pansy Ho . The casino
operator now has a 51 percent stake in MGM Macau’s parent
company MGM China Holdings Ltd., reducing Ho’s stake to 27
percent, according to a filing Feb. 8. New Jersey’s Division of
Gaming Enforcement had recommended that Ho be deemed unsuitable
to hold a license based on her family’s historical ties to
organized crime.  MGM, the biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip,
said in March 2010 it would sell its half interest in Atlantic
City’s Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa. No transaction has taken
place. The company has been looking to open gambling sites in
other U.S. states, including Massachusetts and Maryland, amid
concern such expansion could be hampered by the failure to
retain a license in New Jersey.  MGM, which boosted its stake in MGM China in 2011, has six
representatives on the company’s board, while Ho has two,
according to the filing.  Ho’s father,  Stanley Ho , the subject of the division’s
organized crime concerns, is in ill health and no longer has
ownership in his daughter’s company, according to MGM’s
petition.  Borgata Trust  The casino operator’s request, which the New Jersey Casino
Control Commission will consider on Feb. 13, asks only for the
right to reapply for a license. MGM has been out of the state
for three years and would be absent for a total of four years
pending an investigation, according to the filing.  MGM’s interest in the Borgata, the top-grossing casino in
Atlantic City, has been held in a trust for the past three
years. Las Vegas-based  Boyd Gaming Group  operates the property
and owns the other half.  MGM fell 3.4 percent to $13.05 at the close in New York.
The shares have dropped 11 percent in the past 12 months,  while
the Russell 1000 Index had advanced 12 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  