-- Goldman Forecasts 1.1% Gain in Commodities Over 12 Months
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-02-11T14:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/goldman-forecasts-1-1-gain-in-commodities-over-12-months.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc . forecast
precious metals and livestock will lead a 1.1 percent gain in
commodities in 12 months, saying it will wait for physical
markets to confirm recovery before raising individual estimates.  The advance in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Enhanced
Commodity Index will include a 2 percent gain in energy, with
precious metals to climb 5 percent and livestock to advance 4.5
percent, the bank said in a report e-mailed today and dated
yesterday. Agriculture will be down 3.5 percent and industrial
metals will fall 1 percent.  “Renewed optimism has been mostly based on momentum and
forward-looking survey data and far less on hard data and
physical markets, which remain lackluster,” analysts led by New
York-based  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in the report. “We are
maintaining our price targets and recommendations and will wait
for hard data and physical markets to confirm the optimism
before raising estimates.”  The S&P GSCI Enhanced gauge is up 3.8 percent since the
start of the year after declining 0.1 percent in 2012, the worst
performance since 2008. Brent crude oil has gained 6.1 percent
this year in London, and cotton jumped 9.7 percent, while nickel
is 6.6 percent higher in London.  The bank lowered its outlook for commodities to “neutral”
last month while forecasting a 5 percent return in a year.  Manufacturing in the U.S. reached a nine-month high in
January and expanded for a fourth month in China, while services
industries also gained, reports showed this month. The Institute
for Supply Management’s  employment gauge  jumped to the highest
since February 2006, according to a Feb. 5 report.  Chinese Housing  Goldman recommended buying copper to “capture the Chinese
housing completion cycle” and a long position in the Brent GSCI
Index to benefit from the “backwardation required by low crude
inventories.” Goldman said copper will trade at $9,000 a metric
ton in six months and Brent crude will be at $110 a barrel.  Brent oil traded near a nine-month high amid worsening
tensions around Iran’s nuclear program. Brent for March
settlement was at $117.84 a barrel, down 0.9 percent, by 2:41
p.m. on the London-based ICE Futures Europe. Copper for three-
month delivery slid 1.3 percent to $8,187.50 a ton in London, up
3.2 percent since the start of the year.  So-called backwardation, signaling tight supplies, means
that investors can get positive returns from rolling their
positions from nearby to longer-dated contracts, Goldman said.
High “roll yields” are available in Brent and soybeans, while
investors may also get them in copper later this year, the bank
said in a separate report dated Feb. 8. Positive returns are
possible even if prices are stable or falling, Goldman said.  “Going forward, we expect the roll yield to contribute a
larger share of the return from commodity investments than was
the case in the years when long-dated prices were rising
structurally,” the bank wrote. “This would be in line with the
experience from the 1990s when we last saw stable long-dated
commodity prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  