-- Google Eroded by Yandex to Almaz on Map Skills: Russia Ov
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-12T14:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/google-eroded-by-yandex-to-almaz-on-map-skills-russia-ov.html
Yandex NV , whose share of Russian
web searches is more than double that for Google Inc., can
extend its dominance over the world’s most-used engine to other
countries, according to one of its earliest investors.  “Yandex’s chances are strong where Google is weak,”
 Alexander Galitsky , a partner at Almaz Capital Partners, a
Moscow-based venture capital firm that invested in Yandex in
2008, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York yesterday. “Their search engine is very well adjusted
linguistically and they have very good, precise maps. Their
navigation is one of the best.”  Shares of  Yandex  traded on the  Nasdaq Stock Market  have
rallied 16 percent this year as the company boosted its  share  of
Russian Internet queries and unseated Microsoft Corp.’s Bing to
become the world’s fourth-biggest engine by number of searches.
Yandex has had the third-biggest advance in 2013 on the
Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian
stocks listed in the U.S. The gauge fell 0.2 percent yesterday.
RTS Index  futures  rose 0.1 percent to 158,180 by 6:17 p.m. in
Moscow today.  Yandex, based in The Hague, rolled out yandex.com.tr for
Turkey in September 2011. The site offers local maps with
traffic information and street views, free e-mail, news
aggregation, image and video search as well as Turkish-English
translation services. The company offers a map application for
Apple Inc.’s iPhones and debuted the Wonder app, which enables
users to search social media, for the U.S. market last month.  Traffic Jam  “What you do when you are stuck in a  traffic jam  in
Moscow?” said Galitsky, who designed software for Russian spy
satellites before moving into venture capital for technology
startups after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. “You
go to Yandex, because their navigation is one of the best. They
have a very good chance in those countries where Google is not
so active yet, where it’s not dominating.”  Prospects for Russia’s biggest Internet company are best in
Turkey, the former Soviet republic of Kazakhstan and also in
Asian nations such as Vietnam, Galitsky said.  Yandex is seeking to boost its market share in Turkey to as
much as 35 percent by the end of 2017, from 1 percent last year,
Mehmet Ali Yalcindag, the chairman of Yandex Turkey, said in
September. Google has 60 percent of the Turkish search market,
according to Yalcindag.  In Russia, Yandex’s market share rose to 62 percent in the
week to Feb. 10, compared with 26.1 percent for Mountain View,
California-based Google, Liveinternet showed yesterday. Its
stake has held above 60 percent every month since March 2012,
the data show. Yandex overtook Bing on global web searches in
November and December to become the world’s fourth-biggest
engine by number of searches, ComScore Inc. data released last
week showed.  ‘Find Everything’  Almaz Capital , which data compiled by Bloomberg shows had a
0.33 percent stake in Yandex as of a year ago, plans to retain
its investment in Yandex, Galitsky said. The search engine,
whose slogan is “find everything,” will maintain its lead in
Russia for at least the next three to four years, he said.  Yandex, which got 90 percent of third-quarter  revenue  from
text-based ads, rose 0.9 percent to $24.93 yesterday in New
York. The Bloomberg Russia-US index slipped 0.2 percent to
104.07. Moscow’s  Micex Index  added 0.1 percent to 1,517.47
today. Yandex should be able to pay a special dividend after
accumulating about $1 billion of cash, Sberbank Investment
Research analysts led by Anna Lepetukhina wrote in an e-mailed
note today.  Hover, 2can  Almaz Capital also invests in companies including  Hover
Inc. , a Los Altos, California-based developer of three-
dimensional computer vision and mapping technology as well as
2can, which allows payments to be processed by smartphones. It
also had a stake in Qik Inc., which was acquired by Web-calling
provider Skype Inc. in 2011.  Yandex will report Feb. 19 that 2012 revenue rose 44
percent to 28.8 billion rubles ($950 million), according to the
mean of 13 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s been a year since Yandex entered Turkey and if it
decides, based on 2012 results, that its expansion in the
country was a success it may enter other markets already this
year,”  Alexander Vengranovich , an analyst at Otkritie Financial
Corp. in Moscow who rates the stock buy, said by phone
yesterday.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, declined 0.3 percent to $30.30
yesterday. The  RTS Volatility Index , which measures expected
swings in futures, rallied 0.1 percent to 22.29 points in Moscow
today.  American depositary receipts of  VimpelCom Ltd. , a mobile
provider, rose 1.7 percent to $12.55 yesterday, the highest
close since July 2011.  Bank Rossii held key interest rates for a fifth month
today, shirking off pressure from lawmakers including President
Vladimir Putin to cut rates to boost the slowing economy.  Futures expiring in March on the ruble show the currency
strengthening 0.4 percent to 30.244 per dollar, with the ruble
trading 0.3 percent stronger at 30.0900 in Moscow today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  