-- Michigan Ban on Forced Union Dues Challenged in Lawsuit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-02-11T23:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/michigan-bar-to-forced-union-dues-challenged-in-lawsuit.html
Michigan’s new so-called right-to-
work law, which bars unions from forcing workers to pay dues,
violates the U.S. Constitution and federal labor statutes, the
Michigan AFL-CIO said in a lawsuit.  The law interferes with the rights of workers and Michigan
officials should be barred from enforcing it, the union said in
the complaint filed today in federal court in Detroit. The
Michigan AFL-CIO was joined in the lawsuit by the Michigan State
Building and Construction Trades Council and Change to Win, an
advocacy group.  The new Michigan law will subject unions and their members
in the state to “substantive and remedial regulations that
supplant or conflict with” federal labor laws, the AFL-CIO said
in its lawsuit. The union asked the court to find that federal
labor law pre-empts the new Michigan statute.  The right-to-work law was passed by the Republican-
controlled Michigan Legislature and signed by Governor  Rick Snyder  in December. Under the new law, an individual can’t be
forced, as a condition of employment, to become or remain a
member of a union, or pay any dues or other fees to a labor
organization.  Stop Enforcement  The AFL-CIO sued the state’s attorney general and other
Michigan officials, including members of the Michigan Employment
Relations Commission, seeking to stop enforcement of the law.  Snyder, a Republican along with state Attorney General  Bill Schuette , has asked the Michigan Supreme Court to rule on
whether the right-to-work law can be applied to the state’s
civil service employees.  “The law is constitutional and we will defend it
aggressively,” Joy Yearout, spokeswoman for Schuette, said in a
phone interview. “We hope the Supreme Court will take up the
governor’s request for an advisory opinion and resolve some of
these questions.”  The law has also been challenged in state court by the
American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan, the Michigan
Education Association and the United Auto Workers, who contend
the legislature violated the Michigan Open Meetings Act when
passing the bill. The lawsuit claims Michigan citizens were
locked out of the capitol while the bill was being considered.  The lawsuit is Michigan State AFL-CIO v. Callahan, 12-
cv-10557, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
(Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  