-- IIF’s Adams Calls on G-20 to Reduce Finance Rule Differences
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-02-11T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/iif-s-adams-calls-on-g-20-to-reduce-finance-rule-differences.html
The Group of 20 nations need to
resolve differences in financial regulations and work toward
reducing concerns over a so-called currency war, the head of the
Institute of International Finance said.  Government officials should “recommit to this idea of
global harmonization and consistency, and to fight against
regulatory fragmentation and Balkanization,”  Timothy Adams , the
IIF’s managing director, said at a news conference in Washington
today.  Adams, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary for
international affairs, said he is “heartened” to hear that the
Group of Seven nations are considering making a statement to
help calm concerns that the world is on the brink of a so-called
currency war.  Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s push for more
aggressive monetary policy has raised concern abroad that his
government is directly seeking to weaken the yen, something it
denies. The G-7 is looking to release the statement before a
Feb. 15-16 meeting in Moscow of finance ministers and central
bankers from the Group of 20, which includes the G-7 and
emerging markets such as Brazil, China and India.  “There does seem to be some concern that there is
insufficient cooperation, communication, coordination among
policy makers” to minimize exchange-rate volatility, Adams
said.  “Maybe it’s a slight skirmish” rather than a currency
war, he said.  In a letter to Russian Finance Minister  Anton Siluanov 
dated today, Adams urged G-20 officials to “reduce policy
uncertainty in major countries, including the U.S. and Japan, by
putting in place credible medium-term fiscal consolidation
plans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  