-- Independent Scotland Would Have to Reapply to EU, U.K. Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-02-11T12:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/independent-scotland-would-have-to-reapply-to-eu-u-k-says.html
Scotland would have to reapply for
European Union membership if it becomes a separate nation, the
U.K. government said as it stepped up a campaign to dissuade the
country from voting for independence.  The status of an independent Scotland under international
law has been a subject of debate since  Alex Salmond , head of
Scotland’s semi-autonomous government, announced last year he
planned to call a referendum on leaving the U.K. If Scotland
were to become a separate state, it might face entry criteria
for the EU including signing up for the euro, Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s government said, citing legal advice.  “Unless we understand what we have and how much we
contribute to, and benefit from, membership of the U.K., we
cannot begin to understand the implications of independence,”
Scottish Secretary  Michael Moore  said in Edinburgh today as he
published the U.K. government’s legal opinion. “Independence
would end devolution, it is not an extension of it.”  While polls show almost twice as many Scottish voters want
to stay in Britain than leave, enough are undecided to create a
political battleground over the future of the 306-year-old U.K.
ahead of the referendum scheduled for the fall of 2014.  The election watchdog decided on Jan. 30 on the wording of
the referendum question -- “Should Scotland be an independent
country? Yes/No” -- and said both sides should start setting
out the basis of their arguments.  Economic Advisers  Salmond’s nationalists published a report today from a
group of economic advisers, including Nobel Prize winner  Joseph Stiglitz , setting out recommendations for how an independent
Scottish economy might work.  “We encourage the Scottish government, the U.K. government
and other interested parties to engage productively on this
proposition at the earliest opportunity to provide clarity on
some of these key economic issues,”  Crawford Beveridge ,
chairman of the group, said in Edinburgh today. “This will
allow the people of Scotland to make an informed decision.”  Cameron’s office released a 57-page legal opinion today
from Professor  James Crawford  of Cambridge University and
Professor Alan Boyle of Edinburgh University that looked at
Scotland’s EU status. It plans to publish information on other
aspects of independence in the coming months.  European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  said  this
month  that any new country would need to apply with the consent
of all member states before any negotiations could start.  Ireland, Soviets  Crawford and Boyle based their  argument  on the outcome of
the majority of 20th century cases of separation, including
Ireland’s departure from the U.K. in 1922 and the 1991 break-up
of the Soviet Union. A decision on which was the successor state
and which was the continuing state usually rested on population
and territory, they said.  The creation of the Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993 was
not a suitable precedent as neither government wanted
Czechoslovakia to continue,  Jim Wallace , the U.K. government’s
legal officer for Scotland, said in Edinburgh.  They also said that the U.K.’s role as a nuclear state, a
member of NATO and a permanent member of the United Nations
Security Council would be thrown into jeopardy. Scotland is
currently home to the U.K.’s nuclear arsenal.  The U.K. is signatory to 14,000 international treaties,
according to a database held by the Foreign & Commonwealth
Office, the report said.  Dividing Oil  In its  separate report , the Scottish government’s Fiscal
Commission Working Group supported Salmond’s desire to keep the
pound while having freedom to vary taxes and spending. It also
recommended setting North Sea oil and gas revenue in a stability
fund to “enhance future economic resilience.”  Scotland’s 5.3 million people account for 8.4 percent of
the U.K. population, while its gross domestic product makes up
about 8.2 percent of the total, according to the report.
Including a geographical division of North Sea energy money,
Scotland accounts for 9.9 percent of British GDP.  An independent Scotland would need a formal agreement with
the rest of the U.K. how to run a joint currency.  The Fiscal Commission Working Group suggested Scotland
should have a shareholding in the Bank of England so that
Scotland and the rest of the U.K. could co-operate on jointly
managing the pound and other financial policies.  As well as monetary union, the working group also called
for the establishment of a fiscal sustainability agreement to
ensure that the two countries’ net debt and borrowing don’t
diverge significantly.  The group “will now turn its attention to the
opportunities that independence will bring for the Scottish
economy,” Scottish Finance Secretary  John Swinney  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  