-- India’s Sensex Drops for Eighth Day on Growth, Earnings Concern
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-02-11T10:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/india-s-nifty-futures-signal-equities-to-fall-for-eighth-day.html
Indian  stocks fell for the eighth
day, the longest losing run in about 15 months, amid economic
growth and corporate earnings concern.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index , or Sensex, slid 0.1 percent
to 19457.28, according to preliminary closing prices in Mumbai.
 Housing Development Finance Corp. , India’s biggest mortgage
lender,  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. , the largest engineering company,
and  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the country’s biggest carmaker,
all declined more than 1 percent each.  The Sensex has slid for eight straight days, the longest
streak since November 2011, as a government economic expansion
forecast disappointed investors and earnings from some of the
nation’s biggest companies trailed estimates. The government
raised $2.7 billion this month selling stakes in two state-run
companies, deals that absorbed bulk of the $3 billion in net
inflows into stocks this month from foreign investors.  “Much of the flows have gone into the substantial amount
of fresh capital raised recently and the secondary market has
not received that much money,”  Saurabh Mukherjea , director of
institutional equities at Ambit Capital in Mumbai, said in an
interview to Bloomberg TV India. “We are also at that stage of
the economy where everyone wants to see evidence of recovery
taking hold. Weak macroeconomic data makes people nervous.”  Data on December factory production and January wholesale
prices are due tomorrow and Feb. 14 respectively. The nation’s
 gross domestic product  may expand 5 percent in the year through
March 31, below last year’s 6.2 percent and the least since 4
percent in 2002-2003, the state-owned statistics bureau said in
a Feb. 7 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  