-- Lindsey Vonn Has Surgery With Doctor Optimistic of Full Recovery
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-11T05:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/lindsey-vonn-has-surgery-with-doctor-optimistic-of-full-recovery.html
Lindsey Vonn ’s doctor said he’s
optimistic the Olympic downhill skiing champion will make a full
recovery after undergoing surgery to repair two knee ligaments
and a fractured bone in her right leg.  Vonn, a 28-year-old American, was injured in a Feb. 5 crash
at the World Ski Championships in Schladming, Austria. She tore
the anterior cruciate and medial collateral ligaments in her
knee and fractured a bone just below the joint.  Vonn had surgery yesterday at Vail Valley Surgery Center in
her hometown of Vail, Colorado, a procedure that came exactly
one year before the women’s super-combined at the 2014 Winter
Olympics in Sochi, Russia.  “Modern surgical techniques combined with aggressive
rehabilitation will help Lindsey make a full recovery,” U.S.
Women’s Alpine Ski Team head physician Bill Sterett said in a
statement. “She will do everything in her power to return as
quickly as possible to competitive skiing.”  The U.S. Ski and Snowboard Association said knee injuries
such as Vonn’s aren’t uncommon in ski racing and noted that
American  Picabo Street  won an Olympic gold medal in 1998 at
Nagano, Japan, the season after having reconstructive surgery.  Vonn said last week that her goal will be returning to
compete at the 2014 Winter Games. The women’s downhill event,
which Vonn won at the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver, is  scheduled 
for Feb. 12, 2014.  Vonn is the most successful alpine skier of her generation,
with four overall World Cup championships and two Olympic
medals. She’s three World Cup victories shy of tying the women’s
record of 62 held by Austria’s Annemarie Moser-Proell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  