-- Innovative Drugs May Win U.S. Approval After Early Trials
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2013-02-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/innovative-drugs-may-win-u-s-approval-after-early-trials.html
Drugmakers may win approval from
U.S. regulators for “breakthrough” therapies after a single
round of studies, rather than three, in an effort to speed them
to patients, a Food and Drug Administration official said.  The agency assigned three experimental medicines the new 
status to try to reduce the time needed to get them to market 
against deadly diseases,  Janet Woodcock , director of the FDA’s 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said yesterday in an 
interview before a Bloomberg health conference in New York. 
 Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.  said last month that two of its 
drugs for cystic fibrosis had won the designation.  Breakthrough status means the companies will have closer
communication with top FDA staff to move drugs for serious
diseases to market more quickly, potentially with data from an
expanded Phase 1 trial, Woodcock said. Improved understanding of
diseases is leading to more candidates for this status.  “We expect many of these would come available very quickly
with Phase 1 data,” Woodcock said.  New drugs generally need three phases of clinical testing 
on safety and effectiveness to win FDA approval. In addition to 
the three treatments that have won the new designation, 18 other 
drugs have applied, most for types of cancer, Woodcock said.  The breakthrough designation was created in legislation
passed last year reauthorizing the FDA’s user fee programs for
drug and device reviews. The agency didn’t receive authorization
to hire more full-time employees for the enhanced communication
and is attempting to balance its priorities.  “We don’t want to disadvantage ordinary drugs,” Woodcock
said.  Biologics Review  In contrast to the breakthrough drugs, Woodcock said the
agency is taking its time to consider whether to approval copies
of biotechnology medicines, so-called biologics.  While the FDA has been contacted in connection with 12
different biologic therapies, the agency is meeting with
companies one by one instead of drafting guidelines on specific
classes of drugs, she said.  “It’s probably going to take a while for this program to
become established in the United States but there’s robust
interest,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  