-- Insolvency Looms in Detroit Suburb as Studio Fails: Muni Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-02-11T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/insolvency-looms-in-detroit-suburb-as-studio-fails-muni-credit.html
Investors chasing the biggest rally
in high-yield municipal debt since 2008 are drawing the line at
the bonds of  Allen Park , Michigan, whose ill-fated plan to build
a movie studio has left it facing possible bankruptcy.  The Detroit suburb of 28,000 sold $31 million of bonds
about three years ago for the venture, the brainchild of
California film executive Jimmy Lifton. Instead of his Unity
Studios, the city is stuck with partially leased buildings that
aren’t meeting costs, and $2.6 million in annual bond payments
from a $16 million general budget.  Next month, a new law gives Allen Park’s emergency manager
more power to stave off insolvency. Still, in the $3.7 trillion
muni market, investors are standing clear even as yields close
to  47-year lows  lure buyers to riskier, higher-yielding debt.
Allen Park bonds have trailed gains in  benchmark  local debt,
pushing the extra yield for some securities to about seven
percentage points from 6.5 percentage points in June.  “There has to be a legitimate turnaround plan for some of
these communities before it warrants a high-yield investor like
me getting involved,” said  Tim Pynchon , who helps manage $3
billion of high-yield munis at Pioneer Investment Management
Inc. in Boston.  Burned Roster  Allen Park, near Detroit’s southwest border, joins a roster
of municipalities burned by assuming debt to finance commercial
or sports-related projects with promises of economic salvation.
Last year, Vadnais Heights, Minnesota, had its credit rating
dropped 12 levels after it borrowed for a $25 million sports
complex that wound up costing one-third of its annual budget.  In Allen Park, the deficit when including costs such as
pensions and health care has ballooned to nearly $4 million and
the city’s future as “a going concern” is in doubt, according
to a Dec. 29 audit report. Its credit was cut five levels below
investment grade by Standard & Poor’s in March.  Lifton didn’t immediately return a call to his studio in
Burbank, California. He signed an agreement with Allen Park in
2010 that left him with no liability. Under the accord, he’s not
allowed to talk about the deal.  Repair Plan  Joyce Parker, appointed emergency manager in October,
unveiled plans last week to fix the city’s finances. They
include selling assets such as vacant property; cutting pay and
requiring employees to assume a bigger share of health-insurance
costs; hiring a private contractor for trash pickup; and
refinancing bonds sold for the failed studio, Parker said in a
statement.  Bankruptcy “is always an option if the other plans are not
feasible,” Parker, 60, president of Ann Arbor, Michigan-based
The Municipal Group LLC, said in an interview. She would need
state approval for that.  Rather than run out of cash this month, the city has
delayed payments to some vendors, she said.  No Michigan city has declared bankruptcy, and state laws
aimed at averting defaults are helping turn around
municipalities such as Flint and Pontiac.  Parker’s toolkit will expand at the end of March. That’s
when a law signed in December by Governor  Rick Snyder , a 54-
year-old Republican, takes effect and gives emergency managers
more authority, including renewed power to cancel union
contracts. Voters in November repealed a similar law that
critics labeled as undemocratic, anti-union and too protective
of bondholders at the expense of government services.  State Involvement  The emergency manager law makes the state more attractive
to investors, said  Hector Negroni , New York-based chief
investment officer of Fundamental Credit Opportunities, which
invests in the municipal market.  “I’m interested in investing in places where I understand
that there’s a framework by which responsible actions can be
taken to address credit stress,” Negroni said in an interview.  Falling property values and $3 million in annual employee
retirement costs added to the fiscal strain, said Parker. Yet
finances went over a cliff when officials sold the bonds to buy
property for a $146 million movie studio and 3,000 new jobs
promised by Lifton, a Detroit native and president of Oracle
Post, a Burbank, California, video post-production company. The
104-acre site once housed an automotive supplier.  The studio didn’t materialize, though the movie company,
Unity Studios, operated a film school at the property for a few
months until it shut in 2010. Portions of the site are leased,
though not enough to cover the city’s cost of maintenance.  Markdown Move  As the stress mounted, investors marked down prices on debt
financing the venture. They have been left out of a rally in
tax-free munis rated BBB, or two levels above junk, for which
the extra yield on 10-year maturities is close to the  smallest 
since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Taxable general-obligation bonds sold for the project in
2009 with a 7.33 percent yield and due in 2039 have traded this
month with yields averaging about 10.8 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  For  Michael Brooks , who helps oversee $31 billion at
AllianceBernstein LP in New York, including a Michigan state
fund, Allen Park’s debt has no appeal, no matter what the yield.  “We’re staying away from weak local issuers,” Brooks
said.  In trading last week, benchmark 10-year muni yields rose to
1.88 percent, the highest since August, Bloomberg Valuation data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Christoff  in Lansing, Michigan, at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Chappatta  in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at  