-- Lions Gate Reports Quarterly Profit on ‘Twilight’ Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-12T18:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/lions-gate-reports-quarterly-profit-on-twilight-sales.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. , the
independent film studio behind “The Hunger Games,” reported a
quarterly profit that beat analysts’ estimates on ticket sales
for the final “Twilight” and improved international results.  Net income was $37.8 million, or 27 cents a share, in the
third quarter ended Dec. 31, versus a loss of $1.4 million, or 1
cent, a year earlier, the company said yesterday in a statement.
Sales more than doubled to $743.6 million, beating estimates of
$719.5 million. Profit exceeded the 24-cent average of nine
analysts’ projections compiled by Bloomberg.  The results highlight the benefits of Lionsgate’s January
2012 deal to acquire Summit Entertainment, which brought the
“Twilight” series and “Sinister.” “The Twilight Saga:
Breaking Dawn - Part 2” generated $828.3 million in worldwide
ticket sales, according to researcher Box Office Mojo. The film
will be released on home video, including DVD and on-demand
television, on March 2.  Combining with Summit has boosted profit margins more than
Lions Gate expected, Chief Executive Officer  Jon Feltheimer  said
today on a conference call. The company will use free cash flow
to continue de-levering, he said. The company is lining up
promotional partners for “Divergent,” which starts filming in
April. The books are registering sales comparable to “The
Hunger Games” and “Twilight” at similar stages, he said.  “We’ll be rolling out a series of announcements in the
coming months,” Feltheimer said.  Summit’s ‘Sinister’  The results were helped by home-video sales of “The Hunger
Games” and better terms from distributors who acquired rights
to release “Twilight” outside of the U.S. and Canada, the
company said.  Other box-office winners during the quarter included
Summit’s “Sinister,” made for $3 million. It took in $77.7
million worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  Lions Gate  bought Summit for $412.5 million, some of it
financed with the target company’s cash, plus assumed debt. The
company named Summit’s two top executives,  Rob Friedman  and
 Patrick Wachsberger , to lead its film division.  Lions Gate, based in Vancouver and run from Santa Monica,
California, slipped 1.7 percent to $19.40 at 1:10 p.m. in New
York. Before today’s trading, the shares had advanced 20 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  