-- Hip-Replacement Prices Blindfolds Patients, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-02-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/hip-replacement-prices-blindfolds-patients-study-finds.html
Only 16 percent of U.S. hospitals
were able to say how much a hip operation would cost a potential
patient when asked, and those that answered quoted prices that
differed by more than $100,000, a study found.  As more Americans are asked to foot a bigger portion of
their health-care bills, being able to comparison shop is
essential, said  Peter Cram , the study’s author. The research,
reported yesterday in the journal  JAMA Internal Medicine , shows
the obstacles patients face in trying to lower their medical
costs.  “Hospitals, they aren’t used to this request,” said Cram,
an associate professor of medicine at the University of Iowa
Carver College of Medicine in Iowa City, in a Feb. 8 telephone
interview. “Our finding should inspire people to the fact that
you should ask about prices even if you have insurance. People
should demand more.”  When hospitals and doctors were contacted separately, full
pricing was available for another 47 percent. The price of a hip
replacement, a common elective procedure in the U.S., ranged
from $12,500 to $105,000 for total hip replacements at top-
ranked hospitals and $11,100 and $125,798 at the other
facilities, the study showed.  Cram said the price differences could be because some
hospitals were factoring in more amenities like a private room
even though they asked for the best price, or the hospitals had
a hard time figuring out just what the price was.  Quality Care  “Just having price information does us no good because you
have to understand what you’re getting for that price, is it
good quality or poor quality,” said  Ezekiel Emanuel , chairman
of the Department of Medical Ethics & Health Policy at the
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, in a telephone
interview. In an accompanying editorial, Emanuel said doctors,
hospitals and insurers will be able to use this data, along with
information on quality, to help health-care costs.  Out of the 48 million surgical procedures performed in the
U.S. in 2009, 327,000 were for hip replacements, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Researchers randomly selected two hospitals from each state
and Washington, D.C., that performed  total hip replacement . They
also contacted the 20 top-ranked orthopedic hospitals from the
 U.S. News & World Report rankings .  Each hospital was called between May 2011 and July 2012 and
asked for the lowest complete price for both the hospital and
physician fees for an elective total hip replacement. The caller
would say the procedure was for her 62-year-old grandma who
didn’t have insurance but was able to pay out of pocket.  Survey Responses  They found that nine of the hospitals that were top ranked
by U.S. News & World Report and 10 of the other hospitals were
able to give complete prices for both the hospital and doctor
fees for the surgery. Pricing information was also available
from three additional top-ranked hospitals and 54 other
hospitals when the facilities and doctors were called
separately.  Emanuel said it’s “upsetting” that hospitals and
providers can’t provide consumers with a total price
particularly for elective procedures.  “It is time we stop forcing people to buy health-care
services blindfolded -- and then blame them for not seeing,” he
wrote in his editorial. “The transparency imperative is here,
and one way or another the public will soon be empowered to
choose their health care based on reliable data on price and
quality.”  Uniform Charges  Hospitals have a uniform set of charges and consumers
deserve helpful information, though they need to understand that
what they’ll ultimately pay depends on their insurer, said
 Elizabeth Lietz , a spokeswoman for the Washington-based American
Hospital Association. More than 40 states already require or
encourage hospitals to report information on hospital charges or
payment rates and make that data available to the public, she
said.  “Sharing meaningful information, however, is challenging
because hospital care is unique and based on each individual
patient’s needs,” Lietz said in an e-mailed statement.
“Patients’ final out-of-pocket costs could can be higher or
lower than their neighbors’ -- even when they’ve undergone the
same procedure -- depending on their type of insurance. To get
the most meaningful information, we encourage consumers to talk
with their physician, hospital and insurance company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  