-- Is Einhorn’s Apple Activism Insider Trading?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-02-11T19:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/is-einhorn-s-apple-activism-insider-trading-.html
It must be nice to be a cherubic-
looking billionaire hedge-fund manager who can get himself on
financial cable TV whenever he wants, talk up his book and make
millions of dollars out of it. Welcome to the world of  David Einhorn , the 44-year-old founder of Greenlight Capital Inc., an
$8 billion fund in New York.  Einhorn worked his magic again on Feb. 7, first in an on-
air telephone conversation with CNBC and then during a 19-minute
conversation with  Bloomberg TV . Einhorn’s topic-du-jour was
 Apple Inc .’s refusal to share any of its $137 billion pile of
cash with its shareholders. He has proposed that Apple issue $50
billion of perpetual preferred stock with a 4 percent dividend,
which he has calculated would return $35 billion to
shareholders. He has also sued Apple in federal court to get the
company to take out of its proxy statement a proposal that, if
approved by shareholders on Feb. 27, would prevent the company
from ever issuing preferred stock.  Einhorn’s verbal and legal assaults on Apple were big news.
In addition to becoming lead stories on Bloomberg and CNBC,
Einhorn made the front pages of the Financial Times and the Wall
Street Journal and of the New York Times’s business section.  Not surprisingly, all the news media attention combined
with Einhorn’s Houdini-like powers to mesmerize -- and the
prospect that he might prevail in forcing Apple to share some of
its cash with the people who actually own the company -- sent
Apple stock up 3 percent on Feb. 7 and 1.4 percent more on Feb.
8. Einhorn owns more than 1.3 million Apple shares -- it’s
Greenlight’s  largest  single holding. During those two trading
sessions Einhorn made at least $26 million in Apple alone -- for
less than 30 minutes of chatting.  Stock Collapse  That’s nice work if you can get it. And Einhorn can,
seemingly, whenever he wants. He also did it May 1, 2012, when
just by asking a few innocuous-sounding questions on an
 Herbalife Ltd.  earnings call he caused the  stock to fall  to $56
a share from $70. Einhorn was short an undisclosed amount of
stock, but you can surmise that the $14-a-share drop that day
netted him many millions of dollars.  Einhorn isn’t alone, of course. There’s a small group of
billionaire “activist” investors -- among them  Carl Icahn ,
 Daniel Loeb  and  Bill Ackman  (all of whom happen to be on one
side or the other of the Herbalife battle) -- who specialize in
getting on TV, talking their books and making a killing. Come to
think of it,  Warren Buffett  does the same thing (maybe he taught
them all).  Ackman made news the world over on Dec. 20 when he
announced at a special session of the  Ira Sohn Investment
Conference  -- where activist investors routinely talk their
books, to much public acclaim -- that he was short more than 20
million shares (worth more than $1 billion) of Herbalife stock,
which fell to about $26 from $42.50 in the days after his three-
hour presentation. Bingo: A $320 million week for Ackman.  On Jan. 9, when Loeb announced both in a public filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission and in an investor letter
(immediately leaked to the news media) that his hedge fund owned
8.9 million Herbalife shares, or 8.2 percent of the total,
Herbalife stock was on the move again, this time up 10 percent
in a day or two. Loeb netted an instant $27 million or so.  The prevalence of this kind of behavior raises serious
questions about the fairness of billionaire-activist hedge-fund
managers, such as Einhorn, Icahn, Loeb and Ackman, who can get
the media’s attention at a moment’s notice and force it to play
by the rules they set, knowing very well that by just opening
their mouths and stating their case they will move markets and
make a ton of money.  Market Sway  In fairness to these guys, they’re very clever and their
track records as investors give them huge credibility with other
investors. There’s no question that today David Einhorn has a
lot more credibility than he did in May 2008, when he was
predicting -- and betting on -- the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
Many people ignored Einhorn on Lehman, only to regret it when
the firm collapsed that September. That’s to his credit,
frankly. But the truth is, these wise guys know very well that
they have this kind of sway over the markets, and they’re
willing to use it to pad their bank accounts whenever they
please, apparently with impunity.  To me, talking your book seems a lot like insider trading.
They know investors will listen to them. They get conviction in
a stock -- long or short -- and build up their positions without
anyone knowing. And then when the position is built, they go on
national television to talk about it, and the stock moves in
their direction. That’s a license to print money, and so that’s
exactly what they’ve been doing.  No, the practice doesn’t break insider-trading laws as
they’re now written and enforced. That doesn’t change the fact
that in our newfangled information age -- replete with a cable-
TV news hole that can’t get enough of them -- these activist
investors have a huge, unfair advantage over everyone else. And
they will continue to press it unless they’re stopped.  Looking into this behavior, and perhaps pushing Congress to
think about legislating it, isn’t likely to be the first thing
on  Mary Jo White ’s agenda as she takes over the Securities and
Exchange Commission. But it should be awfully near the top.  ( William D. Cohan , the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 