-- Ivy League, Super Bowl Champs DeOssie, Boothe: NYC Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-02-11T15:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ivy-league-super-bowl-champs-deossie-boothe-nyc-scene.html
Shoulders rubbed at the  Ivy Football
Association  Dinner. That’s what happens when 1,200 alumni of Ivy
League football gather for a reunion.  “It’s quite an amazing thing that happens when people kind
of bang heads for a number of years but also have brains,” said
Michael O’Flynn, who played defensive end at Dartmouth, where
former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson also played. “It teaches
you to get up after being knocked down. It teaches you to do
things you never dreamed of doing.”  At the Marriott Marquis on Feb. 7, guests stood for the
national anthem, and heckled the guy who pronounced Harvard
“Haah-vud.”  Championship rings from both the Ivy League and the
National Football League glimmered, though not everyone wore
one.  Peter Salovey , incoming president of Yale, left his at
home. It’s for Yale’s 2006 championship, split with Princeton,
and the last time the team won the title.  “I have to tell you, it’s a real source of pride to watch
a group of scholar athletes,” Salovey said during dinner, where
he sat with Yale’s head football coach,  Tony Reno .  “Working as a team, you learn self-discipline, you learn
how to be gracious whether you win or lose,” said Salovey, a
psychology professor. “My goal is we should get the most we can
out of our athletics program, in terms of student development.”  “I make sure I keep in touch with all these guys because
they’re the movers and shakers,” said  Zak DeOssie , who played
for Brown University and has won two Super Bowls with the New
York Giants.  Gridiron Giving  For O’Flynn, a managing director at Moscow-based UFG Asset
Management, football is a credential. “I always give a little
bit extra helping football players, knowing that these guys
would persevere under stress,” he said.  The bond forged on campus and beyond is the glue of the
dinner, which also drew Cornell alumnus  Kevin Boothe  of the New
York Giants and  William Campbell , chairman of Intuit Inc., who
played and coached for Columbia.  “What we try to do is to celebrate and promote the brand
of Ivy League football, and honor those who’ve become
successful,” said  Gary Vura , a vice president at ICAP Plc and
quarterback for the Penn Quakers 30 years ago.  Vura and  Bill Primps , a partner at Dorsey & Whitney LLP,
were co-chairmen of the event, which featured eight honorees,
including  Calvin Hill , who played for Yale and the Dallas
Cowboys.  Hill recalled a conversation with a high-school student
deciding between the Southeast Conference and the Ivy League.  Loving Knowledge  Hill said he told the student, “If you go to the Ivy
League, you’ll come out with a love of knowledge and be in a
position to make a difference, and that’s something.”  Representing University Of Pennsylvania was  Robert Wolf ,
who recently left UBS to found 32 Advisors LLC, named after his
jersey number as a Penn Quaker.  “Thank you for this award, as definitive proof to my two
sons that all my stories are true,” Wolf said.  Also honored were Thomas Catena of Brown, a doctor in the
Sudan;  Marcellus Wiley  of Columbia, an analyst and host for ESPN
who played on four NFL teams; and  Tim Ring  of Cornell, chairman
and CEO of C.R. Bard Inc., who had the funniest video tribute
thanks to  Ed Marinaro , who played for Cornell and the NFL and
had a regular role in “Hill Street Blues.”  Mack Video  John Mack , former chairman of Morgan Stanley, appeared in
the video for  Robert H.B. Baldwin  of Princeton, who served as
chairman of Morgan Stanley when it became a public company in
the 1970s.  Harvard honoree Jerry Jordan, co-founder and chairman of
Hellman Jordan Management Co., wore a cummerbund embroidered
with the Harvard seal.  Dessert featured a chocolate shell in the shape of a
football with raspberries inside.  “There are a lot more similarities than differences,”
Harvard’s head football coach,  Tim Murphy , said of the guests
who spent four years as rivals. “The great thing about the
evening is we’re all on the same team.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Farah Nayeri and Catherine Hickley
on  film ,  Elin MCcoy  on wine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  