-- J&J’s Marketer E-Mailed Hip Safety Concerns Before Recall
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/j-j-s-marketer-e-mailed-hip-safety-concerns-before-recall-1-.html
A top marketing executive at  Johnson
& Johnson ’s DePuy unit said the company should consider a recall
of a hip implant almost a year before 93,000 of the devices were
recalled, according to an internal e-mail shown to jurors.  Paul Berman , DePuy’s director of hip marketing, wrote Sept.
18, 2009, that he wanted to “reiterate my concern” over safety
of the ASR device, given mounting failures. Jurors, at the first
of 10,000 lawsuits to go to trial, saw several e-mails yesterday
from marketers before the recall on Aug. 24, 2010.  Berman discussed a recommendation to “discontinue the
product from all but 10 surgeons because of failure rates with
the broader universe,” according to the e-mail shown to state
court jurors in Los Angeles.  “If the company feels the safety profile of the platform
is not acceptable among the majority of surgeons it seems we
should consider recalling it altogether,” Berman wrote.  Jurors are weighing the lawsuit of Loren Kransky, 65, a
retired prison guard who claims that DePuy defectively designed
the device. Kransky’s lawyers claim that surgeons who implanted
the ASR complained for years before the recall about device
failures, and DePuy failed to warn properly of the risks.  Health Problems  J&J, the world’s  largest  seller of health-care products,
denies it defectively designed the device or that it contributed
to Kransky’s health problems. J&J is based in New Brunswick, New
Jersey. In an opening statement on Jan. 25, J&J lawyer Alexander
Calfo said Kransky’s lawyers took e-mails out of context to
“paint a picture about a company that simply isn’t true.”  In a videotaped deposition shown yesterday of Michael Rhee,
a hip marketing manager, Kransky’s lawyers asked about e-mails
starting in 2008. A San Francisco surgeon, Thomas Sampson, e-
mailed Thomas Vail, a surgeon who helped design the ASR.  Sampson wrote that he saw an ad on the cover of Orthopedics
Today claiming 99.2 percent survivorship for ASR patients.  “It was difficult to read the ad considering my failure
rate is in double digits,” Sampson wrote on July 28, 2008. He
said another doctor’s “are worse and other orthos I have talked
with stopped using it all together because of pain and fibrous
ingrowth.” Sampson added “I don’t believe the failures are due
solely to technique.”  Vail forwarded the e-mail to another surgeon who also
helped design the ASR, Thomas Schmalzried, who responded,
“Using ‘surgical technique’ to explain failures to a surgeon is
an uphill fight.”  ASR Study  Jurors also saw an e-mail chain involving Tom Fehring, a
North Carolina surgeon who had advocated studying ASR patients.
Berman sent marketing materials to Fehring about another J&J
hip, the Pinnacle, according to an e-mail. Fehring complimented
Berman on the materials.  Berman e-mailed Rhee in January 2009 stating he had “sent
all Pinn design surgeons the new Pinn brochure with a letter
telling them we plan to continue promoting it. Should make them
back off asr a bit.” Rhee replied, “Why r u getting in my s---
.”  Berman wrote, “Keeping fehring from recalling your
product. You’re welcome.”  On March 14, 2010, Berman wrote an e-mail to a colleague,
according to testimony.  “I want to reiterate my concerns with the safety of the
ASR platform,” he wrote. “With growing chatter in the market
and commentary” from a British surgeon and others, “I still
remain concerned with the safety of this product,” he said.  ‘An Obligation’  “As a marketing professional, I do not make product safety
decisions, but I do have an obligation as an employee of J&J and
DePuy to make it known when I do not feel comfortable,” he
wrote.  He referred to four earlier e-mails he sent, including the
one in September 2009 suggesting a possible recall.  Kransky’s hip was implanted in December 2007 and removed in
February 2012 through a so-called revision surgery. His lawyers
said that he suffered from high levels of chromium and cobalt
released from the ASR device. Kransky also suffers from
diabetes, coronary artery disease, high blood pressure, kidney
cancer, and other health problems.  His physician, Thomas Trotsky, said he was concerned that
Kransky wouldn’t be healthy enough to survive the revision.  “What was driving this was everyone’s conviction that
unless the hip was replaced, Bill was dying,” Trotsky said in
videotaped testimony shown yesterday. “We felt we were dealing
with a man who was slowly dying from being poisoned.”  “I was convinced that Mr. Kransky would die from toxicity
if the hip weren’t removed,” he said. “Mr. Kransky was
convinced it was his last and only chance to survive.”  Cobalt Measurement  In his opening statement, Calfo said “the evidence will
show the amount of cobalt measured in Mr. Kransky was not enough
to cause any adverse systemic health effects.”  Asked by J&J attorney  Michael Zellers  what caused him to
conclude that Kransky was threatened with metal toxicity,
Trotsky said: “There’s no research evidence that would cause me
to come to that conclusion.”  Kransky’s daughter, Jennifer Flynn, wept as she testified
yesterday about her father’s suffering before his revision
surgery. She said her father fell several times, including once
when he came out of the shower and landed with his head in the
cat litter box.  “He’s a prideful man and to have your daughter pick you up
because your head is in the catbox is not the way it’s supposed
to be,” she said.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maurice Possley  in Los Angeles Superior Court
at  mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 