-- JBS Parent Bows to Yield Surge as Brazil Offerings Scrapped
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-02-11T21:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/jbs-parent-pulls-bond-deal-as-scrapped-brazil-junk-sales-mount.html
Brazil’s J&F Participacoes SA, the
parent of the world’s biggest beef producer, postponed a planned
junk bond sale three days after a surge in borrowing costs led a
Brazilian oil company to scrap a debt offering.  The holding company of JBS SA shelved plans to sell seven-
year dollar notes after meeting investors in the U.S. and
Europe, according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
asked not to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly. Barclays Plc, Banco do Brasil SA, Morgan Stanley and
Banco Santander SA were arranging the transaction.  Schahin Oil & Gas Ltd., which operates six offshore drill
rigs for Petroleo Brasileiro SA, shelved on Feb. 8 plans to sell
at least $500 million of seven-year dollar bonds.  Yields  on
high-yield emerging-market corporate debt soared 0.24 percentage
point in the past two weeks, the most since June, tracking an
increase in U.S. Treasury yields, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s CEMBI index.  “We have seen a selloff in emerging-market assets and
increasing yields,”  Roy Yackulic , a corporate debt analyst at
Bank of America Corp., said by e-mail.  J&F, whose chairman is Brazil’s former central bank
president  Henrique Meirelles , had plans to issue $300 million of
bonds due 2020, according to Standard & Poor’s. The company is
rated B+ by the ratings company, four levels below investment
grade, while Schahin’s proposed bonds were ranked BB+, the
highest junk rating.  Junk Offerings  Bonds issued by JBS have fallen in the secondary market
after the beef producer sold $500 million of debt last month.
The yields on the company’s bonds maturing in 2023 rose 28 basis
points to 6.78 percent since the securities were issued Jan. 29,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. Treasury 10-year
note yields have risen 19 basis points this year to 1.95
percent.  The scrapped deals followed a surge in Brazilian junk debt
offerings in January. High-yield bonds accounted for 80 percent
of the $5.6 billion raised by Brazilian companies in 2013,
compared with 18 percent a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A day before Schahin scrapped its bond offering, QGOG
Constellation SA postponed its initial public offering, citing
“market conditions.” The rig operator was poised to end a two-
year energy IPO drought in Brazil.  QGOG Constellation, one of the world’s 10 largest drilling
companies, filed on Jan. 7 to raise more than $500 million in an
offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  