-- Jones Day, King & Spalding, Kirkland: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-11T11:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/jones-day-king-spalding-kirkland-business-of-law.html
Jones Day opened an Amsterdam office
and hired two mergers and acquisitions partners, Marcel van de
Vorst, formerly of Norton Rose LLP, and Marc Rijkaart van
Cappellen, of Baker & McKenzie LLP.  Van de Vorst has a transactional and corporate advisory
practice involving technology, life sciences and growth
businesses. Rijkaart van Cappellen has a transactional and
corporate advisory practice that includes capital market
transactions, corporate governance, joint ventures, public and
private mergers and acquisitions, and restructuring. He also has
experience in cross border equity offerings and structuring of
international deals with a focus on the U.S. and Latin America,
the firm said.  Luc Houben , recently partner-in-charge of the Brussels
office, has moved to Amsterdam to head the new six-lawyer
office.  Houben said in an e-mail of the firm’s motivation to open
the new office, “The Netherlands is an important international
business and legal market with close ties to the U.S. as well
Asia.”  The firm expects to continue hiring in Amsterdam across
practices, Houben said.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 37 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe and Asia.  King & Spalding Begins Russian Disputes Practice With New Hire  King & Spalding LLP has recruited Russian lawyer Ilia
Rachkov to establish an international disputes practice in the
firm’s Moscow office. He previously worked at the Moscow office
of German firm  Noerr LLP  before starting a solo practice last
year. He also teaches international economic law at the law
faculty of the Moscow State Institute of International
Relations, the firm said.  Rachkov’s practice focuses on commercial litigation and
arbitration. He has developed particular expertise in
representing international and Russian clients in the
pharmaceuticals, media, automotive and regulated markets, the
firm said.  He recently was an expert witness on Russian law in the
Berezovsky-Abramovich litigation in London and has also
represented clients including UniCredit Bank, Pfleiderer,
Dyckerhoff and SL Leasing, the firm said.  Rachkov also has experience in corporate and mergers and
acquisitions work. He represented Volkswagen on its Russian
joint venture with the EBRD, Google on its recent takeover of
Motorola Mobility and Daimler in its joint ventures with KAMAZ,
the firm said.  “As we continue to expand our practice in Russia, we see
an increasing client need for dispute resolution services, both
within Russia and abroad,”  Sergey Komolov , managing partner of
King & Spalding’s Moscow office said in a statement. “Many of
our Russian clients look towards the United Kingdom for their
dispute resolution needs and this hire will provide us with an
invaluable axis between our Moscow and London offices and
further strengthen our client offering in Russia.”  King & Spalding’s Moscow office, which opened in 2011, has
six partners who handle corporate, energy, real estate, TMT and
environmental matters. The firm has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in
the U.S., Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Edwards Wildman Starts Technology and Media Practice Group  With about 150 attorneys across 15 offices, Edwards Wildman
Palmer LLP established a multidisciplinary technology, media and
telecommunications practice group. The group will offer clients
legal advice from across practice areas, including private
equity and venture capital; privacy and data protection;
intellectual property; media and technology licensing and
transactions; mergers and acquisitions; debt financings;
communications and regulatory matters; insurance and
reinsurance; litigation, and antitrust/competition law, the firm
said.  The practice group is led by Pete Barrett, a private equity
and venture capital partner based in Providence, Rhode Island;
Sarah Camougis, a Boston-based private equity and venture
capital partner; Richard Graham, an intellectual
property/information technology and privacy partner in the
firm’s London office; and Art Harding, a business law partner in
Washington.  “The speed of technology change has skyrocketed, with new
issues presented by cloud computing, smart meters, wireless
communications, open source, net neutrality, digital media, e-
Health and next generation technologies,” Barrett said in a
statement. “Our multidisciplinary approach ensures that our
attorneys are well-positioned to advise clients at this cutting-
edge intersection of new media technology and traditional
business issues.”  Edwards Wildman has 625 lawyers in 15 offices in the U.S.,
London and Asia.  Video  Layoffs Coming to AmLaw 100 Law Firms as More Firms Merge  Law firm consultant  Kent Zimmermann  of the Zeughauser Group
tells Bloomberg Law’s  Lee Pacchia  that partner layoffs at
America’s largest law firms are quietly picking up speed because
of a lack of billable work coming in their doors.  Legal process outsourcers (LPOs) and other alternative
legal service providers are stealing low-value work from
traditional firms, with one AmLaw 100 firm planning to lay off
25 percent of its associates firmwide during the next three
years, he says.  LPOs and other alternative legal service providers are also
beginning to take the bread-and-butter of large law firms --
handling whole mergers and acquisitions, not just the due
diligence aspects of deals, according to Zimmermann. For smaller
deals, clients are finding “they don’t need perfect, they need
good enough,” and are increasingly willing to hire LPOs rather
than higher-cost traditional firms, he says. On some deals,
clients are “adding insult to injury,” asking their
traditional outside counsel to supervise the work of LPOs, he
says. Major U.S. firms are scrambling to deal with the new
competitors.  Zimmermann also said he expects more major law firm mergers
in 2013. Firms fear they won’t be able to grow organically fast
enough to meet their strategic goals. Many of those looking at
mergers are trying to build on practice areas in which they are
traditionally strong, or expand into emerging markets where they
are weak, he says.  Click here for layoffs video, click here for mergers video
and here for LPO video.  Moves  Holland & Knight Hires Three McCarter Partners in Boston  Four attorneys from McCarter & English LLP join Holland &
Knight LLP in Boston. Brian G. Leary,  Diane M. McDermott  and
Jeffrey M. Stoler have joined the firm as partners along with a
senior counsel.  Leary is a member of the firm’s business section and works
with companies in planning and implementing litigation defense,
government relations and media strategy. McDermott is a member
the real estate section and advises on permitting and
development, leasing, conveyancing, and purchase and sale
transactions, the firm said. She also represents clients in the
hotel and hospitality industry. Stoler is a member of the firm’s
business section handling corporate and securities matters. He
serves as general counsel to middle-market businesses engaged in
the service, manufacturing and tech sectors, the firm said.  Holland & Knight has 1,000 lawyers in 17 U.S. offices as
well as Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Bogota, and Mexico City.  Obama Government Official Returns to K&L Gates in Pittsburgh  David H. Ehrenwerth , regional administrator of the General
Services Administration and Associate Commissioner of the U.S.
Public Buildings Service, rejoined K&L Gates LLP as a partner in
its real estate investment, development, and finance practice.  At the U.S. Public Buildings Service, Ehrenwerth helped
manage the government’s national real estate portfolio of nearly
400 million square feet across 10,000 properties, the firm said.
He also served as the agency’s Senior Recovery Act Official and
oversaw the expenditure of the $5.5 billion allocated by the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for the construction and
energy-efficient renovation of federal buildings throughout the
country.  Ehrenwerth advises real estate developers, closely-held
entities, investment groups, and lenders, as well as hospitals,
foundations, and economic development organizations. He has a
particular focus on real estate development, finance, corporate
transactions, and complex domestic and international joint
ventures.  Ehrenwerth first joined K&L Gates in 1974 and was elected
to the partnership in 1979.  K&L Gates has 46 offices located in the U.S., Asia,
Australia, Europe, the Middle East and South America.  Hogan Lovells Bolsters Denver Oil, Gas, Resources Practice  Hogan Lovells LLP is expanding its Denver oil and gas and
natural resources practice with a lateral partner hire, an of
counsel hire, and the promotion of a firm lawyer to partner, the
firm said.  Scot Anderson joins from  Davis Graham & Stubbs LLP  as a
partner. A Patton Boggs associate joins as of counsel, while
Jennifer Biever was recently promoted to partner in the energy
and natural resources practice in Denver.  Anderson has experience advising oil and gas, mining, and
natural resources companies on transactional, regulatory,
operational, and project development matters.  In addition to counseling oil and gas companies, Biever
works with renewable energy companies and other development
clients on natural resource, land use, environmental, siting,
and regulatory issues, the firm said.  Hogan Lovells’ energy and natural resources practice has
lawyers in 15 countries in Europe, Asia, the Middle East and the
U.S. The firm has more than 2,400 lawyers in 40 offices.  News  Paterno Family-Commissioned Report Faults Freeh’s Investigation  The family of former Pennsylvania State University football
coach  Joe Paterno  released a report yesterday that said  Louis Freeh ’s investigation into a child sex abuse case was
“fundamentally flawed.”  Former U.S. Attorney General  Dick Thornburgh , a lawyer with
 K&L Gates LLP , and other experts, hired by the Paterno family,
said they determined in a review of evidence that Paterno didn’t
attempt to hide any information or impede the probe into former
assistant coach  Jerry Sandusky .  Freeh’s findings, released last year, failed Penn State,
the university’s board of trustees and Sandusky’s victims by not
finding the truth, according to the Paterno family’s report.  “The Freeh report is a profound failure,”  Wick Sollers ,
an attorney at Atlanta-based law firm  King & Spalding LLP  that
was asked by the Paterno family to review Freeh’s findings, said
in a statement. “It isn’t a little wrong on the minor issues.
It is totally wrong on the most critical issues. That the Board
and the NCAA relied on this report, without appropriate review
or analysis, is a miscarriage of justice.”  In July, the report from former Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director Freeh found Paterno, former Penn State
President  Graham Spanier  and other officials failed to protect
children from sexual abuse by Sandusky. The findings were
released after a seven-month investigation, ordered by a special
committee of Penn State’s board of trustees.  Freeh told reporters during a July press conference that
the red flags involving Sandusky were numerous and Paterno and
others ignored them. Freeh said the former Penn State head coach
was an “integral part” of the concealment.  The “self-serving” report commissioned by the Paterno
family “does not change the facts established in the Freeh
report or alter the conclusions reached in the Freeh Report,”
Freeh wrote in a statement yesterday.  “I stand by our conclusion that four of the most powerful
people at Penn State failed to protect against a child sexual
predator harming children for over a decade.”  Sollers responded in a statement that Freeh “refuses to
address the critical factual and procedural failures in his own
report.”  Penn State said in an e-mailed statement that the purpose
of the Freeh investigation was to highlight failures in the
school’s governance and compliance structure and to make
recommendations to correct those failures.  The analysis by Thornburgh, a former Pennsylvania governor;
attorney Sollers; former FBI profiler Jim Clemente; and Fred
Berlin, the director of the Johns Hopkins Sexual Behaviors
Consultation unit, found no evidence that Paterno deliberately
covered up incidents of child molestation to protect Penn State
football.  For more, click here.  SEC Nominee White’s Disclosure Report Shows Possible Conflicts  If confirmed as the next chairwoman of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission,  Mary Jo White  would have to avoid
working on any matter directly involving  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,
 General Electric Co ., Deloitte & Touche LLP and former  Bank of
America  chief executive  Ken Lewis , according to a financial
disclosure report released Feb. 8.  White’s report lists those entities as major clients while
a partner at  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP , where she reported
earning $2.4 million last year. In an ethics letter, White wrote
that she would retire from Debevoise upon confirmation by the
Senate.  White’s report, which also lists former Goldman Sachs
director  Rajat Gupta  and  Forest Laboratories Inc . as clients,
underscores her longstanding ties to Wall Street as a top
criminal defense lawyer. She could face questions about
potential conflicts of interest at her Senate confirmation
hearing, which hasn’t been scheduled.  “For a period of one year after my retirement, I also will
not participate personally and substantially in any particular
matter involving specific parties in which Debevoise & Plimpton
LLP is a party or represents a party,” White wrote.  Obama nominated White for the position on Jan. 24.  White’s husband,  John W. White , is a partner at Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP. He has agreed to not communicate with the
SEC “on behalf of the firm or any client” while Mary Jo White
is SEC chairman. His practice involves advising companies on
public reporting requirements and corporate governance matters,
according to the firm’s website.  KKR’s Energy Future Bonds Fall on Restructuring of Biggest LBO  Energy Future Holdings Corp. , the power company formerly
known as TXU Corp. hired law firm Kirkland & Ellis LLP to help
restructure its debt load, according to a person familiar with
the situation, who asked not to be identified, citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly.  Allan Koenig, a spokesman at Energy Future, said the
company doesn’t comment on the identities of its specific
advisers.  Kate Slaasted , a spokeswoman for Chicago-based
Kirkland & Ellis, declined to comment.  Energy Future Holdings bonds headed for the biggest weekly
decline in three months before a potential restructuring of debt
raised to fund the largest leveraged buyout in history.  The $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent senior bonds due in
November 2015 issued by the power company’s unregulated Texas
Competitive Electric Holdings Co. fell 3.2 cents since Feb. 1 to
24.8 cents, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The notes, which
are redeemable by the company in a month’s time, are poised for
the biggest weekly drop since Nov. 2, when they fell 9.2 cents.  Energy Future has  $47.2 billion of debt , data compiled by
Bloomberg show, after being taken private by KKR & Co., TPG
Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners in 2007.  The company
has struggled to be profitable ever since the LBO, as the shale
revolution created a glut of natural gas, pushing U.S. prices to
the lowest since 1999 last year. It has posted seven consecutive
quarterly losses and had $37.4 billion of long-term borrowings
as of Sept. 30.  For more, click here.  Deals  Charter to Buy Cablevision’s Optimum West for $1.63 Billion  Charter Communications Inc.  agreed to buy Cablevision
Systems Corp.’s Optimum West for $1.63 billion in cash, gaining
a regional cable provider in the western U.S. Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP represents Cablevision.  The S&C team includes partners: Duncan McCurrach, mergers
and acquisitions; Davis Wang, tax; and  Robert Downes , financing.  The price represents a multiple of 8.9 times Optimum West’s
third-quarter 2012 annualized earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, Charter said in a statement.  Charter won out over peers such as  Time Warner Cable Inc. 
and Suddenlink Communications, which also made offers for the
business, according to people close to the situation. Charter
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Rutledge  is also familiar with
Optimum West, which provides cable services to states such as
Colorado and Utah. He pushed Cablevision to buy the business in
2010 when he was Cablevision’s chief operating officer.  In Optimum West, Charter gains more than 360,000 customers
in Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and Utah.  Cablevision  bought the
unit, previously known as Bresnan Broadband Holdings LLC, more
than two years ago from Providence Equity Partners Inc. for
$1.37 billion.  Selling the business allows Cablevision to concentrate on
the New York area, where most of its customers reside.
Cablevision serves about 3 million subscribers in New York, New
Jersey, Connecticut and parts of Pennsylvania. The Bethpage, New
York-based company began exploring a sale of the Bresnan
business after several acquisitions of cable systems were
announced last year at favorable prices, compared to the value
of publicly traded cable companies’ shares.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  