-- Kraftwerk’s Cool Robots Invade Tate, Electronica Grows Up
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-02-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/kraftwerk-s-cool-robots-invade-tate-electronica-grows-up.html
The coolest concerts in London are
currently being staged by Kraftwerk, a veteran German band named
after a power station -- performing in an old power station.  Kraftwerk’s eight sellout shows at  Tate Modern  follow
similar, much talked about, much rave-reviewed gigs at New
York’s Museum of Modern Art last April and the group’s home city
of Dusseldorf this year.  The robotic pop and 3D graphics fill the cavernous Turbine
Hall: a triumph for Tate, Kraftwerk -- whose influential LPs
“Trans Europe Express” and “Radio Activity” still sound fresh --
and especially for electronic music.  For Tate, all is forgiven after a ticket-sale fiasco. A
crashed website left many fans frustrated. Some were lucky.
Others paid 100 pounds ($158) or more from resellers. Everyone
knew what to expect: two hours including a different album
played in full and a selection of greatest hits.  The music is subtly updated with newer technology. Beats
are fuller and have a little more swing, the synthesizers
punchier and brighter. It’s still the unmistakable sound of what
was new template for pop.  “Autobahn” had the melodies, harmonies and a chorus like
lyrics of the Beach Boys (who are averse to singing odes about
cars).  By doing all this in an efficient, electronic way, and by
being unashamedly German (and therefore categorically not
American), Kraftwerk’s musicians opened many possibilities.
Thanks to them, electronica is more popular than ever.  Beyond Kraftwerk  Festivals like the  Electric Daisy Carnival  in the U.S., or
the various international branches of  Creamfields  are commercial
concerns catering to tens of thousands of fans. In 2012, Forbes
published a list of the highest-earning DJs in electronic dance.  Whether it is their synthesized sounds, futuristic imagery
or the idea that pushing buttons on electronic machines is a
legitimate live musical performance, each of the artists on
Forbes’s list has a debt to Kraftwerk.  Not all are great.  Skrillex  has earned $15 million by
taking dubstep, a subtle London-based style of music renowned
for deep bass and sparse rhythms, moving it to mid-range (where
it can be heard on cheap speakers) and slathering the results in
 aggression . The result is as pleasant as a cheese-grater applied
to the inner ear.  David Guetta, another entrant on the Forbes  list , mixes pop
with house music to create songs with the appeal of specimens in
a plastic surgery slasher film.  For those who missed Kraftwerk, or seeking an antidote to
Skrillex and Guetta, there’s a lot of good electronica around.  Dubstep Bass  Explore the Spartan beats, Arabic instruments and velveteen
bass of Shackleton’s “Music for the Quiet Hour.” “ Mala in Cuba ”
by London dubstep producer Mala is a bass-led delight.  Or try the house and techno of Curtis Jones, who records as
Cajmere and  Green Velvet . The Chicago-based producer has been
making drum machines twitch with sleazy robotic energy for two
decades. “ Only 4 U ” is a fine compilation.  Tracks like Julio Bashmore’s “Au Seve” or Kolsch’s “All
That Matters” are crowd-pleasing without resorting to Guetta’s
brash cash-grabbing formula.  Away from the dance floor, Dan Deacon’s “America” bristles
with shimmering noise, punk vim and burbling instrumentals. Andy
Stott’s album “Luxury Problems” was a highlight of 2012.  Julia Holter offers a more tranquil sound on “Ekstasis,”
which has won considerable plaudits.  Rachel Evans records as  Motion Sickness of Time Travel . Her
synth-scapes sound like Tangerine Dream refracted through a sand
and Vaseline smeared lens.  Back to  Kraftwerk . Towards the end of the first set, the
band played “Techno Pop.” Released in 1986, the words “Synthetic
electronic sounds, Industrial rhythms all around” sounded like a
daring future manifesto. That time has come.  Kraftwerk’s shows continue through Feb. 14 at Tate Modern,
Bankside, London. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk ,
 http://www.kraftwerk.com/concerts/index-concerts.html  or
+44-20-7887-8888. The CDs cost from $10, download prices vary.  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Catherine Hickley and Farah Nayeri
on  film ,  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Greg Evans  on U.S. television.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 