-- Kremlin Fund Said to Seek $100 Million of Moscow Exchange
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-11T14:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/kremlin-fund-said-to-seek-100-million-of-moscow-exchange-1-.html
The Russian Direct Investment Fund
will seek to buy as much as $100 million of stock in the  Moscow
Exchange ’s initial public offering, according to a person with
knowledge of the Kremlin-backed private-equity fund’s plan, who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Russia’s main equity and fixed-income bourse is accepting
bids through Feb. 14 and will start trading Feb. 15 in the
capital after an IPO expected to raise at least 15 billion
rubles ($500 million), according to a statement on Feb. 4. The
exchange’s shares, marketed in Europe and in the U.S. as well as
at home, will trade only in Russia.  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s biggest asset manager, bought
shares in the Moscow Exchange from RDIF in September, the fund
said in a statement on Sept. 28. RDIF had a 2.7 percent holding
in the bourse after boosting its stake in July with Cartesian
Capital Group LLC, the fund’s Chief Executive Officer  Kirill Dmitriev  said in July.  “We’ve already invested quite a bit in the exchange so we
do not expect to continue investing prior to the IPO,” Dmitriev
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Ryan Chilcote 
on Jan. 25. “Some of the existing investors may want to
participate in the IPO.”  RDIF and Quinn Martin, a spokesman for the bourse, each
declined to comment on the plan, which was reported earlier
today by the Vedomosti newspaper.  Russia’s Central Bank holds 22 percent in the exchange,
while state-controled  OAO Sberbank  owns 9.6 percent, and
Vnesheconombank, Russia’s development bank, holds 8 percent,
according to the exchange’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  