-- Rafael Nadal Loses Both Finals in His Tennis Comeback Tournament
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-11T04:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/nadal-loses-final-in-comeback-tournament-after-seven-months-out.html
Rafael Nadal  was twice a loser on
finals day at the former top-ranked tennis player’s comeback
tournament following a seven-month injury layoff.  Nadal lost 6-7 (2-7), 7-6 (8-6), 6-4 to Argentina’s Horacio
Zeballos yesterday at the VTR Open in Vina del Mar, Chile. The
Spaniard then partnered  Juan Monaco  in the doubles final, which
was won by Italians Paolo Lorenzi and  Potito Starace .  “It was a great tournament for me,” Nadal said in a news
conference. “If we take everything, it was positive. I wanted
to win the final, but it wasn’t possible.”  Nadal, 26, had been sidelined since June 2012 with a
partially torn patella tendon and knee inflammation, making his
last tournament appearance at Wimbledon. Nadal, who dropped to
fifth in the world rankings during his absence, decided to make
his comeback at the clay-court tournament because the surface is
more forgiving on joints and knees than hard courts.  The top seed in the 28-player field, Nadal had beaten
Federico Delbonis of Argentina, fellow Spaniard  Daniel Gimeno- Traver  and  Jeremy Chardy  of France in straight sets to reach the
final, where 73rd-ranked Zeballos broke serve in the final game
to secure his first career ATP World Tour title and join  Roger Federer  and  Novak Djokovic  as the only players to beat Nadal in
an ATP clay-court final.  An 11-time Grand Slam singles champion, Nadal has won a
men’s record seven French Open titles on the sport’s slowest
surface. He was seeking his 37th clay-court title in Chile.  Nadal, who missed the London Olympics, U.S. Open and
Australian Open, will play in this week’s Brazil Open and in
Acapulco, Mexico, from Feb. 25. He said earlier last week that
he’s not yet thinking about defending his title at Roland Garros
in May.  “I just need to keep working, practicing with hope,
motivation and the right attitude to have better sensations
every week,” Nadal said yesterday. “I hope it’s the beginning
of a lot of good things for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  