-- Nasdaq Said to Have Held Talks With Carlyle About Buyout
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-02-11T20:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/nasdaq-said-to-have-held-talks-with-carlyle-about-buyout.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  held
preliminary talks with Carlyle Group LP about going private
before the discussions broke down on price, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The talks were initiated by Carlyle Chief Financial Officer
 Adena Friedman , who left Nasdaq in 2011 as chief financial
officer and head of corporate strategy, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the meetings were private.
Nasdaq surged 3.6 percent to a four-year high of $30.53 at 1:25
p.m. in New York. The shares gained as much as 9.1 percent, the
biggest intraday advance since August 2011.  Exchange companies, struggling to boost earnings amid
shrinking profits for securities trading, have been the subject
of more than $50 billion of takeover bids since 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE Euronext agreed in December
to be acquired by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. and London Metal
Exchange was bought by Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd.  “Why Nasdaq sells is because it creates shareholder
value,”  Rich Repetto , an exchange analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York, said in a phone interview. “If they
could sell it at $35 or $40, I think they’d be pretty happy,”
he said. “If they can sell and create more value than what they
think they can by just operating organically, then it’s the
board’s duty to look at those options.”  Rob Madden , a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, declined to
comment, saying the company doesn’t speak about “rumors or
speculation.” Carlyle’s spokesman  Randy Whitestone  declined to
comment. The talks were reported earlier by Fox Business
Network.  Reducing Expenses  Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  is re-
organizing business units and reducing expenses as revenue from
trading shrinks around the world. The exchange is expanding into
derivatives, setting up a new London-based market and buying a
25 percent stake in a Dutch alternative trading system focused
on stocks and equity derivatives.  The company reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates on Jan. 31 after cutting costs. Profit in
the three months ended Dec. 31 jumped to $85 million, or 50
cents a share, from $82 million, or 45 cents, in the fourth
quarter of 2011.  P/E Ratio  The shares have been  trading  at an average 10.6 times
reported earnings since 2009, compared with 18.8 for the
Bloomberg World Exchanges Index. The multiple was at 11.8 last
week, the second-lowest of the 25-member index, behind London
Stock Exchange Group Plc’s 6.5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I think Carlyle was looking for an opportunity to make
money and Nasdaq wanted to boost their valuation,”  Matthew Heinz , a St. Louis, Missouri-based exchange analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in a telephone interview. He recommends
buying the shares. “They’ve been frustrated with their
valuation for a long time.”  Nasdaq bought back $275 million in stock in 2012, bringing
the total in repurchases to $1.172 billion since January 2010.  NYSE Euronext, the biggest operator of U.S. exchange,
announced in December it agreed to be bought by
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. in an $8.2 billion cash and stock
deal, set to close later this year. NYSE opted for the deal with
the 12-year-old energy and commodity futures bourse over an
offer from  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in November.  When NYSE was planning to merge with Deutsche Boerse AG in
Frankfurt in 2011, Nasdaq OMX and IntercontinentalExchange made
a joint hostile bid for the U.S. exchange in an attempt to
derail the deal. The Deutsche Boerse deal was rejected by
European competition authorities in February 2012, while the
Nasdaq-IntercontinentalExchange bid was blocked in the U.S. on
concern the combination would dominate American stock listings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  