-- Nasdaq OMX Shares Surge on Report of Talks With Carlyle
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-02-11T17:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/nasdaq-omx-shares-surge-on-report-of-talks-with-carlyle-1-.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . posted its
biggest intraday rally in more than a year on speculation the
wave of attempted exchange takeovers that began in 2010 has yet
to run its course.  Nasdaq shares surged 4.7 percent to a four-year high of
$30.87 at 12:34 p.m. in New York following a Fox Business
Network report that the second-largest U.S. stock-exchange
operator held talks about going private with Carlyle Group LP.
before discussions broke down over price. The shares gained as
much as  9.1 percent , the biggest advance since August 2011.  Exchange companies, struggling to boost earnings amid
shrinking profits for securities trading, have been the subject
of more than $50 billion of takeover bids since 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE Euronext agreed in December
to be acquired by IntercontinentalExchange Inc., while London
Metal Exchange was purchased by Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing
Ltd.  “Why Nasdaq sells is because it creates shareholder
value,” Rich Repetto, an exchange analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, said in a phone interview. “If they could sell
it at $35 or $40, I think they’d be pretty happy,” he said.
“If they can sell and create more value than what they think
they can by just operating organically, then it’s the board’s
duty to look at those options.”  ‘Rumors or Speculation’  Rob Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, declined to
comment, saying the company doesn’t “comment on rumors or
speculation.” Carlyle’s spokesman Randy Whitestone did not
immediately return a call or email seeking comment.  Carlyle Chief Financial Officer Adena Friedman, who left
Nasdaq in 2011 as chief financial officer and head of corporate
strategy, was a “key player” in the negotiations, Fox Business
reported.  Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld is re-
organizing business units and  reducing expenses  as revenue from
trading shrinks around the world. The exchange is expanding into
derivatives, setting up a new London-based market and buying a
25 percent stake in a Dutch alternative trading system focused
on stocks and equity derivatives.  The company reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates on Jan. 31 after cutting costs amid a
decline in stock-market trading. Profit in the three months
ended Dec. 31 jumped to $85 million, or 50 cents a share, from
$82 million, or 45 cents, in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Greifeld said on a conference call after the earnings
report that he didn’t see competition changing as a result of
ICE’s purchase of NYSE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  