-- Netanyahu Says Iran Is Accelerating Its Nuclear Program
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-02-11T18:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/netanyahu-says-iran-is-accelerating-its-nuclear-program.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Iran is accelerating efforts to enrich uranium
and called for tougher international sanctions to prevent it
from building a nuclear weapon.  Netanyahu, speaking to a delegation of American-Jewish
organizational heads in Jerusalem, recalled the cartoon of a
bomb he displayed last year at the United Nations and said Iran
needs to be convinced it faces a credible military threat.  “I drew a red line” on the bomb at the UN, Netanyahu
said. The Iranians “haven’t crossed that line, but what they
are doing is shortening the time it takes to get there.”  The White House announced last week that President  Barack Obama  would make his first visit in office to Israel this spring
after a new government is formed. Netanyahu said he expects to
discuss the Iranian nuclear issue with Obama, as well as the
civil conflict in Syria and efforts to renew peace talks with
the Palestinians.  Netanyahu is in the process of forming the next government
after his Likud-Beitenu ticket won the largest number of
parliamentary seats in Jan. 22 elections. His choice of partners
may influence policy on the economy, Iran and settlement
construction in the West Bank.  Iran says its uranium-enrichment and other nuclear
activities are for civil energy production and medical research.
Israel, the U.S. and European powers say Iran is clandestinely
seeking the technology to produce a nuclear weapon.  ‘Red Line’  Netanyahu has urged the international community to set a
clear “red line” on the Islamic Republic’s nuclear work. The
Israeli leader has said that 2013 will be the decisive year in
stopping Iran’s nuclear drive, and that “all options are on the
table,” including a military strike. Obama has called for more
time to be given to economic sanctions and diplomatic efforts to
change Iran’s policy.  Netanyahu again called on Palestinians today to resume
peace talks, which broke down in September 2010 after Netanyahu
refused to extend a 10-month building freeze in West Bank Jewish
settlements. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said
he wouldn’t negotiate unless Israel stops its construction in
the West Bank and east Jerusalem, areas Israel captured in the
1967 Middle East war.  Netanyahu has said he would support a two-state solution if
Palestinians agree to remain demilitarized, renounce the right
of return, formally recognize Israel as a Jewish state and allow
Israel to keep full control of Jerusalem and major settlements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  