-- New Hampshire’s Cleanup Funds Are Lacking, ExxonMobil Jury Told
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e
-- 2013-02-11T19:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/new-hampshire-s-cleanup-funds-are-lacking-exxonmobil-jury-told.html
New Hampshire doesn’t have enough
money to clean up spills of a gasoline additive that have
contaminated the water supply, a state environmental official
testified at a trial seeking damages from  ExxonMobil Corp.  for
the pollution.  “These funds have never been adequate to do all the work
that’s out there,” Michael Wimsatt, director of the Department
of Environmental Service’s Waste Management Division, told
jurors today in the state-court trial in Concord. “We have to
decide which work is most important.”  It was the first time the jury heard about two petroleum
clean-up funds that the judge had previously ruled couldn’t be
mentioned in testimony. The funds have collected about $213
million through a gasoline import tax since their creation in
1988.  New Hampshire might be seeking more than $200 million from
ExxonMobil, the last defendant on trial in the $816 million
lawsuit filed in 2003. This is one of scores of cases since 2000
over the additive methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, against
oil refiners, fuel distributors and chemical makers.  ExxonMobil lost a bid for a mistrial last week over its
claim that a state witness’s remark in front of the jury
violated Judge Peter Fauver’s previous order not to talk about
the cleanup funds for contaminated sites. Fauver issued a ruling
Feb. 8 that redefined what could be said about the funds and
ordered the state to present Wimsatt, who serves on the
disbursement board for the funds.  Defense Attorneys  On cross-examination, defense attorneys tried to show that
MTBE remediation isn’t as expensive as environmental officials
have suggested and that contamination incidents are declining.  “Can you tell the jury if any new sites were opened last
year?” asked Bill Stack, an attorney for ExxonMobil.  “I don’t know that number,”  Wimsatt replied. “There was
certainly work that we did on these sites.”  Following Wimsatt’s testimony, hydrogeology expert Gary
Beckett returned to the stand. He testified that 228 MTBE sites
have been identified as needing additional screening, at a cost
of $85,000 per site, and that 85 of those would require more
extensive work.  ExxonMobil, based in Irving, Texas, has argued in court
that it isn’t liable because it added MTBE to gasoline to comply
with federal regulations, which pre-empt state law. Oil
companies added MTBE to make gasoline burn more thoroughly in
order to reduce air pollution, as required under the 1990 Clean
Air Act.  Highly Soluble  MTBE is highly soluble in water and thus can be carried
great distances from where it leaks. New Hampshire banned the
additive as of January 2007.  The state is seeking monetary damages in part based on
ExxonMobil’s market share of gasoline sales in New Hampshire
during the period covered by the lawsuit.  ExxonMobil’s share was about 30 percent, the state said.
Based on an estimated cost of $816 million to test for, monitor
and clean up the groundwater, New Hampshire could be seeking
about $245 million from the company.  The trial began on Jan. 14. New Hampshire’s lawyers have
said they hope to conclude their case by Feb. 21. ExxonMobil
would then begin presenting its case.  The case is New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarahearle.nh@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  