-- Nordic American May Double Oil-Tanker Fleet as Asia Spurs Demand
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-02-11T14:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/nordic-american-may-double-oil-tanker-fleet-as-asia-spurs-demand.html
Nordic American Tankers Ltd ., the
third-largest owner of oil tankers hauling 1 million-barrel
cargoes, said it may double its fleet within half a decade,
betting rising Asian energy demand will snap a rout in rates.  The Hamilton, Bermuda-based ship owner may expand its
Suezmax fleet to 40 from 20 now, Chief Executive Officer
 Herbjorn Hansson  said in a phone interview today. The tankers
are the largest to pass fully loaded through the Suez Canal.  Daily earnings for Suezmaxes are the lowest for the time of
year in at least a decade, according to data from Clarkson Plc,
the world’s largest shipbroker. Periods of low rates are the
best times to buy ships, and Nordic American will benefit
quickly as the market rallies because its vessels all compete in
the spot for spot cargoes, Hansson said. Demand to ship oil will
recover as expanding consumption in Asia offsets declining
imports to the U.S., he said.  “The increase in transportation work to the Far East
outweighs the reduction in imports to America,” Hansson said.
“Of course I can’t promise, but expansion is an inherent
feature of a sound business.”  Nordic American will pay a dividend for the fourth-quarter
of 16 cents per share, the 62nd consecutive payout since the
company began in 1997, it said in a statement today. The  company 
lost 39 cents per share last quarter, compared with 37 cents a
year earlier. The company’s shares traded in New York gained 0.3
percent to $8.78 this year.  Rates rose to a record in 2008, driving the outstanding
order book for new vessels to its highest since at least 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from Clarkson and IHS
Inc., an Englewood, Colorado-based researcher. The global
economy had its worst recession since World War II in 2009. The
fleet will swell 5.6 percent this year as demand gains 5.2
percent, Clarkson predicts.  Domestic Output  U.S. crude-oil imports averaged 8.65 million barrels a day
in 2012, the lowest since 1999, as domestic output expanded,
Energy Department data show. Chinese oil demand will advance 4
percent this year to 9.98 million barrels a day, the
International Energy Agency estimates.  That’s increasing demand for Suezmaxes by lengthening
voyages, Hansson said. The ships are bringing cargoes from the
Mediterranean and West Africa, he said.  “That is always the difficulty in our business, to see how
trade flows are developing,” he said. “Globalization has
dragged hundreds of millions out of poverty, and this process
continues.”  A five-year-old Suezmax costs $43 million, the lowest since
2003, according to Simpson, Spence & Young Ltd., the world’s
second-largest shipbroker. The largest owners are  Teekay Corp .
and closely-held Dynacom Tankers Management Ltd., according to
Clarkson data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  