-- TIAA-CREF Plans More Property Deals With Norwegian Fund
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e   a n d   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2013-02-12T08:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/norway-s-wealth-fund-makes-first-u-s-real-estate-purchase.html
TIAA-CREF plans to follow its sale
of stakes in five U.S. office properties to Norway’s sovereign-
wealth fund with joint investments in more U.S. real estate, an
executive of the New York-based retirement account manager said.  The Norwegian fund was “interested in coming into the
United States with an office mandate, targeting certain gateway
cities which are very high on our target-market list,” Suzan
Amato, managing director and head of TIAA-CREF’s global real
estate joint ventures, said in a telephone interview. “So we
started with these five buildings, but we plan to go shopping
together with them immediately.”  Norges Bank Investment Management, the Oslo-based manager
of the world’s largest sovereign wealth fund, agreed to pay
about $600 million for a 49.9 percent stake in the buildings in
New York, Washington and Boston, it said today in a statement.
The purchase was its first real estate investment in the world’s
largest economy. TIAA-CREF, the seller and manager of retirement
accounts for employees of non-profit institutions, retained 50.1
percent of each property and will manage the portfolio.  Amato declined to say how much the partners plan to invest
in the coming months, or identify what markets or types of
commercial real estate they intend to target, beyond the three
cities involved in today’s deal.  “At this point the partnership is focused on the three
gateway cities we’re taking about,” she said. Gateway cities
are generally on a coast and attract foreign businesses.  ‘Long Journey’  “This is a very long journey,”  Karsten Kallevig , chief
investment officer for real estate at Norges Bank Investment
Management, said in a phone interview. “We have an allocation
of up to 5 percent of the fund and the fund keeps growing.”  The joint venture may invest in U.S. shopping malls by
acquiring shares in listed real estate investment trusts,
Kallevig said.  “Shopping centers are interesting,” he said. “If you
want exposure to really good shopping centers in the U.S., then
perhaps buying listed shares might be the best way of going
about it.”  The Norwegian fund, which has already purchased commercial
real estate in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Berlin, Zurich as well
as Sheffield, England, is focusing on conservative investments,
such as large office complexes in major cities and developed
malls,  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of NBIM, said in
a November interview.  U.S. Plans  The wealth fund bought a 50 percent stake in the Meadowhall
Shopping Center in Sheffield for 348 million pounds ($545
million) in October. Its first U.K. deal was the 448 million-
pound purchase of a 25 percent stake in London’s Regent Street
in November 2010, the same year it gained permission to invest
in real estate.  Norges Bank plans to invest as much as $11 billion in the
U.S. and to raise the proportion of its holdings in real estate
to about 5 percent from less than 1 percent at the end of
September. About a third of that will be in the U.S., Slyngstad
said in the interview.  The properties in the deal announced today are located at
470 Park Ave. South and 475 Fifth Ave. in New York, 1101
Pennsylvania Ave. and 1300 I Street in  Washington , and on 33
Arch St. in Boston. The joint venture plans to acquire more U.S.
offices, particularly in the same three cities, according to the
statement.  The fund will probably form other ventures with U.S.-based
partners such as pension funds, insurance companies and other
listed companies, Kallevig said in the interview.  Manhattan Vacancies  “Large investors, with a long-term view, which have some
kind of operating or management expertise” would be ideal, he
said.  Manhattan office vacancies  and rents were little changed
last year as leasing by media and technology companies helped
stem financial industry cutbacks, Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said
in a report last month. The brokerage predicted an increase in
vacancies this year as two new skyscrapers at the World Trade
Center are completed.  The Washington market will see rising vacancies, currently
at 13 percent, and falling rents because of uncertainty over
federal budget cuts, Cushman said.  The properties in the Norwegian deal are well-positioned to
maintain or grow in value, even if their markets remain flat for
the near term, said Amato of TIAA-CREF. The Park Avenue South
property, which is near East 32nd Street, is on a stretch of the
avenue that is seeing rising demand from technology firms
squeezed out of the Flatiron District to its south, she said.
The 475 Fifth Ave. building is across from the main branch of
the New York Public Library.  Long Term  “These properties and the ones we’ll look to buy in the
future are positioned for the long term,” she said. “That’s
very much the objective of the mandate we’ve engaged.”  TIAA-CREF, which has about $19 billion of equity in real
estate, is interested in adding other foreign investment funds
as partners, Amato said. The list currently includes the
Australian government future fund, and APG Groep NV of the
Netherlands, Europe’s largest pension fund asset manager.  Norway, Europe’s second-biggest oil and gas exporter,
generates money for the wealth fund from taxes on oil and gas,
ownership of petroleum fields and dividends from its 67 percent
stake in Statoil ASA, the country’s largest energy company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman in Oslo  at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  