-- Obama Gets Mad on ‘Frontline’; Treasure Hunt; Eagles: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/obama-gets-mad-on-frontline-treasure-hunt-eagles-tv.html
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
has an “edge” that is, says  William Daley  on this week’s
Frontline, an “acquired taste.”  A taste,  Barack Obama ’s former chief of staff continues,
that most of the President’s team “hadn’t acquired” when the 
two sides met last year to prevent a tumble over the so-
called fiscal cliff.  “Cliffhanger,” an illuminating Frontline installment
chronicling the failed negotiations for a budgetary Grand
Bargain, peppers the financial saga with telling accounts of 
the egos, miscalculations and maneuverings that careened to
stalemate.  (Among the journalists appearing on camera is  Joshua Green  of Bloomberg Businessweek).  Scheduled to air the night of Obama’s State of the Union
Address, “Cliffhanger,” is a case study in failed politics.  While laying out the familiar stances -- Cantor’s just-say-
no approach to tax hikes butting against Obama’s demands for new
revenue -- Frontline peeks behind the grandstanding to observe 
the personal slights that were droplets of kerosene on a 
political blaze.  Scathing Speech  One anecdote has the President delivering a scathing speech
against Rep.  Paul Ryan ’s barebones budget proposal, unaware that
Ryan is sitting in the audience.  “I mean, Jesus, it was heavy,” says former Senator  Alan Simpson . “It was tough and it was nasty.”  When Ryan made a quick exit, Obama’s economic advisor  Gene Sperling  dashed after him. “I was trying to let him know that we
did not know [he] was coming,” Sperling recalls.  Too late. The President, a furious Ryan charged, had
“poisoned the well.”  Not all the battles are Republican versus Democrat.
“Cliffhanger” is most intriguing in presenting the intra-party
power struggle between Cantor and House Speaker  John Boehner ,
whose willingness to bargain with the President drew hard-liners’
ire.  “It was to the point where the grumbling came to my ears 
and other friends of Boehner,” says former Rep.  Steve LaTourette . “And we sat down [with Boehner] and said, ’You’ve 
to pull this back because you’re way out over your skis.”  “Cliffhanger” airs Feb. 12 on PBS’s “Frontline” at 8 p.m. 
New York time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Zero Hour’  Twelve, we’re told at the start of ABC’s loopy new 
conspiracy drama “Zero Hour,” is a magic number, “both the 
beginning and the end of time.”  Can’t say we weren’t warned. “Zero Hour,” created by Paul
Scheuring (“Prison Break”) is about to make “The Da Vinci Code”
seem like a lodestar for reason and logic.  Anthony Edwards , as grim-faced as he was in “ER,” stars as
Hank Galliston, the editor of a Brooklyn-based skeptics magazine
who needs to learn a thing (or several dozen) about faith.  After he buys a beautiful old table clock at a Brooklyn flea
market, Hank’s wife is kidnapped by a mysterious evildoer who
really, really wants that clock and the diamond hidden inside it.  When held to light, see, the diamond projects a map onto the
wall.  Credulous Skeptics  “Treasure maps don’t exist!” barks Hank, despite the one
flashing behind him.  A backstory involving Nazis, Rosicrucians and some sort of
devil baby unfolds at breakneck speed during the humorless show’s
pilot episode, setting up Hank’s globe-hopping hunt for his
missing wife and, we can all too safely assume, his inevitable
acceptance of the Unknown.  “Screw logic, Hank!” says one of his young reporters (Scott
Michael Foster), while another (Addison Timlin) chimes in, 
“You’ve got to believe!”  These are skeptics? Something else we’ll just have to take 
on faith.  “Zero Hour” airs Feb. 14 on ABC at 8 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **  Hotel California  “I think we can maintain this for a few more years,” says 
the Eagles’ Don Henley from the back of a limo. It’s 1977.  Thirty-seven years later, the band -- minus a few who 
walked or got booted -- are still in the game, if not on top of 
it. The country-rock band that defined the Southern California 
style of the 1970s has outlasted critics and its own life in 
the fast lane.  Showtime’s “History of the Eagles,” produced by  Alex Gibney  (“Taxi to the Dark Side”) and directed by Alison 
Ellwood, is a candid two-part, three-hour documentary that 
chronicles the band’s rise, fall and rise again with a trove 
of old clips and interviews as fresh as unhealed wounds.  While Part II captures the band today, the two-hour Part 1 
is the meaty episode, covering the group’s early days as  Linda Ronstadt ’s backing band to its vitriolic 1980 break-up.  “I’m going to kill you,” snarls singer  Glenn Frey  to
guitarist (and nemesis)  Don Felder , an on-stage moment (with an
obscenity not included here) captured on tape. “I can’t wait.”  The songs -- “Peaceful Easy Feeling,” “Tequila Sunrise,”
“Hotel California,” among them - are present and accounted for,
and the legendary battles (with drugs, drink,  David Geffen  and,
most viciously of all, themselves) get a thorough going-over.  “I’d sooner die that let you beat me,” Geffen recalls 
telling Henley’s manager over a particularly nasty $30 million 
lawsuit.  Only Geffen doesn’t say “beat.” This peaceful, easy music 
was as high-stakes as it was catchy.  “History of the Eagles” airs Feb. 15 and Feb. 16 on 
Showtime at 8 p.m. New York time. Rating: ***1/2 stars  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Amanda
Gordon  on New York Scene.  To contact the writer on this story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 