-- Obama Foreign Policy Needs More Spine, Not More Spending
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-11T23:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/obama-foreign-policy-needs-more-spine-not-more-spending.html
Foreign policy often plays a bit
part in State of the Union speeches. That has been especially
true for President  Barack Obama , whose first term was consumed
by economic crisis and partisan trench warfare.  Chief among the foreign-policy achievements he has touted
in his three previous annual addresses have been disengagement
from Iraq and Afghanistan, an agreement with Russia cutting
nuclear arsenals, and the killing of  Osama bin Laden  and
hundreds of other terrorists and militants.  Yet notwithstanding a commendable decision to pay more
attention to Asia, progress on other fronts has been meager.
Moreover, a litany of withdrawals, reductions and assassinations
doesn’t offer the U.S. public much inspiration for the future.  The scant lines on world affairs in Obama’s feisty  second 
inaugural speech last month offer a glimmer of hope, if not the
possibility of change. And happily, realizing those aspirations
will require mostly more spine from our elected officials, not
more spending.  The first, best way to ensure we “defend our people and
uphold our values through strength of arms and rule of law,” as
Obama put it, is to smart-size the Pentagon’s budget and reform
the policy of targeted assassination by drone.  Unfortunately, the Pentagon ignored for too long the threat
of sequestration -- the huge spending reductions mandated by
2011’s debt-ceiling agreement -- and now is reacting in protest
with headline-grabbing stunts such as reducing aircraft-carrier
strength in the Persian Gulf. The readiness of U.S. forces will
be harder hit than major weapons programs if the $45 billion in
reductions to the defense budget take effect this year.  Potential Savings  Even if some deal averts those blunt cuts, the Obama
administration needs to take a fresh, hard look at scaling back
expensive programs such as the F-35 fighter and Ford-class
supercarrier. The potential billions in savings from  reported
plans  to further trim the U.S. strategic nuclear arsenal
illustrate the benefits of shedding such Cold War-era hardware.
The administration also needs to consider cuts in force size to
1990s levels: Since 2001, personnel costs have  risen  by almost
90 percent, while the number of military personnel has increased
by only about 3 percent.  The U.S.’s ability to fight two wars at the same time -- a
symbolic as well as strategic necessity -- will depend on
Obama’s ability to win the budget fight. He needs to begin
making the case now.  Another threat to U.S. values and interests is the legal
void surrounding the use of drones to kill terrorists, including
U.S. citizens. The president could ease concerns about the murky
criteria for these strikes by announcing that he will put all
drone operations under military control, and that the U.S. will
lead an international effort to codify the use of the unmanned
aircraft in the laws of war.  The president was wise, in his inaugural address, to say
that “we will show the courage to try and resolve our
differences with other nations peacefully.” We hope he
elaborates on that message, repeats the offer of direct talks
with Iran on its nuclear program (an offer that  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  spurned) and again encourages a recalcitrant North
Korea to come to the table.  But here’s the thing about engagement: It can’t happen at
the expense of your values. During Iran’s Green Revolution in
2009, the Obama administration undermined U.S. credibility by
choosing not to vigorously support Iranians who risked their
lives to protest suspect election results.  Speaking Frankly  A similar pattern of behavior was apparent in the U.S.
ambivalence about the outbreak of the Arab Spring in Egypt and
the administration’s quiescence over repression in Bahrain.
Countries such as Saudi Arabia may be valuable allies that host
bases for conducting  drone strikes , but the U.S. needs to be
able to speak frankly about their resistance to allowing
political and social freedoms, including efforts to repress the
Internet.  So we hope that in his State of the Union, the president
will move beyond talk and actually lay out his plan for
supporting democracy “from Asia to Africa, from the Americas to
the Middle East, because our interests and our conscience compel
us.” How, for instance, do such noble words translate into a
viable plan for stopping the carnage in Syria? For Syrians’
sake, the president should reconsider his opposition to using
the U.S. military to train and arm a vetted rebel force.  Compared with a decade ago, the  landscape  for democracy
promotion is less favorable: U.S. and European models for
governance are tarnished, “authoritarian capitalism” a la China
and Russia is on the rise, and governments from Venezuela to
Egypt are blocking traditional methods of spreading democratic
values and institutions.  Yet some initiatives, such as the  Open Government
Partnership , which joins governments and civil-society groups to
promote transparency and accountability, are working. So are the
efforts started by former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to
defend and expand Internet freedom. They deserve more support.
As do the countries of the Arab Spring, which could use the
vision, if not the financial commitment, of a mini-Marshall Plan
to accompany their journey to democracy.  With an economy on the mend and overseas deployments
drawing down, the U.S. is in a position to reassume its
leadership on behalf of democracy and a liberal world order,
both causes that are profoundly in its interest. Some plain
speaking would be a good place to start.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 