-- Model Mice May Mislead Trauma Researchers, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-02-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/model-mice-may-mislead-trauma-researchers-study-finds.html
Mice, the most commonly used
laboratory animals in medical research, may be poor models for
studying trauma or infections in humans, scientists found.  In a test comparing the genetic responses of mouse and
human immune cells,  mouse models  had vastly different reactions
to toxins and trauma, according to findings published yesterday
in the journal  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
The results are a reminder that mouse models don’t reflect the
intricacy of human ailments, researchers said.  “Studying disease in patients is much more complex than
studying model systems,” the authors, led by  Ronald Davis , of
Stanford University’s Genome Technology Center, wrote. “There
are multiple considerations to our finding that transcriptional
response in mouse models reflects human diseases so poorly,
including the evolutional distance between mice and humans.”  The genetic responses of white blood cells from 167 burn
and trauma patients were compared with the reactions of
corresponding mouse models in the study from Davis, Ronald
Tompkins, a burn specialist at the Massachusetts General
Hospital and professor of surgery at Harvard Medical School, and
Wenzhong Xiao, who is affiliated with Stanford and Harvard. They
found that some genetic responses in humans, which are highly
similar between patients, weren’t close to the model mice.  Mice are often used as model organisms for drug testing, to
make sure compounds are safe and effective before they go into
humans, the authors wrote. However, mice are particularly bad
for testing compounds that may change how people’s bodies
respond to trauma, burns, and some toxins, like those released
by the E. coli bacteria.  Explaining Discrepancies  Other explanations for the discrepancy may be that the
model mice are too inbred to be useful, or that the modeling
doesn’t reflect the illnesses experienced by trauma patients.
Additionally, the difference in recovery time between mice and
people may play a role, and clinical care, such as drugs,
surgery and life support, may further attenuate similarities.  The people in the study with trauma injuries were mostly 25
years to 44 years old and severely injured. The median patient
had received 1.9 liters of blood in transfusion. About 96
percent of the people survived.  The burn patients had a median of 53 percent of the body
covered in burns, although that varied widely, the authors
wrote. Just 85 percent of these people survived. Despite these
differences, the genes of the white blood cells in the burn and
the trauma patients responded similarly to injury, in contrast
to those in the mice.  The authors suggest using genetic descriptions of these
diseases to create more-similar models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  