-- Moldova Joins Campaign to Probe Russian Money Laundering
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-11T09:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/moldova-joins-campaign-to-probe-russian-money-laundering.html
Moldova said it’s investigating
Russian money laundering, becoming the fifth country to announce
an inquiry into bank transfers stemming from the biggest tax
fraud in Russian history.  Moldovan authorities opened a criminal investigation into
suspected money laundering on Dec. 28, Anzhela Starinschi, a
spokeswoman for the National Anti-Corruption Center in Chisinau,
said by phone today.  The probe concerns funds transferred in 2008 to Moldova’s
state-controlled Banca de Economii, according to a letter sent
by Prime Minister  Vladimir Filat  last week to the anti-
corruption center, the general prosecutor’s office and Interior
Ministry. Banca de Economii declined to comment by phone and
asked for an e-mailed request, to which it hasn’t repsonded.  Switzerland, Cyprus, Latvia and Lithuania are also
investigating money laundering connected to a $230 million tax
fraud uncovered by Russian lawyer  Sergei Magnitsky , who died in
2009 in a Moscow prison. His case sparked a diplomatic dispute
between the U.S. and Russia, after American sanctions imposed in
December on Russian officials accused of having a role in his
death prompted Moscow to bar U.S. adoptions of Russian children.  Filat in his letter, a copy of which was e-mailed today by
the government press office, ordered the agencies to inform him
about the actions they have taken concerning the investigation.  ‘Prickly Issue’  Magnitsky alleged Russian officials fraudulently collected
the $230 million tax refund using documents seized from his
client, Hermitage Capital Management, a London-based investment
fund. An investigation led by Hermitage has traced $134 million
through bank accounts and shell companies in at least 17
countries that were quickly transferred abroad after the Dec.
26, 2007, tax refund.  “This is a particlarly prickly issue for Moldova because
of their desire to join various EU structures in the future,”
Hermitage Chief Executive Officer  William Browder  said in an e-
mail today.  The investment fund’s London-based lawyers wrote to
Moldovan authorities in June informing them about $53 million of
suspicious wire transfers to Banca de Economii, according to a
statement e-mailed by Hermitage today. Those funds were then
sent to Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Switzerland,
Austria, Finland and Hong Kong, Hermitage said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  