-- Home Prices Rise in 88% of U.S. Cities as Recovery Gains
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-02-12T14:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/home-prices-rise-in-88-of-u-s-cities-as-recovery-gains.html
(Corrects date of report in second paragraph.)  Prices for single-family homes
climbed in almost 88 percent of U.S. cities in the fourth
quarter as the housing recovery broadened.  The median sales  price  rose from a year earlier in 133 of
152 metropolitan areas measured, the National Association of
Realtors said in a report yesterday. In the third quarter, 120
areas had gains.  An improving job market and low interest rates are driving
up prices by fueling demand for a tightening supply of listings.
The national median price for an existing single-family home was
$178,900 in the fourth quarter, up 10 percent from the same
period last year. That was the biggest gain since 2005,
according to the Realtors group.  “Home sales are on a sustained uptrend,”  Lawrence Yun ,
chief economist for the National Association of Realtors, said
in the report. “Home sales are being fueled by a pent-up demand
and job creation, along with still-favorable affordability
conditions and rents rising at faster rates.”  At the end of the fourth quarter, 1.82 million previously
owned homes were available for sale, 22 percent fewer than a
year earlier, according to the Chicago-based Realtors group.  The best-performing metro area was Phoenix, where prices
jumped 34 percent from a year earlier. Prices rose 31 percent in
Detroit and 28 percent in San Francisco.  Phoenix Deals  In Phoenix, the inventory of foreclosed homes and short
sales, when lenders agree to sell for less than the mortgage
balance, plunged 42 percent in December from a year earlier,
said  Michael Orr , director of the Center for Real Estate Theory
and Practice at Arizona State University’s W.P. Carey School of
Business.  “Foreclosures and short sales have gone down, eliminating
the sources of many cheap homes,” Orr said in a Feb. 7 report.
“So the more expensive types of transactions, like normal
resales and new-home sales, went up. As a result, new-home
construction, which was at rock bottom in 2011, also really came
roaring back in 2012.”  Private-equity investors including Blackstone Group LP and
Colony Capital LLC are helping to reduce inventory in Phoenix as
they compete to buy low-cost foreclosures they plan to operate
as rental properties.  Other areas hard-hit by the foreclosure crisis showed large
price increases. Prices climbed 26 percent in Cape Coral,
Florida; 22 percent in California’s Riverside and San Bernardino
counties; and 20 percent in Las Vegas.  Biggest Declines  In the New York, Northern New Jersey and Long Island
metropolitan area, prices increased 3.6 percent.  The Kingston, New York, area had the biggest decline in the
Realtors group’s report, with the median selling price falling
7.9 percent in the quarter. It was followed by Kankakee,
Illinois, with an 7 percent decrease, and Erie, Pennsylvania,
with a 6.1 percent drop.  Prices in western states climbed 20 percent to a median
$245,200, the biggest gain of any area, according to the
Realtors group. Prices in northeastern states rose the least, up
0.7 percent to a median $228,400.  The Realtors group’s Housing Affordability  Index  averaged
193.5 in 2012, up from 186.4 in 2011 and the highest since
record keeping began in 1970. The index is calculated on the
relationship between median home price, median family income and
average effective mortgage interest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  