-- Ontario’s Wynne Says Committed to 2017-18 Budget Balance
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-02-11T22:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ontario-s-wynne-says-she-is-committed-to-2017-18-budget-balance.html
Ontario Premier  Kathleen Wynne  said
she will stick to her predecessor’s pledge to balance the
province’s budget by the year starting April 2017 as she named
her new cabinet.  Wynne said in a statement today her cabinet will include
Ontario lawmaker Charles Sousa as finance minister. Wynne, who
replaced  Dalton McGuinty  as leader of the province’s Liberal
Party on Jan. 26, was sworn in today along with her cabinet.  Sousa, who spent two decades at Royal Bank of Canada, takes
the economic helm of a province that is trying to balance its
budget while boosting a languishing economy hampered by a strong
Canadian dollar and weak U.S. demand. Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Ontario’s credit rating in April, citing the
province’s growing debt burden and declining economic growth.  The Liberals hold 53 of the 107 seats in the provincial
legislature, meaning they need some support from opposition
lawmakers to pass budgets and remain in power.  “Jobs, the economy and a fair society are the priorities
for this new government,” Wynne said in the statement. “We
intend to work with the opposition parties to make progress on
these important priorities for the people of this province.”  Sousa  worked  at Royal Bank as director of business
development for commercial financial services and director of
government and community affairs, according to his website.  Sousa, Duncan  His challenge will be to implement the province’s planned
budget cuts amid resistance from public sector labor unions and
opposition parties.  Sousa, who was first elected in 2007 and represents the
constituency of Mississauga South, ran for the party leadership
before dropping out to support Wynne to replace McGuinty. He
succeeds  Dwight Duncan , who was finance minister since 2005.  The McGuinty government had promised to eliminate the
deficit by the 2017-18 fiscal year. Duncan said Jan. 22 the
province’s deficit in the fiscal year that began in April will
be C$11.9 billion ($11.9 billion), less than the C$14.8 billion
he previously forecast.  Wynne also appointed Liz Sandals as education minister and
Eric Hoskins as minister of economic development, while naming
health minister Deb Matthews as deputy premier.  Ontario, whose manufacturing sector has struggled in recent
years, had an unemployment rate of 7.7 percent in January, above
the national rate of 7.0 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  