-- TOP Oil Market News: Brent Rises; U.S. Gasoline Prices Increase
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-02-11T00:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/top-oil-market-news-brent-rises-u-s-gasoline-prices-increase.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Brent Oil Rises to Nine-Month High on China; WTI Spread Widens  Brent crude surged to a nine-month high in London while oil
in New York slipped after stronger- than-expected trade data
from China signaled increased fuel demand in the world’s second-
biggest consuming country.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Ambani Says U.S. Will Be Energy Independent in 5-7 Years  Mukesh Ambani, the billionaire chairman of Reliance
Industries Ltd., said that the U.S.’s development of shale oil
and gas will make the country energy independent as early as
2018.  Ahmadinejad Says Iran Won’t Cede to Pressure on Nuclear Work (1)  World powers failed to stop Iran from becoming a country
that masters nuclear knowhow, and will “never” be able to stop
its technological advancement, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
said at a rally in Tehran.  Heating Oil Hits Four-Month High as Blizzard Heads Toward East  Heating oil rose to the highest level in almost four months
on speculation that a snowstorm in the U.S. Northeast will boost
demand for distillates and drain stockpiles on the East Coast.  Oil Exports Trim U.S. Deficit as Fuel Gap Shrinks: Economy (2)  Record petroleum exports helped shrink the U.S. trade
deficit in December to the smallest in almost three years as
America moved closer to energy self- sufficiency, a goal the
nation has been pursuing since the 1973 Arab oil embargo.  U.S. Diesel Flow Seen Falling as Price Gain Curbs Shipments (1)  Diesel shipments to Europe from the U.S. Gulf Coast are
poised to decline to the lowest level since September, a
Bloomberg survey showed, as rising prices in the region curbed
export demand.  Diesel Slumps in Europe as Output Capacity Soars: Energy Markets  Mediterranean diesel producers are being whipsawed by
weakening demand and surging American exports, just as they
boost capacity for making the fuel at the fastest rate in five
years.  Valero Port Arthur Refinery Reports Unit Upset  Valero Energy Corp. reported a unit upset due to a “broken
bleeder valve” at the 310,000-barrel-a- day Port Arthur, Texas,
refinery  Marathon Garyville Refinery Reports Flaring in Louisiana  Marathon Petroleum Corp. reported flaring at its 460,000-
barrel-a-day Garyville refinery in Louisiana, according to a
filing with the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality  U.S. Gasoline Rises to $3.5918/Gallon in Lundberg Survey (1)  The average price for regular gasoline at U.S. pumps rose
24.75 cents a gallon in the past two weeks to $3.5918 a gallon,
according to Lundberg Survey Inc.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Exxon Mobil Reports Emissions at Baytown, Texas, Refinery  A storage vessel floating roof landed on supporting legs,
resulting in emissions at Exxon Mobil’s refinery in Baytown,
Texas, co. says in a regulatory filing to Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality.  Flint Hills Minnesota Refinery Releases Hydrogen Sulfide  A compressor at the Pine Bend Refinery in Rosemount, Minn.,
released hydrogen sulfide yesterday at 2 p.m. local time.  Valero Reports Flaring at Corpus Christi Refinery Due to Work  Refinery’s West plant in Texas is performing planned
maintenance over the weekend, Valero Energy said in notice to
the local emergency planning committee.  Tesoro Reported ‘Major Unit’ Startup at Golden Eagle Refinery  Refinery in Northern California may flare gases as unit
starts, Tesoro Corp. said in notice to Contra Costa County
regulators.  Western Refining El Paso Plant to Begin Work Next Week  El Paso refinery in Texas to begin work on north side of
plant Feb. 11, Gary Hanson, spokesman for Western Refining Inc.,
said by e-mail.  PDVSA Says It Controls Failure at Puerto La Cruz Refinery  Co. controlled incident at heating unit at 12:30 p.m. local
time.  MORE: Phillips 66 Reports Flaring at Los Angeles Refinery  Phillips 66 not performing planned maintenance at Los
Angeles refinery, Rich Johnson, Co. spokesman, said by e-mail.  Los Angeles Gasoline Weakens as BP, Tesoro Plan Unit Startups  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles dropped against futures as BP
Plc and Tesoro Corp. were said to be preparing for the restart
of production units at their refineries in Southern California.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Japan Not Seeking Emergency Access to Saudi Oil, Minister Says  Japan isn’t seeking an agreement with Saudi Arabia to raise
production if it makes an emergency request for oil supply,
Japanese Trade Minister Toshimitsu Motegi told reporters in Abu
Dhabi today.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Blizzard Dumps on New England While Sparing Metro New York (3)  A blizzard ripped through the U.S. Northeast, dumping
record amounts of snow in parts of New England, killing at least
seven people, blacking out more than half a million and stalling
travel from New Jersey to Maine while sparing New York City from
much disruption.  Deutsche Bank Said to Fire 10 Traders as Banks Retrench (3)  Deutsche Bank AG fired 10 to 12 European power and natural
gas traders in London as it cuts staff trading physical
commodities, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Higher Oil Taxes Would Lift, Not Hurt, U.S. Economy: Levi & Ahn  President Barack Obama this week reaffirmed his desire to
tackle the U.S. budget deficit through “a balanced mix of
spending cuts and more tax reform.” As lawmakers in Congress
search for ways to do this, they should take a new look at
raising oil taxes. Even if they don’t believe that the U.S.
consumes too much oil, they will find that incorporating higher
oil taxes into a broader deficit package can make strong
economic sense.  Japan, Saudi Arabia to Cooperate on Nuclear Power, Nikkei Says  Japanese Trade Minister Toshimitsu Motegi agreed yesterday
to promote nuclear cooperation with Saudi Arabia, opening the
way to a resumption of nuclear technology exports, the Nikkei
newspaper reported.  ASIA DAYBOOK: Suzlon, JB Hi-Fi, Indian Oil, Australian Mortgages  Today: Australia home loans; earnings from SM Prime, Tata
Power; markets closed in Japan, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South
Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam.  New England Digs Out From Blizzard After Bracing for Worst (1)  Russell Mason pointed to the hole in the side of his yellow
seafront home near the entrance to Boston Harbor. That’s where
the cellar door was, until the hurricane- force wind gusts of a
blizzard slapped it away.  U.K. Shale has Enough Gas Reserves for 1,500 Yrs: Times  New reserves est. 200 times more than pvsly thought,
London-based Times reports, without saying where it got the
information.  Keystone Ruling Soon, Kerry Says After Meeting Canadian Official  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry met with his Canadian
counterpart for the first time yesterday and said he will decide
soon on the fate of TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline.  Super Bowl Blackout Caused by Faulty Relay, Entergy Says (2)  Entergy Corp., owner of the utility that supplies power to
New Orleans, said a faulty electrical relay that it installed in
advance of the Super Bowl caused the Feb. 3 blackout at the
Superdome.  Eni Stands by Chief Scaroni as Algerian Corruption Probe Widens  Eni SpA stood by its Chief Executive Officer Paolo Scaroni
as a probe into alleged bribery by Saipem SpA, where it’s the
largest shareholder, widened to include him.  Chavez Risks Backlash After Venezuela Devalues Bolivar 32% (1)  Venezuela devalued its currency for the fifth time in nine
years, a move that may undermine support for ailing President
Hugo Chavez and his allies ahead of possible elections later
this year.  Euro Declines the Most Since July Amid ECB Inflation Concern  The euro declined the most since July versus the dollar
after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said a strong
currency could slow the region’s economic recovery, lifting bets
the bank may lower interest rates.  Dubai Shares Surge to 3-Year High on Property, Economy Outlook  Dubai’s benchmark stock index rallied to the highest level
in more than three years led by Emaar Properties PJSC on
investor optimism a real estate recovery in the emirate is set
to continue this year.  S&P 500 Caps Longest Weekly Advance Since August Amid Earnings  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced for a sixth
straight week, capping the longest winning streak since August,
amid better-than-estimated corporate earnings as European
leaders reached a budget agreement.  Hedge Funds’ Fourth Bullish Week Boosts Copper Bets: Commodities  Hedge funds increased bullish commodity bets for the fourth
straight week and became the most bullish on copper since
December as signs of faster growth in the U.S. and China fueled
the best start to the year since 2005.  Putin Turns Black Gold Into Bullion as Russia Out-Buys World  When Vladimir Putin says the U.S. is endangering the global
economy by abusing its dollar monopoly, he’s not just talking.
He’s betting on it.  Obama to Propose Spending to Boost Jobs in State of Union (1)  President Barack Obama will use his State of the Union
address this week to focus on job creation and the struggles of
American families, marking a renewed emphasis on the economic
issues that defined his first term.  Tunisian Politicians Quit Cabinet Amid Political Tensions (2)  Ministers from the Tunisian president’s secularist party
have pulled out of the Cabinet as the North African country
grapples with political tensions.  SPORTS  Manchester United Beats Everton 2-0, Leads League by 12 Points  Manchester United beat Everton 2-0 to stretch its lead to
12 points in English soccer’s Premier League. Aston Villa beat
West Ham 2-1 to move out of the relegation zone.  England Defeats Ireland 12-6 in Rugby’s Six Nations Tournament  Owen Farrell kicked all England’s points as his team beat
Ireland 12-6 to top the standings after the second round of
matches in European rugby’s Six Nations championship.  Ex-England Soccer Player Gascoigne in Intensive Care, Sky Says  Ex-England soccer player Paul Gascoigne has been taken into
intensive care in the U.S. after his health worsened, Sky
reported, citing his former Tottenham teammate Gary Mabbutt.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  