-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Rises; Allidina Leaves Morgan Stanley
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-02-11T23:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/top-oil-market-news-wti-rises-allidina-leaves-morgan-stanley.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Oil Rises as Euro Gains on ECB Comment; Brent Spread Shrinks  West Texas Intermediate oil advanced for the first time in
four days as the euro strengthened against the dollar. The U.S.
crude’s discount to Brent narrowed the most this year.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Rosneft Said to Raise $14.2 Billion TNK-BP Acquisition Loans (1)  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil company, is raising $14.2
billion of loans to finance the second part of its acquisition
of TNK-BP, according to two people with knowledge of the deal.  Morgan Stanley Commodity Research Head Allidina Said to Exit (1)  Hussein Allidina, head of commodity research for Morgan
Stanley, has left the New York bank, according to a person
familiar with the situation.  Gasoline Falls as Brent Drops, East Coast Motorists Dig Out Cars  Gasoline fell after a winter snowstorm blanketed the
Northeast, reducing driving demand, and as Brent crude slipped.  Ethanol Strengthens Versus Gasoline as Shutdowns May Cut Supply  Ethanol strengthened against gasoline on speculation that
plant shutdowns will reduce supply and support prices.  Iraq Cuts Basrah Light Oil Price for March for Sales to Asia  Country’s Oil Marketing Co. issues new official prices in
e-mail.  Saudi Arabia Said to Supply Full March Oil Volumes to Refiners  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest state-owned
crude exporter, will provide all contracted supplies to
customers in Thailand and India for March, according to buyers
at two refiners who received notifications from the producer.  Netanyahu Says Iran Is Accelerating Nuclear Enrichment Program  Israeli PM says Iran hasn’t “crossed red line yet.”  Natural Gas Futures Advance Amid Outlook for Mid-February Cold  Natural gas futures climbed in New York for the first time
in three days. Forecasters predicted colder-than-normal weather
next week that would stoke demand for the heating fuel.  State of the Union, G-20, Cisco, Carney: Week Ahead Feb. 11-16  President Barack Obama will present his legislative
priorities for the year in his annual State of the Union
address.  OPEC  Saudi Arabia’s Al-Moneef Said to Drop Race for OPEC Sec-Gen (1)  Majid al-Moneef withdrew his candidacy for the post of OPEC
secretary-general after he was promoted within Saudi Arabia’s
Supreme Economic Council, a Persian Gulf official with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Valero Meraux Refinery Shut Hydrocracker on Sulfur Plant Trip  No. 3 sulfur recovery unit not online as of last update
from Meraux refinery in Louisiana, notice to state regulators
shows.  Consumers Co-op Shuts Coker at Saskatchewan Plant After Fire (1)  Consumers’ Co-Operative Refineries Ltd.’s coker at the
Regina refinery in Saskatchewan, Canada, will be shut for an
“indeterminate” period after a fire, a company executive said.  West Texas, Bakken Crudes Strengthen in Spot Oil Market  Crudes produced in West Texas strengthened as two
refineries in the region shut down units for maintenance.  Los Angeles Gasoline Weakens as Refineries Seen Increasing Rates  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles fell against futures for a
second day as BP Plc and Tesoro Corp. were said to be preparing
equipment for restart at their Southern California refineries
after planned maintenance turnarounds.  MORE: Valero Port Arthur Refinery Reports Emissions  A sulfur recovery unit tripped offline early this morning,
Bill Day, Valero Energy Corp. spokesman, said by e-mail.  Regina Refinery Unit 1 Coker to Be Shut ‘Indeterminate’ Time  A coker at Consumers’ Co-Operative’s 130,000 barrel-a-day
refinery in Regina will be shut for an unknown length of time
after a fire last night.  Valero Port Arthur Refinery Reports Emissions  Valero Energy Corp. reported a release of emissions from a
sulfur recovery unit, according to a filing with the Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality.  Gasoline Speculators Boost Bullish Bets on Rally: Energy Markets  Hedge funds raised bullish bets on gasoline to a 10-month
high as refineries shut for maintenance and pump prices soared
to the highest level since October.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
Japan was unchanged at 7.99 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Nordic American May Double Tanker Fleet as Asia Spurs Demand (1)  Nordic American Tankers Ltd., the third-largest owner of
ships hauling 1 million-barrel cargoes of oil, said it may
double its fleet within half a decade, betting rising Asian
energy demand will snap a rout in rates.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Rises 0.3% to 31.29 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained 0.3 percent to
31.29 Worldscale points, according to the Baltic Exchange in
London.  Saudi Aramco Cuts March Differentials for Asia: Persian Gulf Oil  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, cut
differentials used in determining official selling prices for
all its grades to customers in Asia for March and raised
premiums for light blends to the U.S.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  New England Digs Out From Blizzard as Yet More Snow Is Forecast  Russell Mason pointed to the hole in the side of his yellow
seafront home near the entrance to Boston Harbor. That’s where
the cellar door was, until the hurricane- force wind gusts of a
blizzard slapped it away.  Coal Miner’s $1.4 Billion Rail to End Imports: Corporate India  Coal India Ltd., set to build a $1.4 billion railway link
through its three richest mining regions, said the untapped pits
will help the world’s second-biggest thermal coal importing
nation end overseas purchases.  Assessing the Benefit of Gas Prices on U.S. Petrochemicals  U.S. petrochemical companies are benefiting from the low
cost of U.S. natural gas compared with crude oil. Petrochemicals
competitors in Asia and Europe rely on naphtha, which is more
influenced by crude oil prices. Use Commodity Curve Analysis and
Bloomberg Industries research to analyze the two commodities.  Investing in Water a Good Long-Term Bet, Goldman Executive Says  Investing in water utilities, infrastructure and water
rights offers stable, long-term returns, Kyung-Ah Park, head of
the environmental markets group at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in an interview.  New England Digs Out From Blizzard as More Snow Is Forecast (1)  Russell Mason pointed to the hole in the side of his yellow
seafront home near the entrance to Boston Harbor. That’s where
the cellar door was, until the hurricane- force wind gusts of a
blizzard slapped it away.  Missouri Water for Fracking Not Shippers Questioned by Senator  An Iowa senator demanded the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
explain why it refused to use Missouri River water to replenish
the drought-stricken Mississippi a day after it approved
releasing water for oil drilling.  Apache Cheapest as $16 Billion in Deals Numbs Investors: Energy  The more Apache Corp. tries to grow, the more it shrinks.  Vestas Loses Wind Turbine Market Lead to GE After 12 Years (2)  Vestas Wind Systems A/S lost its leadership of the global
wind turbine market to General Electric Co. in 2012 after 12
years with the biggest share, Navigant Consulting Inc.’s BTM
Consult unit said.  TIAA-CREF Plans More Real Estate Deals With Norway Wealth Fund  TIAA-CREF plans to follow its sale of stakes in five U.S.
office properties to Norway’s sovereign- wealth fund with joint
investments in more U.S. real estate, an executive of the New
York-based retirement account manager said.  OTHER MARKETS  Stocks Decline With Spain, Italy Bonds While Japan’s Yen Weakens  U.S. stocks slipped after a six-week rally left the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index trading at its most- expensive
valuation since July 2011. European shares fell with Spanish and
Italian bonds as the region’s finance ministers prepared to meet
to discuss aid to Cyprus and Greece.  Euro Gains as ECB Official Says It Isn’t Overvalued; Yen Weakens  The euro rose against the majority of its 16 most-traded
peers after European Central Bank council member Jens Weidmann
said the currency isn’t seriously overvalued.  Black Market Dollars Put Egyptian Economy on Alert: Currencies  When two Egyptian banks refused to give Ahmed El-Rifai the
dollars his digital media company needed to pay Facebook Inc.
last month, he turned to a more reliable source: the black
market at a premium of about 8 percent.  U.S. Stocks Retreat After S&P 500 Index Rallies for Six Weeks  U.S. stocks fell after a six-week rally left the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index at its most expensive valuation since July
2011.  Emerging Markets Drop to Six-Week Low as Commodity Stocks Slide  Emerging market stocks dropped to a six-week low as falling
metals prices sank commodities shares and Turkish banks slid.  Soybeans, Corn Extend Declines on Rising South American Supplies  Soybean futures declined, capping the biggest four-day drop
in seven weeks, and corn fell for a seventh consecutive session
on speculation that record crops in South America will slow
overseas demand for U.S. supplies.  Hedge Funds’ Fourth Bullish Week Boosts Copper Bets: Commodities  Hedge funds increased bullish commodity bets for the fourth
straight week and became the most bullish on copper since
December on signs of faster growth in the U.S. and China.  Pope Benedict XVI to Resign From Papacy for Health Reasons (3)  Pope Benedict XVI, saying he no longer has the strength to
lead the world’s 1.2 billion Catholics, will resign from the
papacy at the end of the month, the first such abdication in
almost 600 years.  Background Checks Gain Ground as Republicans Defy Gun Lobby (2)  A coalition of House Republicans is willing to thwart the
National Rifle Association’s opposition to broadening background
checks for U.S. gun purchases. That may be President Barack
Obama’s best chance for advancing tougher gun regulations this
year.  SPORTS  West Brom Beats Liverpool 2-0 in English Soccer’s Premier League  West Bromwich Albion beat Liverpool 2-0 to get its first
Premier League soccer win since December and move above its
opponent in the standings.  U.S. Golf Association to End Public Links Tournaments After 2014  The U.S. Golf Association won’t stage its Amateur Public
Links championships after 2014, eliminating an event that gave
the men’s winner a spot in the annual Masters Tournament. It’s
the first time the governing body for golf in the U.S. and
Mexico has ended a championship.  Trump Submits Preliminary Plans for Second Scottish Golf Course  Donald Trump, the New York real estate billionaire,
submitted preliminary plans for a second course at his 750
million-pound ($1.17 billion) Scottish golf resort seven months
after the first one opened.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  