-- Horse-Meat Finding Shows EU Food-Traceability Working
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-13T17:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/horse-meat-finding-shows-food-traceability-system-works-eu-says.html
The ability to track a U.K. finding
of horse meat labeled as beef to a slaughterhouse in Romania
shows the European Union’s food-traceability system works, a
spokesman for the 27-nation bloc said.  The horse meat found in frozen prepared meals advertised as
containing beef is a labeling issue, not a health one, and a
trade ban wouldn’t be appropriate,  Frederic Vincent , the EU’s
spokesman for health and consumers, said at a press conference
in Brussels today.  “The simple fact that within a few hours or 48 hours we
can already have a first idea of what happened, that shows that
the European traceability works,” Vincent said. “All food in
the EU is traceable. The first elements of the investigation
seem to lead to suppliers in Romania.”  The prepared meals labeled as beef-based and containing
horse were sold by Findus Group Ltd. and manufactured at a
Luxembourg factory owned by French company Comigel, France’s
consumer and anti-fraud office DGCCRF  reported  Feb. 9.  Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta today said there was
no evidence of wrongdoing at Romanian companies.  Romania’s Side  “So far, there is no indication that the meat mislabeling
was done in Romania,” Daniel Constantin, Romania’s agriculture
minister, told reporters in Bucharest. He said the names of the
abattoirs in Romania were provided by the French company which
is subject to the investigation. Constantin also said Romania
hasn’t exported minced meat. “From Romania’s point of view the
matter is closed” until new information appears, he said.  Comigel’s meat supplier was Spanghero SAS. It bought the
frozen meat from a Cypriot trader that in turn sub-contracted a
Dutch trader who sourced the meat from a slaughterhouse and a
meat packer in Romania, according to the DGCCRF.  “If there has been fraud along the production chain, the
operators have to resolve this, from a legal point, amongst each
other,” Vincent said. “Someone, somewhere in Europe has sent a
supplier meat that wasn’t correctly labeled.”  The EU’s general food law that came into force in 2002 made
traceability compulsory for all food and feed businesses, and
required livestock tagging. The bloc’s Trade Control and Expert
System was introduced in 2004, creating a central database to
track animals and animal-products across the EU.  Legal Avenue  “We can trace who has done what,” Vincent said. “If in
the whole process there has been some fraud, the member states
will have to take measures at the legal level.”  Casino Guichard Perrachon SA ,  Carrefour SA  and four more
French retailers yesterday said they’d withdrawn frozen lasagna,
moussaka, cannelloni and hachis parmentier supplied by Findus
and Comigel.  U.K. supermarkets including  Tesco Plc , Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Asda and Aldi have removed some ranges of frozen beef
burgers from their shelves in the past month as concern has
escalated over horse labeled as beef.  “The basic rule is that when it comes to products being
put on the market, the member states have to check what is being
put on the market,” Vincent said. “When there is a food-safety
issue the commission can take measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  