-- Tortilla Maker Gruma Falls After Venezuelan Devaluation
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e
-- 2013-02-11T22:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/tortilla-maker-gruma-falls-after-venezuelan-devaluation.html
Gruma SAB , the world’s biggest
tortilla maker, tumbled in stock trading along with other Latin
American companies that sell products in Venezuela after the
nation devalued its currency by almost a third.  Gruma fell 3.3 percent at the close of trading in Mexico
City while Masisa SA, Chile’s biggest maker of wood panels,
dropped 4.1 percent in Santiago. Buenos Aires-based  Arcos
Dorados Holdings Inc ., the biggest franchisee of McDonald’s
Corp. restaurants in South America, fell 3.6 percent in New York
after Morgan Stanley said in a report that Venezuela accounts
for 18 to 19 percent of the company’s operating income.  Venezuela said Feb. 8 it will weaken the bolivar by 32
percent, the fifth devaluation in nine years. That may cut into
income for companies that sell food and consumer goods in Latin
America’s fifth-biggest economy, as they translate profit back
into their home currencies.  “What really counts is the bottom-line translation,” said
 Gustavo Teran , an analyst with Mexico City-based Corp. Actinver
SAB, in a telephone interview. “So if the bottom line was $10,
and now it’s $7 because of the devaluation, it’s a 30 percent
lower contribution from Venezuela to the consolidated results.”  Consumer companies will be affected the most, Morgan
Stanley analysts including  Javier Martinez de Olcoz  and  Cesar Medina , wrote in a report to clients. Other Latin American
stocks that may suffer include the Mexico City-based bottler
 Coca-Cola Femsa SAB  and Panama City-based airliner Copa Holdings
SA, they wrote.  Copa Charge  Copa may record a charge of $30 million to $40 million
associated with the devaluation, according to Morgan Stanley.  Coca-Cola Femsa retreated 1.2 percent to 198 pesos in
Mexico City, while Copa advanced 0.1 percent in New York to
$103.06 after earlier falling 0.7 percent.  Gruma, based in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico, got 16
percent of its revenue from Venezuela in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The devaluation may cut the share of
revenue to 9 percent, said  Gaspar Quijano , an analyst at Vector
Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City who rates the stock hold.  Today’s drop in the shares is “not that bad considering
the impact that this is having on the company,” Quijano said in
a telephone interview.  Venezuela is Santiago-based Masisa’s biggest market,
accounting for a quarter of revenue in the first nine months of
last year, according to regulatory filings.  Airline Tickets  Masisa “will have a lot of revenue in bolivars and to
bring that back in dollars will cost more,”  Jose Manuel Edwards , an analyst at Santiago-based broker IM Trust SA, said
in a telephone interview.  Venezuelans lined up this weekend to purchase airline
tickets and TVs to protect themselves from the imminent increase
in prices. About 70 percent of products consumed in the country
are imported or assembled from raw materials shipped from
abroad, according to the Consecomercio trade chamber in Caracas.  The systemic impact on Latin American equity markets should
be “limited,” according to Morgan Stanley, because investors
have been reducing their exposure through equities to Venezuela
since 2006.  Voicemail and e-mail messages left for a Gruma spokesman
and a Coca-Cola Femsa spokeswoman weren’t immediately returned.
A voicemail and an e-mail left for Copa’s investor relations
office was not immediately returned. Phone calls to Masisa press
representatives weren’t answered. A call to Arcos Dorados’s main
office number in Buenos Aires wasn’t answered. Markets in
Argentina were closed today due to holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Verbrigghe in New York at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  