-- Hostess Gets Approval to Auction Twinkies, Drake’s Brands
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-02-11T22:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/hostess-gets-approval-to-auction-twinkies-drake-s-brands.html
Hostess Brands Inc.  won bankruptcy
court approval to hold auctions for brands including Wonder
Bread, Twinkies and Drake’s.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert Drain  in White Plains, New
York, today approved  Flowers Foods Inc. , McKee Foods Corp.,
United States Bakery Inc.,  Apollo Global Management LLC  and C.
Dean Metropoulos & Co. as so-called stalking-horse, or lead,
bidders for most of Hostess’s cake and bread brands, setting the
thresholds other suitors will have to exceed. A sale hearing, to
approve the highest and best bids, is set for March 19.  Hostess, founded in 1930, is liquidating after failing to
reach an agreement with striking bakers on concessions to help
the company emerge from its second bankruptcy. Initial bids for
 assets  total about $858 million with about $100 million more for
sale, Chief Executive Officer  Greg Rayburn  said Jan. 31.  Apollo and Metropoulos offered as much as $410 million for
the Hostess snack-cake business, which includes Dolly Madison
brands, five bakeries and equipment.  Leon Black ’s Apollo, based
in New York, managed $109.7 billion in assets as of Sept. 30.
Metropoulos, based in Greenwich, Connecticut, is the private-
equity firm that owns Pabst Brewing Co.  Home Pride  Flowers, based in Thomasville, Georgia, made the lead bid
for Hostess’s Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride, Merita and Nature’s
Pride brands, 20 bread plants, 38 depots and other assets.
Flowers offered $360 million, plus $30 million for the Beefsteak
brand. An auction is set for Feb. 28.  Flowers, established in 1919, produces and markets packaged
baked goods for retail and food-service customers. The company’s
top brands are Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  McKee, maker of Little Debbie snacks, agreed to pay
$27.5 million for Drake’s. United States Bakery offered to buy
the Sweetheart, Eddy’s, Standish Farms and Grandma Emilie’s
bread brands, four bakeries and 14 depots, plus certain
equipment, for $28.9 million. A March 15 auction date for
Drake’s and the four bread brands has been set.  Heather Lennox , a lawyer for Hostess, told Drain that an
agreement on retiree benefits was reached with four unions
covering 233 former employees. Hostess will continue to provide
retiree benefits to the same union retirees already receiving
benefits through May 31.  Retiree Claims  The union retirees, collectively, will have a pre-
bankruptcy unsecured claim against the bankruptcy estate in the
amount of $7.4 million, according to court papers filed today.
That claim will be divided among the unions. A hearing will be
held on Feb. 21 to approve the accord.  The Interstate Brands Corp.-International Brotherhood of
Teamsters National Negotiating Committee will have a claim of
$1.8 million; the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and
Grain Millers International Union will have a claim of $50,680;
the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and
Agricultural Implement Workers of America UAW will have a claim
of $5.4 million; and the United Steel, Paper and Forestry,
Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service
Workers International Union will have a claim of $102,409,
according to court papers.  Life Insurance  In a separate accord with the official committee of retired
employees, Hostess will continue to provide life insurance
benefits to the same retirees currently receiving life insurance
benefits through the end of this month. Hostess will also
provide retiree medical benefits through the end of May.  The retirees, collectively, will have a pre-bankruptcy
unsecured claim in the amount of $10.5 million, according to
court papers. About 244 retirees receive medical benefits and
about 1,104 receive post-retirement life insurance, according to
court documents.  Previously known as Interstate Bakeries Corp., Hostess left
an earlier bankruptcy in 2009 under the control of buyout firm
Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders. The company, based in
Irving, Texas, entered bankruptcy again in January 2012.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  