-- How to Fix Unholy Union of College, Pro Football: Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2013-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/how-to-fix-unholy-union-of-college-pro-football-sports-books.html
Move over, Milan, Indiana. Make room
for Scott County, Kentucky.  Milan is the tiny town with only 161 high-school students
whose basketball team won the 1954 Indiana state basketball
tournament -- and inspired the movie classic “ Hoosiers .”  Scott County is not quite Milan; its high school is bigger,
and its Cardinals were defeated in the state semi-finals. But
its story is as inspiring, and maybe as movie-worthy.  Keith
O’Brien  has done it justice in “ Outside Shot ” (St. Martin’s,
$25.99).  Kentucky has no divisions in high-school basketball and
thus any school -- no matter how small, how tucked away, how
star-crossed -- can dream, and maybe win.  The Cardinals did dream mightily, and they played mightily,
too, in a county where even a Japanese car plant couldn’t bring
lasting prosperity and one of the few growth industries was
crack cocaine.  The principal was a Marine. The coach approached basketball
“like a trapped miner shoveling for daylight,” O’Brien says.
The kids were the sort who fought each other by the glow of car
headlights in a business park.  But these kids were good, very good, and their story is a
good one, too. It played out at the University of Kentucky’s
storied Rupp Arena, where their dreams confronted reality -- and
a better team.  ‘Make It’  Here’s another take on basketball dreams deferred. Rus
Bradburd is a former assistant coach at the University of Texas
at El Paso and New Mexico State University, and one day he
tossed it all away -- the dreams of hard-court glory, a resume
that included recruiting five-time NBA all-star  Tim Hardaway  --
for the pursuit of a different dream.  He got a Master of Fine Arts degree and became a fiction
writer. Stranger things have happened, though not often.  “ Make It, Take It ” (Cinco Puntos, $14.95) is his latest
effort, an appealing novel that revolves around an assistant
basketball coach in the Southwest. Maybe it’s not totally
fictional after all.  Either way, it’s engaging and imaginative, and includes one
of the most unforgettable characters in (the admittedly lean
genre of) basketball literature. Coach Jack Hood is a wretched
waste of human protoplasm with “the ethics of an executioner.”
One of his tactics: protesting an official’s call by playing
dead on the sideline and remaining there, corpse-like, for five
full minutes.  The book is a brisk read which features episodes of
recruiting foolishness and basketball-camp shenanigans, a merry-
go-round of fired coaches and a player on a shower strike.  ‘Super Agent’  “ Super Agent ” (Sports Publishing, $24.95) is no novel.
Here is its thesis:  The NCAA behaves like the Mob. The NFL is a cartel. The two
are guilty of collusion. College and pro sports, football
especially, are corrupt.  The book is strong, bombastic, intemperate, self-righteous,
simplistic and probably mostly true.  Of course “Super Agent” is both a title and a description
of the book’s author, Jerry Argovitz, who’s unlucky enough to
have two occupations unloved by the public. (The other one,
improbably, is dentistry. Hold the drilling, root canal and
flossing metaphors.)  Sports Manifesto  This is an autobiography, brag-a-thon and manifesto. The
first two are of limited interest and even less artistry. The
third -- the manifesto about how to reform college sports -- is
provocative.  While almost none of Argovitz’s proposals are appealing,
they do shine an unsparing light on the unholy alliance between
college football, which started out pure, and the pro game,
which by piggy-backing on the universities manages to avoid all
the muss and money that would be required to have a real farm
system of its own. Who says football owners are dolts?  Among the proposals: Pay college athletes. (As if we need
more money in college sports.) Let them negotiate a collective
bargaining agreement. (Because that worked out so well this
winter with pro hockey.) Give them a separate curriculum. (Wait:
Don’t they already have that?)  Actually the last one is a pretty good idea, because the
Argovitz curriculum would include English and economics. Maybe
the guy is onto something after all.  ( David M. Shribman  is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Greg Evans 
on television.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 