-- Parkland Top Riskless Return on Record Oil Gap
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-02-11T21:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/parkland-top-riskless-return-on-record-oil-gap-corporate-canada.html
Parkland Fuel Corp. , Canada’s
largest independent fuel distributor, has posted the best risk-
adjusted return among the country’s energy stocks as it reaps
the rewards of the world’s cheapest crude.  Parkland outperformed all other 61 members in the Standard
& Poor’s/TSX Energy Index in the 12 months through Feb. 8,
returning 3 percent after adjusting for price swings according
to the Bloomberg Riskless Return Ranking. The Red Deer, Alberta-
based company, which sells gasoline, diesel, propane and
lubricants, has surged 46 percent over the  same period , the
second-best performing stock in the energy index. The stock fell
0.3 percent to C$20 today.  Parkland has been taking advantage of the discount between
Western Canadian Select crude and North American benchmark West
Texas Intermediate, which  reached  as much as $42.50 last year.
The company has also benefited from a contract with  Suncor
Energy Inc , in which it shares a portion of Suncor’s refining
margins.  “The refining profits have been immense because of that
discrepancy between WTI, Brent and the other different grades of
crude,” said  Michael O’Brien , director and fund manager with TD
Asset Management in Toronto. He oversees $3 billion in assets.  Refiners such as Suncor and  Imperial Oil Ltd. , which are
able to process cheap crude to more expensive higher-grade
gasoline, have benefited from these pricing differences, and the
profit has trickled down to Parkland. Imperial, the largest
refiner in Canada, reported record refining profit of C$549
million ($548 million) on Feb. 1, compared with C$272 million a
year earlier.  Refining Margins  Parkland, with a market value of about C$1.36 billion,
purchased and distributed about 25 percent of its total fuel
from Suncor last year under a contract signed in 1997 and which
is due to expire at the end of this year.  “The refining margin formula has allowed us in the last
two years to really benefit from the differential in Western
Canadian pricing and Brent pricing,” Tom McMillan, a spokesman
for Parkland, said by phone from Calgary. “Contracts like this
don’t exist anymore. We’re the last. There’s very pronounced
volatility in refiners’ margins, and as much as this has helped
us in the last two years, it has hurt us over time and led to
volatility in our results.” It was Suncor’s decision to end the
contract, he said.  Sneh Seetal , a spokeswoman for Suncor, said it is company
policy not to comment on contractual arrangements with its
customers and suppliers.  Gas Stations  Parkland currently holds 5.2 percent of market share in
Canada and plans to boost it to 10 percent by 2016, McMillan
said. The distributor  shipped  more than 4 billion liters (1.1
billion gallons) of fuel in the past 12 months to the more than
700 retail gas stations it owns in western Canada, Imperial’s
Esso stations in Ontario and wholesale and commercial operators.  Trevor Johnson , an analyst with National Bank Financial,
estimates Suncor’s payments to Parkland accounted for about C$50
million of Parkland’s 2012 earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), which he expects to be
C$220 million.  “I don’t think we’ll see the same type of returns for
Parkland in 2013,” Johnson said in a phone interview from
Toronto. “The challenge is their success the past 12 months has
been the refinery margins, and that is going away at the end of
the year. It could be more of a headwind as we get closer to
that date.”  The deal is a relic of a past era when both Suncor and
Parkland were much smaller and needed each other’s business,
Johnson said. Now, the economics have changed and Suncor does
not need to “incentivize” distributors, he said.  Other Suppliers  As recently as 2010, Parkland’s deal with Suncor forced the
company to pay higher prices, McMillan said.  “There are years where we were making money hand over fist
and years when we could have bought fuel from another competitor
for cheaper,” he said.  The details of the payments are confidential, he said.
Parkland will make up the lost Suncor product from other
suppliers such as Imperial, Shell Canada Ltd. as well as
Ultramar Ltd., and will likely sign a newer, smaller deal with
Suncor, McMillan said.  Parkland  management  declined to comment ahead of its
earnings. The company will post profit of 36 cents a share,
adjusted for certain items, according to the average of two
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Parkland has exceeded analysts’
expectations in four of the last five quarters,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Jennifer Dowty , a fund manager with Manulife Asset
Management Ltd. in Toronto, said there is still upside to the
stock, even after its leading  performance  in 2012.  Differential Narrows  “If we see some strong earnings numbers, with the current
upside to the market, that might extend the multiples and make
it more attractive,” Dowty said in an interview. “The problem
with capacity won’t be fixed in the next couple of quarters, so
for the balance of 2013 I don’t see that advantage going away.”  That said, the price spread between Western Canadian and
West Texas Intermediate crude has narrowed since December, to
$24.40 on Feb. 8, the narrowest since Oct. 24.  “Stability in the differential should be restored in the
second half of 2014 with start-up of the Flanagan South - Seaway
II connection” to the Gulf Coast heavy crude processing market,
 Paul Y. Cheng , an analyst with Barclays Capital Inc. in New
York, said in a note to clients on Feb. 5. He expects the
differential to settle in the $15 to $20 a barrel range.  Seaway Pipeline  The Seaway pipeline, a jointly owned project between
 Enbridge Inc.  and Enterprise Products Partners LP that leads
from Cushing, Oklahoma to the Gulf Coast, is  expected  to reach a
capacity of 850,000 barrels a day by mid-2014.  National Bank’s Johnson sees about 10 percent to 15 percent
upside for Parkland stock in 2013. He expects the company to
focus on growth, with C$200 million or more to spend on
acquisitions.  “They have a pretty ambitious strategic plan,” he said.  Parkland agreed in December to buy Elbow River Marketing
from  AvenEx Energy Corp.  for C$80 million in cash and C$10
million to C$15 million in debt. The transaction added 1,200
leased rail cars throughout Canada and the U.S., suggesting the
company is looking south of the border to expand its business,
Johnson said.  The Suncor contract has been a “black box” in Parkland’s
 balance sheet , and its removal will allow investors to evaluate
the company on its own merits, McMillan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  