-- Peugeot Bank’s State Guarantee Gets Temporary EU Approval
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-11T16:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/peugeot-bank-s-state-guarantee-wins-temporary-eu-approval.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen  won temporary
European approval for 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of
French-backed bonds and now must justify the state-aid package
designed to save the automaker from collapse.  Peugeot’s financing arm, Banque PSA Finance, will be able
to sell three-year bonds backed by the French government for the
next six months, the European Commission said in a  statement 
today. To obtain final approval, France must submit a
restructuring plan within six months to show how Peugeot and the
bank unit intend to become profitable without state help.  While France agreed to shore up Peugeot’s ailing banking
unit with 7 billion euros in guarantees, it has only asked the
EU to authorize the 1.2 billion-euro guarantee so far. Europe’s
second-largest carmaker after  Volkswagen AG  needs the French aid
to keep down borrowing costs, which affect the financing rates
paid by customers.  “As a French consumer looking for a car, you’re confronted
with paying dramatically higher rates of interest to buy a
Peugeot on credit than you are a Volkswagen,” said  Simon Tilford , chief economist at the Centre for European Reform, a
London-based think tank. “I think there will be some latitude
shown. There’s a fair degree of understanding for the French
government’s position.”  French Contagion  The EU said the guarantee was necessary to ensure the
Peugeot unit’s access to financial markets and to avoid any
contagion to the French banking system that could affect bank
financing. A final decision would cover “all the aid” to the
company,  Antoine Colombani , spokesman for EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , told reporters in Brussels.  “Now one needs to know what the commission will ask in
terms of restructuring for the group and this remains unclear,”
said  Pierre Bergeron , a credit analyst at Societe Generale in
Paris. Today’s approval “will allow the bank to pay back this
year’s maturities of July and September -- 500 and 750 million
euros,” he said.  Peugeot shares climbed 0.5 percent to 6.02 euros as of the
close of trading in Paris today. The stock has plunged 56
percent in the last year, valuing the automaker at 2.13 billion
euros.  “We’re currently implementing a restructuring plan that
will impact the whole group,” said  Jean-Baptiste Mounier , a
spokesman for the Paris-based company. He said he expects EU
regulators to make a final decision on state aid for Peugeot by
the summer.  Net Debt  The automaker reports second-half earnings this week.
Peugeot said last week that net debt rose in the second half to
3 billion euros from 2.45 billion euros at the end of June.  Peugeot’s plan to eliminate 11,200 jobs and close a factory
in Aulnay are on hold after a Paris court said last month that
the automaker can’t cut the positions until Faurecia SA, 57
percent-owned by Peugeot, fully informs its workers about the
impact of the carmaker’s restructuring. Automakers have
announced more than 30,000 job cuts in Europe since July.  Large state subsidies require EU approval and regulators
can impose conditions, including asset sales, to counter the
advantage that aid gives the company over rivals. EU rules say
this can involve withdrawal from loss-making activities, making
operations more efficient or diversification toward new and
viable operations.  GM, Ford  Europe’s car market is forecast to drop to 12.3 million
vehicles this year, 23 percent below the pre-2008 financial
crisis peak, IHS Automotive estimates.  General Motors Co.  is
closing a German factory and Ford Motor Co. is shutting three
plants across Europe in response. Peugeot’s CFO said last week
the market may fall as much as 5 percent this year.  Tilford said the French government was likely to argue that
the car industry is facing exceptional circumstances and may
attempt more direct support for Peugeot as France and Italy face
the brunt of sharp cuts in car-making capacity.  “I don’t think the bailout of the financing arm is the end
of this,” Tilford said. “I think there will be further
bailouts of car companies in Europe and there will be standoffs
between the European Commission and the relevant governments.”  French Budget Minister  Jerome Cahuzac  last week floated the
possibility of the government buying a stake in the automaker
after it announced second-half writedowns of 4.13 billion euros.  The cost of insuring Peugeot’s debt against default using
credit default swaps fell 14 basis points to 719, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts reached a record 833
in October last year. The yield premium investors demand to hold
Peugeot’s 1 billion euros of 4.25 percent notes due 2016 rather
than similar maturity government debt declined 1 basis point to
364 basis points, according to Bloomberg generic prices.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aoife White  in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  