-- Peugeot Plant Shutdown Seen Raising Immigrant Joblessness
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-02-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/peugeot-plant-shutdown-seen-raising-immigrant-joblessness.html
Mohammed Khouna says he owes  PSA
Peugeot Citroen  his life and livelihood. His children won’t get
the same opportunities.  For seven years, the native of Morocco worked northern
France’s mines, and even today his skin is pockmarked with black
scars from the coal that helped fuel the country’s recovery
after World War II. He saw “lots of friends maimed and killed”
in those perilous years in the pits.  In 1978 he got a job on  Peugeot ’s assembly line. Within a
few years, he was earning enough to bring his wife and children
over from Morocco, and later he even bought a house and car.  His five children haven’t fared so well. Only two have
jobs: A son is a security guard and a daughter works in a food
store below the second-floor mosque he attends just a few
hundred yards from the Peugeot factory in the downtrodden Paris
suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois.  “Life is a lot harder for this generation than it was for
me,” Khouna, clad in a traditional Moroccan robe and
embroidered prayer cap, said after the fourth of five daily
prayer sessions. “I don’t envy them that at all.”  None of his kids, age 20 to 38, will be hired at  Peugeot ’s
factory in Aulnay, where Khouna worked until two years ago. The
automaker plans to close the plant at the end of 2014, taking
3,000 jobs with it. After months of stalling, the government has
approved the closing in hopes that it may save enough money to
ensure the survival of Europe’s second-largest carmaker.  Five Shutdowns  A similar situation is playing out in other European auto
manufacturing communities. Carmakers have announced more than
30,000 job cuts and five factory shutdowns in the region since
last July in response to the biggest downturn in the market in
nearly 20 years. Sales in Europe are forecast to sink in 2013
for a sixth straight year.  The workforce reductions don’t include positions lost by
those indirectly dependent on the auto industry. In Aulnay,
along with the 3,000 factory jobs, another 12,000 people at
suppliers are likely to lose their positions as a result of the
closing, according to the CGT union, which represents about 30
percent of the Peugeot plant’s workers.  Peugeot, which plans to eliminate 11,200 posts out of
100,000 in France, says the cutbacks are necessary to end losses
that one union official last month put at 7 million euros ($9.4
million) per day. The automaker will likely post an  operating
loss  of 677 million euros for 2012 when it reports results
tomorrow, according to the average estimate of 19 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Torched Renault  “I wouldn’t be surprised if the French state ultimately
took a large stake in Peugeot, helping restructure its
operations,” said  Jose Asumendi , a JPMorgan analyst in London
who has an underweight rating on the shares. “It would be
similar to what we saw with Chrysler in the U.S.”  The French automaker’s declining fortunes mean workers can
no longer count on lifelong employment. Aulnay will be the first
auto factory in France to close in 20 years. When the shutdown
was announced, Franck Don, head of the CFTC union, said that
Peugeot had “lost all its values.”  In Aulnay, “Les 3000,” a housing complex built in the
1960s for  workers  at the factory, stands witness to better days 
when the auto industry offered a ladder up, especially for
North African immigrants recruited to fill its factories.  The area is a maze of characterless beige concrete blocks
that contrast starkly with the street names: Rue Henri Matisse,
Rue Paul Cezanne, Rue Michel Ange -- or Michaelangelo -- where a
burnt-out Renault Clio sits by the curb.  Marginalized Immigrants  The collapse in European auto sales --  Peugeot ’s deliveries
in the region plunged 13 percent last year -- and accompanying
austerity measures in France are likely to have a far-reaching
impact on an immigrant community that is often marginalized.  Unemployment in France’s North African communities reached
23 percent in 2011, the most recent data available, versus 8.5
percent for the non-immigrant population, according to France’s
employment ministry.  Second-generation immigrants from developing countries are
20 percent more likely than their parents to be unemployed, and
almost three times more likely than non-immigrants, according to
a June study from France’s advisory council on integration.  The closure in Aulnay will add to the economic woes in the
area around the town of 80,700.  Air France-KLM Group , whose main
hub at Charles de Gaulle Airport is three miles to the north, is
planning 5,000 job cuts by 2015, joining the airport’s operator,
Aeroports de France, and chemical-maker  Sanofi  in reducing
headcount in the district.  Guest Workers  Gerard Segura, Aulnay’s Socialist Party mayor, worries that
the lost revenue and higher joblessness will stymie his efforts
to regenerate the town, which was at the heart of riots in 2005.
The community stands to lose as much as 5.5 million euros in
corporate tax, he estimates.  More than 17 percent of the town’s total population is out
of work, and the jobless rate for 18- to 25-year-olds tops 40
percent, Segura said in September. Nationwide, unemployment
stands at 10.3 percent.  While Germany turned to Greek, Italian and Turkish workers
to staff its factories in the 1960s and 1970s, French industry
recruited heavily from its former colonies in North Africa,
offering Moroccans, Algerians and Tunisians special visas and
training.  President  Francois Hollande  last July labeled Peugeot’s
plans to slash jobs as “unacceptable.” Now, with France
teetering on the brink of recession, joblessness at a 15-year
high, and the government pledging to shrink its budget deficit,
he’s reversed course. Last week, Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  called the closing inevitable.  Mosque Store  “We don’t see any other way,” Montebourg told RTL radio.  Budget Minister  Jerome Cahuzac  on Feb. 8 floated the idea
that France’s sovereign wealth fund could buy a stake in Peugeot
if that would help rescue the company. Prime Minister  Jean-Marc Ayrault ’s office batted down the idea for now, saying it’s not
on the agenda.  France yesterday got European Union approval to provide
Peugeot with 1.2 billion euros in bond guarantees, ahead of a
decision to come later on a broader assistance package worth 7
billion euros.  With Peugeot in crisis, Djaafar Ait Hammou and his friends
aren’t looking to the automaker for a job. Instead, the 23-year-
old heads to work most days at the same store as Khouna’s
daughter, little more than a warehouse that sells Moroccan,
Tunisian, and Algerian foods, with profits supporting the
mosque.  “I only know people on short-term contracts,” he said of
the plant, where 80 percent of the workers are of North African
origin. “Only the old-timers have full-time work. The younger
people are easier to manipulate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  