-- Emerging Markets Drop to Six-Week Low as Commodities Fall
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-02-11T22:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/philippine-indonesian-shares-rise-as-emerging-volatility-drops.html
     Feb. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Emerging market stocks  dropped to a
six-week low as falling metals prices sank commodities shares
and Turkish banks slid.  OAO Severstal, a Russian steelmaker, led declines on
Moscow’s Micex Index after an explosion at one of its coal
mines.  Akbank TAS , a Turkish lender part-owned by Citigroup
Inc., fell to the lowest level since Dec. 3 after Yapi & Kredi
Bankasi AS cut the stock to the equivalent of sell.  PT United
Tractors  gained the most in almost six weeks in Jakarta on
speculation the company may sustain a recovery in sales, pushing
Indonesia’s main index to a record level. Venezuelan bonds rose
after the bolivar was devalued.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,058.75 by the close of trading in New York, the lowest level
since Jan. 1. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index  extended  its
decline to the lowest since Dec. 21 after a car bomb at the
border with Syria killed at least 10 people, according to the
Anatolia news agency. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price
Commodity Index slid 0.8 percent, while copper fell the most in
a month as China’s New Year’s holiday got underway.  “You’re still seeing this underperformance in emerging
markets which are most sensitive to cyclical growth sentiment,”
 Michael Gayed , the chief investment strategist at Pension
Partners LLC, in New York said by phone. “On a daily basis,
almost continuously, emerging markets keep weakening.”  Markets in China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam
and Malaysia are shut for the New Year break. Brazil’s market is
closed for Carnival. Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  rose
0.3 percent to the highest level since at least April 1983.  Exchange IPO  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, closed little
changed at $43.83. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, slipped 0.8 percent.
Price  volatility  on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index was at 8.8,
the lowest level on record for the 100-day measure, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg dating back to 2003.  Russia’s  Micex Index  fell 0.3 percent on its fourth day of
declines as brent oil slid from a nine-month high. The Russian
Direct Investment Fund will seek to buy as much as $100 million
of stock in the Moscow Exchange’s initial public offering,
according to a person with knowledge of the Kremlin-backed
private-equity fund’s plan, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Poland’s WIG 20 Index rose 0.1 percent. Dubai’s  DFM General
Index  lost the same amount, after climbing as much as 1 percent.  Mexican Stocks  The benchmark IPC Index of 35 Mexican companies dropped 0.1
percent as data showed the country’s industrial production fell
in December for the first time in three years.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s American depositary receipts
dropped 2.3 percent in New York after newspaper O Estado de Sao
Paulo reported that the state-run oil company has told the
government that its debt ratios may rise. ADRs of Dalian, China-
based Pactera Technology International Ltd.  slipped  3 percent,
leading a 0.6 percent slump in the  Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index  of the most-traded Chinese stocks in New York.  Akbank and Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS dragged Turkey’s ISE
National 100 Index 1.8 percent lower. India’s Sensex slipped 0.1
percent, falling for an eighth day, the longest losing streak
since November 2011. The rupee touched the lowest level in two
weeks on speculation capital inflows have slowed.  Trading volumes on the Jakarta gauge were 25 percent below
the 30-day average and Micex trading was 20 percent less than
average.  Bolivar Devaluation  Venezuelan government bonds rallied, with benchmark yields
falling to a five-year low, after the government devalued the
bolivar, helping cut the budget deficit by generating more local
currency from oil exports. President  Hugo Chavez , who is
recovering from cancer surgery in Cuba, ordered his government
to weaken the exchange rate by 32 percent to 6.3 bolivars per
dollar starting Feb. 13, Finance Minister Jorge Giordani told
reporters last week.  Consumer companies Arcos Dorados Holdings Inc., Coca-Cola
Femsa SAB, Grupo Nutresa SA, industrial companies Masisa SA and
Copa Holdings SA and MercadoLibre Inc., operator of an online
trading site, have “significant exposure to Venezuela,” Morgan
Stanley said in an e-mailed report today.  South Korea’s won strengthened 0.3 percent versus the
dollar in offshore trading, while Indonesia’s rupiah rose to the
strongest level in almost three weeks on optimism the central
bank’s efforts to set an onshore fixing for its derivative
contracts will stabilize the currency and bolster demand for
local assets.  Akbank Sinks  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has added 0.3 percent this
year, trailing a 5 percent increase in the  MSCI World Index . The
emerging-markets index trades at 10.3 times estimated earnings,
compared with the MSCI World’s valuation of 13.7, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Severstal fell 2.5 percent after at least 17 coalminers
died in an explosion in a mine in Russia’s northern Komi region.  Akbank sank 3.4 percent in Istanbul after Yapi Kredi cut
its stock recommendation to the equivalent of sell from hold and
lowered the price target, according to an e-mailed report.
Garanti Bank slid 3.2 percent.  Tofas Turk Otomobil Fabrikasi AS, the Turkish unit of Fiat
SpA in partnership with Koc Holding AS, rose 0.5 percent. Chief
Executive Officer Kamil Basaran said Feb. 10 that the company
will disclose in July details about plans to develop two new
subcompact models. HSBC Holdings Plc raised Tofas to an
equivalent of buy from hold.  Air Arabia  Mol Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest refiner, rebounded from its
steepest slump in more than 15 months, leading a rally in
Hungarian stocks. Mol  rose  0.5 percent after dropping 5 percent
Feb. 8 as Dana Gas PJSC sold 1.675 million shares in the refiner
to help refinance its sukuk debt. The transaction was confirmed
by Dana in a statement yesterday.  Air Arabia PJSC rose 3.3 percent to the highest level since
May 2010 in Dubai on volume of almost five times the three-month
daily average amid bets improved full-year profit will prompt
the airline to pay a bigger dividend.  Gold Fields Ltd.  slumped 1.4 percent in Johannesburg, as it
spun off mining assets into Sibanye Gold Ltd. Gold Fields said
Nov. 29 that it would place deeper, more labor-intensive South
African mines into Sibanye.  United Tractors rose 3.6 percent in Jakarta, the most since
Jan. 2. The company may maintain a rebound in heavy-equipment
sales after reporting its January figures, according to  Pandu Anugrah , an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Securities in Jakarta.
Those sales surged 96 percent last month from December, Investor
Daily Indonesia reported Feb. 8.  Healthcare Surge  PT XL Axiata , an Indonesian mobile-phone operator, added
3.7 percent after the same newspaper reported that the company
will refinance 4.5 trillion rupiah ($468 million) of debt this
year.  Healthcare stocks rose 0.3 percent, the only group to gain
on the emerging markets gauge.  Cipla Ltd. , a chemical and
pharmaceutical manufacturer, jumped 3.8 percent in Mumbai to
pare last week’s 8.1 percent slump. Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories
Ltd. gained 2.3 percent after a five-day drop dragged it to a
five-week low.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slipped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 269 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  