-- Philips to Pursue Growth in Emerging Markets as Europe Stagnates
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-02-11T14:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/philips-to-pursue-growth-in-emerging-markets-as-europe-stagnates.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV  is
pushing growth in emerging markets such as China, Russia and
Indonesia amid a European slowdown.  “We’ve made conscious choices to say: if Europe is
stagnant then maybe we need to shift resources away from mature
markets into these growth geographies,” Chief Executive Officer
 Frans van Houten  said at a press meeting in Amsterdam, where the
company is based.  The proportion of sales from so-called growth economies
will increase from the current 35 percent level as Philips is
seeking to outpace economic growth in those nations by 1.5
times, Van Houten said today.  The CEO is betting LED-lights, electric toothbrushes and
bodyscanners will gain traction in Russia, Mexico and other
nations with a growing middle class. A drive for energy
efficiency and increasing demand for more affordable, and
accessible healthcare are additional trends to be harnessed by
Philips, Van Houten said.  ’We have to make sure we capture these huge
opportunities,’’ Van Houten said.  With products such as rice cookers in China, the company
hopes to tailor its appliances to local needs, he said.  Growth geographies increased sales by 10 percent last year,
against a 3 percent shrink in Europe and a 2 percent growth in
North America.  Philips competes with  Siemens AG  and  General Electric Co .
in health-care equipment such as medical scanners as well as in
lighting. The companies posted quarterly results last month
month that beat estimates, partly as a result of a rise in
health-care orders with growth coming from emerging-markets such
as China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  