-- Gross’s Treasury Holdings at 6-Month High, Mortgages Cut
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-02-11T22:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/pimco-s-gross-boosts-holdings-of-u-s-treasuries-to-6-month-high.html
Bill Gross  raised the percentage of
Treasuries held in his flagship fund to 30 percent in January,
the most since July, after advising investors to purchase five-
year Treasuries and inflation-indexed debt amid monetary policy.  The world’s biggest manager of bond funds increased the
proportion of U.S. government and Treasury debt in Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s $285.6 billion  Total Return Fund 
from 26 percent of assets in December, according to a report on
the company’s  website . Gross cut mortgages holdings to 37
percent, the lowest since August 2011 after holding 42 percent
in December. Newport Beach, California-based Pimco doesn’t
comment directly on monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  Gross has been cutting back on mortgage holdings since
April 2012 when the fund held 53 percent of the securities, the
highest since June 2009.  Gross had initially boosted his bets on government-backed
mortgage securities with low coupons before the Federal Reserve
in September launched its third round of bond buying with a
focus on those notes, in a bid to bolster consumer finances and
the housing market. Gross said in a Jan. 4 interview on
Bloomberg Television that gains from the debt “are over in
terms of the capital appreciation.”  Yield Gap  The difference between yields on Fannie Mae’s current
coupon, 30-year mortgage bonds and 10-year Treasuries widened to
1.19 percentage points last week, the highest since Sept. 6,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread, which
reached an all-time low of 0.55 percentage point on Sept. 25
after the Fed began acquiring $40 billion of such debt a month,
fell 0.02 percentage point to 1.17 percentage point as of 4:30
p.m. in New York.  Gross raised the Treasuries holding for the second straight
month. Investors should purchase Treasury five-year maturities
and avoid longer-term bonds, which reflect future inflation,
Gross said in a Twitter post on Feb. 8, adding that economies
are too highly levered for any central bank to raise interest
rates for years.  Investors should protect their holdings with inflation-
linked bonds as the Fed’s quantitative-easing stimulus strategy
of buying assets will ultimately fuel inflation, Gross said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television on Feb. 4.  Holdings Categories  The Total Return Fund kept its holdings of non-U.S.
developed nations’ debt steady at 12 percent in January. Gross
also kept the fund’s emerging-market debt at 7 percent, the same
amount it held in December, and its municipal-bonds holding
remained unchanged at 5 percent. The fund’s investment-grade
credit holdings dropped to 9 percent in January, from 10 percent
the previous month.  High-yield debt remained steady at 2 percent.  The Total Return Fund gained 10.4 percent in 2012, beating
95 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Treasuries returned 2.2 percent last year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Pimco fund’s government and Treasury debt category
includes fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures
and inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer Allianz SE,
managed $2 trillion in  assets  as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  