-- Pope Retirement a Reality Check for Aging Business Lions
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-02-12T00:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/pope-retirement-a-reality-check-for-aging-business-lions.html
How old is too old to lead?  The retirement of  Pope Benedict  XVI, the first such
abdication in almost six centuries, may force aging lions from
politics, academia and business to confront that painful
question. For the legions of leaders well into their 80s and
beyond, the evidence isn’t encouraging.  Pope Benedict will step down two months before his 86th
birthday because he no longer has the strength to lead the
world’s 1.2 billion Catholics, he said yesterday. His decision
may prove emblematic of an older generation that is perhaps
healthier than earlier generations, yet may harbor unrealistic
expectations about what’s physically possible as the body ages.  “The Pope is probably making a wise decision because his
ability to totally manage the church is going to be more limited
on average because he’s 85,” said Leo Cooney, 69, chief of
geriatrics at Yale School of Medicine.  Many of the world’s most influential business leaders are
confronting the same decision as they continue to rule their
empires in their 80s and even 90s. Leaders in their 80s include
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s  Warren Buffett , 82; News Corp.’s
 Rupert Murdoch , 81; BP Capital LLC’s T.  Boone Pickens Jr ., 84,
and Tracinda Corp.’s  Kirk Kerkorian , 95. Viacom Inc. Chairman
 Sumner Redstone  and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Vice Chairman
 Charles Munger  are 89.  Li Ka-Shing , chairman of Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd., is 84.  Life Expectancy  The scientific community’s consensus on these long reigning
tycoons is clear enough: all good things come to an end. Some of
us get lucky and are vigorous into old age, many others aren’t.  “The prevalence of significant cognitive and functional
problems does increase dramatically in the mid-80s,” said
Cooney. “It’s probably a good idea to reassess one’s ability to
be in positions of power at that time.”  Life expectancy  in the U.S. is now 76 years for men and 81
for women. Life expectancy is about 78 years in developed
countries and 68 years in developing regions, the United Nations
said in a  report  last year. By 2050, newborns can expect to live
to 83 years in developed regions and 74 years in developing
regions, it said. Those fortunate to live beyond their ninth
decade will face a myriad of difficult hurdles as they age.  By the time people reach their 80s, muscle mass decreases,
and so do strength and endurance. Almost 70 percent of Americans
between the ages of 85 and 89 have a disability, defined as a
substantial limitation in major life activity, according to a
2011 report on aging by the U.S. Census Bureau and National
Institute of Aging.  Cognitive Decline  “There’s definitely not a magic number, but there are
things that happen more as you age,” said Audrey Chun, 41,
medical director of Martha Stewart Center for Living at Mount
Sinai Medical Center in New York. “As you start collecting
these conditions where you have more than one chronic condition,
those things can start taking a higher toll.”  As conditions accumulate, so do the medications, which can
lead to side effects that can leave people somewhat impaired,
Chun said. Dementia and cognitive decline also kick in. By age
90 about half of people have some sort of cognitive problem, she
said.  Difficulty performing errands alone and mobility-related
activities such as walking and climbing stairs are the most
common types of disability, affecting two-thirds of people ages
90 and older, according to the Census Bureau and National
Institute of Aging study. Hearing and vision loss affect 43
percent and 26 percent respectively.  ‘Negative Stereotype’  It’s not all bad news, said Thomas Kirkwood, associate dean
for aging at  Newcastle University  in northern England, who has
studied aging for almost 40 years.  The university’s  Newcastle 85+ Study , which enrolled more
than 1,000 85-year-olds from the Newcastle and North Tyneside
areas, found that on average people had four or five age-related
health conditions. Still, about 80 percent of them rated their
health and quality of life as good or excellent, Kirkwood said.  “I do feel some regret that the Pope’s decision serves to
confirm a negative stereotype we have in society about being
old,” he said in a telephone interview. “The common idea that
85 is an age when someone is likely to be past it simply doesn’t
stand anymore.”  The findings suggest that women may face more hurdles then
men in the mid- and late 80s. At 85, about 37 percent of men
reported no limitations to their daily living activities, such
as cooking, bathing and managing personal finances. The
percentage was about half that for women, Kirkwood said.  Social Engagement  “It’s a very interesting paradox that although women live
longer than men, women at the end of life experience more
disability and ill health than men,” he said.  Some leadership roles have a tradition of abdication by a
certain age.  Queen Beatrix  of the Netherlands, who is 75, will
step down this year and be succeeded by her eldest son, Crown
Prince Willem-Alexander, who will become the country’s first
king in more than a century. Beatrix succeeded her mother when
she abdicated in 1980.  Most elderly powerful business people, though, have no
intention of abdicating if they don’t have to. And that may be
the smartest decision they ever make, according to many
gerontologists. In fact, hanging on to a job full of
responsibilities and challenges may be the best thing for an
executive’s health, said Barbara Messinger-Rapport, director of
the  Cleveland Clinic ’s center for geriatric medicine.  “In order to age successfully, you have to have cognitive
challenges,” she said. “You have to have social engagement, so
you’re with peers and have meaningful activities. You need
physical challenges to maintain your ability.”  No Rules  Indeed, when it comes to aging, no rules apply.  Michael DeBakey , the U.S. cardiovascular surgeon who
developed heart-bypass procedures that improved the lives of
millions of patients and prolonged life for others, had a heart
bypass at 97 and went back to work seven months later. DeBakey
died at 99 in 2008. Former South Carolina Senator  Strom Thurmond 
retired in 2003 and died later that year at 100, while his
Democratic colleague Representative  John Dingell  of Michigan is
the longest-serving member of the house at age 86.  “We need leadership in the whole business of getting
older,” said Newcastle University’s Kirkwood. “Eighty-five
these days is old, but it’s not terribly old.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  