-- Porn King Loses Love; Bullied Nun Flees: Berlin Films
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/porn-king-loses-love-bullied-nun-flees-berlin-films.html
Paul Raymond  was one of Britain’s
richest men, building a fortune on his early recognition of the
indisputable fact that sex sells.  It was 1958 when he opened Raymond’s Revue Bar in London’s
Soho district, operating it as a private club to bypass rules on
public displays of nudity. His life story -- one of success,
excess and tragedy -- is the subject of “The Look of Love,” an
entertaining film biography by  Michael Winterbottom  showing in
the Berlinale Special section of the Berlin Film Festival.  The British comedy actor  Steve Coogan  plays Raymond in this
dramatized version of his life, bringing a mix of wit, charisma,
flamboyance and vulnerability. It’s a convincing portrayal of a
man who came from nowhere and appeared to have everything,
living the ultimate playboy lifestyle in his  Ringo Starr -
designed London apartment.  Raymond brags about his wealth -- telling everyone at his
daughter’s wedding how much it cost, for instance -- and is a
terrible name-dropper (“I’m friends with all the Beatles,
except  Yoko Ono  of course.”) He sleeps with half his models,
sometimes several of them at a time.  Yet Raymond failed to hold on to the three women he cared
about. His first wife Jean, played by  Anna Friel , won the
biggest divorce settlement in the U.K. after he abandoned her
for one of his performers. Fiona Richmond (leggy Tamsin Egerton)
left to lead a “normal life” after seven years.  Drugs Death  Most tragically, Raymond’s daughter Debbie (Imogen Poots),
the real love of his life and the person he wanted to take over
the business, died of a drug overdose at the age of 36.  “The Look of Love” has some good moments, both poignant
and comic. In one farcical scene, two nude models under strict
instructions to remain motionless have to escape the stage when
a performing lion starts growling ominously.  With a fast and witty script, it captures swinging Soho and
a glittering yet seedy stratum of London society through the
second half of the 20th century. It’s likely to have strong
local appeal yet probably won’t take the rest of the world by
storm -- the lens is a little too narrowly focused for that.
Rating: ***.  Bullying Nuns  In “The Nun,” based on the 18th-century novel by Denis
Diderot, a young woman, Suzanne Simonin (Pauline Etienne), is
coerced by her family into taking the veil against her will. She
plots to escape the convent.  No wonder. Faced with her resistance to a life devoted to
God, the nuns at her first establishment torture and bully her,
accusing her of being possessed by the devil. They force her to
walk on glass, lock her in a cell and deprive her of food, water
and washing facilities.  Yet still she resists. She is transferred to a second
convent, where a lustful Mother Superior -- a fabulous  Isabelle Huppert  -- climbs into her bed demanding kisses and hugs.  Suzanne yearns desperately for freedom and a life in the
real world. You can’t help wondering what she’ll experience
there that she hasn’t already gone through in the supposedly
safe, cloistered life of the convent.  Beautifully shot with impeccable acting, “The Nun” is a
piece of skilled film-making that is a tad too long at just
under two hours. Its religious repression and rigid patriarchal
structures are perhaps what you would expect to find in 18th-
century France.  The more remarkable aspect is Suzanne’s dogged refusal to
accept her lot, and the movie’s great find is Etienne in the
main role. She has an innocence combined with a detachment that
conveys the core strength of her character.  Jacques Rivette’s film of the same novel ended with the
lead character’s suicide. Director Guillaume Nicloux chooses a
more positive outcome that vindicates her determination, yet
feels unsatisfactorily incomplete.  Rating: **½.  The Berlin Film Festival runs through Feb. 17. For more
information, go to https://www.berlinale.de/en  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on rock,  Farah Nayeri 
on  film ,  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Greg Evans  on U.S. television.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 