-- Protests as Royalties Surge to Unilever, Holcim: Corporate India
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-02-12T04:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/protests-as-royalties-surge-to-unilever-holcim-corporate-india.html
Holcim Ltd. , the world’s largest
cement maker, and Unilever are seeking higher royalty from their
units in emerging markets as business slows at home, spurring
protests by minority investors.  Holcim’s two Indian units, ACC Ltd. and  Ambuja Cements
Ltd. , are seeking shareholder consent to almost double fees to
the parent, after the Switzerland-based company signed a similar
agreement with its Indonesian unit.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. ,
controlled by the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company,
last month said it will pay a higher fee to its parent.  The increase in the fees, meant to compensate the
controlling shareholder for providing technology and expertise,
comes as India prepares to  enact  a law requiring approval from
75 percent of minority investors for transactions with related
parties. Local units of two dozen overseas companies have
doubled the fees in the past four years after Asia’s third-
largest economy eased rules to spur technology transfers,
according to Institutional Investor Advisory Services.  “The small investor is simply left in the lurch,” said
 Prateek Agrawal , chief investment officer at Mumbai-based ASK
Investment Managers Pvt., with 16 billion rupees ($299 million)
under management. “We should not be accepting this as fait
accompli.”  Hindustan Unilever had its  recommendations  cut by at least
11 brokerages on Jan. 23 after saying it will double fees to
Unilever. The stock had its biggest two-day drop in two years
after announcing the plan, which Chief Financial Officer  Sridhar Ramamurthy  said was “designed to help us grow competitively.”  Related Party  Mumbai-based Hindustan Unilever’s  shares  rose 0.4 percent
to 462.30 rupees as of 9:37 a.m. in Mumbai today. They have
dropped 12 percent this year  compared  with a 0.5 percent
increase in the benchmark  Sensex  index.  Related-party transactions “ought to be transparent and
where necessary, or of a certain size, be put to vote,”  Hugh Young , who helps manage about $70 billion of Asian equities
including Hindustan Unilever and Ambuja Cements at Aberdeen
Asset Management Asia Ltd. in Singapore, said in an e-mail. “We
have raised this at various levels, not just in India. To the
company, to the parent, to independent directors.”  ACC, which reported its  slowest  sales growth in two years
in the three months to Dec. 31 and a 46 percent drop in profit,
and Ambuja Cements are asking shareholders for approval to boost
the “Technology and Knowhow Fee.” Voting rights for both
companies are controlled by Holcim.  ‘Majority of Minorities’  The voting exercise “does not serve any purpose unless
Holcim chooses not to vote,” said  Amit Tandon , managing
director of Institutional Investor Advisory Services, a proxy
adviser. Companies should either seek approval from “majority
of minorities” or from 75 percent of investors through a
special resolution, he said.  R. Nand Kumar , a spokesman for ACC, and Doris Rao, a
spokeswoman for Ambuja Cements, didn’t respond to e-mails
seeking comment.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.  paid 18 billion rupees as royalty
to its parent Suzuki Motor Corp. in the year ended March 31,
exceeding the company’s 16.8 billion rupee profit in the period.
Suzuki’s 54.2 percent stake in Maruti also entitled it to 1.17
billion rupees of  dividend , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Total payout by the 25 highest royalty-paying companies for
the year ended March 31 more than doubled to 36.4 billion rupees
from 15.3 billion rupees in 2008, according to a Dec. 11 report
by Mumbai-based Institutional Investor Advisory.  No Dividend  “We can have a look at it,”  U.K. Sinha , chairman of the
Securities & Exchange Board of India, the nation’s market
regulator, said when asked about royalty payments. The
assessments would have to be on a case-by-case basis “to see
whether the royalty is by way of some special relationship with
the promoter company or it is genuine.”  The Institutional Investor’s report found that since 2008,
at least three companies, Whirlpool of India Ltd.,  Asahi India
Glass Ltd.  and 3M India Ltd., haven’t paid dividends, which
would have been shared by all shareholders as against royalty
fees that accrue only to the overseas parent.  Asahi India Glass, which reported a loss of 651 million
rupees in the year ended March 31, paid 205 million rupees as
royalty fees in the year.  “The basis of charging of royalty should also be
questioned,” said ASK’s Agrawal. “Shouldn’t royalty be levied
only on incremental operating profits rather than on whole of
sales, which can create issues when the business may actually be
making a loss.”  ‘Pension Plan’  Spokesmen for Asahi India and Whirlpool of India as well as
the spokeswoman for 3M didn’t respond to e-mails seeking
comment.  The levies have increased amid slowing global sales. Holcim
has accelerated a European cost-saving program to counter weak
demand. Asahi Glass Co.’s profit  plunged  67 percent to 12.7
billion yen ($135 million) in the six months ended Dec. 31,
while Benton Harbor, Michigan-based Whirlpool Corp.’s net income
dropped 40 percent to $122 million in the three months ended
Dec. 31.  “It’s a pension plan for” the biggest shareholder, said
Jitendra Nath Gupta, founder of Stakeholders Empowerment
Services. “That is why clear deliverables have to be negotiated
when royalty payments are increased.”  Maruti’s royalty “payments will stay at these levels,”
Chairman  R.C. Bhargava  said last month. The company last year
paid 5.1 percent of its sales to its parent.  ‘Requires Explanation’  “Mass market auto companies would typically spend 2.5
percent to 4 percent of revenue on engineering research &
development,” said  Vikas Sehgal , managing director and global
head for automotive sector at Rothschild in London. “So
anything north of 5 percent requires explanation,” especially
when Maruti has some in-house research already, he said.  The levy charged by the overseas parents of Indian units
jumped after the  government  in December 2009 removed caps on
royalties, allowing companies to pay their foreign sponsors any
amount their board approved without seeking government approval,
a move Bhargava termed a “watershed” development.  “The thought then was to attract foreign investment and
facilitate technology transfer without going through the
administrative hoops,” said Tandon. The payout spike was “an
unintended consequence.”  India’s Lok Sabha, the lower house of parliament, on Dec.
18 passed a bill making it mandatory to seek approvals by a
special resolution for related-party transactions.  Vote on Proposal  The law will be applicable depending on the amount of the
transaction or size of the company’s capital. The amounts are
yet to be determined.  The rules, which also stipulate the controlling shareholder
won’t be eligible to vote for such resolutions, will be enacted
once the president signs the bill following an endorsement by
the upper house of parliament.  “As shareholders, we would like to have a vote on royalty
proposals when they come up,”  Debasish Mallick , chief executive
officer at IDBI Asset Management Ltd. in Mumbai said in a phone
interview on Feb. 8. “Royalty is a matter of concern for
investors as it hurts company profits and dividend payments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  