-- Qatari Fund Says Banks Cheap Amid $138 Billion Spend Binge
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-02-11T13:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/qatari-fund-says-banks-cheap-amid-138-billion-spend-binge-1-.html
Qatar Investment Fund Plc , a London-
listed fund specialized in the Persian Gulf nation, said the
country’s banks are poised for gains, boosted by $138 billion in
infrastructure spending before the soccer World Cup.  “Valuations are low and we’ve high earnings visibility,”
 Nicholas Wilson , the fund’s chairman, said by telephone. “We
have a good idea on how much is going to be spent on the
infrastructure and the improvement in demographics is going to
drive consumer spending which will benefit the banks.”  Banks, which make up half the Qatar Investment Fund, have
had a 23 percent annual compound growth over the past six years,
Wilson said from London.  Qatar National Bank SAQ , which bought
 Societe Generale SA’s  majority stake in its Egyptian unit for
$1.97 billion in December, makes up 22 percent of the index,
according to the fund’s holding as of March 30, 2012.  The fund, with a market value of $170.4 million, will
remain overweight on Qatari banks and is also betting on growth
in industries such as aluminum, steel and fertilizers, he said.
The shares have gained 4.4 percent this year.  “Access to low-cost energy sources is a distinct advantage
in global markets,” Wilson said. “Asset management and
insurance are also expected to make meaningful contributions.”  GDP Expansion  The government-run Qatar Financial Center Authority,
charged with expanding the country’s financial services
industry, plans to make Qatar a hub for asset management as well
as reinsurance. Credit Suisse Group AG and Qatar Holding LLC, a
unit of the Persian Gulf emirate’s sovereign-wealth fund, agreed
last year to form asset manager Aventicum Capital Management to
boost investments in emerging markets.  Qatari shares are among the cheapest in the Persian Gulf,
trading at a multiple of 8.8 times earnings, compared to 9.7 in
Saudi Arabia, according to Wilson. The country’s benchmark Qatar
Exchange Index has gained 5 percent this year after declining
4.8 percent last year.  Qatar, the biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas,
revised its 2012 nominal gross domestic product  growth , which
reflects the cost of oil, to 14.7 percent from 11.2 percent amid
higher-than-forecast crude prices. The nation, which is hosting
the 2022 soccer World Cup, plans to spend $138 billion on
infrastructure from 2011 to 2016, the government has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  