-- Rand Fluctuates Before Retail Sales, Mining Data, Zuma’s Speech
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-02-11T07:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rand-fluctuates-before-retail-sales-mining-data-zuma-s-speech.html
The rand swung between gains and
losses before President Jacob Zuma’s state-of-the-nation address
and the release of retail sales and mining production data this
week.  South Africa’ currency traded less than 0.1 percent
stronger at 8.8740 per dollar as of 8:55 a.m. in Johannesburg
after declining as much as 0.2 percent in earlier trading. The
rand fell 0.5 percent last week. Yields on benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due 2026 were unchanged at 7.30 percent.  Retail sales growth probably slowed to 1.6 percent in
December, from 3.4 percent a month earlier, a report on Feb. 13
will show, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Mining production contracted 3.2 percent, a
separate report may show on Feb. 14. Zuma is addressing
lawmakers on Feb. 14 amid concern about labor unrest, job losses
and above-inflation wage increases in Africa’s biggest economy.  “The local focus continues to be on the interplay between
the macro backdrop and socio-political tensions,”  Carmen Nel , a
Cape Town-based analyst at Rand Merchant Bank, said in e-mailed
comments. “The state-of-the-nation address will be the marquee
event on the local calendar, with President Zuma widely
anticipated to deliver a reasonably business-friendly ton.”  A public holiday in some Asian nations to commemorate the
Lunar New Year resulted in low trading volumes, according to
Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM
Analytics.  “It will be a quieter start for most markets around the
globe,” Bertenshaw wrote in e-mailed comments. “It potentially
means another day of lethargic range trading that will prevent
the rand form adopting any clear-cut directional momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Brand  in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 