-- RBA Cuts Augur Only Rising Sovereign Market: Australian Credit
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-02-12T04:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rba-cuts-augur-only-rising-sovereign-market-australian-credit.html
Australian government bonds will be
the only major developed sovereign market to provide capital
gains to investors this year as the central bank cuts interest
rates, analysts predict.  Benchmark 10-year  notes  in Australia will rise, pushing
yields down from 3.48 percent today to 3.22 percent by June 30
before they rebound to 3.43 percent at year-end, according to
the weighted average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Yields
will advance for nine other developed nations, separate surveys
show, including a 28 basis-point gain by Dec. 31 for U.S.
Treasuries, 34 basis points for German bunds and 23 basis points
for Japanese securities.  Societe Generale SA named Australian bonds among their top
10 assets over the next three years as they offer the highest
yields for notes with AAA ratings from the three main credit
assessors. Economists predict the Reserve Bank will cut
borrowing costs to a record as a resources boom fades. Yields
elsewhere will rise as accelerating global growth and
diminishing concern about Europe’s debt crisis spurs investors
to seek greater returns in riskier assets such as equities.  “In Australia, the economy is likely to remain quite soft
over the next few years as the mining investment surge comes to
an end,” said  Warren Hogan , the chief economist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “The theme for Aussie bonds is
that they should outperform core sovereign markets.”  Investors who bought Australia’s 10-year bonds today would
make a 3.5 percent return by year-end if the forecasts prove
accurate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They would
lose 0.5 percent on Treasuries and 1.4 percent on German bunds,
the data show.  Yield Premium  The  premium  Australian 10-year sovereign paper offers over
U.S. Treasuries of similar maturity narrowed to 1.51 percentage
points yesterday from an almost four-month high of 1.67 on Dec.
14. It will end the year at 1.19 percentage points, based on
strategists’ forecasts. The gap to bunds will shrink 0.39
percentage point to 1.48 and for Japan it will decline 0.28 to
2.44.  Yield forecasts for the U.K., Canada, France, Italy, New
Zealand and Switzerland were also analyzed.  Auction Demand  Australian benchmark yields are little changed since Jan.
31 after they completed four months of increases, marking the
longest stretch of bond-price declines since 2010. The 46-basis
point advance in yields in that period has spurred demand at
government bond auctions.  Investors bid for 4.27 times the July 2017 Australian
federal securities offered Feb. 8, compared with an average so-
called bid-to-cover ratio of 3.77 for 2012, according to data
from the Australian Office of Financial Management.  “With very strong international participation in our bond
market and the currency now off a little bit, you’re going to
see increased demand from international investors for Australian
bonds over the weeks ahead,” said Hogan. He predicts the RBA
will lower its benchmark at least 50 basis points this year. The
10-year yield will drop to 3 percent by year-end, according to
ANZ Bank.  Below Trend  Foreign investors held about 72 percent of bonds and bills
issued by the Australian government in the third quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from government sources.  Australia’s dollar, which rose 1.8 percent in 2012, traded
at $1.0244 as of 2:47 p.m. in Sydney and touched a more than
three-month low of $1.0242. The world’s fifth most-traded
currency has retreated 1.4 percent this year.  Weak investment outside the mining industry, a soft labor
market and high currency prompted policy makers to reduce their
forecasts for economic growth and inflation last week.  The RBA predicted “below trend” 2013 growth of about 2.5
percent, compared with about 2.75 percent forecast in November.
Consumer prices will rise 3 percent in the year to June 2013,
compared with the 3.25 percent increase it had forecast three
months earlier, the central bank said.  Policy makers said the global outlook has been “more
positive in recent months” and China’s economy has stabilized.
China is Australia’s largest trading partner followed by Japan
and the U.S., government data show.  The gap between rates on Australian government bonds and
inflation-linked debt shows traders expect a 2.71 percent annual
advance in consumer prices over the next decade, down from a
near 10-month high of 2.80 percent reached Feb. 4.  Rate Forecasts  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens will leave the overnight cash-
rate target unchanged at 3 percent on March 5 and lower it 0.25
percentage point to a record in the second quarter, according to
the median forecast of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Traders see a 57 percent chance of a March cut, with an 87
percent chance the rate will be 2.75 percent or lower by June,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australian home-loan approvals fell in December for a third
month and the proportion to first-home buyers slumped to an 8
1/2-year-low, government data yesterday showed, as central bank
interest-rate cuts failed to lure buyers into the market  Stevens has lowered the benchmark by 1.75 percentage points
since November 2011.  “From a valuation perspective we like the Australian
economy and the bonds,” said  Craig Veysey , head of fixed income
at Sanlam Private Investments Ltd. in London, a unit of Sanlam
Group, which oversees $72 billion. “In some of the AAA areas,
like Australia, there have been some relatively interesting
yield rises and we are considering allocating to those areas
over the course of the coming weeks and months.”  ‘Good Value’  Investors pared holdings of the safest assets in January as
better economic prospects for the U.S. and a stabilization in
Europe’s debt crisis buoys the appeal of riskier investments. A
Merrill Lynch broad sovereign market index fell 0.5 percent last
month compared with a 5 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
equities. Australia’s 10-year bond yields climbed 0.18
percentage point last month, the biggest advance since February
2012.  Bonds are back in favor this month after a Jan. 30 report
showed the U.S. economy unexpectedly contracted in the final
three months of last year. Australian government bonds returned
a loss of 0.4 percent in 2013, the smallest decline among the
eight nations with stable AAA ratings from Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. Canada, Denmark,
Norway, Sweden, Singapore, Switzerland and Finland are the
others.  “We see good value in Australian government bonds,” said
 Patrick Legland , Paris-based global head of research at Societe
Generale, in a Feb. 1 phone interview. “Australian bonds are a
very good hedge,” against a possible slowing in growth in China
and the wider Asian region, he said. Rates will remain at low
levels and may decline, the bank predicts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  