-- RBA to Sell Stake in Note-Printing Unit Amid Graft Scandal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-12T01:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rba-to-sell-stake-in-note-printing-unit-securency-amid-scandal.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia agreed
to sell its 50 percent stake in Securency International Pty, the
note-printing unit at the center of corruption allegations, as
it seeks to draw a line under the biggest scandal of Governor
 Glenn Stevens ’s term.  U.K.-based film manufacturer Innovia Films, which already
owns half of Securency, agreed to pay A$65 million ($66.6
million) to the RBA for the remainder, the central bank said in
a  statement  on its website. Extra payments may follow if
Securency exceeds earnings benchmarks, the statement said.  Eight former managers and employees at the RBA’s Note
Printing Australia Ltd. unit and Securency face charges in
relation to the bribing of officials in Malaysia, Indonesia and
Vietnam from 1999 to 2004 to win bank-note printing contracts.
Stevens was called to testify to parliament about the case in
October and said that, while he believed officials who reported
to him acted appropriately, there should have been more
questioning and “skepticism” of both companies.  The sale indicates the RBA is “seeking to distance itself
from this failure of corporate governance,” said Anil Hargovan,
an associate professor specializing in corporate law and
governance at the Australian School of Business in Sydney, part
of the University of New South Wales. “There are still lessons
of accountability and transparency to be learned.”  NPA will remain a wholly-owned unit of the central bank,
the RBA said in the statement today.  Public Inquiry  The central bank has faced demands from Greens Party
lawmaker  Adam Bandt  for a public inquiry into the matter, which
has resulted in the first prosecutions under anti-bribery laws
enacted in Australia in 2000.  Stevens’s seven-year term as governor expires Sept. 17,
three days after an election is scheduled to be held, with the
government having the power to either reappoint him or name a
successor in the three months before his time is up. Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  announced the election Jan. 30,
effectively creating an almost eight-month campaign compared
with the usual time period of about a month.  Opposition finance spokesman Andrew Robb said Jan. 31 that
Gillard should hold off on announcing the next head of the
central bank until after the election.  Stevens’s Record  Stevens hasn’t said publicly whether he wants to extend his
tenure. Since taking the helm in September 2006, he has presided
over annual inflation that’s averaged 2.8 percent -- within the
RBA’s target range of 2 percent to 3 percent -- and unemployment
at 5 percent as the world’s 12th-largest economy extended a
recession-free era to 21 years.  In a separate  statement  today, the central bank published
an independent review of its oversight of the two units. The
review, conducted by Cameron Ralph Pty, found that the RBA
“gave reasonable consideration as to the governance
arrangements for the two companies and put in place processes
for their oversight and reporting which were broadly consistent
with usual practice at the time.”  “With the benefit of hindsight, there could have been more
oversight applied to the activities of the companies, which may
have detected earlier the alleged illegal payments,” according
to the review. “But that does not mean that the Bank’s
oversight at the time was inappropriate.”  The review didn’t look into the allegations of bribery or
the Australian Federal Police investigation of the charges. “We
have not examined any material relating to those allegations as
such, other than to address the supervision issue,” it showed.  The RBA said in November 2010 that it would sell its stake
in Securency. Macquarie Capital advised the central bank
throughout the process, the RBA said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  