-- RBS Bankers Tell Lawmakers They Thought Libor-Rigging Impossible
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-02-11T17:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rbs-bankers-tell-lawmakers-they-thought-libor-rigging-impossible.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
executives told lawmakers they believed it was impossible to rig
Libor, less than a week after regulators found traders at the
lender manipulated the benchmark for more than four years.  “None of us thought of this as a risk that needed this
level of attention,” said  John Hourican , who resigned as
investment-banking head after the fine, told a hearing of the
Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards in London today.  RBS was fined $612 million last week for rigging the London
interbank offered rate and similar benchmark interest rates.
More than a dozen traders made hundreds of attempts to
manipulate yen and Swiss franc Libor between mid-2006 and 2010
to benefit their trading positions, sometimes colluding with
other firms, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.
That behavior continued even after the CFTC started its probe.  “It just didn’t occur to anyone that it could be
fiddled,” former investment banking chairman  Johnny Cameron 
told lawmakers. “You can’t impose standards on people who don’t
wish to be moral.”  RBS received the world’s biggest banking bailout in 2008,
and is 81 percent owned by the British taxpayer. Treasury
Minister Greg Clark described the lender’s fine as a “day of
shame” for British lenders.  “For 2009 and 2010, we focused almost exclusively on
things that broke the bank,” said Hourican. RBS had suffered a
“cardiac arrest,” he said. “Fixing that occupied everybody.’  RBS managers didn’t view the risk that traders could rig
the benchmark for profit as “significant,” head of markets
 Peter Nielsen  told lawmakers today. He said he had considered
resigning over Libor, but Hourican had persuaded him to remain.  “It was my opinion that the bank would be better served by
Peter remaining at the bank,” Hourican said. “It was my
recommendation to the board that Peter would be better serving
all stakeholders were he to remain in post.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  