-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Trade in Narrowest Range in Two Weeks
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-02-11T22:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/treasury-futures-halt-advance-before-auctions-spending-data.html
Treasury 10-year notes traded in the
narrowest range in more than two weeks as the U.S. government
prepared to sell $72 billion in coupon-bearing securities this
week.  U.S. debt yields climbed earlier today before the
government sells $32 billion of three-year notes tomorrow, $24
billion in 10-year debt the following day and $16 billion in 30-
year bonds on Feb. 14. U.S. President  Barack Obama  intends to
use his State of the Union address this week to focus on job
creation, marking a renewed emphasis on economic issues.  “We are stuck here for now,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut. “The economic picture is still muddled and we have
supply to accommodate this week at higher yield levels, which
brings up the question where rates need to be to accommodate the
auction.”  The  10-year yield  rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.96 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after rising as much as three
basis points, within the narrowest range since Jan. 23.  The
1.625 percent note due in November 2022 fell 1/8, or $1.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 97. The yield declined seven basis points
last week.  Treasuries handed investors a 0.8 percent loss this year
through Feb. 8, compared with a 0.5 percent decline for an index
of government bonds around the world, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. The benchmark 10-year yield climbed
to 2.06 percent on Feb. 4, the highest level since April 12.  Trading Range  “We are moving around in a tight range,” said  Paul Horrmann , a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker. “The market wanted higher rates,
but we are stuck between 1.95 percent and 2.05 percent until we
see more of the complexion of the state of the economy.”  Treasury trading  volume  was $197.5 billion, according to
ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government
debt, the lowest level since Jan. 7 and was below the daily
volume average of $240 billion in 2012.  The Fed bought $1.4 billion in securities maturing from
February 2036 to May 2042.  The U.S. last sold 10-year notes on Jan. 9 at a yield of
1.863 percent. Investors submitted orders for 2.83 times the
amount on offer, down from 2.95 times in December.  Auction Demand  “I expect us to back up a bit going into the auctions,”
said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP in New York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
Federal Reserve. “These are fairly attractive yields. Threes
should go great. Tens and bonds will go fine.”  President Obama previewed his Feb. 12 State of the Union
address in remarks before House Democrats meeting in Virginia
last week, where he advocated “an economy that works for
everybody.”  “I’m going to be talking about making sure that we’re
focused on job creation here in the United States of America,”
the President said.  European finance chiefs were set to meet in Brussels today
as a tightening election contest in Italy and corruption
allegations in Spain threaten to reignite the region’s debt
crisis. Ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20 will
gather in Moscow later this week.  Germany Debt  Germany is losing a yearlong borrowing-cost advantage over
the U.S. as German securities had their worst January since at
least 1986 and options traders hold almost three times more bets
on further declines than a rally, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That contrasts with Treasuries, where wagers through
derivatives are about even. JPMorgan Chase & Co. says Germany’s
10-year yields will exceed U.S. rates for the first time since
February 2012 by the end of the third quarter.  Demand for the euro area’s benchmark assets is waning after
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi dispelled concern
the bloc may break up and as banks pay back emergency loans two
years earlier than required.  The 10-year note will yield 1.96 percent at the end of June
and 2.24 percent by Dec. 31, according to the weighted average
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  