-- REC Slides as Chairman Quitting Spurs Share Concerns: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-02-11T14:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rec-slides-as-chairman-quitting-spurs-share-concerns-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp ASA  fell to a
two-month low in Oslo trading as weaker cash flow and the
resignation of Chairman  Jens Ulltveit-Moe  added to concern about
the strength of the solar company’s balance sheet and a possible
share issue.  REC, based in Sandvika near Oslo, dropped as much as 14
percent to 0.765 kroner, the  lowest intraday level  since Dec.
10, and was down 12 percent as of 3:50 p.m. local time. More
than 49 million shares were traded, about 40 percent above the
three-month average daily volume.  “REC will struggle to meet its 2014 obligations and we see
a high risk of equity owners being severely diluted in a
restructuring,” Danske Bank A/S said in a note to clients
today. The chairman’s resignation also creates a “potential
share overhang that could weigh on REC going forward,” said the
Danish lender, which has a sell recommendation on the stock.  Chief Executive Officer  Ole Enger  is “quite optimistic”
the company will be able to refinance its debt, he said in Oslo
on Feb. 8. He declined to give any more detail on the company’s
refinancing options when asked in an interview after a
presentation. REC spokesman  Mikkel Toerud  said he can’t add to
the comments made by the CEO on Feb. 8, he said by phone today.  REC is in discussions with its banks about changes to
covenants on a 2 billion-krone ($363 million) credit line
maturing in April 2014, Chief Financial Officer  Kjell Christian Bjoernsen  said Feb. 8.  Refinancing Processes  REC must also  refinance  a 320 million-euro convertible bond
and a 650 million-krone fixed-rate note due 2014.  The resignation of Ulltveit-Moe, who’s being replaced by
 Mimi Berdal , is “negative given his experience in refinancing
processes among other things,” SEB AB said in a note yesterday.
Ulltveit-Moe owns about  9.5 percent  of REC, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is still likely that REC could breach its nominal
Ebitda bank covenant to be measured at the end of the first half
of 2013, as prices are not expected to improve enough,” SEB
said. REC, which is grappling with falling costs amid excess
capacity, is predicted to report first-half earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization that will miss the
300 million kroner cut-off point set by its banks, according to
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company will post a loss of 7.6 million kroner in the
first quarter, according to the average of seven estimates, and
Ebitda of 86.7 million kroner in the second quarter, according
to the mean of six estimates.  REC, like European peers Solarworld AG and Q-Cells SE, is
under pressure from Chinese competitors that expanded capacity
just as demand slowed, causing solar-wafer and cell prices to
plummet. Cuts in renewable-energy subsidies in France, Italy and
Germany have also reduced sales for manufacturers.  The company is failing to “reduce cash costs in line with
its target,”  Eirik Vegem Dahle , an analyst at Pareto Securities
AS, said in an e-mail on Feb 8. REC’s fourth-quarter cash flow
was about 100 million kroner less than expected, increasing the
likelihood of an equity issue, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alastair Reed  in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  