-- Redwood’s Perfect Score Shows Jumbo Bank Draw: Mortgages
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-02-11T21:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/redwood-s-perfect-score-shows-jumbo-bank-draw-mortgages.html
Redwood Trust Inc.  is having a
spectacular run. Its shares have returned almost 85 percent in
the past year and there have been zero defaults among the $4
billion of  jumbo  loans it packaged and sold as bonds since 2010.  Business for the real estate investment trust is poised to
pick up in 2013 as the  U.S. housing  rebound lifts California and
East Coast cities where Redwood finds its mortgages. Nationwide,
jumbo loans, those too big for government backing, may climb 15
percent to $253 billion after jumping 29 percent in 2012, “the
best year for jumbo volume since the mortgage crisis,”
according to  Guy Cecala , publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance.  “The jumbo market is along both coasts, and last we
checked they aren’t making any more ocean,”  Mike McMahon ,
managing director at Mill Valley, California-based Redwood, said
in a telephone interview. “We expect 2013 to be another good
year.”  Jumbos, typically made to the most creditworthy borrowers,
and often held on the books of lenders, have been the only new
residential loans without government backing to be securitized
since the market revived in 2010. Redwood, the most-active
issuer, sold $1.1 billion of jumbo-backed bonds last month after
about $2 billion in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The collateral in Redwood deals after the financial
crisis is better than the collateral pre-crisis -- and it was
good before the crisis,”  Daniel Furtado , mortgage REIT analyst
at Jefferies & Co. in San Francisco, said in an interview.
“This is the best-quality paper they’ve ever securitized.”  Tight Supply  U.S. home prices rose 8.3 percent in December from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since 2006, as tight supply and brisk
demand combined with borrowing costs near record lows, CoreLogic
Inc. reported Feb. 5.  California  cities, which have provided
about half of the loans in Redwood’s last 11 securities, were
among the best performers in the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price
index in November. San Francisco led the 20-city measure with a
2.5 percent gain from October.  Jumbos, also called non-conforming loans because they
exceed the limit for government-run  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
to guarantee, are loans of more than $417,000 in most U.S.
housing markets and $625,500 in pricier areas. Originations
peaked in 2006, when banks made $480 billion of jumbo loans that
were sold to investors amid fast-eroding credit standards that
soon led to disaster, Cecala said.  Lax Underwriting  Defaults by risky subprime borrowers, with credit scores
below 620 out of 850, exposed the lax underwriting and financial
markets froze, with defaults spreading to jumbo borrowers with
ostensibly better credit, said  Brad Blackwell , portfolio manager
for residential mortgages at San Francisco-based Wells Fargo &
Co., the nation’s largest mortgage lender. Jumbo volume plunged
to $98 billion in 2008, data from Bethesda, Maryland-based
Inside Mortgage Finance show.  “Back in the go-go years, jumbos were mostly securitized,
but those days are gone,” Cecala said. “The real challenge for
2013 is whether growth can continue, given tighter underwriting
and a market less dependent on refinances.”  While national values only bottomed last year as measured
by the S&P-Case-Shiller index, the jumbo revival has provided
liquidity and lifted prices in expensive markets in California,
Texas, Florida and the Northeast, according to  Thomas Wind ,
executive vice president at  EverBank Financial Corp . Expansion
is likely even amid post-crisis scrutiny, he said.  Property Recovery  The Jacksonville, Florida-based bank reported that its
retail mortgage business soared 63 percent to $840 million in
the fourth quarter from the previous three months, primarily on
the strength of jumbos made to its best customers. EverBank is
betting on the real estate recovery as it opens 50 mortgage
offices around the U.S., Wind said.  Prices for single-family homes climbed in almost 88 percent
of metropolitan areas in the fourth quarter, the National
Association of Realtors reported today. The median for existing
houses rose 10 percent from a year earlier to $178,900, the
biggest gain since 2005, according to the Washington-based
group.  A $398 million deal sold by Redwood in January consisted of
mortgages from borrowers with average 760 credit scores and a
weighted loan-to-value ratio of about 67 percent, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a Jan. 8 report. More than 80 percent
of those borrowers had at least two years of cash reserves, the
rating service said. EverBank originated 37 percent of the loans
in the deal.  Shockingly Good  Loans backing Redwood’s bond deals that ended the two-year
drought in offerings were of “shockingly” good credit quality,
Sharif Mahdavian, a New York-based analyst at Standard & Poor’s,
said last month at a securitization conference. Quality has
“only crept a small bit” lower since and loan-to-value ratios
remain relatively low, he said.  Non-conforming loans increased $3.6 billion in the fourth
quarter to $49 billion at San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, which
keeps all jumbos on its books and considers the assets among its
safest. Federal rules that limit the ratio of debt-to-income at
43 percent won’t chill the market for non-conforming loans,
Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said on a Jan. 11 earnings
call.  “Let me just say this about the jumbo market,” Stumpf
said. “We love that business. We’ve been in it for a long time.
In many cases, these are our best customers and we do a lot of
other things with them.”  Mark Brown, a San Francisco real estate broker, said a
wealthy client obtained a $1.5 million loan last month from the
lender to buy a three-bedroom home that needed renovating. At
less than 3 percent, the interest rate on the 15-year jumbo was
too good to pass up, he said, even though the buyer could have
afforded a cash purchase.  Cheap Money  “The money was so cheap that he’ll be able to spend more
on fixing the place up and potentially get a better return in a
short amount of time,” Brown said in a telephone interview.  His client, an executive at a family-owned manufacturer,
plans to make improvements to the Pacific Heights house and sell
it in two years for $500,000 more than the $2.2 million he paid.  None of the loans in 11 Redwood deals since 2010 have
become delinquent by 60 days, according to Moody’s. Even the 5
percent share of the January transaction that consists of fixed-
rate, interest-only loans were made to borrowers “who could
easily put more money down,” according to McMahon.  “We believe that, in general, an interest-only loan to a
well-to-do borrower who has ample resources and liquidity is a
good credit bet,” McMahon said in the interview.  Issuance Revival  The revival in jumbos has helped drive Redwood’s 85 percent
return in the past year, which includes reinvested dividends,
compared with 21 percent for a 32-member Bloomberg  index  of
mortgage REITs. Redwood rose 1 percent today, to $19.86 at 4:15
p.m. in New York, the highest level since October 2008. It
extended the gain to 18 percent this year, outpacing the 9.8
percent advance for the index.  About 67 percent of San Francisco home purchases of more
than $1 million in the past two years used jumbo financing, the
same share as statewide sales at that price,  DataQuick  said. In
Santa Clara County, home to Silicon Valley, the share was about
75 percent, data from the San Diego-based research firm show.  California has four of the 10 most expensive U.S. housing
markets, led by the San Jose metro area with a median home value
of $685,000, up almost 25 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, according to the Realtors group. San Francisco
ranked as third-costliest, up 28 percent to $593,200; Anaheim-
Santa Ana in Orange County was fourth, up 17 percent to
$568,600; and San Diego was sixth, up 13 percent to $405,400.  Rivals Join  Redwood bonds will likely be joined this year by rival
issues from firms such as New York-based  Chimera Investment
Corp.  and Minneapolis-based  Two Harbors Investment Corp., 
assuming the economy continues to mend and U.S. mortgage backing
is reduced from 95 percent at the crisis peak to a level nearer
the 60 percent historic average, Furtado said. Private investors
stand ready to fill any void when the government exits and
“opens a sizable part of the pond,” McMahon said.  Redwood has suffered cumulative losses of just 57 basis
points in $38 billion of total deals since the company started,
according to Jefferies. The REIT’s record of zero defaults in
the volatile era since financial markets restarted compares with
14 percent of outstanding U.S. jumbos that were three months
late or more as of Nov. 30, according to CoreLogic.  “You’d expect a high level of borrower quality at the
restart of any lending market,” said Furtado. “Redwood’s deals
reflect that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  