-- Three Domestic Themes for Obama’s Big Speech
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-11T23:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/three-domestic-themes-for-obama-s-big-speech.html
In his  second  inaugural address,
U.S. President Barack Obama offered a vague but appealing
vision. Now it’s time for the more distinct and contentious
translation.  In his State of the Union address, scheduled for Feb. 12,
the president is widely expected to talk about ways to improve
the condition of the  middle class  and increase  job growth . The
question, given the slow-growing economy and intransigent
congressional opposition, is what exactly he can say and do to
advance those goals.  From our standpoint, Obama -- and the nation -- would be
best served by focusing on challenges such as  immigration ,
inequality and climate change. (We’re referring to the domestic
part of the speech; here’s our take on  foreign policy .) The
political payoff may not be as great as it is with, say, gun
control. But the economic consequences will be far greater.  One issue that does make for both good politics for the
president and good economics for the nation is immigration
reform. In addition to making it easier for highly skilled
workers to join U.S. companies or start businesses of their own,
the federal government should legalize the roughly 11 million
undocumented immigrants already living in the U.S. Enabling
their ambitions, education and contributions would provide a
boost to the economy.  Any economy that continues to offer disproportionate
rewards to those at the top, however, isn’t sustainable. As part
of a larger deal with Republicans that includes long-term
spending cuts, Obama should push to limit the sizable
deductions, credits and exemptions that benefit wealthy
taxpayers. (Senator John McCain, a Republican, just  said  he
might be open to such revenue.) Obama could also seek to expand
the earned-income tax credit to help two-parent families and
low-income adults without children.  A more fruitful approach is to expand opportunity and
increase the size of the economic pie. Two priorities are
paramount: increasing early-childhood education, to give low-
income children a running start; and expanding the number of
Americans who graduate from college, to bolster workplace skills
and wages. Education savings accounts, which work like 401(k)
retirement plans but can be used only to pay for sanctioned
education expenses, would help.  The other context in which “sustainable” is the operative
adjective is, of course, the environment. Here, Obama’s task is
delicate: He must pursue reductions in greenhouse gases while
simultaneously developing the U.S.’s resurgent energy sector.  He could present a plan for cutting emissions without
asking Congress for a new law, as he did last year with his
executive action to raise automobile fuel-economy standards. The
obvious next step is to limit greenhouse-gas emissions from new
power plants, a move fully within the president’s power. Obama
could also explain that there is no better time to invest in
future productivity gains in transportation, green technology
and public works than when interest rates are at rock bottom.  The challenge for the president isn’t just to balance long-
term needs with short-term results. It’s to explain to Americans
the codependent nature of the relationship.  Every part of the president’s agenda is dependent to some
degree on a growing economy, which is why Obama’s chief domestic
task remains recovery. In this State of the Union speech, the
president must offer a clear route toward a future of
innovation, growth and broad prosperity, one in which the
benefits of globalization are spread more evenly and the ravages
of competition cut less deeply.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 