-- Rem Vyakhirev, Gazprom Chief Replaced by Putin, Dies at Age 78
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-02-11T18:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rem-vyakhirev-gazprom-chief-replaced-by-putin-dies-at-age-78.html
Rem Vyakhirev , the former chief
executive officer of  OAO Gazprom , died today, according to the
Russian gas producer’s press service. He was 78.  As CEO of Gazprom from 1993 to 2001, Vyakhirev expanded
long-term gas supply contracts with European buyers and oversaw
large-scale projects such as the Blue Stream pipeline across the
Black Sea to Turkey and the Yamal-Europe link across Belarus to
Poland.  “We express our sincere condolences to the relatives,”
Gazprom’s press service said by phone. President Vladimir Putin,
who brought in current CEO  Alexey Miller  to replace Vyakhirev
and help return assets that had been moved out of the company,
also expressed his regrets. The cause of the death wasn’t
disclosed.  Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company by market value and the
world’s biggest gas producer, meets about a quarter of Europe’s
demand for the fuel and has monopoly control over national
pipelines and exports.  Born on Aug. 23, 1934, Vyakhirev worked his way up through
the Soviet Oil and Gas Ministry, becoming deputy head when
Gazprom was turned into a state corporation in 1989. He was
named chairman in 1992 when his predecessor  Viktor Chernomyrdin 
was appointed prime minister to Russia’s first president,  Boris Yeltsin , and CEO when the company was made into a joint-stock
company in 1993. After being replaced as CEO, Vyakhirev was
Gazprom’s board chairman for about a year.  No Addiction  “The gas industry should be in one pair of hands, in state
hands,” Vyakhirev said in an interview with Forbes’s Russian
edition in September. “There’s all this talk about breaking the
gas addiction. That’s ridiculous. It’s a cash cow, not an
addiction. The country, back then when prices were low and now
when they’ve risen, lives on this money.”  Putin replaced Vyakhirev about a year after taking over
from Yeltsin as president as he began boosting the role of state
companies in the economy and used Russia’s energy wealth to gain
international influence. Oil and gas accounts for about half of
the country’s budget revenue.  “During the Yeltsin era, Gazprom was trading as low as 4
cents a share,”  James Fenkner , a money manager at Red Star
Asset Management LP, said in 2007. “Value was being destroyed.
Gazprom was just a candy store to provide sweet deals for
whoever was running it.”  Under Miller’s management, Gazprom sought to regain assets
and markets, while the state increased its ownership to a more
than 50 percent controlling stake and removed restrictions how
foreign investors could own and trade its shares.  “I never wanted to be the head of a company,” Vyakhirev
said in the interview with Forbes. “But why refuse if the
entire business is in your hands. If you give it to someone,
they would either drink it away or lose it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  