-- RenCap Said to Cull Research Team After Prokhorov Takes Over
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-02-11T12:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rencap-said-to-cull-research-team-after-prokhorov-gains-control.html
Renaissance Capital cut a quarter of
its Moscow research team, less than three months after
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  wrested control of the investment
bank from co-founder  Stephen Jennings , two people wirh knowledge
of the matter said.  RenCap culled at least four of 16 analysts, including
 Natalya Zagvozdina , who was deputy head of the department and
Institutional Investor’s top Russian consumer analyst from 2004
to 2010, the people said, asking not to be identified because
the information is confidential. Zagvozdina, who left last week
after a dozen years, declined to comment by e-mail.  Milena Ivanova-Venturini , deputy head of equity research
and Russia strategist, also left as did consumer analyst  Ulyana Lenvalskaya  and banking analyst  Svetlana Pavlova , according to
the people. RenCap’s press office declined to comment and calls
to the work numbers of the three women went to voice mail.  Prokhorov, ranked the world’s 66th richest person in the
Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index with a net worth of $14 billion,
bought almost half of RenCap for $500 million four years ago. He
gained the other half after rebuffing the request of Jennings,
the founder and controlling shareholder, for extra bailout
funds, two people with knowledge of the matter said Nov. 15.  Zagvozdina joined RenCap in 2001 from Morgan Stanley, where
she started as an equity analyst. Moscow-based RenCap hired
Ivanova-Venturini from UniCredit SpA in 2008 and later made her
head of research for Central Asia.  RenCap closed its operations in China, India, Kazakhstan
and Ukraine last year in what it said was a bid to cut in half
costs and personnel. The investment bank, which was the largest
organizer of Russian equity sales in 2010, slumped to eighth
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  RenCap has lost market share to domestic competitors with
state backing, led by VTB Capital and  OAO Sberbank , which last
year purchased Troika Dialog, Moscow’s oldest securities firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  