-- Rexnord Jumps After Hiring Goldman to Explore Options
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-02-12T21:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rexnord-jumps-after-hiring-goldman-to-explore-options.html
Rexnord Corp. , the ball-bearing
maker controlled by  Apollo Global Management LLC , climbed the
most in almost three months after hiring Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to review options including a sale.  The alternatives under study also include selling pieces of
the company, whose businesses make motion-control and water-
management equipment, or keeping the status quo, Milwaukee-based
Rexnord said yesterday in a statement. The shares jumped 3.9
percent to $21 at the close of New York trading, the biggest
jump since Nov. 19.  “Given the fact that these are high-quality businesses, I
wouldn’t be surprised that there would be interest,”  Mircea Dobre , a Milwaukee-based analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., said
in a telephone interview. “In my mind, you’re talking about
strategic buyers probably before you’re talking about financial
buyers.”  Rexnord supplies parts for  Boeing Co. ’s 737 narrow-body jet
as well as its 747, 777 and 787 Dreamliner wide-body planes,
according to the company’s website. General Electric Co. and
United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney unit use Rexnord
products in their jet engines, the website said.  Apollo purchased Rexnord in 2006 and still held a 64
percent stake in the company as of Oct. 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rexnord , which went public at $18 a
share, has since gained 17 percent.  Possible Buyers  Rexnord’s water-management and motion-control  businesses 
may attract different kinds of suitors, said Dobre, who has an
outperform rating on the shares.  “You can make the argument that there would be more
interest for each individual business rather than for the
company as a whole,” he said. “But I can certainly see how
somebody that would be a diversified manufacturer would have an
interest in the entire platform.”  Both the motion-control and water-management units “have
attractive end markets, they have attractive margins,” he said.  A sale of both units, whether in one deal or two, is
preferable, he said. Selling only the water-management business,
for instance, would deprive Rexnord of the benefits from any
“real upturn in some of the core markets -- commercial
construction and the municipal water markets,” he said.  A deal for the entire company may be too expensive for
bidders,  Julian Mitchell , a New York-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Ebitda Multiple  After the stock’s surge in after-market trading yesterday,
Rexnord has a higher multiple to its 2013 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization than where most
industrial transactions have closed, including United
Technologies’ sale of its Hamilton Sundstrand pump and
compressor units to Carlyle Group LP and BC Partners, Mitchell
wrote.  “We cannot comprehend how the sale of the entire company
would attract tremendous interest at this price, especially
given the share price performance” after the initial public
offering, relative to operational performance, he wrote.  Mitchell has a neutral rating on Rexnord shares.  Rexnord reported fiscal third-quarter profit yesterday that
 trailed  analysts’ estimates. Adjusted earnings per share for the
period ended Dec. 29 were 19 cents a share, compared with the
20-cent average  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales during the
period were $471.7 million, the lowest since the company’s IPO.  The industrial company  forecast  fourth-quarter sales of
$535 million to $555 million, compared with the $555.3 million
in revenue projected by analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brooke Sutherland  in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  