-- Rosneft Said to Raise $14.2 Billion TNK-BP Acquisition Loans
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-02-11T16:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rosneft-said-to-raise-14-2-billion-tnk-bp-acquisition-financing.html
OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil
company, is raising $14.2 billion of loans to finance the second
part of its acquisition of TNK-BP, according to two people with
knowledge of the deal.  The state-run company increased a two-year bridge facility
to $11.9 billion from $9.8 billion originally targeted, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the transaction
is private. A five-year term loan was cut to $2.3 billion from
$3.2 billion, they said.  Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. coordinated the
deal, which helps pay for the half of  TNK-BP  held by the group
of billionaires represented by the  AAR Consortium , the people
said. Rosneft has raised a total of $31 billion from banks for
the purchase of TNK-BP, the largest acquisition financing for a
Russian company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The five-year portion pays interest 200 basis points, or 2
percentage points, over the London interbank offered rate, said
the people. That’s below the average 259 basis-point average
margin for Russian energy company loans, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Rosneft will be paying 10 basis points
less than on a similar five-year loan for the acquisition
financing signed in December, the people said.  The bridge loan pays a margin of 140 to 240 basis points
more than Libor, the people said. Bridge loans usually mature
within two years and are often used as backstops to bond
offerings or longer-dated bank debt.  A Rosneft press official, who asked not to be named citing
company policy, declined to comment on the financing when
contacted by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 