-- Rupee Options Bullish Even as 2013 India Forecasts Cut
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-02-11T05:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rupee-options-bullish-even-as-2013-india-forecasts-cut.html
Options traders are the most bullish
in four years on India’s rupee as global funds step up purchases
of the nation’s bonds. Strategists are yet to be convinced.  Six-month contracts conferring the right to sell the rupee
against the dollar cost 65 basis points more than those to buy
on Jan. 22, the least since January 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The so-called risk reversal rate slumped to 99
basis points from a 2012 peak of 478 in May and compares with
431 for Indonesia’s rupiah and 10 for China’s yuan. By contrast,
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg have pared their 2013 rupee
forecasts by the most among emerging markets.  Overseas holdings of Asia’s highest-yielding debt touched
an all-time high this month as global central banks pumped cash
into markets to revive growth. ING Vysya Bank Ltd. and
Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. cut their outlooks on the
currency this year, warning that the inflows will be overwhelmed
by the widening in India’s record current-account deficit.  “The options market is considering continuing inflows will
support the rupee,” said  Upasna Bhardwaj , an economist at ING
Vysya in Mumbai. “However, in the second half, we could see
some talk about an improvement in the U.S. economy and gradual
phasing out of stimulus measures. That will slow inflows to
emerging markets and revive concern about India’s current-
account deficit.”  ING Vysya, part of ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch
financial services company, cut its end-2013 rupee forecast to
55 per dollar from the 50 level it predicted as of Dec. 31. The
currency fell 0.4 percent to 53.7150 today.  Current Account  Banks lowered their predictions for the exchange rate to
the dollar since Dec. 31 by 1.9 percent, the most among the 22
emerging currencies with surveys by Bloomberg. Forecasts were
cut by 1.4 percent for the rupiah and by 1.2 percent for the
South African rand. The rupee will end 2013 at 53, according to
the median of 31 estimates, compared with 52 projected earlier.  The shortfall in India’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, widened to a record $22.3 billion in the
quarter through September, latest official data show. Indian
exports declined for an eighth straight month in December, while
imports rose 6.3 percent.  Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage, and Kotak
Mahindra Bank Ltd. predict the gap will widen to as much as 5
percent of gross domestic product in the year through March 31
from 4.2 percent the previous 12 months. The rupee will plunge
to a record 59 per dollar by December-end, according Nomura.  ‘Good Start’  Foreign  holdings  of local debt reached a record $33.7
billion on Feb. 1, up from $29.3 billion a year earlier,
according to exchange data. Overseas investors pumped $4.1
billion into Indian equities last month, following $4.4 billion
of net purchases in December, the largest inflow in 10 months.  “We’ve had a very good start to the year, and for the next
little while we are going to be in a consolidation phase without
seeing any further dramatic rupee strength,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Singapore.
Australia’s second-biggest lender predicts the rupee will end
2013 at 53.13 per dollar.  The rupee rebounded from a record low of 57.3275 reached
June 22, after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  began his biggest
growth push in a decade in mid-September by opening more
industries to foreign investment and cutting fuel subsidies. The
measures came after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings warned
India risks having its credit rating cut to junk. Both companies
rank India BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  Opening Up  The Securities and Exchange Board of India, the markets
regulator, on Jan. 24 increased the limit on foreign purchases
of rupee debt by $10 billion to $75 billion, and said investors
can now buy bonds of any tenor. Overseas funds could earlier
only buy sovereign debt with a residual maturity of three years.  The changes are attracting long-term investors such as
global central banks and sovereign wealth funds to Indian debt,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc. The notes returned 11.3 percent
in 12 months, the most among 10 Asian markets monitored by HSBC.  The yield on India’s benchmark 10-year bond rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.85 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar-maturity notes
yield 3.6 percent in China, 5.25 percent in Indonesia and 3.08
percent in South Korea.  ‘Nicely Aligned’  “The forces are nicely aligned for the rupee to appreciate
in this quarter,” said  Hitendra Dave , Mumbai-based head of
global markets at HSBC in Mumbai. “But the reality is we need
all these flows each week and month for the next many months to
make sure the rupee remains stable, because the fact of the
matter is we are importing much more than we export.”  State asset sales also helped attract inflows. India raised
31.4 billion rupees this month from an auction of shares of
energy explorer Oil India Ltd., with foreign funds buying 60
percent of the 60.1 million shares offered, the company said in
a Feb 5 statement. The sale of a 9.5 percent stake in NTPC Ltd.,
Asia’s second-largest electricity generator by value, raised
114.7 billion rupees, the New Delhi-based company’s Chairman
Arup Roy Choudhury said Feb. 8. The government plans to offer
shares in four more companies by March 31.  ‘More Comfortable’  Investors are “more comfortable” that investment flows
will help finance the current-account gap in the near term, and
the Reserve Bank of India will be unwilling to let the rupee
weaken, according to Credit Suisse AG. Options should be used to
hedge rupee purchases because the currency may drop as the year
progresses, according to the Swiss bank, which projects a year-
end level of 56.50.  “Beyond the next several weeks of capital-flow visibility,
financing India’s still large current-account deficit will
likely return to being a challenge and we expect the rupee to
turn weak in the second quarter,” Credit Suisse analysts
including Singapore-based  Ray Farris  wrote in a Feb. 1 research
report. “Against this background, dollar-rupee risk reversals
are close to pre-crisis levels of cheapness.”  The cost of insuring State Bank of India debt, considered a
proxy for the sovereign, for five years against non-payment slid
23 basis points this year to 203 on Feb. 8, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  “We are seeing inflows and there is the expectation of
more as global liquidity is high,”  Vikas Babu , a trader at
state-run Andhra Bank in Mumbai, said in a Feb. 6 interview.
“There is a sense right now that the flows will be strong
enough to cover the current-account deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  