-- Rupiah Rises to Two-Month High as Fixing Seen Curbing Volatility
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-02-11T08:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/rupiah-climbs-to-one-week-high-as-fixing-seen-curbing-volatility.html
Indonesia’s rupiah rose to a two-
month high on optimism the central bank’s efforts to set an
onshore fixing for its derivative contracts will stabilize the
currency and bolster demand for local assets.  Bank Indonesia will name lenders chosen to contribute to a
benchmark price for settling the rupiah’s forward transactions
locally soon, Hendar, executive director for monetary policy,
said on Feb. 7. Overseas investors bought $294 million more
Indonesian stocks than they sold last week, the biggest inflow
since the five days ended Sept. 21, exchange data show.  “The rupiah is back on track toward a fairer level
considering its fundamentals,” said  Fahrudin Haris Prastowo , a
foreign-exchange trader at PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia in Jakarta.
“Bank Indonesia’s move to have a domestic fixing based on real
supply and demand will help stabilize the rupiah and prompt more
capital inflows.”  The rupiah advanced 0.6 percent to 9,613 per dollar as of
3:21 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg show. It touched 9,603 earlier, the strongest level
since Dec. 6. The currency traded at a 0.1 percent premium to
its one-month non-deliverable forwards, which advanced 0.3
percent to 9,625.  A daily  fixing  used to settle the contracts was set at
9,685 on Feb. 8 by the Association of Banks in Singapore,
compared with 9,727 the previous day. Markets in Singapore are
closed today and tomorrow for a holiday.  One-month implied volatility for the rupiah, which measures
expected exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 6.5 percent for a sixth day.  Inflation Concern  Bank Negara Malaysia told local lenders to use an onshore
reference rate to settle foreign-exchange derivative contracts
involving the ringgit, a person familiar with the matter said on
Jan. 29. Singapore’s monetary authority is investigating the
fixing set by the Association of Banks in Singapore to determine
whether there has been any manipulation, it said in a statement
in September.  State Street Global Advisors and Schroder Investment
Management Ltd. said in interviews with Bloomberg last week they
cut holdings of Indonesian sovereign debt on expectations
inflation will quicken as the government raises the minimum wage
in Jakarta and other cities, while increasing electricity prices.  The yield on Indonesia’s 5.625 percent bonds due May 2023
climbed one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.25
percent, prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anil Varma at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net  