-- San Francisco Opens $4.8 Billion Sewer-Bond Effort: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-02-11T15:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/san-francisco-opens-4-8-billion-sewer-bond-effort-muni-deals.html
The initial test of investor
interest in San Francisco since Moody’s Investors Service
upgraded the city and county comes as soon as tomorrow with a
sale of $335.3 million in bonds backed by wastewater revenue,
the first of almost $5 billion in planned borrowings.  The issue by the  Public Utilities Commission of the City
and County of San Francisco  will be the first in California’s
fourth most-populous municipality after Moody’s increased the
rating of the city and county’s general obligations to the
second-highest level. The competitive deal is the largest U.S.
municipal-bond sale this week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s also the first borrowing backed by wastewater
revenue since 2010 that wasn’t aimed at retiring previous debt,
said Todd Rydstrom, the chief financial officer.  San Francisco’s commission plans to sell $4.8 billion of
revenue bonds over 10 years for sewer improvements, Rydstrom
said in a telephone interview. Proceeds from this week’s sale
will go toward a $2 billion replacement of a treatment facility.
Officials hope the deal, which has a final maturity in 2042,
will generate an overall borrowing cost around 3.5 percent “or
better,” he said.  Employment Lead  Moody’s on Feb. 5 increased the general-obligation bond
rating of San Francisco to Aa1 because of the “notable
strengths” of the tax base and economy. Its unemployment rate
was 6.7 percent in November, below the state average of 9.6
percent, Standard & Poor’s said.  S&P rates the commission’s upcoming debt AA-, fourth-
highest, saying it has a “demonstrated ability and
willingness” to adjust rates. A revenue bond issued in June and
maturing in 2041 on Feb. 7 traded at a premium of 176 basis
points over a top-rated benchmark, near the widest since Jan.
25, according to Bloomberg data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  