-- Regeneron Shares Advance on Sanofi’s Plan to Buy Stock
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-02-11T21:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/sanofi-tells-regeneron-of-plan-to-increase-stake-in-u-s-company.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. ,
maker of the eye medicine Eylea, rose the most in three weeks on
drug-development partner  Sanofi ’s plans to raise its stake in
the company by buying shares on the stock market.  Sanofi revealed the planned purchases because the Paris-
based company had to submit a filing to U.S. antitrust
regulators to acquire the shares, Tarrytown, New York-based
Regeneron said today in a statement. Sanofi, Regeneron’s biggest
shareholder with a 17 percent stake, can’t increase the holding
to more than 30 percent because of a 2007 agreement.  The increased stake may reflect Sanofi’s optimism about the
medicines it’s working on with Regeneron. One of the most
advanced compounds, known as SAR236553 or REGN727, may become
the first treatment to lower so-called bad cholesterol by
targeting an enzyme called PCSK9. The companies are further
along in their research than Roche Holding AG and others working
on similar products.  “We are very happy with the relationship with Regeneron,
but needed this technical filing to get freedom to operate,”
 Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for the Paris-based company, wrote
in an e-mail. “Sanofi has the right to increase its
shareholding. It may increase its holding over time subject to
market conditions and within the terms of our partnership
agreement.”  Regeneron rose 2.7 percent to $170.35 at the close in New
York, giving the company a market value of $16.4 billion. The
shares have gained 67 percent in the past 12 months.  Sanofi’s Signal  “There is definitely a signal here that they’re
optimistic,”  Chris Raymond , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.
in Chicago, said of Sanofi. “They had to know it triggers this
kind of response, so you wouldn’t take such a step lightly.” He
has an outperform rating on Regeneron’s stock.  The move may fuel speculation Sanofi will buy Regeneron,
 Joshua Schimmer , an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets, wrote
today in a research note.  “Presumably, they were unable to agree upon a reasonable
purchase price, and Sanofi can’t go hostile given the standstill
agreement,” Schimmer wrote. He has a “neutral” rating on
Regeneron shares.  More Difficult  Sanofi may also want to make it more difficult for other
suitors to approach Regeneron, analysts said.  “Given the reliance that Sanofi has in Regeneron’s R&D
capabilities, it makes strategic sense for Sanofi to hug
Regeneron a little tighter,”  Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen
& Co., wrote in a research note.  Peter Dworkin , a spokesman for Regeneron, said the company
doesn’t comment on market rumors or speculation. The
collaboration with Sanofi runs until 2017 and the standstill
agreement on Sanofi purchasing more than 30 percent of Regeneron
shares doesn’t expire until five years after that, he said.  “We’re not building our company for a sale,” Regeneron
Chief Executive Officer  Len Schleifer  said in an interview in
January. “What distinguishes us is we’ve always cared about the
long term.”  Sanofi plans to buy shares in the market and through direct
purchases from shareholders, according to Regeneron’s statement.
Sanofi gained 3.4 percent to 71.40 euros in Paris trading.  Profit Claim  The French drugmaker also may be trying to reach an
ownership level of Regeneron to book some of its partner’s
profits, analysts said. Regeneron became profitable in 2012 on
the back of Eylea, on which it doesn’t collaborate with Sanofi,
said  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
Anderson recommends buying Sanofi shares.  A stake above 20 percent, along with satisfying other
provisions, would enable Sanofi “to book as ‘Equity Income from
Affiliates’ its portion of Regeneron’s profits,” Anderson wrote
today in a note to clients. That would enable Sanofi to reach
“its stated growth targets more easily.”  Sanofi spokesman Podvin declined to comment further.  Eylea received approval in September for patients with
macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion, an eye
disorder that affects an estimated 100,000 people in the U.S.
The drug was approved in November 2011 for wet age-related
macular degeneration, a leading cause of blindness for the
elderly.  The two companies have a partnership on Zaltrap, approved
in August 2012 for previously treated metastatic colorectal
cancer. They also have a development agreement on antibodies in
Regeneron’s pipeline, expanded in November 2009. The companies’
goal is to bring 20 to 30 new antibodies into clinical
development from 2010 through 2017, according to Regeneron’s
2011  annual report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  