-- Sarah Silverman’s Rabbi Sister Detained at Jerusalem Holy Site
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-02-11T15:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/sarah-silverman-s-rabbi-sister-detained-at-jerusalem-holy-site.html
Israeli police detained the sister
of U.S. comedian  Sarah Silverman  and nine other women for
wearing prayer shawls at the Western Wall, Judaism’s holiest
site, in violation of a court ruling.  “Ten of us were taken, interrogated, and asked if we
understood that our wearing of prayer shawls disturbs the
feelings of others, is contrary to local custom and was ruled by
the rabbi of the wall as an offense to Judaism,” Anat Hoffman,
leader of the group known as Women of the Wall, said by phone
today.  According to Orthodox Jewish tradition, only men wear
prayer shawls. Hoffman and her followers follow more liberal
interpretations of the religion. The  Women of the Wall  have been
fighting the Orthodox interpretation for almost a quarter of a
century. Their determination to follow their way of observance
has caused disturbances at the holy site.  The Israeli Supreme Court has ruled that the Women of the
Wall are entitled to pray as they wish, but must take into
account the sensibilities of those who oppose their practices.
The court assigned them a place to pray at the Wall that is not
part of the main plaza. The women disagree with that ruling and
have continued to press their claims to pray at the main plaza
by coming there nearly once a month to pray, wrapped in the
shawls.  Police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  confirmed that 10 women
were detained after they came to pray wearing prayer shawls,
known as talitot in Hebrew, which he said violated the court
ruling.  “So proud of my amazing sister,” entertainer Silverman
said of her sister, Rabbi Susan Silverman, on her  Facebook  page
today.  Hoffman said the group will continue to pray at the Western
Wall and will return again for the Jewish holiday of Purim later
this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amy Teibel at 
 ateibel@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  