-- Saudi Arabia’s Al-Moneef Said to Drop Race for OPEC Sec-Gen
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-02-11T15:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/saudi-arabia-s-moneef-said-to-withdraw-as-opec-sec-gen-candidate.html
Majid al-Moneef  withdrew his
candidacy for the post of OPEC secretary-general after he was
promoted within Saudi Arabia’s  Supreme Economic Council , a
Persian Gulf official with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Al-Moneef, who formerly served as Saudi Arabia’s governor to
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and as a
senior economic adviser to Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi , had been
vying for the producer group’s top administrative position
against candidates from Iran and Iraq. He dropped out of the
contest today, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the official is not authorized to speak to the media.
The official didn’t say whether Saudi Arabia would propose
another candidate.  Two officials at Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Petroleum and
Mineral Resources declined to comment on the matter when
contacted today by telephone. A person who answered the phone at
OPEC’s headquarters in Vienna said that Angela Agoawike, head of
the public relations and information department, wasn’t
available for comment, when asked by Bloomberg today.  King Abdullah  promoted Al-Moneef today to be secretary-
general of the Riyadh-based Supreme Economic Council, which is
headed by the king and sets and oversees national economic
policies and coordinates among government entities. Its members
include the ministers of finance, petroleum and foreign affairs,
and Al-Moneef has served on its advisory board since 1999.  Saudi Production  OPEC’s 12 members, which together supply about 40 percent
of the world’s oil, failed to agree on the appointment of a new
secretary-general when they last met on Dec. 12 in Vienna,
opting instead to keep Libya’s  Abdalla El-Badri  in the role for
an additional year. Saudi Arabia is by far the group’s biggest
producer, pumping 9.1 million barrels a day of crude in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The secretary-general is the public face of OPEC and is
involved in coordinating emergency meetings when deemed
necessary. Saudi Arabia had nominated al-Moneef for the post,
while Iran selected  Gholamhossein Nozari , a former oil minister,
and Iraq, OPEC’s second-biggest producer, proposed  Thamir Ghadhban , also a former oil minister.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. It meets next on May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wael Mahdi  in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  