-- HSBC Says Gulf Surge to Drive 2013 Sukuk Record: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-02-11T14:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/hsbc-says-gulf-surge-to-drive-2013-sukuk-record-islamic-finance.html
Global Islamic bond sales are set to
surpass the 2012 record as Persian Gulf issuers take the lead to
tap borrowing costs that tumbled in the past year, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc, last year’s top sukuk underwriter.  Sales in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council will surge
to between $30 billion and $35 billion in 2013,  Mohammed Dawood ,
Dubai-based managing director of debt capital markets at HSBC
Amanah, said in an interview. That’s up as much as 64 percent
from last year. The government of Dubai kicked off sovereign
sukuk sales last month with $750 million of 10-year Islamic
notes after its borrowing costs dropped 40 percent.  “We will see a number of new issuers in the region who
have now actually taken a hard look at this and said ‘okay look
this makes a lot of sense for us,’” Dawood said Feb. 7. “‘Not
only can we get the size, can we get the tenure, but potentially
from a pricing perspective, there is a real cost saving and
there is a cost benefit.’”  Sukuk sales more than doubled between 2010 and 2012 to $46
billion as issuers sought to tap wealth of Muslim investors who
prefer returns complying with the religion’s ban on interest.
Islamic financial assets will double by 2015 to as much as $3
trillion, Standard and Poor’s estimates show. While sales are
off to a slower start this year, governments and companies from
Turkey, Indonesia, Australia and Hong Kong may help spur
worldwide issuance to $55 billion to $60 billion, said  Rafe Haneef , HSBC Amanah Malaysia Bhd. chief executive officer.  Turkish Momentum  The average yield on GCC sukuk dropped 117 basis points, or
1.17 percentage points, in the past year to 3.04 percent on Feb.
8, according to HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s GCC U.S. Dollar Sukuk Index.
Non-Islamic bonds from the Gulf yield 37 basis points more,
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai data show.  HSBC arranged 24 percent of the world’s 2012 Islamic bond
sales, taking the top underwriter position from Kuala Lumpur-
based  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. , which held the spot for five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The London-based
lender helped Turkey arrange $1.5 billion of debt Islamic bonds
in September.  That sale “created its own momentum” and may spur
“further activity at the government level and at the
government-related enterprise level,” Dawood said. “There is a
tremendous amount of interest among issuers to look at sukuk,”
he said. Turkey, a majority Muslim nation, has biggest economy
in the eastern Europe and the Middle East, excluding Russia.  Slower Start  Malaysia, home to the world’s largest Islamic debt market,
is also poised to witness growth this year and, along with the
Asia Pacific region, will account for about half of global
sales, according to Haneef.  “We will see an increased issuance but from multitude of
markets as opposed to just Malaysia and the Middle East,” he
said. “Five years ago, it was dominated by two centers: GCC and
Malaysia. Now you are seeing Turkey, Indonesia, and hopefully
others like Australia and Hong Kong will follow suit.”  Still, sukuk sales globally are down 20 percent to $5.35
billion so far this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. By
this time in 2012, Saudi Arabia’s civil aviation authority had
raised $4 billion for an airport in Jeddah, giving a boost to a
year that also saw Qatar sell the same amount.  ‘Important Driver’  “Saudi will be an important driver of that just by virtue
of its size,” Dawood said. “If the government now issues
domestically, it will issue in sukuk format and that sends a
very strong message out to many other entities that this is the
way going forward.”  Sukuk sales, which amounted to about 1 percent of the
world’s $3.8 trillion of bond sales in 2012, may also be
affected if there is “a broader weakening across the board in
the fixed-income market,” Dawood said.  The average yield on GCC corporate sukuk rose the most in
14 months in January, after a four-year rally eroded returns.
Emerging-market equities will offer better returns than bonds
this year, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s wealth management
unit, Coutts & Co., said last week.  “That may well be a sort of dark cloud which hangs over
and perhaps not help the market reach the overall targeted
levels,” Dawood said.  Longer Maturities  Still, borrowing costs have begun to fall again, with the
yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent notes due 2014 posting its first
weekly drop in four last week. The yield is down 290 basis
points in the past year to 2.23 percent at 6:46 p.m. in Dubai
and the spread between the notes and Malaysia’s 3.928 percent
sukuk due June 2015 narrowed to 81 basis points from 268 in the
period.  The drop in costs enticed Dubai to sell its first 30 year
debt last month. While those notes were non-Islamic, some
issuers could opt for longer tenures this year, including
“potentially” 30-year sukuk, to tap appetite of investors
searching for higher yields, Dawood said.  “You’ve got issuers who like low rates for long-term
funding, and you’ve got investors who also now want to look at
long-term because that’s where there is greater yield,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  