-- Schaeuble Opposes Currency ‘Manipulation’ in Run-Up to G-20
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-02-11T19:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/schaeuble-opposes-currency-manipulation-in-run-up-to-g-20.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called on the Group of 20 to denounce the
“manipulation” of currency rates, reflecting concerns that
Japan is trying to push down the yen to gain a trading
advantage.  “Exchange rates shouldn’t be manipulated,” Schaeuble told
reporters after a meeting of euro-area finance chiefs in
Brussels today. “There aren’t any exchange-rate problems with
the euro and in the euro, but there are concerns in connection
with other major currencies.”  The euro has outperformed the world’s nine other leading
currencies in the past six months, rising 7.8 percent, according
to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen
has dropped 20 percent as new Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe 
advocated domestic demand-boosting policies.  Still, divisions within the 17-nation euro region may
lessen the impact of any effort to criticize Japan for seeking
to depress its currency at the G-20 meeting in Moscow later this
week.  Jens Weidmann , head of the German central bank, echoed
several finance ministers in saying the euro isn’t overvalued.  Currency War  Finance ministers from the Group of Seven, the core group
at the Feb. 15-16 Moscow meeting, will seek to calm concern the
world is on the brink of a currency war, two officials from G-7
nations said earlier today on the condition of anonymity.  Shares of companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to Nissan Motor
Co. have soared in recent weeks with the yen’s retreat, and
economists at banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Nomura
Holdings Inc. have boosted their projections for Japanese
growth.  Today’s Brussels debate was ignited by French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici , who said exchange rates are working
against euro-zone exporters, making it harder for the economy to
bounce back from the recession it slipped into last year.  Data due on Feb. 14 will probably show a 0.4 percent
contraction in the  euro-zone economy  in the fourth quarter, the
biggest decline since the first quarter of 2009, according to
the median of 45 estimates gathered by Bloomberg News.  The euro’s rally is “negative for growth,” Moscovici
said. “Exchange rates can’t be subject to moods or
speculation.” Without naming Japan, he blamed the euro’s
acceleration on “more aggressive practices by some of our
partners.”  Japan Pressure  European officials left open how much pressure they will
put on Japan, with ministers from Austria, the Netherlands,
Finland and Luxembourg seeing no need for for a coordinated
international offensive to adjust currency values.  “An artificial weakening would be inappropriate,”
Austrian Finance Minister  Maria Fekter  said. “We’re at a happy
medium. The euro has been much stronger and much weaker. From my
point of view, the excitement about the exchange rate is
unjustified.”  “We’re far from a currency war,” Luxembourg Finance
Minister  Luc Frieden  said. “We’re happy that the euro reflects
the fundamentals of the European economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Brussels at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  