-- Hagel Confirmation Vote to Be Held Tomorrow in Committee
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-02-11T19:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/senate-armed-services-said-to-plan-hagel-vote-tomorrow.html
Senate Armed Services Committee
Chairman  Carl Levin  said he will hold a vote in the panel
tomorrow on  Chuck Hagel ’s nomination for defense secretary, as
Democrats seek to overcome Republican opposition and complete
action on the confirmation as soon as this week.  “It is the chairman’s intention to vote on the nomination
after the members have an opportunity for discussion,” Levin, a
Michigan Democrat, said today in a statement.  The Obama administration faces opposition from most Senate
Republicans as it seeks to install Hagel, a former Republican
senator from Nebraska, to replace the retiring  Leon Panetta  as
the Pentagon’s top official.  Levin has predicted all 55 senators who vote with Democrats
will back Hagel on the Senate floor, and at least five
Republicans have indicated they would provide the additional
votes needed to block a threatened filibuster.  Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican and a
member of the Armed Services panel, said yesterday that he may
place a hold on the nomination until he gets answers about what
President  Barack Obama  did personally to encourage military
action at the time of the deadly attack on the U.S. mission in
Benghazi, Libya.  One or more senators can impose such a hold, usually as a
way to extract information or other concessions from a
president. While holds are traditionally honored, other senators
usually pressure the lawmakers who are resisting action to drop
their objections.  Senate Floor  Action by the Armed Services panel could lead to a vote by
the full Senate later this week, according to a Senate
Democratic leadership aide who asked not to be identified
discussing the evolving plans. The Senate is in recess next
week, and Democratic leaders hope opponents will drop their
objections to a vote, the aide said.  Obama’s nomination of Hagel has been criticized by
Republicans on matters such as his past opposition to unilateral
sanctions against Iran and his comments about the influence of
what he once called “the Jewish lobby.”  Graham said he will attempt to stop action on the
nominations of Hagel and of  John Brennan  to head the Central
Intelligence Agency until he gets answers about Obama’s actions
during the Sept. 11 attack in Benghazi, Libya, that killed U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. Graham said
yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” that a six-member
security team that had been dispatched from Tripoli was held up
at the airport during the eight-hour attack.  ‘System Failure’  “Did the president ever pick up the phone and call the
Libyan government and say ‘let those people out of the
airport?’” Graham said.  There will be “no confirmation without information,”
Graham said. “This is complete system failure and I’m going to
get to the bottom of it.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said today the
administration ’’firmly’’ believes Hagel will be confirmed by
the Senate. The administration has answered questions raised
yesterday by Graham, he said. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and Panetta appeared before congressional panels to answer
questions about the attacks in Libya and “now they’re moving
the goal posts again.”  Even as Graham vowed to stall action on the nominations, he
said he wouldn’t use the threat of a filibuster, the main
procedural vehicle for blocking Senate action, which requires 60
votes to defeat. “I’m not filibustering,” Graham said.  Reid ‘Confident’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today that there’s
never been a filibuster of a nominee for defense secretary,
“and I’m confident there won’t be on this one.”  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said he will bring Hagel’s
nomination to the floor as soon as possible after Levin’s
committee acts on it. He said Brennan’s nomination would be
taken up after the Senate’s break.  So far, no Republicans on the Senate Armed Services
Committee have said they would support Hagel. Senator  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma, the panel’s top Republican, said Sunday on
Fox News that he wants Senate leaders in both parties to require
a supermajority in the 100-member chamber.  “I want a 60-vote margin, and you don’t have to filibuster
to get that,” Inhofe, who has said he will vote against Hagel,
said in an interview cited by the Hill newspaper.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2
Democrat, downplayed the risk of any attempt to block Hagel’s
nomination.  “Republican senators have told me privately they are not
going to initiate the first filibuster in history” against a
prospective secretary of defense, Durbin said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  