-- Sept. 11 Case Judge Orders Changes in Courtroom Audio
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-02-11T18:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/sept-11-case-judge-orders-changes-in-courtroom-audio.html
A military judge suspended
proceedings for a day in the case of the accused plotters of the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks because of concern that the
government may be eavesdropping on private conversations between
the defendants and their lawyers.  The judge, Army Colonel  James Pohl , ordered today that the
microphone system in the courtroom at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, be
changed so that each microphone is kept off until someone pushes
a button to speak. Under the existing system, the microphones
are kept on unless someone pushes a “mute” button.  Defense lawyers say the sensitive audio feed from the
courtroom lets a secret government authority listen to private
talks they have with their clients while in the courtroom.
Prosecutors, who are seeking the death penalty in the case, have
denied any government eavesdropping.  Pohl agreed to suspend proceedings for a day so that
lawyers could interview witnesses to investigate the matter.  The mystery of who may be listening in on private talks
between  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed  and four other accused terrorist
plotters and their attorneys, and whether anything should be
done to prevent it, has stymied proceedings in the biggest U.S.
terrorism case.  Defense lawyers had filed an emergency motion seeking to
bar the military from monitoring their confidential talks with
the accused after discovering that a government official known
as an “original classification authority” had cut off audio
and video feeds of proceedings to the public two weeks ago.  ‘Guess What, Judge?’  Pohl, who indicated he was as surprised as defense
attorneys by the cutoff that he hadn’t authorized, issued an
order making clear that he has sole authority to censor the
feeds. Defense attorneys said the incident convinced them that
their private conversations also could be monitored by the
government because of sensitive microphones in the courtroom and
listening devices in holding cells.  “This is a genuine concern that we have,” David Nevin,
Mohammed’s chief lawyer, said in court today before the hearing
was suspended. “We have to get to the bottom of it before we
can go on with these proceedings.”  Cheryl Bormann, a lawyer for Walid bin Attash, a Yemeni
charged with helping to train the Sept. 11 hijackers, said she
had been told by a prison guard that a small device she saw in a
room used to meet with her client was a smoke detector.  “Guess what, judge?” Bormann said today in court. “It’s
a listening device.”  Guard Commander  Tomorrow, Pohl is scheduled to hear testimony from the
commander of the guard force at the Guantanamo prison camp and
the director of courtroom technology.  “No entity of the United States government is listening,
monitoring or recording communications between the five accused
and their counsel at any location,” prosecutors wrote in a
filing made public over the weekend.  Also denying any eavesdropping, Army Brigadier General  Mark Martins , the chief prosecutor, told reporters last night that
“any prosecutor is actively supposed to avoid” listening to
attorney-client conversations.  He declined repeatedly to disclose who the original
classification authority is, which government agency the
official represents or even where the person is located.  ‘Echo 2’  While prosecutors said in their filing that the military
had the ability to listen in on meetings defense lawyers hold
with their clients in a Guantanamo Bay facility known as “Echo
2,” they said “security personnel have never activated the
audio feature during defense visits.”  Mohammed and the four others are accused of plotting the
attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to kill almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in Manhattan, the
Pentagon in Virginia, and in Pennsylvania.  They are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians.  A trial is at least a year away.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  