-- Sept. 11 Defendants’ Lawyers Reject Eavesdropping Denial
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-02-11T04:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/sept-11-defendants-lawyers-reject-eavesdropping-denial.html
Lawyers for some of the accused
plotters of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks say they
remain convinced that the government is eavesdropping on their
private conversations with their clients and will push to change
the audio system used in the military courtroom.  The question of who may be listening in on private talks
between  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed  and four other accused terrorist
plotters and their attorneys, and whether anything should be
done to prevent it, promises to dominate a week of preliminary
hearings that begin today at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba.  The first issue before the military judge will be an
emergency motion by the defense seeking to bar the military from
monitoring the lawyers’ conversations with the accused.
Prosecutors, who are seeking the death penalty in the case, have
denied any eavesdropping.  “No entity of the United States government is listening,
monitoring or recording communications between the five accused
and their counsel at any location,” prosecutors wrote in a
legal brief made public over the weekend.  Defense lawyers said at a press conference last night at
Guantanamo that they are convinced eavesdropping is going on, at
least when they try to confer with their clients privately while
in the courtroom.  James Connell, an attorney for Mohammed’s nephew, Ali Abdul
Aziz Ali, said the sensitive audio system used in the courtroom
picks up private conversations, even at low decibel levels.  Classification Authority  While that audio feed isn’t transmitted to court visitors,
who observe the proceedings from a separate gallery, or to
remote sites, Connell said it is available to the “original
classification authority.” That’s an unidentified government
official who is charged with monitoring the proceedings and
alerting the court to any classified information that the
government deems should be censored.  Connell said he will push for a change in the software used
for the audio system so that only conversations loud enough that
they are intended to be aired publicly can reach the government
authority for monitoring.  “There has to be a safe space for defendants and their
attorneys to have a privileged conversation in the courtroom,”
Connell said.  Navy Commander Walter Ruiz, who represents Mustafa al
Hawsawi, a Saudi who allegedly helped finance the Sept. 11
hijackers, said he shares the concern about eavesdropping.  “We don’t know for what purpose that capability may be
used, or could be used,” Ruiz told reporters. “How far does it
go and how do we prove it?”  Audio Suspended  Army Brigadier General  Mark Martins , the chief prosecutor,
denied any eavesdropping, telling reporters last night that
“any prosecutor is actively supposed to avoid” listening to
attorney-client conversations.  Defense lawyers’ suspicions about eavesdropping were
triggered after the courtroom audio feed to observers and
reporters was cut off without the judge’s permission during
legal arguments at the last set of hearings, which ended Jan.
31.  The feed is delayed 40 seconds so that the judge or his
court security officer can interrupt the transmission if
sensitive matters are raised.  Prosecutors disclosed that the original classification
authority, or OCA, also could block testimony. Defense lawyers
said they were surprised and troubled that a secret outside
agency had that power.  The military judge, Army Colonel  James Pohl , on Jan. 29
ordered the OCA to confine itself to providing “guidance” to
the court security officer as to whether “classified
information has been disclosed.”  ‘No Prohibition’  In the brief made public by the military, prosecutors told
Pohl that “there is absolutely no prohibition, nor is it in any
way inconsistent with the protections for classified information
for an OCA to review the closed circuit audio-video transmission
to conduct a classification review.”  They didn’t identify which government agency the OCA
represents or where the person is located. Martins declined
repeatedly yesterday to say more.  “A brief interruption of the audio and video transmission
in this case prompted by the OCA, or any other party for that
matter, does not amount to a per se violation of the attorney-
client privilege,” prosecutors said. “What third parties
observe from a remote location far removed from the courtroom is
irrelevant and has no bearing on these proceedings.”  ‘Echo 2’  While prosecutors said in their brief that the military had
the ability to listen in on meetings defense lawyers hold with
their clients in a Guantanamo Bay facility known as “Echo 2,”
they said “security personnel have never activated the audio
feature during defense visits.”  Mohammed and the four others are accused of plotting the
attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to kill almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in Manhattan, the
Pentagon in Virginia, and in Pennsylvania.  They are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians.  A trial is at least a year away.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  