-- Ship-Fuel Prices Seen at Record High on Crimped Supply
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-02-12T14:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/ship-fuel-prices-seen-second-highest-ever-amid-crimped-supply.html
(Corrects first two paragraphs of story originally
published Feb. 11 to show McQuilling predicted higher fuel
prices this year.)  The price of  marine fuel , which
makes up 70 percent of tanker transportation costs, will reach a
record high this year as export cuts crimp supplies, said
McQuilling Services LLC.  Fuel will cost $690 a metric ton on average, 2.7 percent
higher than last year’s $672, the Garden City, New York-based
tanker adviser said in an e-mailed report. The fuel, known as
bunkers in the industry, will keep climbing to $760 a ton by
2017, McQuilling forecast. Costs more than quadrupled in the
past 10 years, it said.  Fuel represents 70 percent of transportation costs for
tankers, surging from an average 24 percent over 20 years until
2008 because of higher prices, the investment-banking unit of
DNB ASA, the largest Norwegian bank, said in an August report.
The global merchant fleet uses more than 370 million tons of
fuel each year, according to Freight Investor Services Ltd., a
London-based freight-derivatives broker.  “Bunker prices will rise slowly over the next three
years,” McQuilling said, with reduced exports from Iran and
Russia squeezing supply. At the same time, more refineries are
investing in so-called cokers that convert leftover residual oil
used to power ships into lighter products such as naphtha or
heating oil to boost yields, the report showed.  Higher prices encouraged ships to reduce  speeds  with the
aim of saving fuel and boosting earnings, effectively reducing
vessel supply because more time is needed to complete a journey.
Tanker charters for single voyages to ship crude or refined oil
products are based on Worldscale rates, an industry formula that
includes fuel costs. Dollar-a-day rates to charter commodity
ships that haul minerals and grain exclude fuel, which is paid
for on top of the hire.  Very large crude carriers carrying 2 million-barrel cargoes
of oil cut $8,542 off their daily fuel costs by slowing to 13
knots, according to DNB Markets. Each 10 percent reduction in
speed reduces fuel requirements by about 30 percent, according
to the bank. A VLCC proceeding at 15.9 knots uses as much as 92
tons of fuel a day, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  