-- SocGen Like BNP Wins Corporate Vote With Record Deposits
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-02-12T10:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/socgen-like-bnp-wins-corporate-vote-with-record-bank-deposits.html
French banks’  corporate deposits  hit
a record at the end of 2012, helped by clients like Sebastien
Mejean, the co-founder of online jeans retailer Sojeans.  The entrepreneur put most of the 2 million euros ($2.7
million) he raised from an Italian fund in deposits at Societe
Generale SA and HSBC Holdings Plc’s French unit. Mejean, like BNP
Paribas SA client  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA , the
world’s largest luxury goods company, helped boost such holdings
at French banks to 397.5 billion euros as of the end of December.  French lenders had the biggest jump in corporate deposits in
the euro area, accounting for 44 percent of the region’s total
increase, according to data from the European Central Bank.
Burned by their blocked access to U.S. dollar funding and
European debt markets at the height of the region’s more than
three-year-old debt crisis, French banks went aggressively after
such deposits, chalking up in December alone 21.2 billion euros -
-almost as much as German banks got in all of 2012.  “This is a confidence indicator,” said  Jean-Pierre Lambert , a London-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.
“International companies with euro-periphery deposits probably
had some preference to repatriate money with French banks.”  The deposits may provide French lenders -- which report 2012
results starting tomorrow -- with funds to grease the wheels of
the region’s economic recovery when it materializes. The inflows
also help to bolster their liquidity as new international rules
come into play.  Alternative Funding  Before today, Societe Generale  has jumped  11 percent this
year in Paris, while BNP Paribas has risen 5.1 percent,
outperforming the benchmark  CAC 40 Index , which was little
changed. BNP Paribas rose as much as 1 percent today to 45.19
euros, while Societe Generale rose 1.1 percent to 31.89 euros.  “Our deposits have had a strong increase over the past
months,”  Pierre Palmieri , Societe Generale’s head of global
corporate financing, said on Feb. 1. “Corporate clients don’t
put deposits for seven years; it’s still a short-term source, but
good alternative funding to money-market funds.”  Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank, said last
month that complying with a 100 percent Basel III 30-day
liquidity ratio this year is “within its reach.” BNP Paribas,
France’s largest bank, has said deposits from large companies are
“at the heart” of its global corporate banking business.  Societe Generale may report a drop in fourth-quarter net
income tomorrow to 80 million euros from 100 million euros a year
earlier, according to the average estimate from nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. On Feb. 14, BNP Paribas will probably post
an increase in profit for the period to 1.04 billion euros from
765 million euros, according to the average estimate of seven
analysts in a separate poll.  Fastest Pace  French corporate deposits jumped 9.7 percent last year, more
than 7.4 percent in Italy and 5.1 percent in Germany, data from
the ECB show.  The surge in French corporate deposits, which have almost
doubled in the past six years, helped the euro area hit a record
1.77 trillion euros in such amounts at the end of December,
according to ECB data.  While French deposits grew at the fastest pace among major
European nations, such collections also hit records in Germany,
Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Finland. They slid
in countries including Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain.  French lenders must “intensify” their adaptation to new
liquidity rules, Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  told
bank executives at a conference in January.  Liquidity Rules  Global central bank chiefs last month gave lenders four more
years to comply fully with international liquidity rules. Banks
in the European Union may need to comply with the rules before
competitors in other parts of the world, according to a document
obtained by Bloomberg.  The liquidity coverage ratio -- which would force banks to
hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit
squeeze -- is part of an overhaul of global financial rules,
known as Basel III, intended to prevent a repeat of the financial
crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Societe Generale , BNP Paribas and Credit Agricole SA have
since 2011 taken measures, including cutting short-term lending
such as aircraft and shipping finance, to rely less on U.S.
money-market funds, which dumped French paper in 2011 on debt-
crisis contagion concern. Seeking deposits at home is part of
that plan.  ‘Big Challenge’  Banks need to “reinforce their stable-deposit base to be
able to use part of these stable deposits to lend long,”  Alain Papiasse , head of BNP’s corporate and investment bank, said in
November. “This is the big challenge” for economies like France
that rely more on bank loans than market funds, he said.  Granted, the swelling of corporate deposits is an indication
of the slump in the economy in Europe, with France teetering on
the brink of recession and companies sharply cutting back on new
investments.  They are putting their money in banks even as interest rates
are at their record lows in France and in the so-called core euro
area countries. It has enabled lenders to bulk up on their
deposits by paying out low rates.  BNP Paribas’s global corporate-banking business in the third
quarter added 5 billion euros in deposits from medium-size and
large corporations while it reduced lending by 7 billion euros,
according to its website.  Close Ties  “It’s rare that corporates leave deposits for a very long
term,” said  Cyril Meilland , a bank analyst at CA Cheuvreux in
Paris, a unit of Credit Agricole. “But a way to take in deposits
is via closer cash-management relationships. You manage the
flows, and a client leaves the float on your account.”  BNP Paribas , which has about 140 “business centers” to
provide lending, treasury management services and market advice
to corporate clients from Lisbon to Brussels to Kiev, added about
3,560 corporate clients between 2011 and the first half of 2012,
according to a November presentation.  Attracting corporate deposits remains more critical for
French banks than for their European rivals thanks to a
peculiarity of the country’s financial system.  The existence of tax-free savings and fiscal advantages for
life insurance push households to keep most of their money
outside bank balance sheets. French households also put most of
their 11.6 trillion euros of assets in property investments, data
from the French insurers’ lobby group shows.  Chasing Companies  Although ECB figures put retail deposits at 1.19 trillion
euros at the end of 2012, that’s below the 1.39 trillion euros of
life-insurance savings that provide income-tax and inheritance
tax exemptions, data from the French insurers’ federation show.  That makes chasing corporate deposits even more key as these
holdings become cheaper.  Societe Generale  and HSBC, for instance,
were able to convince online jeans retailer Sojeans to deposit
money with them in term deposits lasting as long as 36 months and
yielding as much as 3 percent.  The term deposits earned Sojeans -- which sold 240,000 pairs
of jeans last year -- 30,000 euros, largely covering the
retailer’s digital pay-control and anti-fraud expenses.  “The gains were pretty interesting,” Mejean said in an
interview. “The banks’ salespeople explained that all these
deposits were like fuel the banks could use to lend more or
improve their ratios.”  ‘Always Captive’  Not everyone is pleased.  “We’re always captive,” said  Eric Sitruk , the chief
executive officer of Fashion Bel Air SA, a Paris-based clothing
company with about 7.5 million euros in funds and production
sites in China and Portugal. Sitruk expects returns from Bel
Air’s deposits to be five times lower this year than in 2012.  Banks haven’t lowered the cost of lending as much as they
cut their payouts on deposits, he said.  “It’s not blackmail, but a well-understood bank practice to
tell a client that to grant an additional loan, it would like to
have more deposits,” said  Christophe Nijdam , a Paris-based
analyst at AlphaValue. “French banks, given their difficulties
with their liquidity ratios, have insisted with their clients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 