-- Spanish Deficit Haunts Rajoy Defying Junk Status
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-02-11T13:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/spanish-deficit-haunts-rajoy-defying-junk-status.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s results from his first year in office are about to get a
close inspection by credit rating companies and investors.  Deficit data due this month will show how far the
government reduced its budget shortfall in 2012, a year when
Spain came close to needing a bailout. While 10-year borrowing
costs are down more than 200 basis points from their July peak,
two ratings companies grade Spanish bonds one level above junk
and another cut may make them too risky for some investors.  “Spain’s budget deficit numbers are crucial,” said
 Harvinder Sian , a senior fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in London, in a telephone interview. “A
number near and certainly above 8 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012 will raise the risk of a ratings downgrade, and
while we expect near 7.5 percent, the regions have delivered
late surprises in the last couple of years.”  With suspense on the deficit persisting, Rajoy will deliver
a speech tomorrow in Madrid where he may defend the five rounds
of spending cuts and tax increases inflicted on Spain last year.
That austerity still failed to bring the shortfall below the
European Commission’s target and the government might need to
step up efforts to avoid missing its goal this year too.  Junk Threshold  Spain has recently enjoyed a respite from the ravages of
the debt crisis, shielded by European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s pledge to do whatever it takes to defend the
euro, and his creation of a bond-buying weapon to enforce it.
Ten-year bond yields rose 6 basis points to 5.42 percent at 2:18
p.m. in Madrid, compared with a euro era high of 7.75 percent
before Draghi’s comments in July.  The country’s bonds are rated Baa3 at Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- at Standard & Poor’s, each at the lowest
threshold of investment grade. Fitch Ratings has a BBB grade on
Spain, one level higher. While investors often ignore ratings,
evidenced by the rally in Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top
grade at S&P in 2011, a reduction to junk might threaten Spain’s
access to some buyers of its debt.  “A downgrade to a non-investment grade would be a serious
blow,” said RBC Capital Markets head of European rates strategy
 Peter Schaffrik . “There are a large number of accounts that
simply wouldn’t hold Spain anymore, leading to higher yields.”  Deficit Forecasts  Fitch affirmed Spain’s rating on Feb. 8 with a negative
outlook. Both other ratings companies declined to say when they
might next comment on its creditworthiness. Moody’s confirmed
its rating on Oct. 16 with a negative outlook, and said last
month that Spain faces risks to its prospects for growth and
budget-deficit reduction that are “large and overwhelmingly to
the downside.” S&P last cut Spain’s rating in October.  Economists surveyed in January by Bloomberg forecast a
deficit of 8 percent of GDP for last year, which matches the
prediction of the European Commission and is worse than the
original goal of 6.3 percent. The Commission is due to update
its forecasts on Feb. 22, after estimating in November that
Spain’s deficit will reach 6 percent of GDP in 2013, against a
goal of 4.5 percent.  Spain has missed every budget goal set by the European
Union since 2009, when its deficit  peaked  at 11.2 percent of
GDP. Replacing his  Socialist predecessor  in late 2011 as the
economy succumbed to a recession, Rajoy imitated him by cutting
public wages and increasing value-added tax a second time,
exacerbating the slump. Unemployment has reached a record 26
percent and the International Monetary Fund predicts a 1.5
percent economic contraction in 2013.  Montoro Report  Budget Minister  Cristobal Montoro  is due to release 2012
data at some point in the coming days or weeks. That will
include statistics on the tax-funded pensions and jobless-
benefits system, whose deficit is expected by officials to reach
1 percent of GDP for last year, 10 times that of 2011.  The Commission’s next recommendations for Spain will be
published in May, after EU statistics agency Eurostat releases
the first of its bi-annual government debt and deficit estimates
in April, EU spokesman  Simon O’Connor  said in a telephone
interview. EU budget enforcer  Olli Rehn  signaled Jan. 28 he
might seek to ease austerity prescriptions for Spain.  Economists, including  Ricardo Santos  at BNP Paribas SA,
said there’s a risk the Eurostat report in April may show a
deficit much worse than Montoro’s data.  Bills Backlog  “Deficit data revision risks remain for 2012 as well as
2011,”  David Haugh , head of the  Spain desk  at the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, said in
a telephone interview.  Data revisions might be exacerbated by public authorities’
backlog of bills to suppliers. Montoro this month pledged more
measures to force municipalities and regions to pay arrears.  “As long as suppliers go unpaid, it shows spending isn’t
under control and it’s impossible to guarantee there aren’t more
bills lying in drawers,” said Maria Yolanda Fernandez Jurado,
associate tenured professor of the Faculty of Economic and
Business Sciences at Madrid’s Universidad Pontificia Comillas.
“In the meantime, it creates dangerous uncertainty among
investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  