-- Standard Life Targets Stockholm Offices Saying Market Among Best
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-02-11T06:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/standard-life-targets-stockholm-offices-saying-market-among-best.html
Standard Life Investments, the
manager of 205 billion euros ($278 billion) of assets, plans to
buy commercial real estate in Stockholm after calling the
Swedish capital one of Europe’s most attractive markets.  The company may spend at least 100 million euros to double
its holdings in Sweden, Mark Meiklejon, a real estate investment
director, said in a Feb. 6 interview in Stockholm. The
Edinburgh-based unit of Standard Life Plc will focus on prime
offices in Sweden’s capital, he said.  “For international companies wanting to locate to the
Scandinavian region, Stockholm is probably the top pick,”
Meiklejon said. “It’s a very transparent market; it’s liquid
and pretty large; there is fiscal independence and a strong
banking system.”  Sweden avoided the kind of property collapse that sank
economies from Ireland to Spain and Denmark following the
failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. Now there are
signs that rising prices are creating a residential bubble,
according to the country’s National Housing Board.  Standard Life, which owns retail assets in Sweden valued at
about 100 million euros, will target offices instead of retail
as consumer spending shows signs of declining, Meiklejon said. A
lack of office construction now favors returns in that market,
he said, though a future increase in building may change that.  High Returns  The company expects average annual returns before
acquisition costs of 7 percent to 9 percent on the city’s
commercial real estate in the long term, he said. That would be
“toward the top end of our return expectations in Europe over
the next three to five years.”  Skanska AB, the Nordic region’s largest builder, expects
demand to rise for office space in the city.  “We see an inflow of people and there is demand for new
premises from companies and corporations,” Skanska Chief
Executive Officer  Johan Karlstroem  said in a Feb. 7 interview.
“In the transaction market in Stockholm, you need the right
location, a modern property and it has to have the right tenants
and long leases.”  Standard Life’s interest in Swedish commercial real estate
comes amid concern that home prices are unsustainable. Sweden’s
National Housing Board said that the market in the largest
Nordic economy is experiencing a bubble. Residential property,
adjusted for inflation, is overvalued by about 20 percent,
housing board analyst Bengt Hansson estimates.  Price Risk  Swedish home prices may fall by as much as 10 percent in
the next 18 to 24 months, Jens Hallen, director for financial
institutions at Fitch Ratings, said in an interview this month.  In addition, risks to Sweden’s economy may be rising as
Europe’s debt crisis causes companies such as Ericsson AB and
truck maker Volvo AB to cut thousands of jobs. Credit
impairments at Swedbank AB’s Swedish retail unit jumped 48
percent in the  fourth quarter  from the third. Economic growth
slowed to 0.9 percent last year from 3.7 percent in 2011, the
government estimated in December.  Standard Life’s European Property Growth Fund owns real
estate in cities including Paris, Madrid, Barcelona, Lisbon,
Prague and Stockholm. It targets a total return of 10 percent
annually over a five-year period, according to its  website .  The investor entered Sweden in 2007 with the purchase of
retail warehouses in Gaevle. It added warehouses in Stockholm as
well as the cities of Falun and Kungsbacka.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
 Johan Carlstrom  in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  