-- Starz Extends Rights Deal With Sony Pictures Through 2021
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-02-11T21:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/starz-extends-rights-contract-with-sony-pictures-through-2021.html
Starz, the premium cable-TV channel
spun off by  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp. last month,
extended a contract with Sony Pictures Entertainment for first-
run movie rights through 2021.  The deal provides content for all Starz platforms including
Encore and online streaming services Starz Play and Encore Play,
the companies said today in a statement. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed.  The agreement guarantees a library of movies for Starz
after Walt Disney Co. said in December it was ending a deal with
the channel for first-run rights in 2016 and shifting to Netflix
Inc. Starz, along with its Encore and Movieplex channels, has
about 55 million TV subscribers, who typically pay an additional
monthly fee. Chief Executive Officer  Chris Albrecht  is also
focusing on original programming with shows including
“Spartacus,” “Boss” and “Party Down.”  Starz  rose  7.4 percent to $17.91 at the close in New York.
Sony Corp.’s American depository receipts rose 0.5 percent to
$14.99.  Greg Maffei , Liberty’s CEO and Starz chairman, has signaled
that the spinoff may be a precursor to an eventual sale of the
cable channel. Maffei said in September that another company
with more content “might be able to do more” with Starz.  It’s a surprise Netflix didn’t also win the Sony rights,
 Richard Tullo , an analyst at Albert Fried & Co. in New York,
said in a note to clients. Netflix needed the rights “to limit
churn and grow subscribers,” wrote Tullo, who rates the shares
underweight, the equivalent of a sell rating.  Joris Evers , a Netflix spokesman, didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment. Netflix fell 1.7 percent to $177.89.  The previous contract between Englewood, Colorado-based
Starz and Sony Pictures, secured the rights through 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  