-- Suu Kyi Courts Military With Eye on Presidency: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K y a w   T h u
-- 2013-02-11T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/suu-kyi-courts-military-with-eye-on-presidency-southeast-asia.html
Former political prisoner  Aung San Suu Kyi  is seeking support from Myanmar military officials for a
constitutional change that would allow her to become president,
according to senior members of her party.  “She’s talking sweet to the army,” Win Htein, a National
League for Democracy lawmaker, said in an interview.  Tin Oo , a
former commander-in-chief who founded the NLD with Suu Kyi, said
she’s convincing the military to “gradually become civilized in
accordance with democracy.”  “She doesn’t go around the town and shout,” Tin Oo, 86,
said in the party’s Yangon headquarters. “She’s not like that.
She will work very brilliantly, effectively and very quietly.”  Suu Kyi, 67, is ineligible to become head of state under
Myanmar’s  constitution , which says the president and two vice
presidents can’t have a child who is the citizen of a foreign
country. The 2008 constitution automatically grants the military
a quarter of seats in parliament and amendments need more than
75 percent of votes to pass.  Suu Kyi’s NLD expects a victory in 2015 elections after
winning 43 of 44 seats in by-elections last year, which may give
its lawmakers enough votes to elect the president. The party has
no clear alternative to Suu Kyi, who spent 15 years under house
arrest and rejoined the political process after holding talks
with President  Thein Sein  two years ago following an election
ending five decades of direct military rule.  Last Chance  “2015 is the first and last chance for her to become the
president,” Ohn Kyaing, the NLD’s spokesman, said in Naypyidaw
last week. “Next time, in 2020, she will be very old to work.
Therefore, if we want her to become leader in 2015 we have to
rewrite this constitution.”  Suu Kyi has toured the world since joining parliament last
April, including a trip to Europe during which she collected the
Nobel Peace Prize she won in 1991.  Barack Obama  hailed her
“unbreakable courage and determination” during a visit to her
home in November.  Suu Kyi has said little about ethnic conflicts involving
Muslim Rohingyas and Kachin rebels since taking office, apart
from offering her assistance as a mediator. Her assistant didn’t
respond to an interview request.  Suu Kyi last month said she was “fond” of the military,
which her father General Aung San played a role in founding in
the 1940s when he led troops in a revolt against Japanese
occupiers. He was assassinated in 1947, when Suu Kyi was two
years old. More than 20 years later, she married Englishman
Michael Aris and had two boys who are  British citizens .  ‘Negotiated Compromise’  “The members of our military, like the rest of our nation,
would like to see Burma a happier, stronger, more harmonious
country,” Suu Kyi said in a  Jan. 25 appearance  at the East-West
Center in Hawaii, referring to the country by its former name.
“And because of that I do not rule out the possibility of
amendment through negotiated compromise. In fact, that is the
way I want to go.”  Thein Sein has no position on changes to the constitution
and would support whatever parliament decides, Ye Htut, his
spokesman, said by phone. His  Union Solidarity and Development
Party  also takes no position, lawmaker Win Myint said by phone.
He noted that the rule affecting Suu Kyi has been in previous
Myanmar constitutions and was used last year to block the vice-
presidential nomination of Myint Swe, a military officer.  So far Suu Kyi appears to be “doing quite well” in
convincing the military she doesn’t pose a threat, according to
 Hans Vriens , managing partner of Vriens & Partners, a Singapore-
based political risk firm.  ‘Red Line’  “As long as she doesn’t go after the military and after
their past behavior, she’s fine,” Vriens said. “The moment she
would do that then she crosses a really red line and they would
not allow that.”  Pictures of both Aung San and his daughter hang throughout
the NLD headquarters, where tourists stop daily to talk with
party members and purchase T-shirts and other souvenirs
featuring Suu Kyi. The  NLD  in the coming weeks will hold its
first Congress since its founding 25 years ago to transform from
a centralized body to one in which leaders are chosen from local
elections.  The party’s reliance on Suu Kyi and the disarray caused by
the detention of senior leaders in the decades since 1988 have
left the NLD without a clear successor, said  Win Tin , 83, a
senior party member. She doesn’t always keep top leaders
informed of her interaction with the military, he said.  Suu Kyi Influence  “We don’t know how much she’s got assurances from the
military,” Win Tin said in Yangon last week. “She is so
powerful and so popular and so influential, we don’t know how
the military will approach her.”  Even while under house arrest, Suu Kyi asserted her
influence over the party. NLD leaders planned to participate in
the 2010 elections before she sent a message through her lawyer
that she opposed the move, according to Than Nyein, a former
committee member.  He helped form a new party called the  National Democratic
Force  to compete in the election, which NLD leaders saw as a
betrayal. It now wants to change the voting rules to
proportional representation, which favors smaller parties.  “If there is a landslide win by the NLD in the 2015
election, there’s every danger that the whole process may go
back to the beginning,” Than Nyein said. The military rejected
the results of 1990 elections when the NLD won about 80 percent
of seats.  On Yangon’s tree-lined streets, where bumper-to-bumper
traffic exemplifies the economic gains since Myanmar’s political
opening, sales of Suu Kyi pictures and biographies that were
banned two years ago are a sign of her enduring popularity.  “She’s in parliament, so she has no choice but to be
friendly with the military,” said Myo Min Htwe, a bookseller.
“People still support her as a very good leader. She’s the hope
of the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Bangkok at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  