-- Syrian Car Bomb Attack Kills 12 at Turkish Border Point
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-02-11T17:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/syrian-car-bomb-attack-kills-five-at-turkish-border-crossing.html
An explosion on a minibus with a
Syrian license plate killed 12 people and injured 28 others at a
Turkish border crossing with Syria, according to Turkey’s Deputy
Prime Minister  Bulent Arinc .  The blast occurred in an area where humanitarian aid
supplies were distributed at the Cilvegozu border point, Arinc
said. The explosion was on the Turkish side of the border,
customs officials said.  “Nine Syrian citizens and three Turks lost their lives,”
Arinc said. “Thirteen of the injured are in serious
condition.” Earlier television reports said nine people died.  Turkey has supported Syrian rebels in their fight to topple
President  Bashar al-Assad . In October, Turkish army units fired
on targets in Syria after an errant Syrian shell killed five
Turks close to the border.  Arinc would not comment on whether the attack might have
been carried by a suicide bomber, saying an investigation was
underway and that three Cabinet ministers will travel to the
scene tonight. He said the exact cause of the explosion had not
yet been determined.  “All possibilities are being considered, whether it is
politically motivated or an individual act,” Arinc said.  Mayor Huseyin Sanverdi of the town of Reyhanli near the
border crossing told TV 24 television earlier today that “it
might be an attack aimed at stopping aid supplies,” Sanverdi
said. The blast damaged more than a dozen vehicles and left
chunks of twisted metal at the scene, CNN-Turk said.  Refugee Camps  “It is an attack which we did not anticipate,” Haci
Bayram Turkoglu, a government lawmaker, told state-run TRT
television. “Turkey is only helping those who come to our door
to seek help and refuge. Our doors will remain open for needy
people.”  Turkey is sheltering about 180,000 Syrian refugees in
several camps along the 900-kilometer (560-mile) frontier  while
at least 70,000 others live in cities, according to officials.  Turkish  equities  and the lira declined after the blast,
which shut down the border crossing and interrupted a Cabinet
meeting.  The U.S., Germany and the Netherlands have each deployed
two Patriot missile defense batteries near the Syrian border to
defend North Atlantic Treaty Organization member Turkey against
a possible missile attack from Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  