-- Syrian Opposition Renews Offer to Talk to Assad Envoys
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-02-11T12:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/syrian-opposition-chief-renews-offer-to-talk-to-assad-government.html
Syrian opposition leader  Moaz al- Khatib  renewed his offer of dialogue with the government of
President  Bashar al-Assad , saying he’s willing to hold the
meetings in rebel-held areas in northern Syria.  The talks should focus on finding a way for Assad to leave
power to prevent “more death and destruction,” al-Khatib said
in a statement posted on his Facebook page.  It was al-Khatib’s second call for dialogue and came as the
deadline for his first initiative expired. Syria’s government
had ignored his earlier offer, which set a deadline that expired
last night and included a call for the release of prisoners as a
precondition for talks.  Syrian Deputy Foreign Minister  Fayssal Mekdad  told Al-
Mayadeen TV that Assad, as president of the country “entrusted
with the unity of its land and people,” should “preside over
any resolution of the crisis and supervise it,” the state-run
Sana news agency said.  Mekdad said the participants in any talks should lay down
their arms, reject foreign military intervention in Syria and
agree to preserve the country’s unity.  Salman Shaikh , director of the Brookings Institution’s Doha
Center in Qatar, said he was unsure the calls for dialogue will
produce results, especially since “the regime feels it still
can ride out this.”  “These are early skirmishes,” he said by phone from Doha.
“Serious dialogue will only begin once there’s an understanding
that we are discussing a post-Assad transition.”  The government may see benefits from discussion about a
political dialogue including “slowing down the level of support
to the rebels, or at least making countries like the U.S. still
reluctant to engage in that,” he said.  On the ground, rebels fighting Assad’s government,
including the Islamist Al-Nusra Front, have captured al-Furat
Dam on the Euphrates River in Raqqa Province, the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  