-- U.K. Stocks Advance for Second Day; Tesco, Barclays Climb
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-02-11T17:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/u-k-stocks-climb-as-euro-area-ministers-discuss-cyprus.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for a second
day as Tesco Plc climbed after Exane BNP Paribas SA raised its
recommendation on the shares.  Tesco, the U.K.’s biggest retailer, rose to a one-month
high. Barclays Plc gained after the Financial Times said the
lender may cut costs by 2 billion pounds ($3.1 billion). Kofax
Plc tumbled the most in 17 months after predicting that its
earnings will decline in fiscal 2013.  The  FTSE 100  added 13.13 points, or 0.2 percent, to
6,277.06 at the close in London. The equity benchmark dropped
1.3 percent last week amid political uncertainty in Italy and
Spain. The gauge has still gained 6.4 percent this year. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index also added 0.2 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index dropped 0.8 percent.  “Despite the very strong run U.K. stocks have had this
year, we view them as a favored regional market,” said  Toby Nangle , head of multi-asset allocation at Threadneedle Asset
Management, which manages about $120 billion in assets. “Though
the economy is in the doldrums, the proportion of earnings and
revenue that come from outside the U.K. is high. U.K. equities
still look attractive as they are cheaper than the fundamentals
justify,” he said in a telephone interview.  Stocks on the  FTSE 100  are trading at 16.5 times their
earnings, compared with 19 times earnings for those on the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Euro-area finance ministers met in Brussels today as a
parliamentary election in Italy and a corruption scandal in
Spain intensify concern about the currency zone’s debt crisis.
Finance chiefs and central bankers from the Group of 20 nations
meet in Moscow on Feb. 15-16.  Frieden Comments  The single currency’s strength has yet to harm the bloc’s
economy, Luxembourg’s Finance Minister  Luc Frieden  told
reporters as he entered the meeting.  “The euro doesn’t need any additional, substantial
measures,” he said. “We just have to make sure that countries
will continue on the path of intelligent budget consolidation
and structural reforms. That’s the best instrument to make the
euro stable and the last year has proven this.”  Tesco  climbed 1.5 percent to 367.9 pence after Exane raised
its recommendation on the U.K.’s largest retailer to neutral
from underperform, meaning that investors should stop selling
the shares. The brokerage said Tesco has improved its free cash
flow and its offering in the U.K.  Barclays advanced 1 percent to 301.5 pence after the
Financial Times reported that the lender will reduce its annual
cost base to 18 billion pounds from 20 billion pounds. The bank
will announce the cuts as part of a strategic plan that it will
present tomorrow. The newspaper cited unidentified executives at
the company and analysts familiar with the matter. A  gauge of
banking shares  in the FTSE 350 Index added 0.4 percent.  Fidessa, Kofax  Fidessa Group Plc jumped 3.3 percent to 1,577 pence after
the British financial-software provider, which reported 2012
sales of 278.6 million pounds, predicted that its financial
performance in 2013 will be similar to that of 2012.  “In recent months, there has been a marked and positive
change of sentiment in the market,” Chief Executive Officer
 Chris Aspinwall  said.  Kofax plunged 15 percent to 273.3 pence, its biggest tumble
since September 2011, after forecasting zero to low-single-digit
revenue growth in the fiscal year 2013. Adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the period
will drop 10 percent from a year earlier, the maker of document-
management software said.  The volume of shares changing hands on FTSE 100-listed
companies was 27 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  