-- U.K. Still on Hook for Ring-Fenced Bank Bailouts, Moody’s Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-02-11T14:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/u-k-still-on-hook-for-ring-fenced-bank-bailouts-moody-s-says.html
U.K. taxpayers and bank bondholders
may still end up footing the bill the next time a lender is
bailed out, even as the government prepares to toughen laws to
make banks safer, according to  Moody’s Investors Service .  While the U.K. banking system will benefit from plans to
“ring-fence” lenders’ retail businesses, the proposals are
negative for bondholders, Moody’s said. Debt holders of those
units may be made subordinate to depositors, while those of non-
ring-fenced businesses will lose the stability the retail
activities bring, and both risk being impaired in a crisis,
according to analysts  Andrea Usai  and  Ross Abercromby .  The proposals to separate lenders’ retail and investment
banking divisions, and to increase competition by opening up the
payments system, are key elements of the Financial Services Bill
due to come into effect next year. The U.K. is implementing the
recommendations of the  Independent Commission on Banking , which
was set up after the 2008 financial crisis to outline the
government’s options in limiting taxpayer losses in future
banking collapses.  “We continue to believe that risk will remain owing to the
interconnectedness of the banking system,” the London-based
analysts wrote. “Even a bank without a large retail deposit
base or significant role in the payments system can cause
systemic effects.”  While measures to increase competition and ring-fence
retail banking will benefit consumers, the Financial Services
Bill may not prevent taxpayer losses, the Moody’s analysts said.
Any loss of earnings resulting from the banks’ reduced market
shares would also be “credit negative” for these lenders, they
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  