-- U.S. Golf Association to End Public Links Tournaments After 2014
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-02-11T17:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/u-s-golf-association-to-end-public-links-tournaments-after-2014.html
The U.S. Golf Association won’t
stage its Amateur Public Links championships after 2014,
eliminating an event that gave the men’s winner a spot in the
annual Masters Tournament. It’s the first time the governing
body for golf in the U.S. and Mexico has ended a championship.  Both the men’s and women’s Amateur Public Links events will
be dropped, the USGA said in a statement. The men’s Public
Links, first played in 1922, was the USGA’s fourth-oldest event.  The Far Hills, New Jersey-based group said it’s eliminating
the tournaments because they “no longer serve their original
mission because of the widespread accessibility public-course
golfers today enjoy in USGA championships.”  “It wasn’t without a lot of thought,” Tom O’Toole,
chairman of the USGA’s championship committee, said in an
interview on the Golf Channel. “We’re not in the business of
canceling championships, so this is a somber note.”  The men’s event and the women’s event, first played in
1977, were established to give public-course golfers access to a
national championship. At the time, the U.S. Amateur
Championship was restricted to the players from USGA member
clubs. That rule was lifted in 1979.  Many current U.S. PGA Tour players were Public Links
champions, including  Brandt Snedeker , who captured the Pebble
Beach National Pro-Am yesterday, and 2008 Masters champion
 Trevor Immelman .  The final men’s tournament will be held at Sand Creek
Station Golf Course in Newton, Kansas, with the last women’s
championship at the Home Course in DuPont, Washington.  Masters Tournament  The USGA said it hasn’t discussed the decision to end the
Public Links with officials at Augusta National Golf Club, which
hosts the Masters. Steve Ethun, a spokesman for the tournament,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
move.  The USGA also announced the creation of new men’s and
women’s Amateur Four-Ball Championships, beginning in 2015. The
event, which features two-player teams competing against each
other with the lowest team score winning, will be staged
annually between mid-March and late May  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  