-- Treasury’s Brainard Says G-20 Must Refrain From Devaluation
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-02-11T23:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/u-s-treasury-s-brainard-says-g-20-must-refrain-from-devaluation.html
The Group of 20 nations must avoid
currency devaluations aimed at increasing competitiveness and
promote more transparency in exchange rates, the U.S. Treasury
Department’s top international official said.  “The G-20 needs to deliver on the commitment to move to
market-determined exchange rates and refrain from competitive
devaluation,”  Lael Brainard , the Treasury’s undersecretary for
international affairs, said at a news conference in Washington
today. Brainard said “global growth is weak and vulnerable to
the downside,” and strengthening demand must be a top priority
for G-20 finance ministers and central bankers meeting in Moscow
Feb. 15-16.  Brainard said she supports the effort in Japan to end
deflation and “reinvigorate growth. It will be important that
structural reforms accompany macroeconomic policies to achieve
these goals.”  The Group of Seven nations are considering saying they
won’t target exchange rates when setting policy as they try to
calm concern that the world is on the brink of a so-called
currency war, two officials from G-7 countries said.  Exchange Rates  Finance officials from the world’s key industrial economies
have drafted a statement on currencies now being reviewed by
senior policy makers, they said on condition of anonymity. The
current wording, which still may be changed, combines the
traditional backing for market-set exchange rates with a new
line that governments don’t direct fiscal or monetary policy at
driving currencies, one aide said.  Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s push for more
aggressive monetary policy has raised concern abroad that his
government is directly seeking to weaken the yen, something it
denies.  Japan has been criticized for driving down the yen by
officials from South Korea to Russia in the run-up to the G-20
meeting. Abe administration officials have said that they are
focused on ending deflation, rather than seeking a specific
level for the yen.  Haruhiko Kuroda , the head of the Asian Development Bank and
a potential contender for Bank of Japan chief, said in an
interview that the BOJ could usher in a growth spurt unseen in a
generation by stepping up stimulus and ending deflation.  Currency Policies  Brainard, when asked whether the G-7 will release a
statement on currency polices, said the group remains in close
communication and she expects its members “will continue to
adhere to the longstanding agreements that we have.” Those
accords “importantly include a commitment to floating exchange
rates, with very rare exceptions in cases that excess volatility
or disorderly movements might warrant cooperation,” she said.  Brainard, who will attend the Moscow meetings, said China
needs to “further boost household demand and reinvigorate the
move to a market-determined exchange rate and interest rates.”
She also said it’s important for Europe “to come together
around a joint strategy that supports growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  