-- Tunisia’s Islamists Seek Compromise on Political Crisis
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-02-11T17:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/tunisia-s-islamists-seek-compromise-on-political-crisis.html
Tunisia’s most powerful Islamist
party said it’s talking with partners to find a solution for the
political crisis that has worsened since the Feb. 6 killing of a
senior opposition figure.  Ennahda is in the process of discussing the formation of
“a consensus government,” the state-run Tunis Afrique Presse
news agency quoted senior party member Riadh Shuaibi as saying
today.  The push by the moderate Islamist group, which is the
biggest party in Tunisia’s coalition government, comes as the
secular Congress for the Republic party, known as CPR, that’s
led by President  Moncef Marzouki , said it would delay plans to
leave the Cabinet. The talks reflect broader efforts to find
middle ground as the nation witnesses the worst unrest since the
removal of President  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali  in 2011, an event
that ignited the Arab Spring.  The announcements give Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli  of
Ennahda more time to reach a compromise between his proposal for
a new technocrat government and other calls for a unity
government. The murder of Chukri Beleid, leader of the
opposition Democratic Patriots, has exacerbated tensions, with
secular opposition groups accusing Ennahda of colluding with
extremists in the killing, a charge it denies.  “There is to some extent a softening of the tones and
positions on both sides,”  Riccardo Fabiani , an analyst at
Eurasia Group in London said in an interview today. “It’s now
time for talks and negotiations. Eventually there will be a
deal, but it will probably take longer than we think.”  One Week  CPR, a secular party pivotal to the coalition government,
said it will quit “once and for all” if its demands aren’t
addressed within a week, Secretary-General Mohammed Abou told
reporters in Tunis today. Yesterday, CPR said it was seeking the
replacement of two Islamist ministers, and rejected Jbeli’s
proposal to form a government of technocrats.  Abou said such a government would allow the return of
figures linked to the previous regime. Ennahda also rejected the
plan, saying the premier was acting unilaterally.  An alternative to a government of technocrats is the
creation of “a consensus government,” Shuaibi said, adding
that Ennahda wants to expand negotiations to include other
parties.  The Cabinet has been paralyzed for months because of
disagreements between the CPR, Ennahda and the Democratic Forum
for Labour and Liberties party known as Ettakatol, the third
party in the coalition government.  IMF Talks  Ettakatol “doesn’t oppose the decision to form an
independent, unpartisan, technocrat government,” TAP quoted
party spokesman Mohamed Bannour as saying. “Consultations with
all parties are still ongoing,” he said, according to the news
agency.  Tunisia’s benchmark stock index was little changed today
after tumbling 3.7 percent on Feb. 6, the biggest drop since
Jan. 13, 2011, the eve of Ben Ali’s departure.  Tunisia is in talks for a $1.78 billion International
Monetary Fund standby loan to help buttress an economy that grew
2.7 percent last year and may expand 3.3 percent this year,
according to IMF estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  