-- Tunisian Coalition Party Delays Withdrawal From Cabinet
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-11T14:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/tunisian-coalition-party-delays-withdrawal-from-cabinet.html
A secular party pivotal to Tunisia’s
coalition government said it will delay plans to pull out of the
Cabinet, offering a potential respite in political tensions
sparked by the assassination of an opposition leader.  The Congress for the Republic, known as CPR and led by
President  Moncef Marzouki , said yesterday it would quit if two
Islamist ministers weren’t replaced, amid anger over the Feb. 6
murder of Chukri Beleid, the secular leader of the Democratic
Patriots. The CPR will quit “once and for all” if its demands
aren’t addressed within a week, Secretary-General Mohammed Abou
told reporters in Tunis today.  The announcement gives Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli  of the
ruling moderate Islamist Ennahda party more time to reach a
compromise between his proposal for a new technocrat government
to oversee the drafting of a constitution and elections, and
other partisan calls for a unity government.  “There is to some extent a softening of the tones and
positions on both sides,” said  Riccardo Fabiani , an analyst at
Eurasia Group in London. “It’s now time for talks and
negotiations. Eventually there will be a deal, but it will
probably take longer than we think.”  Abou criticized Jbeli’s plan, saying it would allow the
return of figures linked to the previous regime. Ennahda also
rejected the proposal, saying the premier was acting
unilaterally and that it’s holding talks to expand the ruling
coalition and find a way out of the crisis.  Religion’s Role  Anti-government protests and accusations by Beleid’s widow
and other opposition figures that Ennahda had colluded with
extremists in the assassination sparked the most unrest since
President  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali  was toppled two years ago.
Ennahda denied any link to Beleid’s murder.  The Cabinet has been paralyzed for months because of
disagreements among the CPR, Ennahda and the Democratic Forum
for Labour and Liberties party known as Ettakatol, the third
party in the coalition government, over the place of religion in
the laws of the traditionally secular nation.  Ettakatol “doesn’t oppose the decision to form an
independent, unpartisan, technocrat government,” Tunis Afrique
Presse reported, citing party spokesman Mohamed Bannour.
“Consultations with all parties are still ongoing,” he said,
according to the news agency.  Tunisia’s benchmark stock index was little changed today
after tumbling 3.7 percent on Feb. 6, the biggest drop since
Jan. 13, 2011, the eve of Ben Ali’s departure.  Tunisia is in talks for a $1.78 billion International
Monetary Fund standby loan to help buttress an economy that grew
2.7 percent last year and may expand 3.3 percent this year,
according to IMF estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  