-- Urbi Leads Builders Lower on Housing Policy: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2013-02-11T21:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/urbi-leads-builders-lower-on-housing-policy-mexico-city-mover.html
Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB  fell
the most in four months, leading homebuilders lower on
speculation that President  Enrique Pena Nieto  will maintain a
housing policy that has hurt cashflow.  Urbi, the country’s third-largest homebuilder by sales
tumbled 5.8 percent to 6.54 pesos at 2:36 p.m. in Mexico City.
It was the worst performance on the Habita  index  of six
homebuilders, which  plunged 3.8 percent to its lowest level in
two months.  Corp. Geo  SAB, the second-largest homebuilder,
dropped 4.6 percent to 13.42 pesos.  A statement on the presidential  website  today signaled that
Pena Nieto, who took office Dec. 1, plans to continue former
President  Felipe Calderon ’s policy to encourage more apartment
construction, referred to as vertical housing. The government
will seek to “consolidate our cities, growing in a vertical
manner and in harmony with the environment,” according to the
statement.  During Calderon’s tenure, Mexico increased subsidies for
apartment-building construction that require greater initial
investment from builders. This reduced cash flow for Urbi and
Geo in recent quarters and has helped drive down shares 68
percent and 39 percent, respectively, over the past 12 months.  The government also said in its statement that the housing
industry will require “structural adjustments” and a “24-
month transition period will be established so all of the actors
can carry out the necessary changes.”  Carlos Hermosillo , head of equity research for Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB in Mexico City, said investors are
“disappointed” by a lack of details in the government’s
statement, and the policy doesn’t seem to differ from
Calderon’s.  “They mention a transition period that’s going to take 24
months,” Hermosillo said in a phone interview. “I’d say ’what
transition?’ I thought we were already in the middle of one or
even at the end of one. So when the government says there’s
going to be another extended transition, that’s cause for
concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  