-- US Airways CEO Nears AMR Prize to Cap Mergers He Spurred
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-02-11T21:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/us-airways-ceo-nears-amr-prize-to-cap-mergers-he-spurred.html
US Airways Group Inc.  Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Parker , after three failed attempts at
major mergers, is approaching a deal to combine with  AMR Corp. ’s
American Airlines and form the world’s biggest carrier.  Parker, 51, has applied lessons from his previous efforts,
shifting tactics in pursuing the bankrupt AMR. The two companies
are working on final details and their boards may vote on the
deal later this week, people familiar with the matter have said.
Parker would lead the combined company, the people said.  The deal would mark a career achievement for Parker, the
longest-serving CEO among large U.S. airlines. It would also
complete the industry consolidation that he began in 2005 when
his  America West Holdings Corp.  merged with US Airways, reduce
the number of full-service U.S. carriers to just three and
bolster airlines’ ability to raise fares.  “He learns from his past mistakes,”  Gordon Bethune , the
former CEO of Continental Airlines Inc., said in an interview.
“He’s done this the right way, and it’s showing.”  US Airways began its pursuit in January 2012, less than two
months after Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR sought court
protection. The airlines agreed last week on post-merger
leadership and the division of equity, people familiar with the
matter have said. Parker would become CEO, and American’s  Tom Horton  would become non-executive chairman, the people said.  Top Spot  With US Airways now the fifth-biggest U.S. airline, a tie-
up with No. 3 American would push the combined carrier to the
top spot by global traffic, passing United Airlines and  Delta
Air Lines Inc. , both of which eluded Parker in the past.  “Parker has been the No. 1 backer of consolidation,” said
 Bob Mann , a former American Airlines executive who now runs
aviation consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington, New
York. “He doesn’t mind getting his nose bloody if he thinks
it’s the right thing to do.”  Hired in 1995 as America West’s chief financial officer,
Parker’s tests began almost as soon as he became CEO in 2001, 10
days before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Parker testified
before Congress in support of a $15 billion airline-aid package
as travel demand shriveled, saying America West risked
bankruptcy. It secured a $380 million federal loan guarantee.  The man known as a fierce competitor at salsa-making
contests and go-cart races at US Airways’ annual media day
drummed up $1.5 billion to fund the America West-US Airways deal
from backers that included planemaker  Airbus SAS , former  Air
Canada  parent ACE Aviation Holdings Inc., and hedge funds Par
Capital Management Inc. and Peninsula Investment Partners LP.  ‘Great Manager’  “He’s not a distant, standoff-ish kind of guy,” said
Bethune, who was running Continental when Parker took the helm
at America West. “He’s a really bright, forward-thinking man
and a great manager.”  Parker, whom US Airways declined to make available for an
interview, had less success with his follow-on merger efforts.  His hostile 2006 bid for then-bankrupt Delta faltered after
two months, as creditors and employees balked. In 2008, former
United parent  UAL Corp.  walked away from talks with US Airways,
saying a combination wouldn’t produce enough savings and that it
wanted to explore a deal with Continental.  Parker was back in talks with United in 2010, only to be
left at the altar again when Continental CEO  Jeff Smisek  jumped
in and persuaded UAL’s then-CEO,  Glenn Tilton , to do the deal
that created United Continental Holdings Inc.  Falling Behind  “I didn’t want him to marry the ugly girl,” Smisek said
at the time, as he became CEO of the new company. “I wanted him
to marry the pretty one, and I’m much prettier.”  Parker also saw  Southwest Airlines Co. , the fourth-biggest
U.S. airline, widen its advantage over US Airways by buying
AirTran Holdings Inc. in 2011. Southwest was already the largest
operator on domestic routes, and a lack of trans-Pacific flights
meant that US Airways also was falling further behind United,
Delta and American and their international networks.  With no other targets left at the top of the U.S. industry,
Parker set his sights on a weakened American in bankruptcy.  Parker and President  Scott Kirby  gained early support from
American’s unions, which were feuding with Horton. US Airways
took an unprecedented step by securing tentative contracts with
the labor groups in April, when Horton was still pushing for AMR
to exit bankruptcy and then consider combinations.  “It’s important in an ideal world to have the company, the
constituents of the bankruptcy, principally labor, on your
side,” Kirby said in a March airline conference.  Delta Lessons  That was one lesson from the Delta experience. A second was
to gain the backing of creditors of a bankrupt target as soon as
possible. US Airways won support for an American merger from a
group holding about $1.5 billion in AMR debt.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due in
October 2014 rose 3.1 percent to 100.5 cents on the dollar at
2:30 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  US Airways investors have been betting that Parker would
succeed, even before he publicly acknowledged interest in AMR.
US Airways has  more than tripled  since Nov. 28, 2011, the day
before AMR’s bankruptcy filing. The stock fell 2 percent to
$14.46 today in New York, after closing at a 52-week high of
$15.16 on Jan. 8.  That support marks a turnaround in perceptions of US
Airways from the days of Smisek’s jab, or even Horton’s initial
prediction last year that a takeover bid for AMR would “be
every bit as successful as their prior three attempts.”  Service Turnaround  US Airways’ combination with America West has had more than
its share of difficulties. A legal battle between the two
airlines’ pilot unions over how to mesh seniority lists has kept
the groups working under separate contracts for more than seven
years.  The combination also earned a reputation for poor
operational performance, particularly at its Philadelphia hub.
Parker’s 2007 hiring of former Northwest executive  Robert Isom 
as chief operating officer began a turnaround. US Airways
flights were on time an average of 86.3 percent in 2012’s first
11 months, compared with the 82.6 percent industry average.  “We made a lot of changes in our operation and have
focused on execution ever since,” Isom said in an interview.
“Over the last five years, there’s no carrier that’s been
better at operating on time and  delivering baggage  reliably.
Doug likes to say now that is part of the fabric of who we
are.”  ‘Deal World’  US Airways, which has had three consecutive profitable
years, pays workers a bonus for hitting specific targets for on-
time arrivals, baggage handling and customer satisfaction.
Through November, it had paid out $19 million, or $500 per
employee.  “Doug has spent almost five years in the deal world,”
said Bill Franke, who was America West CEO when he hired Parker
as CFO in 1995. “If they do this deal, they now have to return
to a running an airline. That takes a different sort of
commitment. You have to now deal with the nitty-gritty day in
and day out. I don’t have any doubt they can do it.”  Parker met his wife, Gwen, when she was working as a flight
attendant at American, which recruited him when he was earning
his masters of business administration degree from Vanderbilt
University in Nashville, Tennessee. One of his co-workers at
American was Horton.  A former football player and track athlete as an
undergraduate at Albion College in Albion, Michigan, Parker and
his executives join US Airways employees each year in dressing
up for Halloween.  Parker appeared last year as South Korean rapper  Psy  -- of
“ Gangnam Style”  video fame -- complete with baby blue tuxedo
jacket, black pants and sunglasses, and danced in the US Airways
headquarters parking lot. Isom and Chief Financial Officer  Derek Kerr , both wearing yellow jackets, joined him.  “He’s got the right personality to lead a team,” Bethune
said. “He would do a great job at American, and probably give
it the juice it needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  