-- Venezuelan Bonds Gain After Bolivar Devaluation: Caracas Mover
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-02-11T18:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/venezuela-pdvsa-bond-yields-fall-on-devaluation-caracas-mover.html
Venezuelan government bonds rallied,
with benchmark yields falling to a five-year low, after the
government devalued the bolivar, helping cut the budget deficit
by generating more local currency from its oil exports.  The yield on the dollar-denominated bonds maturing in 2027
dropped eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 8.61
percent at 1:40 p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on state-owned Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s
securities due in 2017 slid two basis points to 8.41 percent.  Venezuela, South America’s largest oil producer, weakened
the exchange rate 32 percent to 6.3 bolivars per dollar, the
nation’s fifth devaluation in nine years. President  Hugo Chavez ,
who is recovering from cancer surgery in Cuba, ordered the move,
Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  told reporters Feb. 8.  “It’s a positive in terms of fiscal cash flow,”  Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin America fixed-income strategy at
Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“It produces more net fiscal revenue for the government.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan debt
over Treasuries narrowed 11 basis points to 694 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI index. The cost of
protecting Venezuelan debt against non-payment for five years
with credit-default swaps fell 21 basis points to 601 basis
points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Venezuela’s budget deficit almost tripled last year after
Chavez raised spending on low-income housing and wages to gain
support before the presidential election. The self-proclaimed
socialist missed his Jan. 10 inauguration after winning a third
six-year term in October.  Spending Boost  Chavez raised spending by 25.5 percent, after adjusting for
inflation, the year before the election in which he defeated
opposition challenger  Henrique Capriles Radonski  by 11
percentage points, according to calculations by Bank of America
Corp. That helped widen Venezuela’s fiscal gap to 11 percent of
gross domestic product last year from 4 percent in 2011,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The new exchange rate will take effect Feb. 13, when
businesses open after the national holiday celebrating Carnival,
said Giordani, who denied that the devaluation was aimed at
narrowing the budget deficit.  “This isn’t a change that was done for fiscal reasons,”
Giordani said. “We have sufficient revenue but we need to
adjust the accounts. We need an increase in efficiency, and
efficiency means spending less.”  Credit Suisse Group AG said bond gains may be short-lived
as the bolivar devaluation threatens to accelerate annual
 inflation  after reaching 22 percent in January.  ‘Fleeting’ Benefit  “Gains from the devaluation will be fleeting,”  Casey Reckman ,  Daniel Chodos  and  Di Fu  wrote in a report today. “The
government is unlikely to tighten fiscal and monetary policy
sufficiently to contain inflation.”  In the unregulated market, where Venezuelans turn for
dollars when they can’t buy greenbacks at the official rate, the
bolivar weakened 2.5 percent today to 20.02 per dollar,
according to Lechuga Verde, a website that tracks the rate.  Venezuela’s dollar bonds have returned 4.9 percent this
year after Chavez’s deteriorating health triggered a 50 percent
advance in the nation’s debt last year, almost three times the
average for emerging-market bonds, according to JPMorgan.  The weaker exchange rate will give the central government
an additional 84.5 billion bolivars ($13.4 billion) in revenue,
according to Caracas-based research company Ecoanalitica.  After devaluing the bolivar by 50 percent in January 2010,
Chavez seized 41 retail stores that were majority-owned by
France’s  Casino Guichard Perrachon SA  and threatened to
nationalize others that raised prices in a bid to curb
inflation.  Sitme Scrapped  Venezuelan officials also announced last week that they
will close the central bank’s Sitme currency market used by
companies to import items deemed nonessential by the government,
which according to Bank of America will cut 2013 dollar bond
issuance to $3 billion from $6 billion.  Sitme was created in June 2010 to replace a shuttered
unregulated currency market operated by brokerages and trades
between $50 million and $60 million a day in dollar-denominated
bonds issued by the government or PDVSA.  Chavez hasn’t been seen in public since leaving for Cuba to
undergo a fourth surgery for an undisclosed type of cancer Dec.
11. If he is is unable to finish his term, the government must
call elections within 30 days of his stepping down.  The devaluation, while hurting the government’s popularity,
probably wouldn’t do enough to help the opposition defeat Vice
President  Nicolas Maduro  if elections were called in the next
few months, according to  Alejandro Arreaza , an analyst at
Barclays Plc.  “The opposition was left very diminished last year,”
Arreaza said in a telephone interview from New York. “This type
of announcement helps a little bit, but they still need some
time to organize themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  