-- Vestas Loses Wind Turbine Market Lead to GE After 12 Years
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-02-11T14:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/vestas-loses-wind-turbine-market-lead-for-first-time-since-2000.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S  lost its
leadership of the global wind turbine market to General Electric
Co. in 2012 after 12 years with the biggest share, Navigant
Consulting Inc.’s BTM Consult unit said.  Siemens AG rose to third from ninth, Enercon GmbH gained to
fourth from fifth and Suzlon Energy Ltd. rose to fifth from
sixth, BTM said today in an e-mailed statement, citing
preliminary data. The final ranking is due late next month, it
said. It didn’t provide percentage shares.  The ranking is a blow to Aarhus, Denmark-based Vestas,
which first took the top spot in 2000, when it supplanted NEG
Micon A/S, a Danish rival that it later bought. Vestas last week
 posted  its second consecutive annual net loss and said it’s in
the middle of two “extremely difficult years,” during which
it’s cutting about 30 percent of its workforce.  “It’s been part of their identity at Vestas that they’re
the biggest in the world,” said  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at
Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa, Denmark. “From a Vestas point of view
I would fear Siemens a lot more than GE. Siemens is more global
in their reach. GE is extremely dependent on the U.S. market.”  A spokesman for Vestas declined to comment. Vestas shares
were down 2.7 percent at 39.1 kroner at 3:20 p.m. in Copenhagen
trading. The stock is down almost a third  in the past year.  Turbine Installations  The U.S. installed a record 13,124 megawatts of wind power
in 2012, according to figures released Jan. 30 by the American
Wind Energy Association, an industry lobby group. Pedersen said
it may decline this year to as low as 3 gigawatts. London-based
analyst Bloomberg New Energy Finance forecasts a U.S. market of
2.5 gigawatts to 3 gigawatts in 2013.  The U.S. market last year was boosted as project developers
rushed plans to completion to take advantage of a tax credit
that was scheduled to expire on Dec. 31, and which Congress
didn’t renew until Jan. 1.  “In the grand scheme of thing this isn’t as devastating
for Vestas as may have at first been thought,”  Aris Karcanias ,
senior wind analyst in London at BTM, said in a telephone
interview. “The U.S. market has been the dominating factor here
and GE has been the dominant supplier there.”  Karcanias said GE probably made between two-thirds and
three-quarters of its sales in the U.S. last year. Even so, “GE
are also making strong inroads in the Latin American markets and
have very openly stated that they want to be one of the biggest
suppliers in the German market,” he said.  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA, Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co., Guodian United Power Technology Co., Sinovel
Wind Group Co. and Guangdong Mingyang Wind Power Industry Group
Co. rounded out the top ten, though Karcanias declined to say in
what order, because the data is preliminary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  