-- Wacker Chemie Jumps on Increase in Polysilicon Production
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-02-11T14:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/wacker-chemie-jumps-on-increase-in-polysilicon-production.html
Wacker Chemie AG , the fourth-biggest
maker of polysilicon, rose the most in a month in Frankfurt
trading after saying it will increase production to meet demand
from solar-power developers.  Wacker jumped as much as 6.6 percent, the most since Jan.
10, and was up 5.3 percent at 58.49 euros as of 3:24 p.m. local
time. The stock has gained 18 percent this year, valuing the
Munich-based manufacturer at 3.05 billion euros ($4.1 billion).  The company has ended restrictions on working hours imposed
in October at its German Burghausen factory, it said today in a
statement. Wacker, currently operating at two-thirds of
capacity, said it sold more polysilicon than forecast in January
and orders are outpacing production following a drop in prices.  Manufacturers of the material, used in solar cells,
curtailed output last year after a supply glut sent prices below
production costs. Polysilicon spot prices fell to a record-low
$15.83 a kilogram in December and have since recovered to
$16.26, according to a survey by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Our customers’ inventories, which had been built up, were
reduced in the fourth quarter,” Chief Financial Officer  Joachim Rauhut  said in a Feb. 7 interview after the company reported
earnings. “There are still overcapacities in the market, so
first volumes will rise; in the second phase, positive price
effects could happen.”  In November, the shares fell to the lowest price since
starting to trade in 2006 as Wacker grappled with competition
from Asian producers. The company has delayed output at a new
polysilicon factory in Tennessee by 18 months to counter
overcapacity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net 
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  