-- Weidmann Warns Governments Against Trying to Weaken Euro
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-02-11T16:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/weidmann-warns-governments-against-trying-to-weaken-euro.html
European Central Bank  council member
 Jens Weidmann  said the euro isn’t seriously overvalued and
warned governments against trying to weaken the currency.  “Latest indicators don’t signal a serious overvaluation of
the euro despite its recent appreciation” and “politicians
should hold on to the established division of labor,” Weidmann,
who heads Germany’s Bundesbank, said in a speech in Freiburg
today. “An exchange-rate policy to specifically weaken the euro
would lead to higher inflation in the end.”  French President  Francois Hollande  last week urged
government leaders to steer the value of the euro lower to boost
growth, a proposal rejected by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .
The Group of Seven nations are considering issuing a statement
saying they won’t target exchange rates when setting policy as
they try to calm concern the world is on the brink of a currency
war, two officials from G-7 countries said earlier today.  “Experience from previous, politically induced
depreciations show that they don’t normally lead to a sustained
increase in competitiveness,” Weidmann said. “Often, more and
more depreciations are necessary. If more and more countries try
to depress their currency, it will end in a depreciation
competition, which will only produce losers.”  Euro Jumps  The euro jumped half a cent to $1.3428 on Weidmann’s
comments. It has appreciated 11 percent on a trade-weighted
basis since late July. The currency’s gains are threatening to
hurt euro-area exports and stymie the 17-nation bloc’s recovery
from recession as the sovereign debt crisis shows signs of
abating.  Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s push for more
aggressive monetary policy has raised concern abroad that his
government is directly seeking to weaken the yen, something it
denies.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  last week precipitated the
euro’s biggest drop in seven months when he suggested the ECB
could lower interest rates if the stronger euro were to damp
inflation too much.  Weidmann said exchange-rate developments “certainly are
taken into account in monetary-policy decisions, given that they
influence price developments.”  However, he said the ECB has already done enough to fight
the debt crisis and it’s up to lawmakers to implement structural
reforms at the national and European level.  “The problems can only be solved by politics, central
banks can’t do it,” he said. “Therefore, the discussion about
an allegedly overvalued euro is only diverting attention from
the actual challenges.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  