-- West Brom Beats Liverpool 2-0 With Late Goals to End Winless Run
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-12T00:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/west-brom-beats-liverpool-2-0-in-english-soccer-s-premier-league.html
West Bromwich Albion got two goals
in the final 10 minutes to beat Liverpool 2-0 and move above its
opponent with its first Premier League win of 2013.  Gareth McAuley’s header put West Brom ahead at Anfield in
the 81st minute last night before Romelu Lukaku added the second
on a counterattack in the first minute of stoppage time. Both
goals came after Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  missed a
penalty kick, one of 25 shots for the home team.  West Brom’s first league victory since Dec. 26 lifted the
Baggies up one place in the standings to eighth with 37 points,
one more than Liverpool, which is yet to beat any of the teams
currently ranked in the top 10 this campaign.  “I hope this is a turning point in our season,” West Brom
goalkeeper  Ben Foster  told Sky Sports. “We are in touching
distance of the 40-point mark where you can feel safe from
relegation. If you had said at this stage of the season we would
be above Liverpool, we would have taken that.”  Based on three points for a victory, only three times in
English soccer’s top flight has a team with at least 37 points
from 26 games been relegated, according to Opta Sports.  After beating Liverpool on the opening day, West Brom
completed its first sweep of home-and-away wins against the Reds
since the 1966-67 season. Liverpool had won its previous three
league games at Anfield without allowing a goal.  With the home team dominating possession in the second half,
Foster stopped efforts from  Jordan Henderson ,  Daniel Agger  and
 Fabio Borini  before being forced into a one-handed reflex save
by Gerrard in the 72nd minute. Five minutes later, Foster dived
low to his left to stop Gerrard’s penalty kick after Jonas
Olsson was adjudged to have fouled  Luis Suarez .  Late Goals  Youssouf Mulumbu forced Liverpool’s  Pepe Reina  into a
diving fingertip save in the 80th minute with his team’s first
shot on target. From the resulting corner kick, McAuley powered
his header past Reina and substitute striker Lukaku sealed the
victory with his 10th Premier League goal of the season.  “It was a good away performance from West Brom,” said
Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers . “If you come, defend and
keep the score at 0-0, you’re always in with that chance. Ben
Foster made some brilliant saves that kept them in the game.”  Liverpool visits Zenit St. Petersburg in two days in their
Europe League round of 32 opener before hosting Rodgers’s former
club Swansea in the Premier League on Feb. 17.  The next full round of league games starts Feb. 23, when
West Brom hosts Sunderland. Manchester United opened a 12-point
lead over Manchester City atop the standings two days ago by
beating Everton 2-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  