-- When Bibi Meets Barack: An Imaginary Transcript
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-02-11T23:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/when-bibi-meets-barack-an-imagined-transcript.html
So what exactly will U.S. President
 Barack Obama  discuss with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  when the president visits the Middle East sometime in
the next few months?  In their one-on-one sessions (which both leaders are no
doubt anticipating as enthusiastically as middle-aged men
anticipate their colonoscopies), I predict the following
breakdown: Let’s say they’ll spend three hours together.
Palestinian-Israeli peace negotiations will get three minutes,
the shattering of Syria will get 17 minutes and the remaining
160 minutes will be devoted to Iran.  In the Iran conversation, the two men will resume their
traditional roles. Netanyahu will begin with a pointed question
for Obama: How many more times will the U.S. hold out the
promise of direct negotiations to the Iranian regime before it
realizes the Iranians are uninterested in talking?  Netanyahu, of course, will have a point. Vice President  Joe Biden , speaking at a security conference in Munich earlier this
month, offered the Iranians direct talks, which he said must be
“real and tangible.” The Iranian foreign minister,  Ali Akbar Salehi , responded by saying that Biden’s invitation represented
a “step forward.” But he was quickly overruled by Iran’s supreme
leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei . “The U.S. is pointing a gun at
Iran and wants us to talk to them,” Khamenei said. “Direct talks
will not solve any problems.”  Romantic Advances  Netanyahu will surely point out that this isn’t the first
time Khamenei has spurned the Obama administration’s romantic
advances. Soon after he took office, Obama famously  wrote to
Khamenei  asking to rekindle their nations’ relationship.
Khamenei was decisive in his rejection. There have been quieter
attempts to span the chasm between Iran and the U.S., with
similar results.  Netanyahu thinks the Obama administration is naive to
imagine it can charm the supreme leader into negotiations about
the future of Iran’s nuclear project, and the prime minister
will want to know from the president when enough is enough.  Obama will parry Netanyahu’s argument by making two points:
The first is that he is neither Pollyanna nor Neville
Chamberlain. He will argue that there is reason to invite the
Iranians to direct, one-on-one talks, again and again if
necessary. If there ever comes a time when force is necessary to
stop Iran from crossing the nuclear threshold, at least the
administration will be able to argue that it tried repeatedly to
find a peaceful resolution.  The second point the president will make is this: The
Iranians haven’t accelerated their efforts to cross the nuclear
threshold precisely because they fear an explosive American
reaction. Although Netanyahu is still arguing that the Iranians
are accelerating their program, the regime for the moment seems
content to be perpetually six to 12 months away from having the
capacity to manufacture a weapon.  Obama will argue that the Iranians, though rhetorically
pugnacious, have actually stepped back from the brink. Experts
who monitor Iran’s nuclear program  have said   recently  that Iran
has been taking some of its stock of higher-grade enriched
uranium and turning it into reactor fuel, meaning that it can’t
be used in weapons. Netanyahu obviously understands the
importance of this move: By slowing the growth of its stockpile
of enriched uranium even slightly, the Iranians are
acknowledging an Israeli red line and moving away from it.  Obama will point out to Netanyahu that, by the Israeli
government’s own  calculation , Iran needs a minimum of 240
kilograms of 20-percent enriched uranium to produce a bomb. So
long as Iran stays below that number -- and the Israelis and the
Americans believe that it hasn’t approached it yet -- Israel
would have no reason to launch a preemptive strike, or demand
that the U.S. do so.  In other words, Obama will be able to argue that the
Iranians, while truculent, are aware of the West’s red lines,
and have been assiduous in observing them.  Nefarious Doings  A-ha!, Netanyahu will exclaim, seeing an opening: If the
Iranians actually care what you think, and actually fear your
wrath, then why don’t you crack down on their nefarious doings
in Syria and elsewhere? We know the Iranians are training
thousands of militiamen inside Syria to turn the country into an
even more hellish place if the ruling regime falls. We also know
that the Iranians and their proxy, Hezbollah, are trying to
destabilize Lebanon, the Gaza Strip, Jordan and Egypt. When, Mr.
President, will you wake up to this fact?  The president will answer: You know, Mr. Prime Minister, it
would be a lot easier for me to confront Iran over Syria and the
Gaza Strip if you tried a bit harder to embolden Palestinian
moderates by making gestures toward territorial compromise, even
if only rhetorically at the outset.  This will prompt Netanyahu to lecture Obama on the falsity
of “linkage,” the idea that the Middle East would be a generally
better place if only peace could be achieved between Israel and
the Palestinians.  At which point, the president will look at his watch and
wonder when it might be time to depart for Jordan, where the
king will undoubtedly describe to him at great length the
dangers of the Muslim Brotherhood, but will at least do so in a
charming manner.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 