-- An Inspired Choice to Lead the Bank of Japan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-02-11T22:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/why-man-returns-to-japan-when-others-want-to-flee.html
My favorite  Haruhiko Kuroda  moment
was on a Tokyo-bound flight on March 13, 2011, two days after a
gigantic earthquake struck northeast Japan.  I was in the Philippines when the quake precipitated a
nuclear crisis. On the first available flight back, the
president of the Manila-based  Asian Development Bank  sat near me
on an almost-empty plane. Manila-to-Tokyo flights are rarely
made with a single empty seat, but no one likes to fly into a
potential Chernobyl, not with tens of thousands in Japan
clamoring for the exits.  “We seem to have the whole plane to ourselves,” Kuroda
quipped, saying he was returning to “do what I can to help.”  Those words come to mind as Kuroda may be about to return
to offer help again, this time as Bank of Japan governor. It
would be a timely reappearance for a respected economist who has
spent the past eight years in Manila working to reduce poverty.
When I spoke with him in Tokyo yesterday, it occurred to me that
this kind of selflessness might make Kuroda an inspired choice
to end Japan’s 15-year bout with deflation.  It was heartening that Kuroda said “some additional”
monetary measures could be justified this year, while incumbent
Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  had said he saw no need
for monetary easing until 2014. Kuroda, a leading candidate to
replace Shirakawa when he leaves office next month, said the
central bank has many tools to achieve its 2 percent inflation
target. That alone might set him apart from his predecessors. He
also declared, in unambiguous terms, that falling consumer
prices must be “eradicated.”  Bazooka Wielding  Kuroda, 68, hasn’t been nominated so far, and his comments
came with a disclaimer that he’s speaking as head of the Asian
Development Bank, and not on behalf of the Bank of Japan. Nor
has Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  tipped his hand on whom he might
choose. But Kuroda looks like he would come to the job with a
unique ability to deliver stimulus to the economy.  The standard line on Abe is that he wants to emulate a
strategy that U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  in 2008
described as wielding a bazooka. The job of Abe’s candidate for
central-bank head will be to fire huge amounts of liquidity into
markets. Japan, of course, needs far more than that. Along with
increased power, Bank of Japan policies need better aim and
precision. This is where economic theory comes into play.  The first reason Kuroda might succeed is because he isn’t a
Bank of Japan lifer, but a former Finance Ministry official.
That means he wasn’t steeped in decades of institutional
paranoia that tends to defeat each new central-bank governor
even before he presides over his first interest-rate meeting.
There is a reason the Bank of Japan is keen to see that one of
its own gets the job. Another career bureaucrat at the helm
might deepen  deflation , not end it.  The bigger reason is what Kuroda has been doing since 2005,
when he became president of the Asian Development Bank. The
multiplier effect that makes monetary policy so potent has
eluded Japan since the early 1990s. Bankers are still reluctant
to lend, traumatized by the bad-loan crisis that dragged on
until the mid-2000s. Households have too little confidence in
their job prospects and future earning potential to borrow. The
key is to end a liquidity trap.  Part of the onus is on the  government . Penalizing banks
that are sitting on trillions of dollars of government
securities might boost credit growth. Offering tax incentives to
would-be consumer or corporate borrowers could increase lending.
Yet two decades of political gridlock have lawmakers demanding
more from the Bank of Japan while doing little on their end.  Turf Battles  While officialdom in Japan has been fighting the same turf
battles, Kuroda has been focusing on strengthening and
broadening the benefits of growth in Asia, home to a crucial
mass of the world’s extreme poor. He’s doing so with limited
resources and an imperfect understanding of the often
conflicting needs of a diverse region at disparate levels of
development. That has meant experimenting with new projects and
initiatives to see what works and what doesn’t. This kind of
risk taking and brainstorming is just what Japan needs.  Japan’s unconventional policies are being pursued too
conventionally. There are lots of things the Bank of Japan could
do: boost purchases of longer-dated government debt, corporate
bonds, exchange-traded funds and securitized loans to smaller
companies. And then there are kitchen-sink steps, such as buying
distressed real estate or monetizing the debt of bankrupt towns.
The central bank needs to think outside the confines of its
current staff. Saying deflation must be ended “through whatever
measures available” suggests that Kuroda could be stellar news
for the world’s third-biggest economy.  Few questions tantalize markets more than whether Japan’s
long-awaited revival is afoot. Abe’s plans lack innovation and
rely too much on the fossilized  Liberal Democratic Party  ideas
of the past. Yet at the Bank of Japan, Abe has the opportunity
to surprise the world with a radical personnel choice. All he
needs to do is make Kuroda’s ticket one-way.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  