-- World Must Bridge $7 Trillion Long-Term Financing Gap, G30 Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-02-11T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/world-must-bridge-7-trillion-long-term-financing-gap-g30-says.html
Investors must increase their volume
of long-term financing in the world’s biggest economies by about
$7 trillion by 2020 or risk a global slowdown, according to the
Group of Thirty, a financial policy group led by former European
Central Bank Governor  Jean-Claude Trichet .  The need for long-term capital investment could increase
from $11.7 trillion to $18.8 trillion, according to a G30 report
published today. The group recommended that financial watchdogs
improve governance of pension funds, develop the corporate bond
market and find ways to encourage banks to buy private over
government debt.  “This is critically important given that we know that the
world needs to invest in infrastructure, education, R&D,
housing, and business expansion in order to meet even moderate
consensus growth forecasts,” Trichet, the G30’s chairman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Global regulators have sought to make the financial system
safer since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008 and the subsequent financial crisis. Higher capital and
liquidity requirements “may also create barriers to long-term
investment,” according to the G30 report. Policy-makers should
“consider the impact” of regulatory change, the group said.  “Some of our proposals are challenging or contentious, and
would take time to implement,”  Adair Turner , chairman of the
U.K.  Financial Services Authority , said in the statement. “But
their merits should be assessed carefully, given the importance
of actions that explicitly strengthen the supply of long-term
finance.”  Bonuses for fund managers should reflect performance over
three years rather than one, Turner said.  The  Group of Thirty  brings together senior executives at
private banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Banco
Santander SA, central bank governors, including current ECB
chief Mario Draghi, politicians and academics to discuss
financial policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  