-- Yellen Says Higher Rates Not Assured After Thresholds Hit
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-11T21:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/yellen-says-higher-rates-not-assured-after-thresholds-crossed.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the central bank may hold the benchmark lending rate
near zero even if unemployment and inflation hit its near-term
policy targets.  The Federal Open Market Committee said in December it will
hold the main interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
so long as inflation isn’t forecast to rise to more than 2.5
percent in one to two years and unemployment remains above 6.5
percent.  Yellen said today those objectives are “thresholds for
possible action, not triggers that will necessarily prompt an
immediate increase” in the FOMC’s  target rate . “When one of
these thresholds is crossed, action is possible but not
assured,” she said in a speech to the AFL-CIO in Washington.  U.S. central bankers are focusing the full force of
monetary policy on reviving growth and reducing 7.9 percent
unemployment, using near-zero interest rates and a program of
unprecedented bond buying. Yellen’s comments reflect the view of
some policy makers that there is a risk of damaging the
expansion by raising rates too early.  The Fed in September started a third round of asset
purchases and expanded it in December to $85 billion per month,
saying the quantitative easing will continue until the labor
market is improving “substantially.”  ‘Entirely Appropriate’  “With employment so far from its maximum level and with
inflation currently running, and expected to continue to run, at
or below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-term objective, it is
entirely appropriate for progress in attaining maximum
employment to take center stage in determining the committee’s
policy stance,” Yellen said.  Yellen noted that the FOMC maintains a longer-run goal for
inflation of 2 percent while the FOMC estimates that labor
resources are fully utilized at an unemployment rate of 5.2
percent to 6 percent.  “Our control over the economy is imperfect, and so
temporary deviations from the FOMC’s specific longer-term goals
will sometimes occur,” Yellen said. “Importantly, these
quantitative goals are neither ceilings nor floors for inflation
and unemployment, and the committee will take a balanced
approach to returning both measures to their objectives over
time.”  Facing Headwinds  The Fed vice chairman said she believes high unemployment
is the result of too little demand rather than a mismatch of
workers’ skills with the needs of employers. She said the
economy faces headwinds in the form of a battered real estate
market, low income expectations by households, and fiscal
restraint.  The Fed’s asset purchases and other unconventional policies
have helped “shore up aggregate demand,” Yellen said.  “However, while this contribution has been significant,
lower interest rates may be doing less to increase spending than
in past recoveries because of some unusual features of the Great
Recession and the current recovery,” she said.  Unemployment averaged 8.1 percent last year as the
expansion which began in June 2009 was too weak to pull it
lower.  The Fed under its congressional mandate seeks to promote
“maximum employment” and “stable prices.” The personal
consumption expenditures price index is below the central bank’s
stated goal of 2 percent, rising just 1.3 percent last year.  Big Waste  Some 4.7 million people were unemployed six months or more
in December, a condition that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called
“an enormous waste of human and economic potential” at a press
conference after a Dec. 11-12 meeting of policy makers.  The central bank’s asset purchases have pushed its balance
sheet above a record $3 trillion.  Even so, the U.S. economy contracted at a 0.1 percent
annual rate in the fourth quarter of 2012, dragged down by the
biggest plunge in government defense spending in four decades.
The outlook for fiscal policy, which could include further
defense cuts, is still clouded by disagreement in Washington
over federal taxation and spending.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,517.01 at 4:05 p.m. in New York, while the 10-year Treasury
note fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.95
percent. Yields have risen from 1.72 percent since the Fed
announced new bond buying on Sept. 13.  The FOMC said last month its asset purchases will remain
divided between $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed
securities and $45 billion a month of Treasury securities. The
 central bank  also will continue reinvesting any Treasury
securities that mature and will reinvest its portfolio of
maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeanna Smialek  in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  