-- Yellen Signals Fed Would Maintain Easing After Halting QE
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-12T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/yellen-signals-fed-would-sustain-easing-after-ending-qe.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  signaled stimulus may outlast the Fed’s bond purchases,
saying the central bank has the option to hold interest rates
near zero even after reaching near-term targets for inflation or
unemployment.  Yellen’s comments yesterday coincide with a Federal Open
Market Committee debate over when to bring bond buying to an
end, a shift that may prompt expectations of an interest-rate
increase. The FOMC said in December it will hold the main
interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent so long as
inflation isn’t forecast to rise to more than 2.5 percent in one
to two years and unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent.  The speech by the Fed vice chairman “reminds people that
if they are successful and if they get to their unemployment
objective that doesn’t automatically mean they are going to slam
on the brakes,” said  Dominic Konstam , head of interest rate
research at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. As “better data come
out, they want to make sure the market doesn’t want to get
carried away” and anticipate a boost in interest rates.  Yellen, who leads a Fed committee created by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on improving monetary policy communications, said
the targets announced in December are “thresholds for possible
action, not triggers that will necessarily prompt an immediate
increase” in the  main interest rate . “When one of these
thresholds is crossed, action is possible but not assured,” she
said in a speech to the AFL-CIO in Washington.  “Several” members of the FOMC “thought that it would
probably be appropriate to slow or to stop purchases well before
the end of 2013,” minutes from the December meeting said.  ‘Throttle Back’  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard , a voting member on
the FOMC, said in an interview this month the Fed could begin to
“throttle back” the purchases later this year.  Following the advice of Yellen’s committee, the central
bank in January 2012 took one of its biggest steps ever toward
greater openness by publishing a mission statement, an inflation
target and anonymous forecasts by each FOMC participant for the
benchmark interest rate.  Yellen’s comments show Fed officials will continue to use
communications such as speeches to sustain expectations for low
interest rates, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for North
America at BNP Paribas in New York.  “They don’t want financial conditions to tighten,”
Coronado said.  Full Force  U.S. central bankers are focusing the full force of
monetary policy on reviving growth and reducing 7.9 percent
unemployment. The economy contracted at a 0.1 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter of 2012, dragged down by the biggest
plunge in government defense spending in four decades.  The outlook for fiscal policy, which could include further
defense cuts, is clouded by disagreement in Washington over
federal taxation and spending.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed
yesterday at 1,517.01 in New York. The 10-year yield rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.96 percent as of 5
p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
Yields have risen from 1.72 percent since the Fed announced new
bond buying on Sept. 13.  Echoing Bernanke, Yellen warned against deep fiscal
spending cuts at a time when unemployment is high and growth is
weak. An economy that already has low interest rates and high
unemployment may sustain larger negative effects from fiscal
spending cuts, she said.  Negative Impact  “We’re seeing larger so-called fiscal multipliers, or
namely, a more significant negative effect on the economy of
austerity than many researchers had expected,” Yellen said.
“To me the evidence, both in the United States and in Europe,
is that fiscal austerity does raise unemployment.”  The Fed in September started a third round of asset
purchases and expanded it in December to $85 billion per month,
saying the quantitative easing will continue until the labor
market is improving “substantially.”  “With employment so far from its maximum level and with
inflation currently running, and expected to continue to run, at
or below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-term objective, it is
entirely appropriate for progress in attaining maximum
employment to take center stage in determining the committee’s
policy stance,” Yellen said in her speech.  Yellen noted that the FOMC maintains a longer-run goal for
inflation of 2 percent while the FOMC estimates that labor
resources are fully utilized at an unemployment rate of 5.2
percent to 6 percent.  ‘Imperfect’ Control  “Our control over the economy is imperfect, and so
temporary deviations from the FOMC’s specific longer-term goals
will sometimes occur,” Yellen said. “Importantly, these
quantitative goals are neither ceilings nor floors for inflation
and unemployment, and the committee will take a balanced
approach to returning both measures to their objectives over
time.”  The Fed’s asset purchases and other unconventional policies
have helped “shore up aggregate demand,” Yellen said.  “However, while this contribution has been significant,
lower interest rates may be doing less to increase spending than
in past recoveries because of some unusual features of the Great
Recession and the current recovery,” she said.  Unemployment averaged 8.1 percent last year as the
expansion which began in June 2009 was too weak to pull it
lower.  The Fed under its congressional mandate seeks to promote
“maximum employment” and “stable prices.” The personal
consumption expenditures price index is below the central bank’s
stated goal of 2 percent, rising just 1.3 percent last year.  Big Waste  Some 4.7 million people were unemployed six months or more
in January, a condition that Bernanke called “an enormous waste
of human and economic potential” at a press conference after a
Dec. 11-12 meeting of policy makers.  The central bank’s asset purchases have pushed its balance
sheet above a record $3 trillion. Yellen said that while the Fed
may remit less cash to the Treasury as it begins to unwind the
portfolio, the broader impact from its large balance sheet needs
to be considered.  For example, higher levels of employment boost tax
revenues, while lower Treasury bond rates help reduce interest
payments for the U.S.  “This is a policy that is not only good for output and
employment and American workers, but also for the federal
finances overall,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Craig Torres  in
Washington at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  