-- Euro Advances as ECB Official Says It Isn’t Overvalued
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-02-11T22:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-11/yen-weakens-as-kuroda-says-additional-easing-can-be-justified.html
The euro rose against the majority
of its 16 most-traded peers after European Central Bank council
member Jens Weidmann said the currency isn’t seriously
overvalued.  The shared currency extended gains against the dollar after
Weidmann, who heads Germany’s Bundesbank, warned governments
against trying to weaken the euro. The yen depreciated to the
weakest level in almost three years versus the dollar as Economy
Minister Akira Amari was reported by Kyodo News as saying the
government should persevere with efforts to boost stocks.
Sweden’s krona strengthened amid a forecast for the Riksbank
leave the benchmark rate unchanged.  “The move came on the back of the comments from
Weidmann,”  Nick Bennenbroek , the head currency strategist at
Wells Fargo & Co, said in a phone interview. “The ECB and its
finance ministers have the primary influence over European
currency policy, and the overall weight of comments from policy
makers like Weidmann highlight their influence on the exchange
rate.”  The shared currency rose 0.3 percent to $1.3406 at 5 p.m.
New York time after declining to $1.3325, the lowest since Jan.
24. The yen depreciated 1.8 percent to 94.32 per dollar after
reaching 94.46, the weakest since May 5, 2010. Japan’s currency
dropped 2.1 percent to 126.45 per euro.  The yen has dropped 20 percent in the past six months, the
worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has fallen
1.9 percent and the euro has added 8 percent, the biggest gain.  Nordic Currencies  The krona gained against all major counterparts before
policy makers meet on Feb. 13, when they will leave the
benchmark rate unchanged at 1 percent, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Sweden’s currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 6.3930 per
dollar and gained 0.5 percent to 8.5706 per euro.  The Norwegian krone added 0.6 percent to 5.5032 per dollar
after a report showed a measure of inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in January. Annual underlying inflation, which
adjusts for taxes, fees and energy prices, picked up to 1.2
percent from 1.1 percent in December, Oslo-based Statistics
Norway said.  Britain’s pound fell versus all but one major counterpart
after an industry report showed U.K. employment confidence
declined in January and as traders cut bets the currency would
strengthen. Sterling declined 0.9 percent to $1.5659 and 1.3
percent to 85.61 pence per euro.  No Overvaluation  “Latest indicators don’t signal a serious overvaluation of
the euro despite its recent appreciation” and “politicians
should hold on to the established division of labor,” Weidmann
said in a speech in Freiburg today. “An exchange-rate policy to
specifically weaken the euro would lead to higher inflation in
the end.”  Futures traders increased their bets that the euro will
gain against the dollar, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on
an advance in the euro compared with those on a drop -- so-
called  net longs  -- was 37,952 on Feb. 5, compared with net
longs of 27,472 a week earlier. That’s the most since April
2011.  “The euro is not really an overvalued currency at this
stage,”  Jane Foley , a senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in London, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg -- The First Word” with  Michael McKee . Rabobank
forecasts that the euro will appreciate to $1.38 by the end of
2013.  G-7 Statement  The Group of Seven nations are considering releasing a
statement on exchange rates this week to calm concern the world
is on the brink of a currency war, three officials from G-7
countries said. The international finance group is looking to
release it before a Feb. 15-16 meeting in Moscow of finance
ministers and central bankers from the larger Group of 20.  The Japanese government will continue in its efforts to
drive the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average to 13,000 by the end of the
fiscal year on March 31, Amari said two days ago, Kyodo
reported. The Nikkei index closed at 11,153.16 last week.
Japanese markets were shut today for a public holiday.  “The Japanese will stay committed to their current
monetary policies,” said  Brian Kim , a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Amari is trying to do the whole
reflation trade by pumping liquidity into the system. A by-
product of that is going to be a push for stocks, and there’s
likely to be yen weakness as a result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  