-- Amsterdam Police Arrest Protesters Occupying ING Branch
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2011-12-17T16:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/amsterdam-police-arrest-protesters-occupying-ing-branch.html
Dutch police arrested a group of
people who refused to end a protest today in a retail bank
branch of  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Amsterdam, and another group that
tried to get into a Rabobank Groep NV outlet.  The ING branch, in a historical building in the city center
that formerly housed a silversmith, was occupied by about 20 to
25 people, police spokeswoman Chermaine van Damme said over the
phone. After they refused to leave, the police swooped in to
make arrests, which the protesters didn’t fight, Van Damme said.  The demonstrators, operating under the name “Occupy the
Banks,”  said  their action wasn’t directed at ING specifically
and called for other occupations of bank offices as protests by
the Dutch Occupy movement weren’t effective.  “We want to end the anti-social and suppressive behavior
of banks,” the group said in a statement on its website. “It
is a protest against the current economic system as a whole and
the role of banks in it in particular.”  The protesters’ arrival trapped about five employees and
five customers inside the office. The branch will remain closed
for the rest of the day, said Cindy Penders, a spokeswoman for
ING, which has 285 branch offices and 550 service points in the
Netherlands, according to its website.  “People want to express their discontent and we can
understand that,” said Penders. “However, as this affected our
customers, we decided to call the police.”  Another group of about 20 demonstrators tried to enter the
Rabobank branch at the nearby Dam Square afterwards, Van Damme
said. The police made four arrests to prevent them from gaining
access. Rabobank is the biggest Dutch retail lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  