-- Arab League Calls Meeting for Dec. 21 to Discuss Syria
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2011-12-17T15:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/arab-league-calls-meeting-for-dec-21-to-discuss-syria-1-.html
Arab League foreign ministers will
meet in Cairo on Dec. 21 to discuss submitting a proposal on
Syria to the United Nations  Security Council , Qatari Prime
Minister  Sheikh Hamad  bin Jasim Al Thani said.  Syria disagreed with the wording of a recommendation from a
committee of the league that met today in Doha, Qatar’s capital,
Sheikh Hamad told reporters.  “Syria, in my view, doesn’t listen to us, why doesn’t it
listen to its own people,” he said. “We are worried that this
will be a civil war or if it has started already.”  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27,
increasing economic and political pressure on Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad, 46, to end a crackdown against protests that
began in mid-March, inspired by popular movements that toppled
leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya . The violence risks moving
the nation closer to civil war as military personnel defect and
take up arms against the government.  The league will hold talks on giving its own resolution to
the UN rather than the Security Council considering those from
other governments, Sheikh Hamad said.  A Russian proposal to the UN “demands that all parties in
Syria immediately stop any violence, irrespective of where it
comes from.” The draft doesn’t call for sanctions against
Syria.  The Arab League said Dec. 8 it would lift sanctions,
including a freeze on Syrian assets and a travel ban on senior
officials in Assad’s government, when the country signs a
protocol allowing monitors in the country, according to  Egypt ’s
state-run Middle East News Agency. The U.S. and EU have also
imposed sanctions.  Assad has blamed the unrest on foreign provocateurs, while
his forces have used tanks, armored vehicles and artillery to
crush the uprising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  