-- Martin Marietta Says Proposed Hostile Takeover Mischaracterized by Vulcan
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2011-12-18T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/martin-marietta-vulcan-mischaracterized-offer.html
Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  said
its position on a potential takeover of  Vulcan Materials Co.  was
“seriously” mischaracterized in court papers filed by Vulcan.  In a letter to Vulcan’s board yesterday, Martin Marietta
said the proposed combination is a “compelling value-enhancing
opportunity.” It made the letter public in a statement sent
through Business Wire.  Martin Marietta announced a hostile takeover for Vulcan in
an all-stock transaction valued on Dec. 12 at about $4.7
billion. The offer is being made directly to investors after
Vulcan, the largest U.S. producer of crushed stone, broke off
talks on a combination, Martin Marietta has said.  “Statements in Vulcan’s New Jersey court papers that our
proposal is an attempt ‘to snatch Vulcan for the lowest possible
price,” are “simply inaccurate,” Martin Marietta Chief
Executive Officer Ward Nye wrote in the letter.  Vulcan  said in a court filing yesterday in state court in
 New Jersey  that Martin Marietta’s lawsuit is “so palpably
deficient that the court should dismiss it.”  Martin Marietta is seeking a court order declaring that
only a simple majority vote is required to approve a merger,
according to Vulcan’s filing yesterday.  Douglas Eakeley, a lawyer for Vulcan, confirmed the filing
by the company. The filing couldn’t be independently confirmed
with the court.  Reviewing the Offer  Nye, in his letter, said he was concerned the papers imply
the transaction has been rejected, even though Vulcan’s board
hasn’t publicly stated its position on the proposal. Vulcan said
in a Dec. 12 statement that its board is reviewing the offer and
will make a recommendation to shareholders within 10 working
days.  Mark Semer , an outside spokesman for Martin Marietta at
Kekst & Co. in  New York , didn’t return a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the filing and statement. Meghan Stafford, an
outside spokeswoman for Vulcan, declined to comment.  Martin Marietta has also sued Vulcan in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington. It asked a judge in its Dec. 12 complaint
to declare that a May 3, 2010, non-disclosure agreement between
the two “does not prohibit Martin Marietta’s public offer to
purchase all issued and outstanding shares of Vulcan’s common
stock in exchange for Martin Marietta’s stock.”  That suit also seeks a ruling that allows Vulcan
stockholders “to vote for the election of Martin Marietta’s
five independent nominees” to Vulcan’s board.  Aggregates  The combined companies would create the world’s largest
aggregates supplier. Robert Wetenhall, an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York, told Bloomberg News on Dec. 12 that
Vulcan has the “best portfolio” of reserves in  North America .  Martin Marietta, the second-largest producer of crushed
stone, gravel and sand in the U.S., is offering 0.5 shares for
each share of Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan. Martin Marietta
is based in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  The offer follows losses for Vulcan in three of the past
four quarters amid a U.S. construction recession.  The bid was a 15 percent premium to the average exchange
ratio based on the closing share prices for Vulcan and Martin
Marietta for the 10 days ended Dec. 9, Martin Marietta said.  On Dec. 16, Martin Marietta rose 1.3 percent to $74.44.
Vulcan’s shares climbed 0.3 percent to $38.78, which is 4.2
percent higher than 0.5 percent of Martin Marietta’s closing
price of $74.44.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials Inc. v.  Vulcan
Materials Co. (VMC) , C-83-11, Superior Court of New Jersey,  Chancery
Division , Mercer County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Hart  in  Washington  at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net 
Thomas Black in  Dallas  at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  