-- Bolton, Blackburn Lose to Remain at Bottom of Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-12-17T19:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/bolton-blackburn-lose-to-remain-at-bottom-of-premier-league.html
Bolton and Blackburn both lost to
keep the teams at the bottom of the standings in English
soccer’s Premier League.  Fulham scored twice in the first half to beat Bolton 2-0,
while  Peter Odemwingie ’s goal in the final minute lifted West
Bromwich past Blackburn 2-1. Bolton is last in the 20-team
league with nine points, one fewer than Blackburn ahead of the
teams’ meeting in three days.  Stoke won 2-1 at Wolverhampton, Wigan and Chelsea tied 1-1,
Everton drew 1-1 with Norwich, while Newcastle and Swansea
finished 0-0.  Fulham got goals from Clint Dempsey and Bryan Ruiz in
sending Bolton to a fifth straight loss.  Dempsey opened the scoring in the 32nd minute by heading in
a cross from Ruiz, who chipped the ball over goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen less than two minutes later to make it 2-0.  Blackburn’s sixth home loss in eight games keeps Rovers
near the bottom of the table.  James Morison’s volley early in the second half put West
Brom in front at Ewood Park, before  Scott Dann  tied it.
Odemwingie then curled in a shot to give Albion its first win
in four games.  Blackburn fans, who’ve been calling for the firing of
manager  Steve Kean  all season, booed their team off the field
after the final whistle.  Jordi Gomez scored in the 88th minute to give Wigan the home
tie with Chelsea. Hugo Rodallega’s weak shot was fumbled by
Blues goalkeeper Petr Cech and Gomez knocked the ball into the
empty net for his fourth goal in five games.  Daniel Sturridge  scored for Chelsea, which had a three-game
winning streak ended.  Fourth Straight Win  Stoke rallied for two goals at home to beat Wolves for its
fourth straight win.  Steven Hunt’s penalty kick in the 17th minute put Wolves in
front. An own goal from  Kevin Doyle  in the 58th minute tied the
score and Stoke’s  Peter Crouch  scored 12 minutes later to send
Wolves to their fourth loss in five games.  Leon Osman’s goal with nine minutes remaining gave Everton
the draw with Norwich, which got a 28th minute score from Grant
Holt. Newcastle’s scoreless draw was its fifth straight match
without a victory and kept Swansea winless in eight away games
this season.  Premier League leader Manchester City hosts Arsenal,
 Manchester United  visits QPR,  Aston Villa  is at Liverpool and
Tottenham hosts Sunderland in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 