-- Congress Clears $1 Trillion Budget Measure in Rare Bipartisan Compromise
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2011-12-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/congress-clears-1-trillion-budget-measure.html
The  U.S. Congress  cleared a $1
trillion spending bill to avert a government shutdown.  The Senate yesterday  voted  67-32 for the budget measure,
with 30 Republicans opposed, one day after the House  approved  it
296-121. The bill, which funds the government for the rest of
the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 2012, now heads to President
 Barack Obama  for his signature.  A stopgap plan keeping federal agencies operating was to
expire Dec. 16, though Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
 Nevada  had said the government should be unaffected if the
Senate waited until yesterday to vote. To be safe, lawmakers
passed another temporary measure funding the government one more
day.  Lawmakers yesterday hailed the budget plan as a rare
bipartisan compromise on spending in a year otherwise dominated
by inconclusive debates over the U.S.  budget deficit .  “This measure represents a victory for compromise, a
victory for American taxpayers and a victory for
bipartisanship,” said Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman
Daniel Inouye, a Hawaii Democrat.  In the House, 86 Republicans  voted  against the bill; 149
Democrats supported it.  Funding Government Operations  The 1,200-page measure will fund the day-to-day operations
of hundreds of government programs across 10 Cabinet agencies.
It sets the budgets for the Departments of Defense, Education,
Treasury, State, Health and Human Services,  Homeland Security 
and Labor, among other agencies.  The spending bill had been snarled in a dispute over how to
extend a payroll-tax cut into 2012 as well as expanded
 unemployment  benefits, which also expire at year’s end. The
Senate yesterday  passed  a two-month payroll tax cut extension,
89-10, sending it to the U.S. House.  Lawmakers made some last-minute changes to the spending
measure, such as killing provisions targeting Obama’s Cuba
policies. Republicans had included language blocking his
decision to loosen restrictions on travel and sending money to
the Communist country.  Representative Mario Diaz-Balart said it would “sell out
the long-suffering Cuban people to appease the ruthless Castro
dictatorship.”  Other Provisions  Representative Jose Serrano, a New York Democrat, said
“the U.S. government should not be in the business of
restricting travel to any country, no matter what the issues we
have with their government.” He said “it is surreal to think
that five decades after he took power,  Fidel Castro  is still a
driving force in our national conversation.”  Some lawmakers complained the legislation was drafted
behind closed doors and released only days before being put to a
vote.  “One again, we find ourselves racing towards an 11th hour,
panic-driven vote with no time to debate, review or amend an
enormous spending bill,” said Senator  Jeff Sessions , an Alabama
Republican. “It is a sad commentary on Washington that
legislation to fund much of our government for the entire year
will spend mere hours on the Senate floor.”  Though lawmakers were unable this year to shrink
entitlement programs or raise taxes to reduce the budget
deficit, they agreed to cut the roughly 40 percent of the
federal budget that must be approved each year by Congress.  ‘Real Cuts’  “Make no mistake -- there are real cuts here,” said
Representative Rosa DeLauro of  Connecticut , the top Democrat on
the House appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over
education, health care and labor programs.  The bill cuts funding for  Pell grants , which help 10
million Americans from low-income families attend college.
Though the legislation maintains the current $5,550 maximum
grant, it tightens eligibility standards in part by requiring
recipients to have either a high-school diploma, general
equivalency diploma or be home schooled.  It also reduces the maximum number of semesters students
may receive grants to 12 from the current 18. Those changes may
affect 250,000 Americans, according to a preliminary estimate by
the American Council on Education, a  Washington  group that
advocates for colleges and universities.  The bill also eliminates the six-month grace period
students receive after they leave school during which they don’t
have to pay interest on their  student loans .  The administration’s Race to the Top program, which awards
competitive grants to schools, would be reduced by 20 percent.  Foreign Aid  Foreign aid will decline, with the U.S. Agency for
International Development’s budget cut by 17 percent, according
to the Republicans’ summary. The Environmental Protection Agency
will be cut by 3 percent, on top of reductions approved earlier
this year. The Government Accountability Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, will see a 6 percent reduction.
The  Internal Revenue Service  will be cut by 2 percent.  Democrats fended off a number of Republican initiatives,
including proposals taking aim at environmental regulations and
cutting federal funding for Planned Parenthood and NPR, the
syndicator of public  radio stations .  Republicans prevailed with language targeting an
administration initiative to promote energy-efficient  light
bulbs  as well as provisions blocking public funding of abortions
in Washington, D.C.  They also killed a Democratic proposal to increase the
security fees charged to airline passengers. Airlines are
charging more for checked baggage, Democrats complained, which
was prompting more travelers to bring carry-on luggage and
increasing the workload for the government’s security screeners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomerg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  