-- Cornell Given $350 Million for New York City Campus as Stanford Withdraws
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/cornell-given-350-million-for-new-york-city-campus-as-stanford-withdraws.html
Cornell University  announced an
anonymous $350 million gift to support its bid for a proposed
engineering campus in  New York  City hours after  Stanford
University  said it was pulling out of the competition.  Cornell, based in Ithaca, New York, and Stanford were among
15 universities taking part in Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s
competition to bring an engineering school to the city to create
new companies and jobs. Stanford pulled out yesterday after
failed negotiations with the city.  Cornell, which has teamed with Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology, has  proposed  a campus with 2 million square feet for
almost 2,000 students on Roosevelt Island, one of the sites
offered by the city. Bloomberg has offered universities around
the world the right to compete to create a new engineering
campus on city-owned land. New York plans to provide $100
million for infrastructure improvements at the site.  “I am thankful and proud that this extraordinary
individual gift will support Cornell’s goal to realize  Mayor
Bloomberg ’s vision for  New York City ,” Cornell President David Skorton said yesterday in a statement.  Cornell already has a medical school on the Upper East Side
of Manhattan. In 2009, Sanford Weill, former chief executive
officer of CitiGroup Inc., donated $170 million to that
institution.  Failed to Agree  Stanford and New York officials failed to reach an
agreement on a number of points, including whether the school
could withdraw from the project without penalties, said a person
familiar with some of the negotiations who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly. The impasse was partly a result of the different
cultures and expectations of a private university and a major
city, the person said.  An earlier stumbling block over environmental liability was
settled and not the reason for the withdrawal, the person said.  The mayor invited proposals in July for the right to open a
“world-class” campus for engineering and applied science, and
on Oct. 27 he said he may award multiple winners. The project
may generate $6 billion in economic activity with as many as 400
new companies and 22,000 permanent jobs in its first 30 years,
Bloomberg said.  Stanford, located near  Palo Alto ,  California , had proposed
a $2.5 billion campus on Roosevelt Island to be built over 30
years to house 200 professors and 2,000 students. The university
planned to invest $100 million of its own money and embark on a
10-year fundraising campaign to build the campus. The university
had announced a partnership with  City College  of New York, which
would be its temporary home when it opened 2013.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  