-- New York City Police Arrest 49 Protesters in Private Duarte Square Park
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2011-12-18T05:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/dozens-of-occupy-protesters-are-arrested-in-private-park-in-manhattan.html
New York  City police clashed with
protesters and arrested 49, some in religious garb, after they
broke into a private park in  Manhattan  yesterday.  Occupy Wall Street protesters, who were evicted from their
Lower Manhattan encampment last month, were marking the
movement’s three-month anniversary by attempting to claim a
second New York City park. They ripped holes in a fence around
the park and used ladders to climb over it.  Paul Browne , a
spokesman for NYPD, confirmed the arrests in an e-mail.  Protesters had gathered for speeches, live music and
performances in  Duarte Square Park  in New York’s TriBeCa
neighborhood. Part of the half-block parcel is city-owned public
land, while the other portion belongs to Trinity  Wall Street , a
nonprofit religious organization and one of the city’s largest
real estate holders. Trinity hadn’t granted protesters
permission for access.  “The church should give OWS the space. It’s not like
they’re using it for anything now,” said Randi Freedman, 45, an
attorney from Queens who said she has participated in the
protests sporadically since the beginning. The events brought to
light “the fact that we need public spaces to be able to
exercise freedom of speech and freedom of assembly,” Freedman
said yesterday.  Entering Park  One of the first to enter the park by ladder was Episcopal
Bishop George Packard, dressed in purple cassock with collar,
who’s been a public supporter of OWS, said Dan Shockley, a legal
observer with the National Lawyers Guild who was at the scene.
Ben Meyers, a staffer at the National Lawyers Guild office,
confirmed that Packard was among those arrested.  After the arrests, groups of protesters fanned out
throughout the city to hold marches, including in Times Square.
Late last night dozens of protesters gathered in Zuccotti Park,
which had served as the symbolic heart and 24-hour headquarters
of the movement for two months.  Protesters have been searching for new space since New York
police on Nov. 15 evicted them from the park. Brookfield Office
Properties Inc., operator of the publicly owned private space,
has since banned tents, tarps and other gear that enabled
hundreds to sleep there each night. Lying down at all is now
prohibited.  Like their colleagues in other U.S. cities who have faced
similar evictions, the lack of a 24-hour public presence has led
New York organizers to rely on “days of action” to attract
media attention and public support as they continue their fight
against economic inequality.  Protesters Marched  The events were “part of a call to reoccupy in the wake of
the coordinated attacks and subsequent evictions of occupations
across the nation and around the world,” according to a Dec. 16
e-mailed statement. “Vast resources sit unused while people are
in need: in need of homes, schools, jobs and public places to
gather and empower communities.”  Protesters marched through a Brooklyn neighborhood this
month to claim a foreclosed property for a local family as part
of a nationwide day of demonstrations against home seizures. In
November, thousands of participants marched across the Brooklyn
Bridge after unsuccessfully trying to disrupt the New York Stock
Exchange.  This week, Occupy activists interrupted shipping at some
West Coast ports in Oakland,  California ;  Portland ,  Oregon , and
 Seattle  while falling short of a coordinated shutdown aimed at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which owns a stake in the largest
cargo-terminal operator.  Duarte Square’s eastern edge is public parkland while an
adjacent larger, fenced-in area is owned by Trinity. Occupiers
haven’t been granted permission to enter the space by either
Trinity or the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, to which the
area is currently licensed for an art installation that’s closed
for the season, said Lloyd Kaplan, a spokesman for Trinity.  Trinity Wall Street  Occupy members have met with Trinity Wall Street since the
Zuccotti eviction to argue that the organization should “do the
right thing, and offer sanctuary to the movement in this vacant
lot.” They claim the support of hundreds of faith leaders,
civil-rights movement alumni and artists,  including   Desmond Tutu ,
the anti-Apartheid activist and archbishop emeritus of  Cape Town ,
 South Africa .  In a Dec. 9  statement , Reverend James H. Cooper said
Trinity has “probably done as much or more for the protesters
than any other institution in the area.” It’s provided Occupy
members with meeting rooms, pastoral services and spaces to rest,
charge mobile phones and computers, and use bathrooms, he said.  “We disagree with those who argue that Trinity should --
indeed, must as a matter of conscience -- allow Occupy Wall
Street to liberate its Duarte Square lot at Avenue of the
Americas and Canal Street for an open encampment and large scale
assemblies,” Cooper said. “In all good conscience and faith,
we strongly believe to do so would be wrong, unsafe, unhealthy
and potentially injurious.”  After yesterday’s actions, Cooper said in an e-mailed
statement, “In a country where all people can vote and
Trinity’s door to dialogue is open, it is not necessary to
forcibly break into property.”  -- With assistance from Chris Dolmetsch in New York. Editors:
Mark Schoifet, Mo Hadi  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  