-- Medvedev Says United Russia Leaders Should All Join Party
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-12-17T14:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/leaders-of-united-russia-should-join-party-ria-cites-medvedev.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
told  United Russia  that its leaders and parliamentary-election
candidates should all be official members to prove the party is
not “just a machine for votes.”  “It’s essential that the management of United Russia and
that United Russia’s leaders, as well as those heading the
party’s electoral lists, should be members of United Russia --
without exception,” Medvedev said in Moscow today, according to
a Kremlin  transcript . “Only then can the people of our country
believe that the party is not just a machine for votes or a
stepping stone in some official’s career.”  United Russia had its worst showing in a parliamentary
election since 2003 this month. Medvedev, who is not a party
member, led its list of candidates in the vote. Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin , who is seeking to win a presidential election in
March, is United Russia’s chairman although he never formally
joined the party.  “Medvedev wants to lead United Russia because he
understands it’s the single best way to ensure he stays in
power,” Stanislav Belkovsky, director of the Moscow-based
Institute for National Strategy, said by telephone today. “If
Medvedev takes over as head of the party, that will sharply
improve his chances of becoming prime minister.”  Medvedev won’t officially join any political party while he
is still in office, Interfax reported today, citing his press
secretary Natalya Timakova.  Possible Premiers  While Putin may have promised to let Medvedev head the new
government, there have been talks about other candidates
including billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , Belkovsky said. “Other
people are looking for the job and feel that Medvedev is too
weak and ineffective to be prime minister.”  Prokhorov, owner of the New Jersey Nets basketball team,
said Dec. 12 he would seek the presidency and try to unite
opponents of Putin, including those who protested the fairness
of the vote to the State Duma, Russia’s lower house of
parliament. Putin said Dec. 15 that Prokhorov would be a
“worthy and strong competitor” in the presidential race.  Earlier this year, Putin formed a political movement called
the All-Russia People’s Front, which includes members of
professional groups and other supporters who didn’t want to join
United  Russia . Some of the front’s leaders were added to United
Russia’s party list in the Duma vote and will become deputies
when it reconvenes next week.  Moscow Protests  Tens of thousands of people assembled in central Moscow on
Dec. 10 to protest the parliamentary vote after international
election monitors said there was evidence of ballot-box
stuffing. Another rally for as many as 50,000 people was
approved by Moscow city authorities for Dec. 24.  Some 1,500 people including about 200 reporters attended a
protest today on Bolotnaya Square, the site of last week’s
rally, Anatoly Lastovetsky, a Moscow police spokesman, said by
phone. The protest was peaceful and there were no detentions, he
said.  Moscow authorized a rally for as many as 10,000 people
today, according to a scanned  copy  of the permit posted by the
Yabloko party, one of the organizers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  