-- Euro Drops Most in 3 Months as Region’s Debt-Crisis Concern Damps Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2011-12-17T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/euro-drops-most-in-3-months-as-region-s-debt-crisis-concern-damps-demand.html
The euro fell against the dollar by
the most in more than three months and touched an 11-month low
as concern increased that the region’s leaders won’t be able to
contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency weakened as  Fitch Ratings  said
yesterday it lowered  France ’s rating outlook and put six other
European nations on review for a downgrade. Norway’s krone
dropped the most against the dollar among the majors after the
central bank cut its interest rate more than forecast. The
dollar strengthened against all of its most-traded peers as U.S.
consumer confidence rose this month, a survey showed before the
report next week.  “We’ve seen the market sell the euro on renewed
disappointment and renewed concerns about a possible mass
downgrade of credit ratings,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market
analyst in Washington at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a
currency brokerage. “The data in the U.S. points to continued
progress in the economic recovery and that’s another driver of
dollar strength.”  The euro dropped 2.5 percent to $1.3046 and touched $1.2946
Dec. 14, the lowest level since January. Its drop was the
biggest since the five-day period ended Sept. 9. The shared
currency weakened 2.3 percent to 101.47 yen. The dollar rose 0.1
percent to 77.76 yen.  Dollar Strength  The dollar has gained 1.7 percent against nine developed-
nation counterparts this year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has dropped 0.8 percent
and the yen strengthened 4.8 percent.  Futures traders increased their bets to a record level that
the euro will decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 116,457 on Dec.
13, compared with net shorts of 95,814 a week earlier.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, was 122 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate, unchanged from last
week’s rate. The measure reached 162 in November, which was the
most expensive level since October 2008.  The Norwegian krone dropped 3.7 percent to 5.9557 per
dollar and fell 1 percent to 7.7686 per euro.  Central Bank  The Norges Bank cut  interest rates  for the first time since
2009 on Dec. 14. It reduced its main interest rate to 1.75
percent from 2.25 percent, reversing part of a rate-increase
cycle that started in October 2009 as the euro debt crisis
threatens growth. The median estimate of 17 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey had predicted a cut to 2 percent.  The franc gained to a five-week high against the euro after
 Switzerland ’s central bank left its limit on the currency
unchanged Dec. 15, resisting pressure from exporters to further
curb its strength as officials assess deflation risks.  The  Swiss National Bank  kept the franc’s minimum exchange
rate at 1.20 per euro, in line with the forecasts of nine out of
13 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank also
maintained its benchmark interest rate at zero.  The franc appreciated 1.2 percent to 1.2210 per euro and
touched 1.2204 yesterday, the strongest level since Nov. 7. The
currency fell 1.4 percent to 93.60 centimes per dollar.  Fitch View  Fitch said a “comprehensive solution” to the euro-zone
crisis is “technically and politically beyond reach.” The
company said Dec. 12, without taking any action, that a European
Union leaders’ summit last week did little to ease pressure on
 Europe ’s sovereign bond ratings.  “There is a positive and negative camp and Fitch is
obviously in the negative,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist
at FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading firm Gain
Capital in Bedminster,  New Jersey . “The market is ahead of the
ratings agency and the declines we’ve seen in the euro is
pricing in a probability of a ratings cut.”  Standard & Poor’s  put 15 of the 17 euro nations on
“creditwatch negative” last week, pending the outcome of last
week’s summit and the actions of central bankers. The ratings
company said it would conclude its review of the ratings “as
soon as possible” following the leaders’ meeting.  European leaders unveiled a blueprint last week for a
closer fiscal accord to save the currency. They agreed to move
up the creation of the permanent European Stability Mechanism
and said that by March the EU will reassess plans to cap the
overall lending of the ESM and the temporary rescue fund at 500
billion euros ($652 billion).  Spain ’s Debt  The euro pared its weekly decline Dec. 15 after Spain sold
6.03 billion euros of bonds, compared with the maximum target of
3.5 billion euros the Treasury set for the auction. The
currency’s 14-day relative strength index against the dollar
fell to 29 Dec. 14, below the 30-level that some traders see as
a sign a currency may be poised to reverse direction.  The pound rose for four days against the euro, its longest
gaining streak since Sept. 5. It added 1.8 percent to 83.91
pence per euro. It fell 0.8 percent to $1.5545.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  refused to back the 27-
nation European Union pact at the talks, citing the need for
ironclad guarantees of a British veto right over future
financial regulations. Euro users are seeking to enshrine the
debt rules in a revised accord that leaves out the U.K.  Fed Meets  Federal Reserve policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  repeated their pledge to keep interest rates low
through mid-2013, while refraining from taking more steps to
lower borrowing costs.  The Fed’s policy-setting panel, which met in  Washington 
Dec. 13, said the economy “has been expanding moderately,”
compared with the Nov. 2 assessment that growth “strengthened
somewhat.” The central bank also said “strains in global
financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to
the economic outlook.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment rose to 68 this month, a six-month high,
according to the median estimate of 48 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The gauge will be published Dec. 22.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six trading
partners, rose 2 percent to 80.141 and touched 80.730 Dec. 14,
the highest since Jan. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  