-- FIFA Threatens to Suspend Switzerland Unless Sanctions Placed on FC Sion
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-12-17T16:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/fifa-threatens-to-suspend-switzerland-over-sion-transfer-ban.html
FIFA has threatened to suspend
 Switzerland  from international soccer next month if its national
federation does not enforce a transfer ban on club FC Sion.  The ban was imposed in 2009 after Sion broke regulations in
signing goalkeeper Essam El-Hadary. The club signed six new
players last summer and used five of them in a Europa League
playoff victory over Celtic, resulting in Sion being kicked out
of the competition.  Sion originally obtained an order from a Swiss court
requesting its re-instatement, which European soccer governing
body UEFA rejected. The club also lodged several appeals in the
courts before taking its case to the Court of Arbitration for
Sport, which this week upheld UEFA’s ruling.  FIFA told the Swiss Football Association it has until Jan.
13 to sanction the club or risk being suspended. Soccer’s ruling
body said in a statement on its  website  that it set the deadline
because of the “attitude of the club repeatedly trying to
circumvent this decision in a legally abusive manner.”  FIFA said “all matches in which the relevant players
participated shall be declared forfeit or three points shall be
deducted respectively” and the Swiss F.A. “will be
automatically suspended from 14 January 2012” if the deadline
is not met.  “We are disappointed,” Swiss F.A. President Peter
Gillieron said in comments on the federation’s website. “In
every event, we will do everything we can to clean up this
situation.”  A ban would mean Swiss club Basel would not be able to play
 Bayern Munich  in the Champions League round of 16 and
Switzerland’s national team would be barred from an exhibition
game against  Argentina  in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 