-- FIFA Anti-Corruption Panel May Be Further Expanded, Pieth Says
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-12-17T14:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/fifa-anti-corruption-panel-may-be-further-expanded-pieth-says.html
The panel advising FIFA on anti-
corruption measures is in talks to add more members, said Mark Pieth, the Swiss law professor hired last month to lead the
overhaul at soccer’s governing body.  Pieth announced  today  that he will be aided by a group of
nine “governance experts and football insiders” including
former U.K. Attorney General Peter Goldsmith and Sunil Gulati,
president of the U.S. Soccer Federation. Invitations to join the
panel have also been extended to an Asian sponsor, an Asian
marketing specialist and a club representative, though they have
yet to reply, said Pieth, who declined to name the three.  The governance committee led by Pieth will advise FIFA on
how to reorganize and implement anti-corruption controls after a
year of turmoil in which several executives were found guilty or
accused of wrongdoing during the selection process for the $4
billion  World Cup  and FIFA’s presidency. Pieth was not hired to
“police” the past and his advice is non-binding, he said.  “The main emphasis is doing something fast from now until
March,” Pieth said today in a telephone interview from  Basel ,
 Switzerland . “We have no decision power, so we have to
convince” FIFA.  Two of the nine governance committee members, Gulati and
Lydia Nsekera, the president of the Burundi football federation,
are part of FIFA. “A large part of the problem is within the
member associations,” said Pieth, adding that Nsekera and
Gulati will advise on changes for the associations.  Failed Bid  Gulati led the failed U.S. bid to host the 2022 World Cup,
which was won by gas-rich Qatar last December. The bid process
was marred by corruption allegations and the suspension of two
members investigated for vote-selling.  Other members, mainly governance experts, include Alexandra
Wrage, president and founder of TRACE, an international non-
profit association working with companies to raise their anti-
bribery compliance standards; and Michael Hershman, a corruption
monitor who helped  Siemens AG (SIE)  in 2008 to set up compliance
monitoring after a bribery scandal.  Transparency International, a global anti-corruption
watchdog that had been in talks with FIFA President Sepp Blatter
since July 25, cut its ties with the organization earlier this
month over growing skepticism about the reform plans,
questioning Pieth’s independence.  Rejections  Football Supporters  Europe , which has affiliations with fan
groups in 38 countries, also turned down an invitation to join
the governance committee because of doubts over its credibility,
the group said in a statement on its website yesterday.  “I probably underestimated the amount of explaining that
is needed,” said Pieth, who is hopeful both organizations may
still join the committee’s efforts.  Transparency International 
and FSE were the only parties who declined to join the
committee, Pieth said.  FIFA paid 120,000 Swiss francs ($128,000) for a report
entitled “Governing FIFA” that Pieth wrote as a blueprint for
the overhaul, which was paid to the University of Basel and the
Basel Institute on Governance, Swiss newspaper Handelszeitung
reported on Dec. 7, without saying how it got the information.
FIFA additionally pays a daily allowance of 5,000 francs, which
also is paid to the university or the institute, and not
directly to Pieth, according to the paper. Pieth declined to
comment on the amounts paid, confirming he does not personally
benefit from the payments.  Oil-for-Food  It is up to the committee members if they want to claim an
allowance for their work, said Pieth, a professor at the
University of Basel. FIFA will set up an audited account to pay
for expenses.  Pieth, who was chosen by the  United Nations  in 2004 to
serve on a team examining alleged corruption in the Iraqi oil-
for-food program, has said he’d walk away from the project if he
thinks FIFA isn’t serious about implementing change.  The release of key documents from a court case relating to
alleged bribes paid by now-defunct sports-marketing firm ISL is
“vital” to understanding the risks FIFA faces as an
organization, Pieth said.  The documents’ release, which was on the agenda at FIFA’s
executive committee meeting in  Tokyo  yesterday, was postponed
after a legal challenge from one of the named parties, Blatter
said on Dec. 6.  “The executive has confirmed that it will be released
later,” FIFA said in a  statement  on its website today.  The British Broadcasting Corporation has reported that the
document implicates former FIFA President  Joao Havelange  and the
2014 World Cup organizing committee President Ricardo Teixeira,
who has asked for a leave of absence until the end of next
month. Havelange resigned as an International Olympic Committee
member earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 