-- Obama Thanks Veterans, Calls for Unity as U.S. War in Iraq Ends
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2011-12-17T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/obama-thanks-veterans-calls-for-unity-as-u-s-war-in-iraq-ends.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Americans should honor the end of the war in  Iraq  and returning
U.S. troops by setting aside political differences to respond to
economic challenges.  “This is a moment for us to build a country that lives up
to the ideals that so many of our bravest Americans have fought
and even died for,” Obama said in his weekly radio and  Internet 
address. “That is our highest obligation as citizens. That is
the welcome home that our troops deserve.”  In his appeal for unity, the president said, “There’s a
reason our military is the most respected institution in
America. They don’t see themselves or each other as Democrats
first or Republicans first. They see themselves as Americans
first.”  On Dec. 15, a ceremony in  Baghdad  marked the end of the
 Iraq war  that began in 2003. A day earlier, Obama visited Fort
Bragg in  North Carolina  to address recently returned troops.  Obama taped his radio address yesterday, as congressional
lawmakers were in final negotiations over a $1 trillion spending
bill to avert a U.S. government shutdown. Lawmakers also reached
agreement on plans to extend a payroll-tax cut that would
otherwise expire at year’s end and increase workers’ payroll
taxes by 2 percentage points.  Democratic and Republican leaders in the Senate said last
night they had reached an agreement in principle on a plan to
extend the payroll-tax cut through February.  Oil Pipeline  The plan also includes a provision, which Obama opposes, to
expedite approval of a Canadian oil pipeline that divides his
Democratic base. Some Democrats oppose the pipeline because of
environmental concerns while organized labor supports it.  Permitting for TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline
could go forward under the provision unless the Obama
administration acts within 60 days to halt the process. The
administration had earlier postponed until after the 2012
election a decision on the permit. The pipeline would link
 Canada ’s oil sands with refineries in  Texas .  Senator  John Barrasso  of  Wyoming  said in the Republican
radio and Internet  response  that when he spoke with Wyoming
National Guard troops deployed overseas, during the Thanksgiving
holiday, “What these soldiers were most concerned about was
whether they would be able to find a good job when they
return.”  Barrasso said the Keystone pipeline could help. He said the
project could create as many as 20,000 construction jobs and
100,000 indirect jobs and transport 700,000 barrels of oil a day
to U.S. refineries. He said the environmental groups that oppose
the project are “extreme” and that the administration has
delayed a permitting decision because Obama is “playing
politics.”  “If the president successfully blocks these new jobs, it
will only add to his long list of bad economic decisions for our
country,” Barrasso said. “While the president may have
inherited a bad economy, he has made it worse.  ‘‘We need more from the White House than threats to veto a
bill that would create 20,000 jobs for Americans.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  