-- Washi Kills 652 in Worst Philippine Storm of 2011 as Hundreds More Missing
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2011-12-18T16:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/philippine-storm-kills-177-250-missing-after-flash-floods.html
Tropical Storm Washi, the most-
devastating cyclone to hit the  Philippines  this year, killed at
least 652 people, according to the Red Cross. With hundreds
still unaccounted for, the death toll is likely to rise.  Washi pummeled northern Mindanao, which is unaccustomed to
cyclones, overflowing rivers and flooding coastal cities at the
early hours of Dec. 17 while people were asleep. The storm
dumped 181 millimeters of rain per hour compared to the 25
millimeters per hour typical in the region, said Benito Ramos,
administrator of the Office of  Civil Defense . Local governments
didn’t carry out preemptive evacuations even after warnings of
flooding and landslides, he said.  The Philippines is regularly battered by cyclones that form
over the  Pacific Ocean , usually sparing southern provinces. In
September 2009, Typhoon Ketsana flooded  Manila  and parts of
Luzon, killing more than 400 people. Shortly after, Typhoon
Parma followed a similar path, leading to a  combined death toll 
of at least 929 people, damaging more than 38 billion pesos
($867 million) of homes, infrastructure and farm output.  “It seems we have not learned our lessons from these
calamities,” said  Richard Gordon , chairman of the Philippine
Red Cross in a phone interview yesterday. The death toll may
have been capped by preemptive evacuation and if local bodies
had been informed about the amount of rainfall to be expected.  The  National Disaster  Risk Reduction and Management Council
counted the dead at 334 with 281 missing in its 8 p.m. report.
More than 46,000 are in evacuation areas, it said. Washi exited
the nation as of 10 p.m., the  Philippine Atmospheric ,
Geophysical & Astronomical Services Administration said.  ‘Shallow Grave’  “The death toll is rising very fast,”  Red Cross  Secretary
General Gwen Pang said on Dec. 17. “It’s a combination of heavy
rainfall, strong currents, swollen rivers and high tides.” More
than 808 people are missing, Pang said yesterday. The disaster
management council said 4,404 homes were damaged.  Cagayan de Oro, which suffered the biggest death toll in
northern Mindanao, needs potable water after floods damaged
pipes, Major Eugenio Osias said yesterday. Social Works
Department activated 68 million pesos worth of supplies and
assistance for storm-ravaged areas, the disaster council said.  Funeral parlors have refused to embalm bodies in advanced
stages of decomposition, Iligan City Mayor Lawrence Cruz told
ABS-CBN News Channel yesterday.  ”We decided to dig a shallow grave and bury them
temporarily because this will cause sickness,” he said.  The government is coordinating with the military in
providing makeshift coffins, President  Benigno Aquino ’s
spokeswoman Abigail Valte told local radio.  ‘Huge Damage’  A military aircraft was scheduled to deliver about 1,500
bottles of drinking water yesterday afternoon, said Edwin Lacierda, a presidential spokesman. Evacuation centers need
portable toilets, Cruz said.  The nation’s weather bureau on Dec. 16 warned against
floods, landslides and strong winds and placed more than a dozen
provinces on alert. Residents ignored flood warnings, Social
Welfare Secretary Dinky Soliman said on Dec. 17.  President Aquino called a meeting of the national disaster
council, ordered the social welfare and interior departments to
assist victims and called for a review of the nation’s disaster
response and preparedness. Aquino is scheduled to fly to the
region on Dec. 20.  “We’re expecting huge damage, especially in agriculture,”
Civil Defense’s Ramos said on Dec. 17.  Northern Mindanao produces rice, the Philippines’ staple
food, and is also home to pineapple and banana plantations,
including those of  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM) ’s local unit.  Dimming Hopes  In Cagayan de Oro, 346 people died, mostly in flash floods
while 206 were killed in Iligan City, 47 in Bukidnon and 36 in
Negros Oriental, Red Cross’s Pang said. Deaths were also
recorded in Zamboanga del Norte, Surigao del Sur, Compostela
Valley and Lanao del Norte.  Some bodies were recovered as far as 60 kilometers from
Iligan, swept by floods, Cruz said. Chances of finding the
missing are becoming dimmer, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at   cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  