-- Treasuries Gain Most in Six Weeks
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2011-12-17T05:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/treasuries-advance-the-most-in-six-weeks-as-debt-crisis-exit-eludes-europe.html
Treasuries  advanced the most since
early November as optimism that a summit a week ago would spur a
resolution of Europe’s debt crisis faded amid political discord,
fueling investor demand for U.S. government bonds as a refuge.  The benchmark 10-year note yield touched a two-month low
yesterday as  Fitch Ratings  reduced  France ’s outlook and put the
grades of nations including  Spain  and  Italy  on review for a
downgrade. Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 12 it will review
all EU countries’ ratings.  Record demand at this week’s
Treasuries offerings added to optimism investor interest will
remain strong at next week’s $99 billion in note sales.  “The appetite for Treasuries remains the biggest on the
planet,” said Paul Montaquila, head of fixed-income trading in
 San Ramon ,  California , at Bank of the West. “The uncertainty
about what’s going on in Europe is superseding everything else.
Treasuries continue to be the No. 1 asset to have.”  Ten-year yields  slid 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage
point, to 1.85 percent yesterday in  New York , from 2.06 percent
on Dec. 9, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the
biggest drop since the five days ended Nov. 4. The yields
touched 1.83 percent, the least since Oct. 5, approaching the
record 1.67 percent low reached Sept. 23. The price of the 2
percent securities due in November 2021 increased 1 29/32, or
$19.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 3/8.  Thirty-year bond  yields fell 26 basis points this week to
2.85 percent and  five-year yields  dropped nine basis points to
0.80 percent in their biggest decreases since Nov. 4.  Yield Gap  The gap between yields on two- and 30-year securities
narrowed for the first week since November, shrinking to 2.63
percentage points. The 2011 average is 3.5 percentage points.  The Treasury will sell next week $35 billion of two-year
notes, the same amount of five-year debt and $29 billion of
seven-year securities. The daily auctions begin Dec. 19. The
amounts were unchanged from the last offerings of the maturities
in November.  The government auctioned $12 billion in five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities Dec. 15 at a record low yield of
negative 0.877 percent.  The offering capped the sale of $78 billion in notes, bonds
and inflation-linked debt this week. The government auctioned
$13 billion in 30-year bonds Dec. 14 at a  record low  yield of
2.925 percent, drawing 3.05 times more bids than the amount
sold, the highest level since August 2000. Sales of 10- and
three-year notes also drew stronger-than-average demand as
investors sought refuge.  ‘Few Places’  “People don’t feel comfortable being anywhere but in
Treasuries,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “There
are few places to park money that are safe. Supply doesn’t
matter.”  Treasuries climbed yesterday after  Germany ’s Bundesbank said
it saw no urgent need for a decision on a loan to the
 International Monetary Fund , suggesting the Dec. 19 deadline set
by European Union leaders may be missed. EU leaders decided Dec.
9 at their summit to channel an additional 200 billion euros
($261 billion) in loans to the IMF to help fight the crisis.  “We want to evaluate the whole situation,” a spokesman
for the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said by telephone.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads a group of
finance ministers from the region, said the EU should meet the
deadline. Juncker also told reporters in Luxembourg yesterday
the euro region is “on the brink of a recession.”  No Clarity  There’s no clarity on how  Europe  will resolve its crisis
amid the region’s political turmoil, Ira Jersey, an interest-
rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve , said
yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Radio with Sara Eisen and
 Erik Schatzker .  “Treasuries are the beneficiaries of that,” Jersey said.  Fitch said yesterday a “comprehensive solution” to the
euro-area crisis is “technically and politically beyond
reach.” It changed its outlook on France to negative, while
affirming its AAA rating. It also placed Spain, Italy, Belgium,
 Slovenia , Ireland and Cyprus on a “Rating Watch Negative”
review, which it expects to complete by the end of January,
according to a statement released in  London .  Moody’s cut  Belgium ’s credit rating two levels to Aa3
yesterday, citing borrowing costs and slowing growth. The firm
said earlier in the week the European summit offered few new
measures and didn’t diminish the risk of rating revisions.  Standard & Poor’s  said on Dec. 5 it expected to conclude a
review of euro-area sovereign ratings “as soon as possible”
after the summit.  Euro Drops  The euro slid for a second week as investors sought safety,
dropping below $1.30 for the first time since January. Stocks
dropped, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down 2.8 percent.  U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spreads, a measure of
stress in credit markets, increased yesterday to 51 basis
points, the widest since Nov. 30 on an intraday basis, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The gap between what banks and the Treasury pay to borrow
money for three months, known as the TED spread, was 57 basis
points yesterday, the highest level since May 2009.  Treasuries have returned 9.9 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master index, headed
for the highest gain on a yearly basis since 2008.  U.S. consumer prices stagnated last month, the Labor
Department said yesterday. The data supported the Fed’s
statement after a meeting this week that inflation has moderated
even as stimulus measures began to sustain growth. The unchanged
reading in the consumer-price index followed a 0.1 percent
decline in October.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt, narrowed yesterday for a fourth day, the longest
stretch in a month, reaching 1.91 percentage points. The 10-year
average is 2.13 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  