-- Governor Romney Tries to Stop Gingrich Surge in S. Carolina
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2011-12-17T21:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/romney-tries-to-stop-gingrich-surge-in-s-c-.html
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney courted Republican primary voters in  South Carolina  with
rallies and his first campaign ads in the state, which holds the
third contest in the 2012 Republican nominating race.  South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, a Republican, has
endorsed Romney and appeared with him for a second day. Her
state’s primary next month, after Iowa and  New Hampshire , has
influenced the outcome nominations before: Victories there by
 George W. Bush  in 2000 and  John McCain  in 2008 made them
favorites to become the Republican presidential candidate.  “I need your vote,” Romney said at a town hall meeting
today in Charleston, South Carolina. “I want to win in South
Carolina,” he told reporters yesterday after a rally at a
firehouse near Greenville with Haley.  Romney is bolstering his effort as former House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , who has said South Carolina is crucial
to his chances of winning the nomination, leads opinion polls.
South Carolina’s primary is Jan. 21. The Iowa caucuses are Jan.
3, and the  New Hampshire  primary is Jan. 10.  “I’ve always thought that once we get to South Carolina
and  Florida , I could begin to win the race decisively,”
Gingrich said Dec. 15 in an interview on Iowa Public Television.  A Dec. 4-6 poll by NBC News and the Marist College
Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie,  New York , showed
Gingrich leading Romney in South Carolina, 41 percent to 21
percent. Gingrich had 6 percent in an October 11-13 NBC-Marist
survey, which had businessman Herman Cain ahead of Romney, 30
percent to 26 percent.  Washington  Outsider  Romney criticized Gingrich, a former House speaker who
stayed in Washington, telling reporters in Charleston that
voters “want people outside Washington coming in to change
Washington.” He said his background would be more appealing to
anti-tax, small-government  Tea Party  supporters than Gingrich,
who spent two decades in the U.S. House.  “On the issues of the day, I line up pretty well with the
Tea Partyers,” Romney said.  Haley, who was elected last year with backing Tea Party
activists, sounded a similar theme.  “I didn’t want to endorse anyone who had anything to with
Washington,” Haley said during her appearance at a town hall
meeting with Romney in Myrtle Beach.  Asked today if Gingrich was a lobbyist, Romney said, “I’m
going to let the lawyers decide what is and what isn’t lobbying,
but when it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, typically
it’s a duck.” Gingrich was paid $1.6 million in consulting fees
by  Freddie Mac , the government-backed mortgage company, after he
left Congress.  Suggested More Regulation  Gingrich, speaking to  Iowa  supporters on a conference call,
said he “never once advocated that people do something for
Fannie or Freddie” and that he “actually suggested they needed
more regulations.”  “We were paid annually for six years, so the numbers you
see are six years of work,” he said. “Most of that money went
to pay for overhead, for staff, for other things that didn’t go
directly to me.”  Romney has drawn enthusiastic crowds on this trip.
Organizers had to close the doors at a Greenville firehouse
because they reached capacity, and the extra chairs they brought
in weren’t enough for the standing room-only audience in Myrtle
Beach.  ‘I Can Win’  “I can win,” Romney said in Charleston, where he was the
latest Republican candidate to appear with freshman
Representative  Tim Scott , who is neutral so far. Romney cited
his business experience, saying “those years in the private
sector helped me understand how the economy works. That kind of
experience is what America is looking for.”  The former governor’s first campaign ad mentions how he has
been married to the same woman for 42 years, a contrast with the
thrice-married Gingrich.  Romney, a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
Day Saints, didn’t talk about his religion. In October, Romney
called on rival  Rick Perry  to denounce comments by a supporter,
a Baptist minister, who likened the Mormon religion to a
“cult.” Last week, Gingrich dismissed an Iowa campaign aide
for calling Mormonism a “cult” during a voter focus group.
South Carolina is a state with a large evangelical Christian
community.  Haley, the daughter of Indian immigrants and a convert to
Christianity, said her election shows that Romney’s Mormon
religion won’t be an obstacle to his efforts to win over South
Carolina Republicans.  “Whatever a person’s faith is, that’s not going to be an
issue with my constituents,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, at 
   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 