-- Rusoro May Turn to Arbitration to Resolve Venezuela Gold Mining Dispute
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2011-12-17T14:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/rusoro-may-turn-to-arbitration-to-resolve-venezuela-gold-mining-dispute.html
Rusoro Mining Ltd. (RML)  said it may file
a claim against  Venezuela  in an international arbitration court
if negotiations to resolve the nationalization of its assets
aren’t resolved within six months.  Rusoro, a Vancouver-based gold mining company, said a 90-
day period to form a joint venture with the government following
the nationalization of the gold industry in September has
expired. The company hasn’t been told about the status of the
venture or any possible compensation.  “Rusoro remains open to continue amicable discussions with
the Venezuelan government,” the company said in a statement
distributed late yesterday on Marketwire. “However, absent an
acceptable settlement with the Venezuelan government during the
next six months, Rusoro reserves its right to submit its claims
for adequate and effective compensation to an international
arbitral tribunal.”  President  Hugo Chavez , who has seized assets in the oil,
mining, cement, steel, agriculture and banking industries during
his 12 years in power, decreed the nationalization of the gold
industry this year in an attempt to curtail what he said was
illegal activities from “mafias.” Venezuela currently faces
about 18 arbitration cases in the  World Bank ’s  investment
dispute center , including four for mining projects.  Bilateral Violations  Rusoro said it informed Venezuela that it’s violating
investment protection agreements between Canada and  Russia  over
the nationalization decree and the failure to form a venture
within the 90-day period.  Andre Agapov, Rusoro’s chief executive officer, said in an
Aug. 30 interview that the gold miner was in talks with state
oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA to form a joint venture at
its mines in Bolivar state. Since then, Chavez transferred
mining activities to the oil ministry, led by  Rafael Ramirez .  “The company has not been informed by the Venezuelan
government of an extension to the 90-day period, nor does it
have information whether its mineral titles and rights have
expired and reverted” to the government, the company said in
the statement. Since the announcement, “meetings have been held
with government representatives in order to try to reach an
amicable agreement on adequate and effective compensation for
Rusoro, without success.”  The nationalization decree, published Sept. 16, affects the
Choco and Isidora mines, and Rusoro’s exploration, evaluation
and development properties in Venezuela, the company said on
Nov. 30.  Since Chavez’s Aug. 17 announcement to nationalize the
industry, Rusoro’s stock has fallen more than 28 percent to 10
Canadian cents. The company’s share price has plunged 75 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 