-- Senators Lament ‘Maintenance Congress’ Passing Short Tax Cut
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2011-12-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/senate-extends-payroll-tax-cut-by-two-months.html
The  U.S. Senate  voted to extend an
expiring payroll tax cut for two months, with senators
concluding their work for the year by putting the same tax cut
on their agenda for early in 2012.  The 89-10 vote yesterday sends the $33 billion measure to
the U.S. House of Representatives, where lawmakers could vote as
soon as tomorrow to send it to President  Barack Obama . The
legislation also extends emergency unemployment benefits,
prevents a cut in doctors’ reimbursements under Medicare and
calls on Obama to decide on approving a Canadian oil pipeline
within 60 days.  The agreement will give a temporary reprieve to workers
concerned about seeing their take-home pay decline. Even as most
senators voted for the compromise reached by Republican and
Democratic leaders Dec. 16, many said as they left the Capitol
yesterday that they weren’t satisfied with their work.  “We’re just becoming more of an extenders Congress, a
short-term Congress, a maintenance Congress, and that makes our
work here more difficult,” Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat who heads the Finance Committee, told reporters. “More
importantly, it causes much more uncertainty among people in the
country. It’s really a disservice to the country.”  Obama urged the House to pass the bill and said he would
sign it.  “I’m very pleased,” he said yesterday at the White House.
Obama said it was his “expectation” that Congress would extend
the payroll tax cut for the rest of 2012.  “It would be inexcusable for Congress not to further
extend this middle-class tax cut for the remainder of the
year,” Obama said. “It should be a formality, and hopefully is
done with as little drama as possible.”  ‘Classic Way’  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican who was Obama’s
opponent in 2008, said the year-end vote was the “classic way”
Congress operates.  “Go to the edge of the cliff again and pull back,” he
told reporters, grimacing. “It will give you things to write
about.”  When they return to Washington in January, lawmakers will
reprise the themes and issues they have been debating for
months.  Democrats plan to again make the case for raising taxes for
high earners as a way to cover the cost of the expiring  payroll 
tax cut. Republicans blocked several attempts by Democrats to
offset the payroll tax cut through a surtax on income exceeding
$1 million. The payroll tax funds Social Security.  “It’s a fight we welcome,” Senator  Charles Schumer , a New
York Democrat, told reporters yesterday. “We’d like to fight on
that issue every day.”  Pipeline Issue  Senator Robert Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat, said he
didn’t think Democrats have lost any leverage over Republicans
by agreeing to a two-month extension and to the pipeline
language.  “You want to talk about leverage?” he said. “There are
160 million American workers who are depending upon people in
both parties to make sure the payroll tax cut is in place for
the entire year, and if you’re not in favor of that, I think you
have a lot of explaining to do.”  Republicans, emboldened by their success in adding the
Canadian Keystone pipeline language to the bill, said they will
consider conditions for another extension. One possibility, said
Republican  Mark Kirk  of  Illinois , would be language limiting
industrial boiler regulation that was in the House-passed
version of the bill.  Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , of  Kentucky , claimed credit for the inclusion of the
pipeline language, saying the project would spur immediate  job
creation  if Obama approved it.  “Here’s the single-largest shovel-ready project in
America,” McConnell said today. “It is literally ready to go,
pending the approval of the president.”  ‘Ammunition’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters Dec. 16 that the deal was “the best we could get.”
He said Democrats will be better positioned to push for a long-
term extension in February because lawmakers won’t also be
negotiating a spending measure to keep the government funded.  “We have a lot of ammunition,” he said. “We will not
have the threat of the government shutting down in two months.”  Lawmakers will have difficulty agreeing on ways to pay for
further extensions of the payroll tax cut and other expiring
provisions to avoid increasing the  budget deficit . The House
passed year-long extensions Dec. 13 that included a pay freeze
on federal civilian employees and Medicare premium increases on
higher earners that Democrats oppose.  “It’s just devilishly hard to do things that, to me, are
so clear need to be done,” said Senator  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat who chairs the Budget Committee. “That’s really
what it gets down to, is a dispute on pay-fors. We’ve got to do
better.”  The payroll tax cut extension limits the benefit of the 2
percentage-point cut to the first $18,350 of wages or self-
employment income earned in January and February. That’s one-
sixth of the $110,100 limit of annual earnings subject to the
Social Security cap.  That restriction means that high earners may not be able to
receive the full benefit of the tax break on their January and
February wages.  Covering the Cost  The cost of the bill is covered by raising the guarantee
fees that government-backed mortgage companies  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  charge to lenders for new home loans.  The  mortgage  fee provision raises by 10 basis points the
fees that  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac charge lenders. It makes a
similar change to loans guaranteed by the  Federal Housing
Administration . The Fannie and Freddie fees are permanent; the
FHA change expires in 2021.  Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia Democrat who opposed
the bill, criticized the rush to exit for the year.  “It makes no sense for two months to come back and fight
the same fight we’ve been fighting for how long now,” he said.
“I feel very strongly that we need to stay here and fix
things.”  The bill is HR 3630.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  