-- Boehner Says House Republicans Want to Extend Payroll-Tax Cut for One Year
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-12-18T22:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/u-s-senate-passes-payroll-tax-cut-extension.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said he
and fellow House Republicans oppose Senate legislation to extend
through February a payroll tax cut and  long-term unemployment 
benefits and will push to continue the measures through 2012.  Congress should “stop, do our work and extend for one
year,” Boehner said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” today. He said
a two-month addition creates uncertainty for employers as they
budget for 2012. A “reasonable, responsible” compromise could
be reached, he said, and suggested a formal conference committee
between the House and the Senate to resolve differences between
the two chambers.  “We’ve got two weeks to get this done,” he said. The tax
cuts expire at the end of this year. “It’s time to do this the
right way.”  Boehner’s call for negotiations threw into question the
outcome of the payroll-tax debate just a day after the Senate
approved a $33 billion, two-month extension on an 89-10 vote.
The top two Senate leaders in both parties indicated a
willingness to continue discussing a longer-term deal after
Boehner made his remarks.  Bipartisan Majority  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said Boehner should
proceed with the Senate-approved payroll tax measure, “which
passed the Senate with an overwhelming majority of Democratic
and Republican votes.” Not doing so, he said, could spark a tax
increase for workers on Jan. 1.  Later, his spokesman said Reid isn’t opposed to continuing
to negotiate for a longer extension if the House first acted on
the Senate legislation.  “Senator Reid has been trying to negotiate a yearlong
extension of the payroll tax credit with Republicans for
weeks,” Adam Jentleson said in an e-mail.  A spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said
today that the Republican Senate leader thinks the best way to
resolve House Republican concerns with the Senate bill is to
move immediately to further negotiations with the House.  “The House and the President both want a full-year
extension,” said McConnell spokesman  Don Stewart . “The best
way to resolve the difference between the two-month extension
and the full-year bill, and provide certainty for job creators,
employees and the long-term unemployed, is through regular
order, as the Speaker suggested.”  White House Frustration  White House officials expressed frustration. White House
spokesman  Dan Pfeiffer  issued a statement saying Boehner should
“stop playing politics” and push the Senate-passed compromise
through the House.  “It’s time House Republicans stop playing politics and get
the job done for the American people,” he said in the
statement.  Boehner’s comments today followed a 90-minute conference
call with Republican lawmakers yesterday during which “the
pushback” by the rank and file members “was a lot stronger
than the leadership thought” they would encounter, Georgia
Representative Jack Kingston said in telephone interview. He
predicted the House would vote to appoint negotiators to
reconcile the two versions of the legislation.  “A lot of senior members were pretty agitated” by the
Senate measure, Kingston said.  House Republicans  were surprised
that bill passed the Senate with 89 votes, he said.  “People were flabbergasted this was all the stand-up
Republicans could give us,” he said. “We thought McConnell was
hanging out for something stronger.”  Republicans told leaders to get this issue settled
correctly or “we will be here over Christmas if that’s what it
takes,” he said.  Doctors’ Reimbursements  Members were upset that the Senate measure made no
changes to the unemployment insurance program and urged leaders
to “really push” to make sure to extend the Medicare
reimbursement rate for doctors for a year, he said. The Senate
measure would avert a 27 percent drop in Medicare reimbursements
for just two months.  Many doctors “are really small businessmen and if they
don’t know what the government reimbursement is going to be for
the next year” that’s “a huge disadvantage,” he said.  With the House set to return to  Washington  tomorrow,
Republican leaders are studying their options, Laena Fallon, a
spokeswoman for House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, said in an e-mail.  House Options  When the House meets tomorrow, it will either vote to amend
the Senate-passed measure “so that it is responsible and in
line with the needs of hard-working taxpayers and middle class
families” or vote to appoint representatives to a House-Senate
conference to reconcile differences between the two chambers,
she said.  “We owe the middle class, employers and doctors better
than a two-month extension,” she said. “Washington is already
causing massive uncertainty to those struggling in the Obama
economy.”  “If there is a will there is a way,” said William Galston, a senior fellow for governance studies at  Brookings
Institution , a policy center in Washington. “The bottom line
question is whether either party is really willing to let this
entire negotiation collapse.”  For Boehner to express his opposition to the Senate bill
“that bluntly on national TV is to lay down a marker from which
it is not so easy to retreat,” Galston said. “If the House
goes down this road, I think there will be a lot of pressure on
the Senate Majority Leader to try and resolve this issue.”  Democratic Split  Senate Democratic leaders publicly split over how to handle
the dispute.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the No. 3 Democratic
leader, said Republicans should act on the Senate bill or take
political blame for no measure making it into law.  “If House Republicans let taxes go up on the middle class
on January 1, it could very well cost them the majority in the
House next year,” Schumer said in a statement. “And they will
deserve it.”  Hours later, Senator  Richard Durbin , the No. 2 Democratic
leader, said talks on a compromise must begin.  “America has had its fill this year of repeated political
ultimatums from Speaker Boehner,” said Durbin, an Illinois
Democrat. “We can and we must negotiate a long-term agreement
after the House passes the Senate’s bipartisan agreement.”  Paying for Cuts  Any talks are complicated by disagreement over how to pay
for a yearlong payroll-tax cut extension, with Democrats saying
they oppose House Republican proposals that include cuts to
Medicare.  Democrats said yesterday that debating the issue again in
February would only strengthen their hand, while Republicans
would be under pressure in an election year to extend the tax
cuts though 2012.  Boehner hasn’t spoken to Reid about House members’ concerns
about the bill nor does he have any immediate plans to, Boehner
spokesman Steel said today. Asked when a decision would be made
about whether to amend the bill or ask for a conference, Steel
would say only that a decision would be made before the vote.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he was “very
pleased” with the Senate deal.  His remarks at the White House after the Senate passed the
plan belied months of negotiations on a bigger package that
Obama and Democrats wanted and were unable to get: A yearlong
extension of the payroll-tax cut along with a surtax on
millionaires.  For their part, Republicans have fallen short on efforts to
force the permitting of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil
pipeline from  Canada  to U.S. refineries, or to attach to a
separate spending bill limits on family planning funding,
environmental regulation and expanded health-care coverage.  Political Gridlock  The last-minute negotiating before lawmakers break for the
holidays caps a year in which congressional gridlock brought the
nation close to default during a debt-limit standoff and Obama
had to settle for less than the so-called grand bargain of $4
trillion in deficit reduction that he once envisioned.  The world’s largest economy lost 8.75 million jobs as a
result of the recession that began in December 2007 and ended in
June 2009. It has regained 2.46 million in the subsequent
recovery. The jobless rate has exceeded 8 percent since February
2009, the longest stretch of such levels of unemployment since
monthly records began in 1948.  Concern over a European economic slump precipitated by the
region’s debt crisis has helped push down yields on U.S.
Treasury securities, showing investors are less concerned with
the U.S. budget debate. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note
dropped to 1.85 percent late on Dec. 16, compared to this year’s
closing high of 3.74 percent reached in February.  Treasuries have returned 9.9 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master index, headed
for the highest gain on a yearly basis since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  