-- Vitro Units Ordered to Withdraw Consent to Restructuring Plan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/vitro-units-ordered-to-withdraw-consent-to-restructuring-plan.html
Units of  Vitro SAB (VITROA) , the Mexican
glassmaker that defaulted on $1.5 billion of bonds, were ordered
by a  New York  judge to withdraw consent to a restructuring plan
in a Mexican  bankruptcy court .  The subsidiaries are “directed to withdraw their consent
to any plan reorganization of Vitro that purports to release the
guarantees, to take such other actions as may be required to
give effect to such withdrawal,” according to yesterday’s
ruling.  A copy of the decision by New York Supreme Court Justice
Bernard J. Fried was provided by Dennis Hranitzky, an attorney
for ad hoc noteholders opposing the restructuring plan. He
declined to comment on the ruling.  Roberto Riva Palacio, a Vitro spokesman, confirmed the
ruling in an e-mail. Vitro “is not in agreement and as such we
will exercise our right to challenge it,” he wrote. The ruling
couldn’t be independently confirmed with the court after regular
business hours yesterday.  The restructuring proposal presented to a judge in
Monterrey,  Mexico , by the court-appointed arbitrator would
include $814.6 million of new bonds maturing in 2019 with an
interest rate of 8 percent and $95.8 million of debt convertible
to shares with an interest rate of 12 percent.  Consenting creditors would probably get securities and cash
with a recovery on current face value of 47.6 percent to 60
percent, depending on how many holders agree, Jacob Steinfeld, a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in New York, said in a Nov. 7 note.
Non-consenting creditors would recover less, he said.  Dissenting creditors on Oct. 19 presented a restructuring
plan to the arbitrator proposing $1.1 billion of new bonds, a
cash payment of 10 percent of the outstanding principal of
existing notes and a 61 percent stake in common shares of Vitro,
based in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  