-- Women to Win More Government Contracts Following WTO Agreement
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2011-12-17T17:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/women-to-win-more-government-contracts-following-wto-agreement.html
Women entrepreneurs, with full or
partial ownership of more than a third of global businesses, win
just 1 percent of government contracts, according to Patricia
Francis, executive director of the International Trade Centre.  They may get a bigger piece of that pie as a World Trade
Organization agreement opens up purchasing to more competition,
minimizing cronyism and nepotism that have capped women’s access
to such business, she said in an interview today in Geneva.  “Women don’t think of themselves in certain kinds of
positions, and therefore you need role models, you need an
outreach program, you need to get a process of engagement,”
said Francis.  The disparity is particularly pronounced in  developing
countries , although women in rich economies also get a
disproportionately small share of such contracts, according to
the ITC, the Geneva-based joint agency of the WTO and the  United
Nations . While 5 percent of federal contracts worth about $30
billion were to be allocated to female business owners in the
U.S. last year, the actual number fell short of that figure.  “In the U.S., government procurement for women is less
than 5 percent,” former Atlanta Mayor Shirley Franklin told a
roundtable meeting in Geneva on the sidelines of the WTO’s
ministerial conference. “That tells all of us that there are
still barriers to procurement opportunities.”  On Dec. 15, after more than a decade of negotiations, the
WTO clinched an agreement opening government-procurement
contracts worth as much as $100 billion to foreign competition.  Empowerment  Robert Anderson, a counselor in the WTO’s intellectual
property division, said the procurement accord is “very
important for women” even though it covers no countries in
 Africa , where women are a growing economic force.  “The vision should be that women are also engaged in
selling goods and services internationally,” he said. “We have
to begin locally, but to really enrich and carry forward the
development project and the empowerment project, it’s important
that women suppliers in Africa shouldn’t only be thinking about
supplying their own governments.”  Governments in many African countries put up obstacles to
women interested in becoming entrepreneurs or politicians, said
Kenya’s Water Minister Charity Ngilu, who began her own business
career in the early 1980s when she opened a bakery.  “Every day I’m fighting with the government to say ‘please
open the doors for women,’” she said at the roundtable. “Women
are locked outside business. For the few women with power, it is
so difficult. You can hardly make a contribution that will be
heard and implemented.”  Education and outreach will be the keys to teaching women
about the procurement process and helping to ensure that at
least 5 percent of government contracts -- which in most nations
account for between 15 percent and 20 percent of output -- are
awarded to women within seven years, said the ITC’s Francis.  “We need a proactive process to let women understand what
the opportunities are, work with them on ensuring that they meet
standards required for procurement and to get them networked
together,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  