-- WTO Meeting Fails to Make Progress on Global Trade Negotiations
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2011-12-17T20:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/wto-meeting-fails-to-make-progress-on-global-trade-negotiations.html
The  World Trade Organization  wrapped
up its ministerial meeting without deciding how to revive global
commerce talks, focusing instead on welcoming  Russia  to the fold
and securing a government-procurement accord.  Efforts to reach an agreement during the Doha Round of
trade talks have been blocked for years as the countries fail to
make concessions on lowering agriculture subsidies and
industrial tariffs. Ministers including U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  have said the round needs a new approach
after a decade of unsuccessful attempts to bridge gaps among 153
nations.  The highlights of the three-day ministerial meeting that
began in Geneva on Dec. 15 were the accessions of Russia, Samoa
and Montenegro and a 42-nation agreement that opens up
government-procurement contracts valued at as much as $100
billion to more foreign competition.  “We have set a good example in these three days,” said
Nigerian Trade and Investment Minister Olusegun Aganga, chairman
of the ministerial conference. “We have sent a strong
collective message that the WTO is more than ever important to
the world. We have seen constructive dialogue among ministers,
which has improved the WTO’s atmosphere.”  Efforts to reach a global trade deal won’t progress until
the negotiations address changes that have occurred since the
round began, Kirk said. Exceptional growth, especially by  China ,
“presents us with one of the biggest challenges confronting our
work on trade and development,” he said.  ‘Not the Same’  “A one-size-fits-all approach does not accurately reflect
the realities of the world we live in,” Kirk told
ministers. “ Developing countries  are not the same, and
pretending that they are contributes to the deadlock in our
discussion on many of these important issues.”  While a “meeting of minds” is important to advance the
Doha Round, it’s not enough, said WTO Director-General  Pascal Lamy , 64, who said he won’t seek a third term as the trade
arbiter’s head after his current term ends in mid-2013.  “We need a joining of hands so we can undertake the hard
work required on a number of issues,” he told journalists.  The conference underscored the fact that the WTO must move
the negotiating agenda forward to remain relevant and that such
a move will be gradual, Lamy said.  “We leave this ministerial, which was not a high-ambition
ministerial, with a better sense of priorities for the next
years,” Lamy said. “That’s the sort of guidance we all
needed.”  More Than Doha  “While the  Doha Round  is indeed stuck, it is important to
recognize that the WTO is about more than Doha,” said
Christopher Wenk, senior director for international policy at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “All of the bad press over the
years about the lack of progress on Doha has left a stain on the
WTO, and that is a shame.”  Ministers also discussed the need to keep markets open and
resist protectionism, “particularly in this challenging
economic environment,” Aganga said. Some ministers pressed for
the removal of all recent protectionist measures and a halt to
any new ones, he said.  Cotton, within the context of the Doha talks and global
trade security, was also discussed on the sidelines of the
conference. Kirk and a European Union delegation led by
Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Ciolos met separately with
officials from  Africa ’s four main cotton-producing nations,
 Benin ,  Burkina Faso , Chad and  Mali , which together account for
about 15 percent of global exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 