-- Zynga’s Pincus Tries to Keep ‘That Startup Feeling’ After $1 Billion IPO
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-17/zynga-s-mark-pincus-aims-to-keep-that-startup-feeling-after-company-ipo.html
As  Zynga Inc . shares began trading
in  New York  yesterday, hundreds of the company’s employees
gathered to mark the occasion in the atrium of their San
Francisco headquarters.  Zynga Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  said he arranged
the ceremony --  Nasdaq ’s first initial public offering bell-
ringing in San Francisco -- to help staff feel invested in the
IPO process. Moments later, the crowd dispersed.  “The sign of a great company meeting is that a lot of
employees are so fired up that they want to go back to work,”
Pincus said in a telephone interview, citing a favorite saying
of Zynga board member  Bing Gordon . “This event was like that --
times 10.”  Under Pincus, Zynga raised $1 billion in the largest IPO
since Google Inc. debuted in 2004 -- an event that stands to
make many employees rich, at least on paper. His next big
challenge is keeping Zynga’s roughly 2,800 staff members focused
on crafting the online games that fuel growth.  “I think we’ve kept that startup feeling for people,”
said Pincus, a serial entrepreneur who founded Zynga in 2007.
“Our values of being metric- and outcome-driven enables us to
push down ownership and control and leadership to the team, and
I think that they appreciate that.”  Stock Drop  On its first trading day, Zynga fell 5 percent to $9.50 at
the close. The developer of games such as “CityVille,”
“FarmVille” and “Mafia Wars” sold 100 million shares earlier
this week for $10 each, the top end of a proposed range.  Pincus said he wasn’t concerned about the stock-price
decline. His aim, he said, is achieving long-term value for
investors.  “We’re not experts on  stock trading  and we don’t intend to
be,” he said. “This story is going to play out over the next
couple of years, not the next couple of trading days.”  Pincus wouldn’t comment on specific plans for the capital
raised in the IPO, citing the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s “quiet period” rules around companies going
public. He pointed to Zynga’s history of spending hundreds of
millions of dollars on data centers.  He also cited acquisitions, including last year’s $53.3
million purchase of Newtoy Inc., maker of the popular game
“Words With Friends.” Zynga made 20 acquisitions in 2010 and
the first nine months of 2011.  Big Believers  “We’re bigger believers in the future of play and social
gaming than any other company, and we wanted to be in a position
that we had the resources to invest more in that future than any
other company,” Pincus said.  Zynga gets more than 90 percent of its revenue from
Facebook Inc. Investor concerns about Zynga’s dependence on the
social-networking company may ease over time as it adds users on
mobile devices and other platforms, Chief Operating Officer John Schappert said in an interview yesterday.  “We’re very happy to be on Facebook because it is where
all our players are playing,” said Schappert, who left
 Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS)  for Zynga earlier this year. “At the same
time, we’re also excited about new platforms. We’ve made big
investments in mobile, we’ve grown our mobile user base both on
iOS and Android, and we’re also on some of the new emerging
platforms like Google+.”  After ringing the bell and conducting interviews with
media, Pincus said he intended to spend his Friday afternoon
building games.  “I’m spending the rest of the day on our product,” he
said. “I believe that that’s what serves investors the best,
and I believe that that’s the way it will be rewarded by the
market in the long term the best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  