-- ‘Serena-Slayer’ Lisicki Plays Radwanska in Semifinals
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-02T16:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/-serena-slayer-lisicki-plays-radwanska-in-semifinals.html
Sabine Lisicki continued her
Wimbledon run by setting up a semifinal against Agnieszka Radwanska a day after knocking favorite and defending champion
 Serena Williams  out of the tournament.  Lisicki moved into her second semifinal at the All England
Club by beating Kaia Kanepi of  Estonia , 6-3, 6-3 on Court No. 1.  “I was ready today,” Lisicki, who fired 23 winners past
Kanepi, said in a news conference. “I knew from past experience
that I needed to make the switch quickly to be ready, and that’s
what I did. So I’m very pleased.”  The 23rd-seeded German plays last year’s runner-up
Radwanska for a place in her first Wimbledon final in two days.
The fourth-seeded player from  Poland  saved four set points in
the first set to beat former French Open champion Li Na of China
7-6 (7-5), 4-6, 6-2 on Centre Court.  “We’ve known each other since we were juniors, it will be
a great challenge playing on the grass against each other,”
Radwanska said after she won on her eighth match point. The
score is 1-1 between them on the WTA tour.  Lisicki yesterday beat five-time champion Williams 6-2,
1-6, 6-4, prompting U.K. media including The Guardian newspaper
to dub her the “Serena Slayer.” The big-serving Lisicki has
now ousted the reigning French Open champion from the London
grass in four of the past five years. Before yesterday, Williams
of the U.S. had only dropped three matches since losing in the
opening round of the 2012 French Open.  Another Win  Lisicki is the first player to follow an upset of one of
the top seeds with another win in this year’s tournament. Sergei
Stakhovsky of Ukraine lost his next match after ousting
defending men’s champion  Roger Federer  in the second round,
while  Belgium ’s Steve Darcis quit with an injury after he’d
beaten two-time winner  Rafael Nadal  in his opening match.
 Portugal ’s Michelle Larcher de Brito also lost after she beat
former champion  Maria Sharapova  in the second round.  Li Na dropped the first set against Radwanska in a tiebreak
after squandering four set points while serving at 5-4.
Television replays showed Li hit an ace which was called wide on
one of the set points.  After a short rain delay, Radwanska took the initiative as
she raced to a 4-2 lead in the second by unsettling the hard-hitting Li with angled shots and slices. Li, the 2011 Roland
Garros champion, responded by rushing to the net as she won the
next four games to force a deciding set.  After a medical timeout for treatment on her leg and a
second rain delay, Radwanska broke twice to go up 4-1. At 5-2,
Radwanska wavered, failing to convert seven match points as she
struggled to get a first serve in. She took the eighth one as
she drew an error from Li after a long rally.  Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic , the only former
Wimbledon champion left in the women’s draw, plays Belgium’s
Kirsten Flipkens later in the day.  No. 17 seed Sloane Stephens, the last remaining singles
player from the U.S., faces former runner-up  Marion Bartoli  of
 France . The score is 4-5, deuce with play being suspended due to
rain on Court No. 1, which doesn’t have a roof.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  