-- Algae.Tec to Install C02-Eating Algae at Macquarie Power Plant
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-07-02T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/algae-tec-to-install-c02-eating-algae-at-macquarie-power-plant.html
Macquarie Generation, owner of coal-fired power plants in Australia, will feed its carbon dioxide
emissions to algae to produce oils that can be used to make
cleaner transportation fuel.  Algae.Tec Ltd. (AEB)  will build a A$150 million ($138 million)
algal oils plant to process emissions at Macquarie’s coal-fired
power plant in the Hunter Valley north of Sydney, Roger Stroud,
executive chairman of the Perth, Australia-based company, said
by phone. The algae converts the carbon into oxygen and oil
through photosynthesis.  The plant will help Macquarie reduce costs as Australia’s
biggest polluters must pay about A$23 for each metric ton of
carbon they emit under measures to discourage the use of fossil
fuels and fight climate change.  The algal oils will be sold to a facility in nearby
Maitland that will turn it into biodiesel that can be used in
vehicles, Stroud said. Algae.Tec’s facility initially will
produce about 50,000 tons of oil a year, rising five-fold over
three years, he said.  “Once this formula is established there is no reason why
we can’t expand it in  Australia  and get involved in an expansive
development in North America and Europe, particularly the
U.K.,” Stroud said. “We are also in talks in  Brazil .”  Algae.Tec will fund the plant through a bond sale in Europe
that it plans to start at the end of the month, Stroud said. It
expects to start building the project by March. The facility
should start producing algal oils by the end of 2014, he said.  The company in September agreed to work with Deutsche
Lufthansa AG, Europe’s second-biggest airline, to build a plant
that will turn algae into jet fuel. The companies are still
deciding on where to build the production plant, and today’s
news should help the negotiations move ahead, Stroud said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  