-- American Realty Capital to Buy REIT in $3.1 Billion Deal
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-07-02T20:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/american-realty-capital-to-acquire-reit-in-a-3-1-billion-deal.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP)  agreed to buy American Realty Capital Trust IV, a nonlisted
real estate investment trust under the same management company,
in a deal valued at about $3.1 billion as it expands its
holdings of U.S. single-tenant buildings.  American Realty Capital Properties offered 2.05 of its
shares or $30 in cash for each share of the other REIT, the New
York-based companies said in a statement today. The stock offer
is worth about $31 per share, based on the average share price
for the five  trading  days through yesterday, they said.  Nicholas Schorsch, the chairman and chief executive officer
of both companies, has been on a buying spree as he seeks to
build American Realty Capital Properties into one of the
country’s largest single-tenant landlords. The REIT in May
agreed to acquire  CapLease Inc. (LSE)  for $2.2 billion, including
debt, and last week completed the purchase of 447 properties
from General Electric Co.’s  GE Capital . American Realty Capital
Trust also agreed to buy a portfolio of GE buildings last month.  “We’ve been very busy since January,” Schorsch said on a
conference call today with investors and analysts. “We’re
building a portfolio for the years to come.”  REIT Sponsor  Both companies are managed by American Realty Capital, a
sponsor of nontraded REITs also led by Schorsch. That company
has raised $3.5 billion from investors this year through May and
accumulated the most money in the industry in 2012 and 2011,
according to data from Robert A. Stanger & Co., a Shrewsbury,
New Jersey-based investment bank.  Nonlisted REITs aren’t traded on exchanges and are
primarily marketed by brokers to individual investors. American
Realty Capital Trust IV started selling stock in June 2012,
according to a regulatory filing. The company closed the
offering in April after raising $1.7 billion.  American Realty Capital Properties is a former nontraded
REIT that was listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange in 2011.
With its recently announced deals, the company’s enterprise
value -- a measure of market value, cash, preferred equity and
debt -- will have grown from $250 million in September 2011 to
about $10 billion, according to today’s statement.  Deal Financing  American Realty Capital Properties last month sold almost
$900 million of common stock and convertible preferred stock in
a private placement to help pay for the CapLease and GE Capital
deals. The company expects the purchase of American Realty
Capital Trust to be completed mainly through issuance of shares,
Chief Financial Officer Brian Block said in the statement.  The REIT’s  shares  rose 0.7 percent today to $14.90.  The acquisition will increase American Realty Capital
Properties’s assets to 2,579 single-tenant properties in 48
states with annual rental income of more than $527 million. The
deal was approved by the independent directors of both companies
and is expected to be completed by the end of this quarter.  After the completion of the recently announced deals,
American Realty Capital Properties would be the second-largest
single-tenant REIT, after  Realty Income Corp. (O)  of Escondido,
 California . Realty Income had 3,525 properties at the end of
March, according to a regulatory filing. In January, it
purchased American Realty Capital Trust Inc., a REIT that had
Schorsch as its chairman.  Higher Forecast  American Realty Capital Properties today raised its
 forecast  for 2014 adjusted funds from operations, a  cash flow 
metric used by REITs, to $1.19 to $1.25 a share. In May it
estimated $1.17 to $1.21 a share. The company also said its
annualized  dividend  will increase to 94 cents a share.  American Realty Capital Properties said it may also begin
evaluating removing its external management structure, which
would reduce expenses and potentially improve its share price,
according to the statement.  Net-lease landlords rent buildings to one tenant, with
occupants paying such expenses as maintenance costs and property
taxes. The Bloomberg index of  single-tenant  REITs gained 8.9
percent this year, compared with an increase of about 13 percent
for American Realty Capital Properties.  Stocks in the industry have fallen since May amid the
prospect of rising interest rates. Single-tenant landlords’
long-term leases make the companies comparable to bond
investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  