-- American Greetings CEO Raises Takeover Bid for Third Time
-- B y   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y
-- 2013-07-02T20:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/american-greetings-takeover-offer-boosted-to-551-million.html
American Greetings Corp. (AM)  Chief
Executive Officer Zev Weiss and his brothers raised their offer
for the greeting-card maker for the third time after the stock
rose above their previous bid and an investor opposed the deal.  The group, including Chairman Morry Weiss and Chief
Operating Officer Jeffrey Weiss, increased the offer 4.4 percent
to $19 a share in cash from $18.20 in April, according to a
filing today. The new bid values the company at $551 million.  The Weiss brothers had made a proposal of $17.18 a share in
September, saying that they wanted to return Cleveland-based
American Greetings -- founded more than a century ago and
publicly traded since 1958 -- to family ownership. TowerView
LLC, a fund run by Daniel Tisch, rejected the deal even after
the brothers raised the bid to $17.50 in January.  “The Special Committee asked us to reconsider the deal
price in light of recent developments,” the Weiss group said
today in a letter to American Greetings. “While we firmly
believe that the $18.20 per share price is binding and remains
fair, we have concluded that enhancing the price is the right
thing to do.”  Through yesterday, the shares had increased as high as
$18.48 after the raised bid in April, suggesting some investors
anticipated a higher offer. Shares  rose  5 percent to $19.01 at
the close in New York.  Opposing Deal  TowerView, which controls 6.2 percent of American
Greetings, reiterated in May that it wanted the deal’s financial
adviser, Peter J. Solomon Co., to withdraw the claim that the
offer was fair and had asked the two members of the special
committee to change their recommendations.  “There is no reason at this point to permit the Weiss
Family to take the company private,” TowerView said in its
initial November letter. “All shareholders would be well served
by continuing to use free cash flow to repurchase shares of
common stock.”  American Greetings, the largest publicly traded greeting-card maker, sells cards under brand names such as Carlton Cards
and Papyrus, as well as gift packaging, party goods and
stationery. More than 80 percent of Americans, mainly women, buy
greeting cards each year with the average customer in the mid-to
late 40s, American Greetings has said.  Still the company, which competes with closely held
Hallmark Cards Inc., has faced a shift in consumers’ habits as
more people send cards by e-mails and fewer write letters.
American Greetings responded by offering electronic cards and
other services over the Internet and mobile devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  