-- AMR-US Airways Deal Probed by 19 States Led by Texas
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-07-02T22:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/amr-us-airways-deal-probed-by-19-states-led-by-texas.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ’s proposed
$11 billion merger with AMR Corp.’s American Airlines will be
probed for its effect on consumers and competition by 18 state
attorneys general led by Texas.  “We can confirm that Texas leads among states in the
review of the merger,”  Tom Kelley , a spokesman for Texas
Attorney General  Greg Abbott , said yesterday in an e-mail. He
declined to comment further, citing a confidentiality agreement
the attorneys general signed with the airlines.  The group of states joins the U.S.  Justice Department ,
which is already reviewing whether the combination will create a
monopoly in any markets. American will ask the bankruptcy judge
overseeing its Chapter 11 case in Manhattan to confirm the
airline’s reorganization plan at an Aug. 15 hearing.  The states are concerned that the combined carriers might
reduce connecting flights to cut costs, which could hurt
consumers, a person familiar with the matter said. They also
want to ensure that the new American doesn’t use  Washington ’s
Reagan National Airport as a hub, which could reduce the number
of flights from regional airports to the nation’s capital, said
the person, who asked not to be named because the probe is
confidential.  National Service  US Airways has said it would retain service to midsize and
smaller cities to feed passengers onto flights out of National.
Other major airlines that would vie for limited flight slots US
Airways might be forced to surrender wouldn’t maintain that
service, the carrier has said.  American Airlines declined to comment on the state probe,
said  Michael Trevino , a spokesman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier. Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways also declined to
comment, said Michelle Mohr, a spokeswoman.  A civil antitrust lawsuit seeking to block the merger was
filed today in federal court in San Francisco by 39 consumers
represented by attorney  Joseph Alioto , who claims the
combination will reduce competition, drive up fares and create a
monopoly in certain markets. The merger of the two companies
violates federal antitrust laws and shouldn’t be allowed,
according to the complaint.  “I have refered to this as skyway robbery,” Alioto said
by telephone. “The cupidity that’s involved is outrageous. The
last thing they want in the world is to have to compete.”  Trevino and Mohr didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment about the lawsuit.  Past Probes  Scrutiny of airline mergers by states attorneys general
alongside the Justice Department isn’t unusual, and has been a
factor in previous airline mergers, the person said. The
attorneys general probing the merger are from Arkansas, Arizona,
California, Florida, Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, Mississippi,
Nebraska, New York, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania,  South Carolina ,
Tennessee, Virginia, Wisconsin and  West Virginia , as well as the
District of Columbia, the person said.  US Airways and American agreed in February to combine as
part of AMR’s bankruptcy restructuring. AMR creditors will own
72 percent of the equity in the combined airline, while
28 percent will go to US Airways shareholders. Together, they
will pass  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  as the biggest
airline, based on passenger traffic.  In addition to securing approval from the bankruptcy court
and antitrust regulators, US Airways shareholders have to
support the combination in a July 12 vote before the merger can
be completed. The companies have said they expect that to happen
in the third quarter.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 