-- Amtrak Barred From Regulating Freight Railroads on Delays
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/amtrak-barred-from-rulemaking-power-for-freight-railroad.html
Amtrak , the U.S. long-distance
passenger railroad, lost its power to assess blame when its
trains are delayed and to have a say in whether freight
railroads causing those holdups are penalized.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington yesterday ruled the
taxpayer-supported service is a private company to which
Congress improperly gave regulatory power over freight railroads
such as  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington
Northern Santa Fe.  The court threw out a law passed to enforce a requirement,
dating to Amtrak’s creation in 1970, that freight trains give
priority to passenger trains on tracks they share, which they do
in most of the U.S.  “If freight railroads perceive they no longer face
penalties for giving freight trains priority over passenger
trains, and the passenger-train delays are extensive, the result
could be a de-facto imploding of Amtrak,” said Frank Wilner, a
transportation economist and author of “Amtrak: Past, Present
and Future,” published last year.  The case involves on-time performance standards and
enforcement mechanisms established under the Passenger Rail
Investment and Improvement Act of 2008.  Amtrak, based in  Washington , tracks and publishes, in
monthly reports on its  website , how many minutes its trains are
delayed each month and assigns causes. It cited freight-train
interference as the most common type of delay over the past 12
months.  During April, it said, such interference was responsible
for about 55,000 minutes of delays, or 14.9 percent of the
total.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNI)  was held responsible for the
most delays in the 12 months ending in April.  General Motors  If Amtrak trains don’t meet the on-time performance
standards set by the company and its regulators, the U.S.
Surface Transportation Board can investigate the railroads whose
tracks they use and assess damages.  The court ruled the law unconstitutional for giving Amtrak
a say in setting the metrics that could lead to penalties. U.S.
Circuit Judge Janice Rogers Brown said that was akin to the
government giving  General Motors Co. (GM)  the power to regulate
automobile manufacturers.  “It appears that the current metrics and standards are
invalid until Congress rewrites the law,” said Ross Capon,
president of the National Association of Railroad Passengers, a
Washington-based advocacy group, in an interview.  Steve Kulm, a spokesman for Amtrak, declined to comment.  Delays Reduced  The U.S. Federal Railroad Administration, which wrote the
standards, said they’ve been a useful tool to reduce Amtrak
delays.  “Since the establishment of the metrics and standards in
2010, delays have been reduced each successive year, culminating
in a historic best for Amtrak in 2012,” said Kevin Thompson, a
spokesman for the agency. “But there is still need for
additional improvement.”  The Transportation Department inspector general in 2008
 found  Amtrak’s on-time performance of 30 percent on long-distance routes in 2006 reduced the railroad’s revenue and
increased the demand for taxpayer subsidies.  The Association of American Railroads, whose members
include freight railroads and Amtrak, sued the U.S.
Transportation Department in 2011 arguing that the standards,
which Amtrak drafted with Federal Railroad Administration,
forced freight railroads to substantially alter their business
operations, at times by delaying their own freight traffic.  Bilateral Contracts  The rail association, based in Washington, hailed the
ruling.  “Freight railroads recognize Amtrak wants to run trains on
time, and they work closely with Amtrak to help make this
happen,” Ed Hamberger, the group’s chief executive officer,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “However, freight railroads believe setting and measuring
schedules and on-time performance metrics should not be done
through a one-size-fits all approach at the federal level, but
addressed jointly through private bilateral contracts that take
into account the facts and circumstances of particular routes.”  The case is Association of American Railroads v. U.S.
Department of Transportation, 12-5204, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  