-- Manhattan Office Rents Rise 5% on Jump in High-End Leases
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-07-02T21:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/manhattan-office-rents-rise-5-on-jump-in-high-end-leases.html
Manhattan office rents rose to the
highest in more than four years, helped by small firms signing
pricier leases, Cushman & Wakefield Inc. reported.  Asking rents averaged $61.81 a square foot at the end of
June, up 5 percent from a year earlier and the first time since
May 2009 that the average exceeded $60, the brokerage said today
in a statement. There have been 36 deals for more than $100 a
square foot this year, compared with 35 for all of 2012. Smaller
financial companies and foreign banks were behind the surge,
said Melissa Bazar, an  executive director  at the brokerage.  “The boutique guys are making money again. There’s more
confidence with the financial boutique firms,” she said at a
briefing for reporters in Midtown.  Manhattan’s office market is returning to health almost
five years after the credit crisis caused leasing to stall and
rents to plummet more than 26 percent between mid-2008 and late
2010. Demand has been growing among technology and media
companies along with smaller securities firms, while the
 European debt crisis  and concerns about regulatory changes
caused larger financial firms “to basically go on hold,” said
Kenneth McCarthy, chief economist at Cushman.  The larger banks probably will return to growth in the next
year as the economy strengthens, said McCarthy, who projects a 3
percent to 3.5 percent increase in U.S. gross domestic product
for 2014.  Financial Firms  “Today we have about 3,000 fewer jobs in financial
services in  New York City  than we did in August of 2011,” he
said at the briefing. “As the national economy picks up,
that’ll start to turn around a little bit, and the financial-services firms will start to hire more aggressively.”  Manhattan is the only U.S. office market where space leases
for more than $100 a square foot, according to Cushman. All
three major submarkets -- Midtown, midtown south and  lower
Manhattan  -- had an increase in leasing compared with a year
earlier, the brokerage reported.  The boroughwide office vacancy rate rose to 10.4 percent
from 9 percent a year earlier, driven largely by the completion
of two new office towers in Midtown:  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) ’s
250 W. 55th St. and Extell Development Co.’s International Gem
Tower on West 46th Street.  Och-Ziff  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , the hedge-fund
manager run by Daniel Och, had one of the biggest leases in the
second quarter. The firm took 95,200 square feet (8,800 square
meters) in a renewal and expansion at 9 W. 57th St., a tower
that overlooks  Central Park , according to a report by Cassidy
Turley, a competing brokerage. Och-Ziff in May reported first-quarter earnings that more than doubled on higher management and
performance fees.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Och-Ziff with Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the lease.  Two of  New York ’s largest banks, Citigroup Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG, are in the market for new offices and both are
expected to reduce their space, said Ron Lo Russo, president of
Cushman’s New York tri-state region.  Citigroup is continuing “to consolidate its real estate
footprint in New York to achieve greater operating
efficiencies,” Mark Costiglio, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Credit Suisse continues to explore its leasing options,
according to Marcy Frank, a bank spokeswoman.  While banks are cutting back, technology, advertising and
media companies are expanding, Lo Russo said. Among those
industries, “we’re seeing new tenants in the marketplace, new
companies in creation, and moves from outside of the New York
market to New York. So what we’re lacking in one industry, we’re
making up in another with growth,” he said.  Midtown South  Class A office rents in midtown south were higher than
those in Midtown for the first time because of increased demand
by media and technology companies, said Jamie Katcher, a Cushman
broker. Rents for top-tier offices averaged $75.63 a square foot
in midtown south and $73.63 in Midtown. Only about a quarter of
midtown south’s offices are considered class A, compared with
about three-quarters for Midtown, according to Cushman.  Technology and media firms also have become more prominent
in once-bank-dominated lower  Manhattan , where they make up 20
percent of office tenants, according to Cushman. Financial
companies rented about 7 percent of downtown office space at the
end of June, down from about a third in 2003, Cushman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  