-- U.S. Halts Global Stocks Drop on Job Data While Oil Jumps
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-07-03T21:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/asian-futures-shrug-off-s-p-drop-as-yen-slips-oil-jumps.html
U.S. stocks rose, halting a global
slide, as reports signaling an improving job market overshadowed
concern over political instability in Portugal and Egypt. Oil
rallied above $100 a barrel as American stockpiles declined.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  closed 0.1 percent higher
at 1,615.41 by 1 p.m. in  New York , reversing a loss of as much
as 0.6 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index dropped 0.3
percent, paring a decline of as much as 0.8 percent. Portugal’s
main equity gauge sank 5.3 percent, the most in three years, and
10-year bond  yields  rose as much as 139 basis points to 8.11
percent. Yields on  U.S. Treasuries  due in a decade reversed
early declines to increase three basis points to 2.5 percent.
West Texas Intermediate crude jumped 1.7 percent to $101.24 a
barrel. The yen surged against 12 of 16 major peers.  Reports today showed U.S. companies boosted employment and
jobless claims fell before the Labor Department’s monthly
payrolls figures due July 5. The data will be scrutinized by
investors trying to determine if the economy is strong enough
for the  Federal Reserve  to begin reducing its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases. The  S&P 500  has retreated 3.2 percent
from its most recent high May 21 after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled they could taper stimulus should the job
market continue to improve.  “This is a market environment where good news is good news
and bad news will probably be interpreted as good news, so it
means a little something for both camps: those in favor of
tapering and those who are less enthused about it,”Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, which manages about $58 billion, said by
telephone.  Holiday Schedule  About 3.6 billion shares changed hands in the U.S., 46
percent below the three-month average, as exchanges closed early
in New York. Bond markets shut at 2 p.m. and American financial
markets will be closed tomorrow for the Independence Day
holiday.  Among stocks moving today, Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc.
advanced 3.5 percent following an analyst upgrade. Bank of
America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. declined as S&P downgraded
three European lenders. Alcoa Inc. fell 1.2 percent as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. cut the stock’s rating. Robert Half International
Inc. lost 5.2 percent as Deutsche Bank AG said a decision by
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to delay a mandate
requiring businesses to provide workers health insurance is
negative for staffing service providers.  Economic Data  The ADP Research Institute said today that U.S. employers
added 188,000 jobs in June, more than the 160,000 median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Jobless claims decreased by
5,000 to 343,000 in the week ended June 29 from a revised
348,000 in the prior period that was higher than initially
reported, the Labor Department said today. The Bloomberg survey
median called for 345,000 claims.  The July 5 Labor Department report is forecast to show the
nation added 165,000 jobs in June and the  unemployment rate 
declined to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent, according to the
median of economists’ estimates.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index dropped to 52.2 in June from 53.7 the prior month. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a rise to 54. A
reading greater 50 indicates expansion in the industries that
make up almost 90 percent of the economy.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slid 0.6 percent, with trading
volumes 14 percent higher than the 30-day average.  European Banks  A gauge of banks lost 1.1 percent to help lead declines
among 19 groups in the Stoxx 600. Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG
and Credit Suisse Group SA retreated at least 0.8 percent after
S&P cut its rating for the three lenders, citing increased risks
to their investment-banking businesses.  Banco Espirito Santo SA and Banco Comercial Portugues SA,
Portugal’s largest lenders, fell more than 10 percent.  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest among
developed markets today, followed by those of  Spain , according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-year
bonds over similar-maturity German bunds reached 646 basis
points, the most since November. German 10-year  bund yields  fell
four basis points to 1.66 percent.  The resignation of two government ministers signaled
Portugal will struggle to implement further budget cuts as its
bailout program enters the final 12 months.  ‘Austerity Fatigue’  “Portugal’s political crisis clearly expresses austerity
fatigue,”  Holger Schmieding , an economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London , wrote in a report. “If Portugal were to turn away
decisively from the ‘tough love’ politics of austerity and
reform, it could pose a major dilemma. Softening the bailout
conditions too much could invite other countries to also slacken
their efforts. But not softening the bailout conditions at all
could raise the risk of failure in Portugal.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for a second day,
sliding 2.1 percent, the most since June 20. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong lost
3.3 percent and the Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.6
percent after a report showed growth China’s services industry
slowed. Turkey’s benchmark gauge dropped 3.5 percent and two-year yields jumped 48 basis points to 8.74 percent after
inflation accelerated more than estimated.  Brazil, Egypt  Brazil’s Ibovespa Index lost 0.4 percent after slumping 4.2
percent yesterday, the most in almost 22 months, as Nomura
Holdings Inc. predicted the nation may enter a recession this
year.  Egyptian pound forwards weakened the most in six months and
 stocks  fell after President Mohamed Mursi rebuffed the
military’s deadline to end the political crisis. Clashes between
his supporters and opponents have left at least 23 dead over the
past day.  Oil reached a 14-month high in New York following data
showing the largest decline of the year for U.S. stockpiles and
concern the turmoil in Egypt will disrupt supplies from the
 Middle East .  Mursi’s ouster took place after markets closed in New York.
The military suspended the constitution and announced an early
presidential election in a bid to resolve the political crisis
that has polarized the nation.  Egypt controls the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which 2.24 million barrels a day of oil was
shipped from the  Red Sea  to Europe and  North America  in 2011,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  ‘Geopolitical Risk’  “Geopolitical risk in Egypt is stoking some demand from
those who want to increase stockpiles just in case of a
disruption in oil supplies,” said Leo Baek, a trader at KEB
Futures Co. in  Seoul . “Improving U.S. data is also adding fuel
to demand for energy.”  The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities gained 1.3 percent,
the third consecutive advance. Cocoa, silver and gasoline jumped
more than 1.8 percent to help lead the advance.  The yen strengthened 0.7 percent to 99.91 per dollar,
climbing for the first time in five days. Japan’s currency
appreciated 0.5 percent to 129.97 yen per euro.  The Australian dollar dropped to the weakest level since
August 2010 after Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the
currency has been too high and the economy “will probably get”
a lower currency if needed. The Aussie slid 0.7 percent to 90.87
U.S. cents.  The pound rose after a report showed U.K. services expanded
more than analysts forecast last month. Sterling climbed 0.8
percent to $1.5283.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  