-- Tata to Ambani Vie for First India Bank Permits in a Decade
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-07-02T04:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/tata-to-ambani-compete-for-first-india-bank-permits-in-a-decade.html
Tata Sons Ltd., which manages  India ’s
biggest business group, and firms controlled by billionaires
 Anil Ambani  and Kumar Mangalam Birla are among 26 seeking the
country’s first new banking licenses in more than a decade.  The companies yesterday met the  Reserve Bank of India ’s
deadline to apply for the permits, it said in a statement
published on its website.  New banks will help tap rural savings and bolster loan
growth in an  economy  that’s grown at the slowest pace in 10
years, Dolly Parmar, a Mumbai-based banking analyst at IFCI
Financial Services Ltd., said by phone. Of the 600,000 villages
in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy, only about 36,000 have access
to a commercial bank branch, according to RBI estimates.  Banks will be required to open within 18 months and one out
of four branches must be located in towns with fewer than 10,000
people, the RBI said when calling for applications. Tata Sons,
 IDFC Ltd. (IDFC) ,  L&T Finance Holdings Ltd. (LTFH) ,  Bajaj Finserv Ltd. (BJFIN)  and
 Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. (ABNL)  will be top contenders for permits,
Parmar predicts.  Foreign ownership in the banks, which should have equity
capital of at least 5 billion rupees ($84 million), will be
capped at 49 percent, according to the central bank.  Potential applicants including  Mahindra and Mahindra
Financial Services Ltd. , a unit of India’s biggest SUV maker,
and  Piramal Enterprises Ltd. (PIEL)  may have been dissuaded by the
stringency of the RBI’s rules, said Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based banking analyst at SMC Global Securities Ltd.  New banks will be required to meet higher capital standards
and reserve ratios, face restrictions on holding company
activities and be obliged to sell shares within three years of
starting business, according to the central bank.  The RBI may award as many as five new permits by March,
Narnolia predicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  