-- BAE Systems Wins Boeing 737 Max Work in Commercial Aircraft Push
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-02T14:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/bae-systems-wins-boeing-737-max-work-in-commercial-aircraft-push.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Europe’s biggest
defense company, won an order to supply flight-control gear to
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 737 Max jetliner as it seeks to boost civil sales
amid declining military spending in the U.K. and U.S.  BAE will provide the so-called spoiler control electronics
that move some of the flight controls on the re-engined version
of Boeing’s bestselling short-haul plane, the London-based
company said today. The value of the deal was not disclosed.  BAE, which quit large-scale civil aerospace manufacturing
with the sale of its stake in Airbus SAS to  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  in 2006, also supplies controls to the
Boeing 777 in the civil market and will also bid to do so on the
upgraded 777X. That plane is slated to enter service around the
end of the decade, with the Max due for first delivery in 2017.  “Our spoiler control electronics will help Boeing achieve
its goal of improving the handling characteristics for the
world’s most advanced single-aisle plane, the 737 MAX,”
Ehtisham Siddiqui, vice president and general manager of
Commercial Aircraft Solutions at BAE, said in a statement.  BAE will build the equipment at its Ft. Wayne, Indiana
facility with development taking place at the Endicott, New York
site.  Boeing had booked 1,381 firm orders for the Max through May
before securing additional deals at the  Paris Air Show  last
month. Detailed design of the plane is due for completion next
year, Boeing said last month.  BAE also provides flight control equipment to  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  for the CSeries narrow-body due for its first flight this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  