-- Bank of Montreal Rises to No. 2 in Stock Sales
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-07-02T12:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/bank-of-montreal-rises-to-no-2-in-stock-sales-corporate-canada.html
Bank of Montreal  overtook Canadian
lenders including  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Toronto-Dominion Bank
for arranging stock sales in the first half of the year after
leading some of the country’s biggest initial public offerings.  The lender’s BMO Capital Markets unit arranged 19 equity
financings that raised $2.25 billion in the first six months of
2013, surpassing the $1.8 billion  RBC Capital Markets  arranged
in 21 deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. BMO has
never taken top spot on a full-year basis in data dating to
1999, and has only been first once in a six-month span -- the
second half of 2010.  BMO was second only to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  over the
first six months of this year, which ranked No. 1 after
arranging a $2.3 billion share sale for  Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX)   “It’s a feather in their cap,” said  Ian Nakamoto ,
director of research at MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in
Toronto, which manages about C$4 billion ($3.8 billion)
including bank shares. “Royal Bank is often viewed as the
leader by far of IPOs and stock underwritings in  Canada , so I’m
surprised.”  BMO is gaining a greater share of Canadian deals after
winning mandates from companies including  Detour Gold Corp. (DGC)  and
insurer  Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO)  and managing IPOs such as the
sale of Ski-Doo maker BRP Inc. The country’s fourth-biggest bank
says it’s landing more deals after years of cultivating business
from Canadian companies.  ‘Sharp End’  “These are very long-term relationships, we’re speaking
decades in some cases,” Darryl White, BMO’s global head of
investment and corporate banking, said in a June 25 interview.
“What you see is really just the sharp end of the spear when
the transaction occurs, but it’s the result of a whole bunch of
work that’s been done and services that have been provided.”  The rankings are based on Canadian IPOs, secondary sales
and convertible debentures and exclude preferred-share sales.
The figures and rankings are current as of today and are subject
to change as more transactions are recorded.  A year ago, RBC was top arranger using those criteria in
the first half, with Toronto-Dominion’s TD Securities second and
BMO third, according to the data. Goldman Sachs didn’t rank.  BMO was second behind RBC for arranging deals for all of
last year, the data show. In 2011, BMO was third behind top-ranked TD Securities and second-ranked RBC. BMO was second after
RBC in 2010, and in 2009 was in fifth spot.  ‘Cultivated’ Relationships  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and TD
Securities’s Wojtek Dabrowski declined to comment on the
rankings.  BMO advanced after leading banks arranging IPOs. The
Toronto-based firm led BRP’s C$262.3 million sale in May, the
same month it helped on Oryx Petroleum Corp. Ltd.’s C$250.5
million IPO. BMO also led Milestone Apartments Real Estate
Investment Trust’s C$200 million IPO in February and Agellan
Commercial REIT’s C$134.6 million sale the month before.  “IPOs have had a lot to do with it,” White said. “Those
aren’t brand-new relationships, either. They’re cultivated over
a long period of time.”  Profit from  investment banking  rose 28 percent at BMO to
C$585 million for the six months ended April 30 from a year
earlier, according to company financial statements. That was
helped by a 29 percent increase in underwriting and advisory
fees, which added C$268 million of revenue in the period.  ‘Win Mandates’  “It’s very important for the bank,”  Brad Smith , an
analyst with Stonecap Securities in Toronto, said in a June 26
interview. “How you win these mandates determines how
profitable they are for the bank as a whole.”  BMO’s rise among equity underwriters comes after a 17
percent decline in stock sales from a year ago. Canadian
companies raised $12.8 billion in equity financings this year,
down from $15.5 billion in the first six months of 2012.  “They’re No. 2 in probably one of the more difficult
periods in capital markets,” said Smith, whose firm rates  Bank
of Montreal (BMO)  stock “underperform.”  IPOs, meanwhile, have almost doubled from a year ago,
driven by REIT sales. Canadian companies raised $1.4 billion
from initial sales this year compared with $851 million in the
first half of last year.  ‘Less Volatility’  “Greater investor confidence and less volatility in the
market set the stage for a more active IPO calendar over the
course of the first part of the year,” Kirby Gavelin, RBC’s
head of equity  capital markets  in Canada, said in an interview.
“We’ll continue to see more acquisition-related equity
financing and the IPO market will continue to be robust, though
we may not see the return to prior levels of activity we’ve had
in the resource sectors” such as mining and energy.  The surge in REIT IPOs may continue, providing the market
for the high-yielding securities recovers from a two-month
market sell-off sparked by rising interest rates.  “Investors still view the REIT space as a place they like
and intend to invest,” Peter Miller, BMO’s head of  equity
capital markets  in Canada, said in an interview. “There are
still a lot of REIT IPOs in the pipeline, so if the market firms
up we should expect continued heavy activity from the REIT
sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  