-- Barclays Seen in Need of Potential Share Sale for Leverage Goal
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-02T15:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/barclays-seen-in-need-of-potential-share-sale-for-leverage-goal.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  may have to sell new
shares to raise money if regulators make it bolster its leverage
ratio by the end of the year, according to Mark Phin, an analyst
at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.  To meet the 3 percent leverage ratio target set by the Bank
of England’s Prudential Regulation Authority, Barclays could
raise 7.3 billion pounds ($11.1 billion) in equity, or cut 240
billion pounds of assets, wrote Phin in a note to clients today.
With a 3 percent ratio, a bank would hold 3 pounds of equity
capital for every 100 pounds of assets.  Bank of England deputy governors Paul Tucker and Andrew Bailey said today it’s right for the 3 percent leverage ratio to
be imposed immediately, five years earlier than the initial
deadline agreed by global regulators. Barclays Chief Executive
Officer  Antony Jenkins  said last week that the London-based bank
may cut lending if the PRA, headed by Bailey, forces the lender
to speed up plans to meet the goal.  “The PRA has, unhelpfully, not defined when banks need to
adhere to a 3 percent ratio, albeit we know that plans had to be
submitted by end-June with agreement by end-July,” wrote Phin,
who has an outperform rating on the stock. Barclays’s plans for
7 percent core equity Tier-1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, “do not include equity recourse, but the
introduction of a leverage requirement means it cannot be ruled
out,” wrote Phin in London.  Issue Bonds  Officials at Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by
assets, declined to comment. Raising 7.3 billion pounds would
dilute net asset value a share by 5 percent and earnings per
share by 14 percent based on 2015 estimates, wrote Phin.  The shares were down 0.9 percent to 282 pence at 4:19 p.m.
in  London , bringing its gain this year to 7.5 percent.  It’s unlikely the bank would issue shares to cover the
entire shortfall, and could opt to sell more-liquid assets or
issue bonds that convert into equity when capital falls below a
preset level, known as contingent capital, he said.  Global regulators included a provisional version of the
leverage limit in an overhaul of banking rules following the
2008 financial crisis. The rule differs from other capital
requirements set by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
because it gives lenders no scope to take into account the
riskiness of their investments when working out the reserves
they need.  While the leverage ratio won’t be binding until 2018,
lenders would be obliged to start publishing how well they
measure up to it by the start of 2015, the Basel group said last
month.  -- With assistance from Scott Hamilton and Ben Moshinsky in
London. Editors: Jon Menon, Simone Meier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  