-- Barclays Sees Bogus Growth Boosting Warrants: Argentina Credit
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-07-02T16:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/barclays-sees-bogus-growth-boosting-warrants-argentina-credit.html
Warrants tied to  Argentina ’s economy
are posting the biggest gains this year on speculation President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s increased spending before mid-term elections will bolster growth and ensure a payout for
holders of the securities.  The warrants, which pay investors if Argentina’s economy
grows 3.22 percent this year, jumped 25 percent in the past
week, the biggest gain since the five-day period ended Dec. 5,
to 7 cents on the dollar. The notes surged after the government
said June 27 the economy expanded 7 percent in April from a year
earlier, exceeding the 5 percent  median estimate . The jump was
nine times more than Argentina’s dollar-denominated bonds in the
same span and exceeded the 3.09 percent gain for emerging-market
notes, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The government is aiming to boost local consumption before
congressional elections in October with a 70 percent increase in
social spending after the economy grew just 2 percent last year.
While Barclays Plc says the government is overstating its growth
and the  International Monetary Fund  censured the country in
February for providing misleading data on economic statistics,
Citigroup Inc. estimates the payout could be as high as 6.5
cents.  “All that matters to investors is that growth exceeds the
payment threshold,” Luis Celasco, who manages 1.7 billion pesos
of Argentine bonds at RJ Delta, a unit of Raymond James
Financial Inc., said in a telephone interview from  Buenos Aires .
“With the data and the fact that it’s an election year, there’s
a good chance that Argentina will grow 3.2 percent or more. This
really changes the outlook for the warrants.”  Consumer Spending  Norma Madeo, a spokeswoman at the economy ministry, didn’t
reply to an e-mail seeking comment on data manipulation.  Fernandez, 60, is trying to revive economic growth by
increasing public spending and handouts to poor families after a
slowdown in Brazil, Argentina’s biggest trading partner, and
restrictions on foreign exchange and imports choked off
investment and curtailed growth last year.  Consumer spending  expanded 6.1 percent in the first quarter
and retail sales grew 6.5 percent, according to the national
statistics institute, known as Indec. Car sales surged 32
percent in May from a year earlier, while exports rose 73
percent, the country’s automaker association reported June 5.  ‘Enormous Cost’  Demand from  Brazil  is aiding car exports, while Argentines
are buying more vehicles as a hedge against inflation, according
to a June 28 report by Economia & Regiones. Consumer prices rose
an estimated 23.4 percent in May from a year earlier, according
to private economists, while Indec reported  inflation  of 10.3
percent.  The government, which became the first IMF member to be
censured for underreporting price increases, is overestimating
growth in a bid to boost confidence in the administration,
according to Buenos Aires-based research firm Espert &
Asociados.  “The government has decided to risk paying the enormous
cost of the warrant coupon of about $4 billion with the hope
that now, by overstating this year’s growth, money will come in
to reactivate the economy ahead of elections,” Jose Luis Espert, an economist who runs research firm Espert & Asociados,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. The economy likely
contracted 0.5 percent through April, he said.  The economy has to grow at least 2.9 percent for the rest
of 2013 to meet the threshold for a payout, according Credit
Suisse Group AG. Argentina will grow 2.7 percent this year, the
median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg showed.  Sell Warrants  Investors should sell the warrants after the rally because
growth will slow in the second half of the year, according to
Sebastian Vargas, an analyst at Barclays in  New York . If growth
is close to the threshold, the government has an incentive to
underreport it toward the end of the year, he said in e-mailed
comments.  Fernandez made a $3.5 billion payment on the warrants in
December after the economy expanded 8.9 percent in 2011. There
won’t be a payment this year as growth in 2012 was only 2
percent compared with a trigger of 3.26 percent.  Argentina issued the warrants as part of its 2005 and 2010
restructurings after a record $95 billion default in 2001. The
price of the notes declines after each coupon payment because it
reflects estimated value of future cash flows.  ‘A Fool’  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 1,178 basis points at 12:51
p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan.  The warrants are attractive for investors who can withstand
price swings, according to  Eric Kraus , a Moscow-based managing
director at Nikitsky Capital, which manages about $200 million.
He expects Argentina will grow over 4 percent this year with
government spending accounting for 1 percent of GDP.  “If you don’t have to mark to market and you can put them
in a back drawer, they’re a very great asset,” Kraus said in a
telephone interview. “It’s all or nothing each year, so over a
10-year horizon, one would be a fool not to own them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  