-- Batista’s OGX Failures Spur Restructuring Speculation
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-07-02T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/batista-s-ogx-failures-spur-restructuring-speculation.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA’s
warning of a shutdown at its only producing crude oil wells is
intensifying speculation that billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
flagship company will have to restructure debt.  OGX shares fell 29 percent in Sao Paulo yesterday, erasing
about $300 million of market value, while its bonds due 2018
dropped to a record low 19 cents on the dollar. The Rio de
Janeiro-based producer said in a regulatory filing that it’s
considering halting output at the Tubarao Azul field after a
technical review and scrapped three other offshore projects.  Batista, whose resources and logistics startups made him
the world’s eighth-richest person in March 2012, is scaling back
projects and selling assets after net debt at his EBX Group Co.
holding company almost doubled the combined market value of its
units. OGX shares have slumped 90 percent in the past year after
missed targets and production delays while Batista’s estimated
fortune has shrunk by about $30 billion.  “You need to restructure the debt or bring cash into the
group,” said Eric Conrads, who manages about $750 million of
Latin American stocks at ING Investment Management in New York.
“Its an unraveling process, stuff needs to happen or else it
goes to zero.”  OGX told its shipbuilding sister company  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  that
it will pay the lease on one platform being built in  Singapore 
until it’s sold or relocated and canceled orders for two other
platforms and three drill ships.  Debt Levels  As a result, OGX will pay $449 million compensation to OSX,
or 39 percent of the oil’s producer’s cash at the end of the
first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX’s total debt reached 7.99 billion reais in the first
quarter from zero two years earlier,  the data  show. At today’s
prices the company’s dollar-denominated bonds total $3.6 billion
and its market value is $814 million. OGX is scheduled to make a
$44 million  interest payment  on its 2022 dollar bonds on Oct. 1
and a $109 million payment on the 2018 bonds Dec. 1.  OGX’s $2.56 billion of 2018 bonds tumbled 13 cents on the
dollar yesterday. OSX dollar bonds due 2015, which are backed by
the OSX-3 platform, slid 3 cents to 85 cents.  Biggest Creditors  Among Batista’s biggest creditors is Sao Paulo-based Itau
Unibanco Holding SA, with about 5.5 billion reais ($2.5 billion)
in loans outstanding, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said in March, asking not to be identified because the
matter is private. Batista borrowed about 4.8 billion reais from
Banco Bradesco SA and 1.6 billion reais from Grupo BTG Pactual,
excluding a $1 billion credit line BTG provided that same month,
the people said.  Bradesco, BTG and Itau BBA press officers declined to
comment yesterday in e-mailed responses to questions.  Brazil’s development bank BNDES contracted 9.1 billion
reais in loans to Batista companies from 2005 through 2012,
BNDES said April 15. The state bank also holds a 10.3 percent
stake in  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , 11.8 percent in the CCX Carvao da
Colombia SA coal unit and a 33 percent in closely-held
technology provider SIX, according to the statement.  “This is a very complex operation for creditors due to the
amount involved and the number of EBX companies,” said Jorge Simino, chief investment officer at Funcesp, Brazil’s fourth-largest pension fund which holds shares in Batista companies
including OGX.  The oil unit has the chance of exercising a $1 billion put
option awarded by controlling stakeholder Batista to fund its
investment program. The option, which expires April 30, is still
a viable funding option, OGX’s press office said yesterday in an
e-mailed response to questions. OGX hasn’t filed for bankruptcy
protection, the company said.  Hammerhead Field  OGX is also considering asking  Brazil ’s oil regulator to
suspend the license to develop the Tubarao Tigre, Tubarao Gato
and Tubarao Areia offshore fields, where the OSX-2 platform was
to be deployed, according to yesterday’s filing. Development of
the Tubarao Martelo field will continue.  “At this time, there doesn’t exist any type of technology
available to make investments in this field financially viable
with the aim of increasing its production,” OGX said in
reference to Tubarao Azul.  OGX’s statement also triggered a share selloff among
Batista’s logistics unit LLX Logistica SA and iron-ore producer
 MMX Mineracao (MMXM3)  & Metalicos SA, wiping $538 million from the six
publicly traded companies’ combined market value. Batista’s net
worth slumped $250 million to $4.4 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . His fortune has declined the most
since the index started in March 2012.  Petronas Deal  OGX’s main assets are in the offshore Campos basin, where
Batista is producing at the Tubarao Azul field and preparing to
start operations in partnership with Petroliam Nasional Bhd. at
Tubarao Martelo later this year. A third development is the area
formed by Tubarao Areia, Tubarao Gato and Tubarao Tigre, which
OGX may give back. The company also owns blocks or stakes in the
Espirito Santo and Santos basins, which aren’t producing.  On May 8, OGX  sold  a 40 percent stake in Martelo to
Petronas for $850 million. OGX will receive $250 million once
the deal is approved, another $500 million when production
starts and $100 million after meeting three separate output
targets.  Batista  created  OSX in 2010 to supply vessels to OGX. While
the shipbuilder has sought to diversify its client base, it has
yet to supply vessels to other customers. OSX, which rose as
much as 5 percent yesterday before declining 5 percent to 1.33
real, is benefiting from OGX’s commitment to continue paying
rental fees on its equipment despite the production failures,
said Rogerio Freitas, who helps manage about $100 million at
hedge fund Teorica Investimentos.  ATP Case  “OSX will receive leasing payments, and it can still sell
the assets,” Freitas said by phone from Rio. “They have the
capacity to survive independent of OGX.”  OGX’s decision to finance exploration and development of
its main field without a production record resembles Houston-based  ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPAQ) , a company that sought Chapter 11
protection in August after borrowing to finance deep-water
exploration in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea that didn’t
pan out, said Michael Wang, an analyst at IHS Herold in Norwalk,
 Connecticut .  “They financed the development with debt and are now in
bankruptcy court, there are a lot of parallels between ATG and
OGX,” Wang said. “OGX, had they only done equity finance, they
wouldn’t have any problems. Now they have contracts with
obligations to pay off the interest. They’re on the ropes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  