-- BlackRock Hires NYSE Liffe U.S.’s Callahan in Cash Role
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-07-02T22:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/blackrock-hires-nyse-liffe-u-s-s-callahan-for-cash-management.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  hired NYSE Liffe U.S.
Chief Executive Officer Tom Callahan as deputy head of its cash-management group.  Callahan, who ran  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s U.S. futures exchange, is
expected to join BlackRock in September, Lauren Post, a
spokeswoman in New York for the world’s largest asset manager,
said today in a telephone interview.  NYSE Euronext, the parent company of NYSE Liffe U.S.,
agreed to be bought by  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , the
second-largest U.S. futures exchange also known as ICE, for $8.2
billion in December. Callahan helped expand interest-rate
products offered at NYSE Liffe U.S., including contracts based
on Eurodollars, one of the most-frequently traded futures on
competitor CME Group Inc.  The NYSE Liffe U.S. contracts have struggled to gain market
share after initial trading when the futures were first offered,
said Rich Repetto, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP
in  New York . About 18,000 interest-rate and Treasury futures
contracts traded on average per day in the second quarter at
NYSE Liffe U.S., compared with 6.8 million at CME Group, he
said.  “It’s been very puzzling for NYSE as to why NYSE Liffe
U.S. hasn’t been successful,” Repetto said. “They are looking
at the skills and experience of ICE in the futures industry to
help, if it’s possible, to grow NYSE Liffe U.S.”  Joint Venture  Callahan, who couldn’t be reached for comment, also helped
create New York Portfolio Clearing LLC, a joint venture between
NYSE and the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. that allows
investors to combine cash and derivative positions in one
clearinghouse to lower margin costs.  The joint company has been in talks with LCH.Clearnet Group
Ltd. since last year to include  interest-rate swaps  in the mix
of contracts to offset margin in a deal known as Project
Trinity.  The ICE acquisition of NYSE Euronext threw the future of
that arrangement into doubt, Repetto said. ICE is developing its
own plan to offer cleared interest-rate swaps with its
clearinghouses in the U.S. and  Europe . Callahan said in January
that Project Trinity was still moving forward.  Callahan’s departure was confirmed in an e-mail by  Eric
Ryan , an NYSE spokesman. He declined to comment on the future of
Project Trinity, as did Brookly McLaughlin, an ICE spokeswoman.
Nina Truman, an LCH.Clearnet spokeswoman, wasn’t immediately
available for comment.  ‘Market Standing’  BlackRock’s cash-management business has more than $250
billion in assets under management, which represents just under
10 percent of the global market share, Richard Hoerner, head of
the business, said in a memo.  “Tom’s appointment is a reflection of our commitment to
maintaining our strong market standing in this space,” Hoerner
wrote.  Callahan graduated from  Harvard University  in 1991 and was
a managing director at Merrill Lynch & Co. prior to joining
NYSE, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 