-- BOE’s Tucker, Bailey Say 3% Leverage Ratio Should Apply Now
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-07-02T18:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/boe-s-tucker-bailey-say-3-bank-leverage-ratio-should-apply-now.html
Bank of England deputy governors Paul Tucker and Andrew Bailey said it’s right for U.K. regulators to
impose a 3 percent leverage ratio immediately on banks, five
years earlier than plans agreed to by global regulators.  “There is very clear view from our side that a 3 percent
leverage ratio is a sensible minimum point to have institutions
at, and those who are not at to have plans to get to,” Bailey
told lawmakers in Parliament in London today. “We are trying to
establish what I would call a minimum baseline.”  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said
last month the bank may cut lending if the BOE’s Prudential
Regulation Authority forces the lender to speed up plans to
increase its leverage to 3 percent by 2015. The PRA ordered
Barclays to increase the ratio, a measure of its proportion of
debt to equity funding, to at least 3 percent from about 2.5
percent. The lender has to agree its plan with the regulator by
the end of July.  Banks presented plans to the PRA before the end of June and
Bailey said regulators are now examining the proposals. Tucker
agreed that imposing the 3 percent ratio now was the correct
measure.  Global regulators included a provisional version of the
leverage limit in an overhaul of banking rules in the wake of
the 2008 financial crisis. The rule differs from other capital
requirements set by the Basel committee because it gives banks
no scope to take into account the riskiness of their investments
when working out the reserves they need.  2018 Deadline  While the leverage ratio won’t be binding until 2018,
lenders will be obliged to start publishing how well they
are measuring up to it by the start of 2015, the Basel group
said last month.  “I’m very much a believer that we should use both the
risk-based and leverage approaches to assess institutions and
you would be tying one hand behind our backs” if the BOE’s
Financial Policy Committee didn’t have authority over the
latter, Bailey said.  Tucker and Bailey, members of the FPC, were speaking at a
hearing of lawmakers into the Financial Stability Report,
published last week. Bailey said he told Co-Operative Bank Plc,
the U.K. lender that abandoned a bid to buy branches from  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , to raise capital in 2011. The lender had its
credit rating cut four levels last month by Moody’s Investors
Service, saying a “further burden sharing may be required at
some point.”  Committee Scrutiny  Parliament’s Treasury Committee “will want to look at
whether the regulator’s message got through, how it was conveyed
and what, if any, action was taken as a result,” Chairman
Andrew Tyrie, a Conservative lawmaker, said in an e-mailed
statement, after noting that Lloyds was only made aware of the
Co-Op’s capital shortfall in December 2012.  Tucker also expressed concern about the government’s Help
to Buy Scheme, aimed at supporting homeowners with interest-free
loans and mortgage guarantees.  “The government has been prudent in saying three years in
we will ask the FPC to have look at this,” Tucker said. “We
will address the financial-stability question, not the other
pros and cons. This is a government scheme. It carries some
risks over the medium term, we’ve been given a lever over
that.”  He added he expects the FPC would act if there were any
signs of a bubble that could jeopardize financial stability.  On the economy, Tucker said  the economy  is showing signs of
strengthening,  Bumpy Road  “We’re now in a period where there appears to be, thank
goodness, something of an economic recovery that appears to be
sustained,” he said. “But the road is going to be very
bumpy.”  Asked about the lobbying of politicians by banks on
regulation, Tucker said it’s “unacceptable” and “pointless,”
adding that it may be a “difficult” habit for lenders to end.  On recent concerns about the Federal Reserve withdrawing
stimulus, Tucker said the market reaction was a sign that
regulators need to ensure the resilience of the financial
system. Still, it was an “alert with a small a” and doesn’t
signal the “edge of a cliff,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  