-- BOJ Said to Mull Upgrading Assessment to Talk of Recovery
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-07-02T07:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/boj-said-to-mull-upgrading-japan-assessment-to-talk-of-recovery.html
The  Bank of Japan  will discuss
upgrading its assessment of the nation’s economy by using the
word “recover” for the first time in more than two years,
people familiar with the central bank’s discussions said.  The bank, which says the economy has been “picking up” in
its current assessment, will consider stronger language at a
two-day meeting ending July 11, according to the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks were private. In 2010,
the next step up was “starting to recover moderately.”  Raising the assessment for a seventh straight month could
aid efforts by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and central bank
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda to boost confidence in a sustained
Japanese recovery. Maintaining economic momentum would help Abe
in an upper-house election due this month as he tries to
consolidate support for the package of monetary and fiscal
stimulus and business deregulation termed Abenomics.  “It makes sense that the BOJ is upgrading the assessment
as recent economic data are showing Japan’s recovery is
robust,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  Tokyo  and a former central bank official. Kuroda
“must be gaining confidence in the impact of monetary stimulus
and the outlook for the economy.”  The Tankan survey yesterday showed big Japanese
manufacturers had turned optimistic for the first time since
2011, while JPMorgan last week raised its Japanese growth
forecast to 2.9 percent for the year through next March.  The Topix index capped the biggest four-day rally since
April today, climbing 1.8 percent. The yen was at 99.86 per
dollar at 4:02 p.m. in Tokyo, down about 20 percent in the past
year, partly as a result of the BOJ’s plan for unprecedented
monetary stimulus.  In June the bank said “ Japan ’s economy has been picking
up” and raising the assessment again would mark the longest
streak of upward revisions in more than a decade. The next
assessment will come in the policy statement due July 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  