-- Brazil Swap Rates Plunge on Industrial Production; Real Declines
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a r a
-- 2013-07-02T21:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/brazil-swap-rates-plunge-on-industrial-production-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s swap rates declined the most
in a week as industrial production contracted more than analysts
forecast, damping speculation policy makers will accelerate the
pace of borrowing-cost increases.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 fell 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 9.67 percent. The
real depreciated 1.1 percent to 2.2547 per dollar, after losing
9.4 percent in the second quarter, the worst performance among
major emerging-market currencies.  Industrial production in  Latin America ’s largest economy
posted the biggest contraction in three months in May, the
national statistics agency said today. Output shrank 2 percent,
surpassing the median estimate of 29 economists for a 1.1
percent decline. Nomura Holdings Inc. said Brazil may enter a
recession at the end of the year.  “A decline in  industrial production  was forecast, but the
size of the drop was bigger than expected,” Fernando Honorato,
chief economist at Bradesco Asset Management, said by phone from
 Sao Paulo . “The central bank should maintain the pace of 50
basis-point hikes.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has slashed
payroll taxes for dozens of industries and cut electricity rates
in a bid to boost production. At the same time, the central bank
started raising  interest rates  in April to tame inflation that
is currently above the target range.  Rate Increases  Policy makers have increased the benchmark rate twice this
year from a record low 7.25 percent, lifting it by 25 basis
points in April and an additional 50 basis points to 8 percent
in May.  Industrial output grew 1.4 percent from the year-earlier
period, missing analysts’ 2.4 percent estimate.  Rising borrowing costs around the world may further weaken
Brazil’s economy, Nomura analysts including  Tony Volpon  wrote in
a note to clients today.  “The last two months have already caused meaningful
tightening of financial conditions, which will have a material
impact on growth in the cases of Brazil,  Mexico , and  Chile ,”
the analysts wrote, citing the negative impact that tighter
monetary policy in the U.S. might have on Brazil’s economy as it
curbs capital inflows.  Yields on Brazil’s 10-year local fixed-rate bonds have
risen 143 basis points in the past two months to 10.93 percent.  Growth Outlook  The central bank cut its 2013 economic growth forecast to
2.7 percent from 3.1 percent in a report published June 27.
Policy makers cited “volatility as a risk factor and the
tendency of the dollar to appreciate.” They projected 6 percent
annual inflation, assuming the target lending rate remains
unchanged, compared with a March estimate of 5.7 percent, and
5.4 percent next year, up from 5.3 percent.  The real was the worst performer today among major
emerging-market currencies as global demand for the dollar
increased amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce
monetary stimulus.  “There is a repricing around the world,” Barbosa said.
“The drop in the real is within the scope of what’s happening
abroad.”  The central bank sold foreign-exchange swap contracts worth
$3.98 billion on June 28 in two auctions to stem the currency’s
two-month rout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Lara in Sao Paulo at 
 plara6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  