-- Brazil Erodes Last BRIC Refuge for Investment Banks
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-07-02T20:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/brazil-erodes-last-bric-refuge-for-investment-banks.html
Brazil is the only so-called BRIC
emerging economy where companies not owned by the government,
such as  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Grupo BTG Pactual, still earn
the most  investment-banking  fees. That may soon end.  Banco do Brasil SA  and Caixa Economica Federal, both
government-controlled, are using their dominance of the nation’s
loan markets and special relationship with President Dilma Rousseff’s administration as a wedge to unseat non-state firms
in the race for investment-banking fees.  Banco do Brasil, already the country’s biggest lender by
assets, wants to be the No. 1 investment bank as well, said
Paulo Rogerio Caffarelli, vice president for wholesale banking.
Caixa asked regulators in October for a license to create a 300-person unit. They would compete with Banco Itau BBA SA, BTG and
Credit Suisse, the top three companies by investment-banking
fees this year, according to research firm Dealogic.  “Since the 2008 crisis, our relationship with Brazilian
corporations has boomed because of the loans we made, and now we
want to leverage it by expanding our investment-banking
activity,” especially in underwriting bonds, Marcio Percival,
vice president of finance for Brasilia-based Caixa, said in an
interview in  Sao Paulo .  Economic Growth  Rousseff has leaned on state-owned banks to boost credit as
a means of reigniting  economic growth , which decelerated last
year to 0.9 percent, capping the slowest two years in a decade.
The deteriorating economy has contributed to street protests
that swelled to more than 1 million people on June 20 demanding
an end to corruption and better public services. The contraction
also could lead to an increase in souring loans, undermining the
financial health of the banks.  Banco do Brasil ranked first as an underwriter of Brazil
dollar-denominated bonds through June 26, up from third place
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It also was
the No. 1 underwriter on local fixed-income deals as of May 31,
rising from third for all of 2012, according to Anbima, Brazil’s
capital-markets association. Non-state-owned Banco Bradesco BBI
SA ranked first last year on local deals, and Itau BBA, a unit
of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB) , Latin America’s largest lender by
market value, held the top spot in 2011.  Banco do Brasil, based in Brasilia, is fifth in investment-banking fees this year through today, after ranking sixth last
year and failing to make the top 10 in 2011, data from London-based Dealogic show. Itau is No. 1.  Spokesmen for Zurich-based Credit Suisse, BTG, Itau BBA and
Bradesco BBI, the investment-banking division of Banco Bradesco
SA, declined to comment.  BRIC Revenue  The ambition of Banco do Brasil and Caixa to move up the
charts would put them in line with counterparts in other BRIC
nations --  Russia ,  India  and  China  -- where state-owned
companies generate the most investment-banking revenue.  Russia’s VTB Group and OAO Sberbank are the two highest-ranked investment banks based on fees for the year through May,
Dealogic data show, while  State Bank of India  is No. 1 in that
country. In China,  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  and Bank of China Ltd.,
both controlled by the government, collected the most fees.  Government-backed lenders in Brazil account for 7.4 percent
of investment-banking fees earned in that nation by the top 10
banks, the data show. That compares with 53 percent in China, 42
percent in Russia and 33 percent in India.  Heating Up  The competition from state-owned banks is heating up as the
business may be about to contract. Emerging-market companies are
postponing or canceling stock and bond offerings after the U.S.
Federal Reserve said last month that it may reduce its monetary
stimulus, growth in China slowed and investors pulled money out
of  developing countries . The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has
fallen 14 percent from its high this year on Jan. 3.  Votorantim Cimentos SA, Brazil’s biggest cement producer,
suspended an initial public offering of about $3.7 billion on
June 19. The deal, which would have been the world’s second-biggest IPO this year, was a victim of “unfavorable market
conditions,” the company said.  Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras SA, the airline created by
JetBlue Airways Corp. founder  David Neeleman , postponed a $450
million IPO last week. Banco do Brasil is an adviser.  Total revenue from investment banking is still rising in
Brazil, climbing 15 percent to $953 million from a year earlier
in the 12 months through May, according to Dealogic. That
compared with a 12 percent increase, to $6.57 billion, for the
BRIC nations as a whole. Russia posted the biggest jump, 40
percent, while India’s 2.6 percent was the smallest.  Dual System  Brazil’s top five investment banks, which also include Sao
Paulo-based Bradesco BBI and Charlotte, North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. , have smaller shares of the country’s loan
market than Banco do Brasil’s. The government-owned bank is
using those credit relationships to generate new business.  “Banco do Brasil is the biggest lender in Brazil, has a
huge balance sheet to provide credit, and that helps to obtain
investment-banking deals,” wholesale banking vice president
Caffarelli said.  State-owned banks have responded to Rousseff’s call to help
stimulate the economy by boosting lending 72 percent since the
beginning of 2011, to 1.23 trillion reais ($546.2 billion) as of
May, according to the central bank. That compares with a 26
percent increase for non-state lenders during the same period.  ‘Risk-Aversion’  Loans made by government-owned banks, including the
Brazilian  development bank  known as BNDES, account for 49
percent of the total 2.49 trillion reais outstanding, central
bank data show.  “Brazil is running a dual banking system -- a system where
the public banks are still showing little risk-aversion as long
as the government supports them,” Inigo Vega, an analyst at Nau
Securities Ltd., wrote in a note to clients in May.  Government banks are an even bigger part of the loan market
in India, where 21 state-controlled lenders accounted for 76
percent of the 50.8 trillion rupees ($851.4 billion) of bank
loans as of March 2012, according to data from the central bank.  In China, the four biggest government-controlled banks --
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , China Construction
Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of China
Ltd. -- have 44 percent of the nation’s 70.5 trillion  yuan 
($11.5 trillion) of loans outstanding, according to the central
bank. The government also has a controlling or minority stake in
all of the nation’s smaller banks and affiliates.  ‘Something Wrong’  “No one here is statist, our ideal economic model is not
China,” Caixa’s Percival said. “We don’t like the government’s
50 percent stake in credit -- it isn’t the picture we want to
see. There is something wrong.”  Percival said that once the economy rebounds, non-state
banks would be willing to increase lending.  John Welch , a strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in Toronto, said Brazil is making a mistake allowing
such a large expansion of government-controlled banks.  “Perhaps the growth of state-owned banks’ balance sheets
was necessary during the 2008 crisis,” Welch said in an
interview, referring to the credit crunch five years ago that
led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. “But when
the credit crisis was over, it was time to shrink the balance
sheet, and they didn’t.”  Unfair Competition  Interest rates  offered by state-owned lenders are often
subsidized and unfair competition for other banks, which
responded by cutting back loans, Welch said.  “Just to have a subsidized rate creates an excess of
demand for the loans at that rate,” Welch said. “It also makes
monetary policy harder.”  Felipe Salto, an economist at consulting firm Tendencias
Consultoria in Sao Paulo, said that government-owned banks
should only get involved when there’s a market failure.  “I don’t see that in the investment-banking business or
the credit market right now,” Salto said.  Caixa plans to create its investment-banking division with
employees transferred from other units, according to Marcos Roberto Vasconcelos, vice president of asset management. The
focus will be underwriting local bonds, he said.  The bank ranked sixth among originators of Brazil fixed-income deals in the 12 months through May, up from seventh for
the previous calendar year and 10th in 2011, according to
Anbima. Caixa had 603 billion reais in assets under management
in the first quarter, including 337 billion reais in investments
for the nation’s unemployment insurance fund known as FGTS.  Caixa, responsible for about 69 percent of Brazil’s real
estate loans, funds most of its mortgages with savings deposits
and mandatory monthly payroll contributions to FGTS.  First IPO  About 24 billion reais of the total managed by Caixa is an
FGTS private-equity fund. That helped the 152-year-old bank
obtain its first mandate advising on an IPO in April, for Sao
Paulo-based electricity transmission and generation company
 Alupar Investimento SA (ALUP11) , in which the fund has a 14 percent
stake,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Banco do Brasil was an underwriter of Biosev SA’s IPO after
extending more than 380 million reais in loans to the company as
of December 2012. Biosev, Brazil’s second-largest sugar-cane
processor, raised about 709.4 million reais in April.  The bank’s insurance unit, BB Seguridade Participacoes SA,
was responsible for the world’s biggest IPO this year, raising
11.5 billion reais in April. The transaction helped Banco do
Brasil grab fourth place among equity underwriters this year,
compared with fifth for 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Wage Policy  Banco do Brasil’s expansion in investment banking includes
buying the preferred shares of Sao Paulo-based Banco Votorantim
SA it doesn’t already own, boosting its share of capital to 75
percent from about 50 percent, two people with direct knowledge
of the plan said in January. Votorantim would remain a private
company, allowing Banco do Brasil to use its brokerage to build
an investment bank with a more flexible wage policy than state-owned firms must follow, the people said.  “We need to expand quickly in the investment-banking
area,” Caffarelli said. “With lower interest rates in Brazil
and all the investments needed in infrastructure, this business
will grow a lot in coming years, and we can’t miss the boat.”  Banco do Brasil has tumbled 18 percent this year, compared
with a 15 percent drop for Bradesco and a 10 percent decline for
Itau, the nation’s two largest non-state banks by market value.  ‘Unsustainable’ Growth  Banco do Brasil increased lending to companies 33 percent
to 280.5 billion reais from a year earlier, while Caixa’s
corporate loans soared 51 percent to 106.5 billion reais.  “This credit growth is unsustainable for the long term,”
Andre Riva Gargiulo, a Sao Paulo-based analyst at GBM Grupo
Bursatil Mexicano SA, said of Caixa’s lending.  Growth at non-state banks was less than half as strong.
Bradesco had 272.5 billion reais of loans outstanding to
companies at the end of March, up 13 percent from a year
earlier, and corporate loans increased about 10 percent to 272.6
billion reais at Itau.  The gap may widen further after Brazil authorized a capital
increase in June of 15 billion reais for BNDES and 8 billion
reais for Caixa as the government seeks to create room on the
banks’ balance sheets for continued loan growth.  “The government-controlled banks are being used not only
as a booster for economic growth, but are also paying a lot of
dividends to the Treasury, their controlling shareholder,
helping the government achieve its fiscal targets,” said Maria Celina Vansetti-Hutchins, a managing director at Moody’s
Investors Service in New York.  BNDES and Caixa accounted for 74 percent of dividends paid
to Brazil’s Treasury by government-owned companies last year,
according to Moody’s.  ‘Worst Situation’  From 2008 through April, the Treasury injected 34.5 billion
reais in subordinated debt into the state-owned banks and loaned
373.23 billion reais to BNDES, according to Salto at Tendencias
Consultoria. BNDES said in an e-mail it plans to make more loans
this year than the 156 billion reais it distributed in 2012.  By taking upfront dividends and making capital injections
in the form of subordinated debt and shares of government-owned
companies, the Treasury has weakened the quality and quantity of
the banks’ capital, according to Moody’s.  “BNDES and Caixa, fully controlled by the government, are
in the worst situation,” Vansetti-Hutchins said.  Invested Responsibly  Delinquency rates at BNDES are lower than the market
average and the bank invested its resources responsibly to get
higher returns, a spokesman said in an e-mail.  “A lot of banks invest their capital in low-risk assets
and good-quality company shares,” Caixa’s Vasconcelos said.
“Only about 10 percent of our capital is in government-company
shares.”  Banco do Brasil, created as a retail bank in 1808 by a
decree of Dom Joao VI, the regent prince of Portugal, was bailed
out by the government with an injection of 7.3 billion reais in
1997, after posting  losses  of 7.5 billion reais in 1996 and 4.3
billion reais in 1995. In 2001, the lender exchanged bad debt
for  government bonds .  Only state-owned banks are authorized to receive deposits
from court decisions, and at Banco do Brasil, the amount reached
89.9 billion reais in the first quarter, up from 80.5 billion
reais a year earlier. The banks can use those funds for any
purpose and don’t have to set aside a portion for  reserve
requirements  or pay fees to the nation’s deposit-insurance fund.  ‘Cheaper Costs’  “These banks have access to subsidized funding lines with
cheaper costs that privately owned banks can’t access,” GBM’s
Gargiulo said. “Their global funding costs are lower, and Caixa
is among the lowest of the market.”  Percival, the Caixa vice president, said the bank only uses
subsidized funding for programs for the poor and that its loans
to companies “use normal market funding.”  Banco do Brasil’s rate of debt payments overdue at least 90
days declined to 2 percent in the first quarter from 2.2 percent
a year earlier, while Caixa’s rose to 2.3 percent from 2.1
percent. That compares with 4.5 percent at Itau and 4 percent at
Bradesco.  Banco do Brasil and Caixa’s credit expansions are helping
keep their delinquency rates low as new borrowers don’t usually
default, Gargiulo said.  “There is a risk, which isn’t our basic scenario, that the
economy falters, increasing delinquencies at the same time
spreads are at record lows,” said Gargiulo, referring to the
difference between banks’ cost of funds and how much they charge
customers for loans.  Mario Pierry , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Sao Paulo,
said the banks’ strategy of leveraging their loan relationships
into investment-banking business follows the path Itau and
Bradesco took.  “They provide credit to companies -- why not help the
client hold an IPO?” Pierry said. “Investment banking is a
business that relies on relationships with clients.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  