-- Brazil’s Eletrosul to Enter Solar Project in 2014 Power Auction
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-07-02T17:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/brazil-s-eletrosul-to-enter-solar-project-in-2014-power-auction.html
Eletrosul Centrais Eletricas SA, a
unit of  Brazil ’s state-controlled power utility known as
Eletrobras, next year plans to start seeking contracts to sell
power from solar plants it expects to build in coming years.  The company is soliciting bids from companies to install
devices to measure solar radiation in two Brazilian states and
expects to select a winner at the end of July, Ronaldo dos
Santos Custodio, director of engineering and operations at
Eletrosul, said today in a telephone interview.  Eletrosul is expanding into solar power so it’s positioned
when the technology becomes cheap enough to compete on price
with other energy sources, he said. The company plans to enter a
solar project in a government-organized power auction next year,
he said.  “We’re starting this work now so we’re prepared when the
conditions are right,” to build solar projects, he said.  Eletrosul is studying the possibility of building the
country’s first “large-scale” solar-thermal plant, which uses
sunlight to heat fluid and power turbines, the company said June
20 on its  website . The company has to date invested 30 million
reais ($13.4 million) in solar-research projects.  The company’s only large solar installation is a 1-megawatt
pilot project at its headquarters in Florianopolis, Brazil. The
plant will start operating in the second half of the year, and
is costing 9 million reais, according to the statement.  Brazil will allow for the first time developers of solar
plants to participate in an auction for contracts to sell energy
from power plants that’s scheduled for October, Mauricio
Tolmasquim, president of the government energy-research agency
Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica, told reporters on June 27.  Brazil has 14 solar plants with 2.6 megawatts of total
capacity online, Brasilia-based electricity regulator Agencia
Nacional de Energia Eletrica, said on its  website . Eletrobras,
based in Rio de Janeiro, is officially known as Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  