-- California Upgrade Wagers Spur Best Rally Since ’08: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-07-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/california-upgrade-wagers-spur-best-rally-since-08-muni-credit.html
Investors in the $3.7 trillion
municipal market are betting California is headed for the best
 credit rating  in a decade as recovering housing prices help its
economy grow the most out of the five largest U.S. states.  The improvement in the world’s ninth-biggest economy has
buoyed California bonds. The yield penalty that investors demand
on the state’s obligations shrank to  0.44 percentage point  last
week, the smallest since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The most-populous U.S. state is also the most-indebted, with
about $103 billion of gross tax-supported debt in 2012, the
highest in a Moody’s Investors Service ranking.  Governor  Jerry Brown  forecasts an $817 million surplus this
year. It would be the first in nearly a decade after California
strained under more than $100 billion in cumulative deficits
since 2007. Moody’s grades the state A1, four steps below the
top, and hasn’t given it a higher rank since 2001.  “The perception of California from an investor’s
perspective is that it’s on an upswing,” said  Robert Miller ,
who helps oversee $34 billion of munis at Wells Capital
Management in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin . “I don’t think there
is anybody out there who doesn’t think that they are going to
receive an upgrade at some point.”  Health Restored  California’s overall economic health, as measured by tax
collections, home prices, mortgage delinquency, jobs, personal
income and performance of local stocks, grew 3.8 percent in the
first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index for the period,
California beat  Texas ,  New York , Florida and  Illinois .  Home prices rose 6.5 percent in the quarter compared with a
year earlier, also the best among the largest states, according
to California’s FHFA House Price Index. In January, the state
got its first  Standard & Poor’s  rating boost since 2006.  The jobless rate in California, with 38 million residents,
fell to 8.6 percent in May, the lowest since 2008 and down from
12.4 percent in 2010. Only five states have a higher level.  Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat, persuaded voters in November
to pass the highest statewide  sales tax  in the U.S., at 7.5
percent, and to boost levies on annual income starting at
$250,000. He said the higher levies were needed to avert cuts to
schools.  Risks Ahead  He has also said the economic recovery is too fragile to
justify more spending and remains at risk from federal policies.  The $96.3 billion budget for the fiscal year that began
yesterday assumes revenue growth will slow and the state’s
economy will be curbed by higher federal payroll taxes and
automatic U.S. budget cuts. The spending plan is up less than 1
percent from last year’s.  “It’s very imprudent for people to go around saying we
have money to spend,” Brown told reporters last week in
 Sacramento , the capital. “We don’t have the money until it’s in
the bank.”  While California’s fiscal position is the strongest in
several years, the latest spending plan is weaker than the one
Brown proposed in May, S&P said in a report yesterday.  Liabilities Linger  The deal Brown struck with lawmakers to finance some health
and welfare expansions delays the repayment of some liabilities
left over from previous budget deficits, the company said.  Some of the improvement in California yield spreads in June
may also have resulted from investors being drawn to the bonds
as municipal  interest rates  soared, according to Dan Solender,
director of munis at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey .  Benchmark muni yields reached the highest since 2011 last
week, part of a broader fixed-income selloff as investors
speculated that an improving U.S. economy will lead the  Federal
Reserve  to scale back its bond buying.  California is still on a better trajectory than in the
first quarter of 2012, when it ranked 17th in terms of economic
health on the BEES index.  The median price for an existing single-family home in
California jumped to $417,350 in May, up 32 percent from a year
earlier as a shortage of houses on the market sent  home prices 
in the state up the most in three decades, according to the
California Association of Realtors.  ‘Recovery Mode’  A separate benchmark measuring the state’s economy
strengthened in April to the highest since February 2008,
according to the California Business Index compiled by Comerica
Bank.  California “is representative of an economy that is
repairing itself and is coming back to a true recovery mode,”
said Robert Dye, chief economist for Dallas-based Comerica.  The accumulation of homeowner equity and job growth is
fueling the recovery, Dye said.  “Homeowners are building equity very very rapidly right
now and that is a huge positive wealth effect,” Dye said by
telephone. “When you combine that with moderate gains in
employment, you are starting to see a consumer that is more
resilient and you are seeing businesses that are responding.”  When  California  sold general-obligation bonds in April, the
state priced 10-year securities to yield 2.37 percent, about
0.58 percentage point above benchmark munis.  “It’s such a liquid credit and the positive outlook helps,
the tax rates going up in California helps,” said Solender,
whose firm oversees $19.5 billion of local debt. “There’s just
a lot of positive things going for it.”  In the municipal market this week, borrowers plan to offer
a combined $2.8 billion of bonds, the least since January.  At 2.75 percent,  benchmark  10-year muni rates compare with
about 2.5 percent on similar-maturity federal debt.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 110 percent, close to the highest since August. The
average since 2001 is about 92 percent. A higher percentage
means munis are cheaper relative to federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento, California, at   mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  