-- Cengage Learning Files for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-07-02T20:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/cengage-learning-files-for-chapter-11-bankruptcy.html
Cengage Learning Inc. filed for
 bankruptcy protection  more than five years after a buyout led by
Apax Partners LLP left the textbook publisher with about
$5.8 billion in debt.  Under a deal with some of its senior lenders, the company
will try to use the bankruptcy case to eliminate $4 billion in
debt, Cengage said in a statement today.  “Our balance sheet is absolutely not fit for purpose,
there is too much debt,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael Hansen 
said today in a phone interview. “After we come out of this
restructuring, we feel we’ll be in a very good position, with a
very sound balance sheet, and a lot of room to continue to
invest in the business.”  The company, which bills itself as the second-biggest
publisher of college-course material in the U.S., listed more
than $1 billion in assets in a filing today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Brooklyn ,  New York .  In 2007, private-equity group Apax led a $7.75 billion
acquisition of Cengage from Thomson Reuters Corp. Apax is an
 investment adviser  for funds worth more than $40 billion, the
company said.  Apax has been buying Cengage’s debt at a discount,
potentially giving the London-based company more influence
during the restructuring.  Distressed Debt  Hedge funds  that invest in distressed debt, including
 Centerbridge Partners LP  and Oaktree Capital Group LLC, are part
of a group of investors that holds more than $2 billion in
Cengage senior debt, people familiar with the pre-bankruptcy
talks said in June.  Other investors in the debt include GSO Capital Partners
LP, BlackRock Inc. and Oak Hill Advisors LP, according to the
people, who requested anonymity because the pre-bankruptcy
process wasn’t public.  Cengage, with headquarters in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
reported an 18 percent drop in sales for the six months ended
Dec. 31.  Cengage develops teaching materials for colleges, schools,
libraries and corporations, and provides print and electronic
publishing. Hansen, who joined the publisher in September, has
shifted to more digital products and subscriptions as students
move away from buying new textbooks.  Biggest Creditors  In a list of its biggest unsecured creditors the company
named Wilmington Trust, NA as agent for about $292 million in
senior unsecured notes, Bank of  Oklahoma  as agent for about $132
million in senior subordinated, discounted notes and Wells Fargo
Bank, NA as agent for $63.6 million in so-called payment-in-kind
notes. The company also said it owed the Thomson Corporation
$1.46 million for a tax indemnification.  Greg Mankiw, a Harvard University professor who advised
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  is owed $1.6
million in royalties, according to the bankruptcy filing.  In the past, too much investment was directed to print at
the expense of digital, Hansen said. Under new management,
Cengage is focused “squarely on digital” and faculty and
student users.  “The whole industry by and large has been a little bit
guilty to not change quickly enough to the new paradigm; Cengage
was certainly part of that,” Hansen said. “There was an
underlying belief that the print model would hold up better than
it actually did, particularly recently.”  Debt Pressure  Before it filed, Cengage faced mounting pressure to
restructure its debt -- mostly from the 2007 leveraged buyout --
as payment deadlines loomed. Lenders were negotiating the
company’s value and how to convert debt holdings into equity,
the people said.  It has about $43 million in interest on a second-lien bond
and a $222 million  credit line  due as soon as July 5, according
to an earnings report and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is In re Cengage Learning Inc., 13-44106, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of New York, Brooklyn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net 
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at   mccracken3@bloomberg.net . 