-- Charter Amends Credit Agreement to Prepare for Acquisitions
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-07-02T20:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/charter-amends-credit-agreement-to-prepare-for-acquisitions-1-.html
Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the
fourth-largest U.S. cable operator, amended a credit agreement
that would give the company more flexibility for acquisitions.  The modified pact, which affects about $4.8 billion of
loans, changes a covenant to allow the company to assume more
debt for deals, according to a filing today.  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Charter is the most indebted junk-rated U.S.
cable company, with $12.8 billion of borrowings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Charter is exploring alternatives to acquire the second-largest U.S. cable company,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , according to
people familiar with the matter.  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) , which owns
27 percent of Charter, may also provide funding, or the
companies may structure a deal by borrowing against Time Warner
Cable’s assets, the people said.  “It is unclear whether Liberty/Charter has the financial
capacity to do the deal,” Jaison Blair, an analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in New York, said in a note to clients. “The
owners of the $26 billion of high-grade Time Warner Cable bonds
are likely to be reticent to allow Liberty/Charter to use TWC’s
balance sheet to buy the company.”  Time Warner Cable, based in New York, has a market
valuation of $31.9 billion and an enterprise value -- which
includes debt -- of about $55 billion. Charter’s market
valuation is $12.7 billion and Liberty’s is $15.7 billion. The
probability that Charter and Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty
can pull off an acquisition is about 50 percent, Blair said.  Junk Rating  Time Warner Cable would probably lose its investment-grade
credit rating if a Charter acquisition occurred, Moody’s
Investors Service said today. The cable provider is rated Baa2,
or two levels above junk, by Moody’s. Charter has a Ba3 rating,
or three levels below investment grade.  “Given that Time Warner Cable is a public company without
a controlling shareholder, its defenses against activist
shareholder pressure or an outright takeover are limited,” Neil Begley, a credit analyst at Moody’s in New York, said in a note
to clients. “A poison pill would not thwart a reasonable offer
to buy the company and would have to be considered by the board
of directors, and in the absence of protective indentures
bondholders are typically an afterthought in such situations.”  Charter’s loans in its credit agreement -- initially signed
in March 1999 and amended and restated multiple times since then
-- consist of $3.45 billion of term debt and a $1.3 billion
revolving credit facility.  Charter is also examining acquiring Bethpage, New York-based  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-largest U.S. cable
provider, according to people familiar with the matter. Time
Warner Cable may also attempt to buy “mid-sized” targets to
ward off a Charter deal, Moody’s said.  Charter rose 2.4 percent to $125.14 at the close in New
York. Time Warner Cable fell 1.3 percent to $109.47. Cablevision
rose 3.1 percent to $19.02.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  