-- Chicago Gasoline Falls as Supplies Improve After Shortage
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-07-02T19:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/chicago-gasoline-falls-as-supplies-improve-after-shortage.html
U.S. gasoline in  Chicago  weakened
versus futures as Midwest inventories improved  following a
shortage  that sent differentials to a record high in June.  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline , or CBOB, in Chicago slid
3 cents to  13.5 cents  a gallon below futures traded on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange at 2:35 p.m., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The spread weakened as  BP Plc (BP/)  restarted a crude
distillation unit at the Whiting, Indiana, refinery and Citgo
Petroleum Corp. returned the  Lemont, Illinois, plant  to planned
rates following a June 28 malfunction.  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  said inventories are
improving in the central region of its system. The company,
which implemented allocation in the Midwest on May 16, only has
“a few terminals” still affected by the program, said Bruce Heine, a company spokesman based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma .  Spot prices in Chicago rallied to a record premium of 85
cents versus Nymex futures in early June, when refineries
including  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Joliet plant  and  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s
Wood River site were undergoing maintenance. The plants, both in
 Illinois , have a combined capacity of 594,000 barrels a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since the refineries have returned from maintenance,
gasoline stockpiles in the Midwest, the area known as PADD 2,
have climbed to  49.9 million barrels , up from a five-month low
of 47.6 million barrels in May, according to Energy Information
Administration data.  Diesel Spreads  The  3-2-1 crack spread  in Chicago, a rough measure of
refining margins for gasoline and diesel based on West Texas
Intermediate oil in Cushing, Oklahoma, dropped $1.05 to $14.84 a
barrel.  The same spread in Group 3 , which includes states north
of Oklahoma to  Minnesota  and  North Dakota , gained 10 cents to
$16.29 a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel was at a discount of 1.5 cents a
gallon in Chicago and 0.38 cent a gallon in Group 3. The same
fuel weakened 0.3 cent on the Gulf Coast to 2.82 cents a gallon
below Nymex futures.  The Gulf Coast discount grew after a Bloomberg survey of
shipbrokers showed traders will book 11 medium-range tankers for
diesel to Amsterdam from Houston for loading in the next two
weeks, unchanged from the previous survey. Five tankers were
already booked, compared with six last week, the survey of six
respondents showed.  ‘Serious Accumulation’  Refineries in the region, known as PADD 3, ran at about 93
percent of  Gulf Coast  capacity last week, contributing to a
build of  1.06 million barrels  to 40.5 million barrels of
distillate, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  “Our runs are so high, we’re producing way more distillate
than we can consume,” Tom Finlon, director of Energy Analytics
Group Ltd, said by phone from Jupiter,  Florida . “We need to
export as much as we can to prevent some serious accumulation on
the Gulf.”  Finlon forecasts that exports will maintain their pace in
the next week and may drop off later when European refineries
boost utilization rates and don’t require as much product.  Refinery throughputs in  Europe  are expected to post year-over-year declines due to lower runs in the middle of 2013, the
 International Energy Agency  said in a June report.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  on the Gulf, based on WTI, fell 13
cents to $12.08, while the same spread for Light Louisiana Sweet
oil increased 27 cents to $5.38 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  