-- Chief Justice Roberts Is Awesome Power Behind FISA Court
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-07-02T18:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/chief-justice-roberts-is-awesome-power-behind-fisa-court.html
Chief justice of the U.S. is a pretty
big job. You lead the Supreme Court conferences where cases are
discussed and voted on. You preside over oral arguments. When in
the majority, you decide who writes the opinion. You get a cool
robe that you can decorate with  gold stripes .  Oh, and one more thing: You have exclusive, unaccountable,
lifetime power to shape the surveillance state.  To use its surveillance powers -- tapping phones or reading
e-mails -- the federal government must ask permission of the
court set up by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. A
FISA judge can deny the request or force the government to limit
the scope of its investigation. It’s the only plausible check in
the system. Whether it actually checks government surveillance
power or acts as a rubber stamp is up to whichever FISA judge
presides that day.  The 11 FISA judges, chosen from throughout the federal
bench for seven-year terms, are all appointed by the chief
justice. In fact, every FISA judge currently serving was
appointed by Chief Justice John Roberts, who will continue
making such appointments until he retires or dies. FISA judges
don’t need confirmation -- by Congress or anyone else.  No other part of U.S. law works this way. The chief justice
can’t choose the judges who rule on health law, or preside over
labor cases, or decide software patents. But when it comes to
surveillance, the composition of the bench is entirely in his
hands and so, as a result, is the extent to which the National
Security Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation can spy
on citizens.  “It really is up to these FISA judges to decide what the
law means and what the NSA and FBI gets to do,” said Julian Sanchez, a privacy scholar at the Cato Institute. “So Roberts is
single handedly choosing the people who get to decide how much
surveillance we’re subject to.”  Thin Record  There’s little evidence that this is a power Roberts
particularly wants. Tom Clancy, a professor at the University of
Mississippi School of Law, has analyzed Roberts’s record on
surveillance issues and been impressed mostly by how little
interest in them Roberts displays. The chief justice doesn’t
push the Supreme Court to take cases related to surveillance
powers, and when such cases do come up, he tends to let another
justice write the opinion. “He does not have much of a record in
this area at all,” Clancy said.  To the degree Roberts’s views can be divined, he leans
toward giving the government the authority it says it needs.
“He’s been very state oriented,” Clancy said. “He’s done very
little writing in the area, but to the extent he has, almost
without exception, he’s come down in favor of the police.”  Roberts’s nominations to the FISA court are almost
exclusively Republican. One of his first appointees, for
instance, was Federal District Judge Roger Vinson of  Florida ,
who not only struck down the Affordable Care Act’s individual
mandate, but struck down the rest of the law, too. (The Supreme
Court disagreed.) Vinson’s term expired in May, but the partisan
tilt on the court continues: Only one of the 11 members is a
Democrat.  Critics contend the FISA court is too compromised to
conduct genuine oversight. It meets in secret, and the presiding
judge hears only the government’s argument before issuing a
decision that can’t be appealed or even reviewed by the public.
“Like any other group that meets in secret behind closed doors
with only one constituency appearing before them, they’re
subject to capture and bias,” said Elizabeth Goitein, co-director of the Brennan Center for Justice’s Liberty and
National Security Program.  Startling Success  A Reuters investigation found that from 2001 to 2012, FISA
judges approved 20,909 surveillance and property search warrants
while rejecting only 10. Almost 1,000 of the approved requests
required modification, and 26 were withdrawn by the government
before a ruling. That’s a startling win rate for the government.  Perhaps the federal government is simply very  judicious  in
invoking its surveillance authority. But it’s also possible that
empowering the chief justice -- especially one with an expansive
view of state police powers -- to appoint every FISA judge has
led to a tilted court. That’s probable even if the chief justice
has been conscientious in his selections.  Harvard Law School professor and Bloomberg View columnist
Cass R. Sunstein has found that judges are more ideologically
rigid when their fellow judges are from the same party, and more
moderate when fellow judges are from the other party. “Federal
judges (no less than the rest of us) are subject to group
polarization,”  he wrote .  The FISA court is composed of federal judges. All are
appointed by the same man. All but one hail from the same
political party. And unlike judges in normal courts, FISA judges
don’t hear opposing testimony or feel pressure from colleagues
or the public to moderate their rulings. Under these
circumstances, group polarization is almost a certainty.
“There’s the real possibility that these judges become more
extreme over time, even when they had only a mild bias to begin
with,” Cato’s Sanchez said.  Just as the likelihood of polarization in the FISA court is
more pronounced than in normal courts, the stakes are also
higher. If trial judges are unduly biased, their rulings can be
overturned on appeal. But FISA judges decide the momentous
questions of who the government may spy on and how. Their power
is awesome, and their word is final. And, as the great legal
scholar Kanye West said, no one man should have all that power.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 