-- China’s Li Says Conditions for Growth in Place, CCTV Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-02T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/china-s-li-says-conditions-for-growth-in-place-cctv-reports.html
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said that
the conditions for the world’s second-biggest economy to achieve
its growth targets are in place,  China  Central Television
reported yesterday.  The conditions exist for China to realize its economic
targets for this year and for sustainable, healthy development,
CCTV cited Li as saying in a meeting with leaders from central
and eastern Europe.  The comments come after Goldman Sachs Group Inc., China
International Capital Corp., Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc
pared their growth projections this year to 7.4 percent, below
the government’s 7.5 percent goal disclosed at the March
conference at which Li became premier. While the country’s worst
credit crunch in at least a decade eased further yesterday, two
gauges of manufacturing fell last month.  Economic expansion has stayed below 8 percent for the past
four quarters, the first time that has happened in at least 20
years. In a sign the government may tolerate further
deceleration, President Xi Jinping said officials shouldn’t be
judged solely on their record in boosting gross domestic
product, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on June 29.  An official Purchasing Managers’ Index dropped to 50.1, the
lowest level in four months, from 50.8, the National  Bureau of
Statistics  and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
in Beijing on July 1. A private PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics was 48.2, the weakest since September. Readings
above 50 signal expansion. The reports underscore the sustained
slowdown in the nation’s economy as the government seeks to rein
in financial speculation and real-estate prices.  China’s clampdown on excessive short-term borrowing, aimed
at wringing speculative lending out of the banking system, sent
the overnight repurchase rate to a record 13.91 percent last
month. While the rate fell back to a one-month low of 3.71
percent yesterday, that exceeds the 2.91 percent average over
the last 12 months.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  