-- Chinese Makers Boost Polysilicon Output on Tariff Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-02T09:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/chinese-makers-boost-polysilicon-output-on-tariff-concern.html
Chinese polysilicon makers led by
 GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  and  Daqo New Energy Corp. (DQ)  are
ramping up production as imports decline amid concerns about
retroactive tariffs on the raw material for solar panels.  Daqo expects to deliver almost one-third more polysilicon
in the second quarter than in the first, said investor relations
manager Kevin He. GCL-Poly also increased production in the
quarter, Lv Jinbiao, deputy manager of the company’s polysilicon
unit, said yesterday without giving details.  China, the biggest maker of solar panels, is preparing
anti-dumping duties on polysilicon imports it judges to have
been sold below cost, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said in May. The Ministry of Commerce has said it’s
determining whether penalties should be set retroactively on
suppliers from the U.S., the European Union and  South Korea .
Imports dropped to the lowest in six months in May.  May imports were closer to actual demand after buyers
stockpiled the material when prices were low, said Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based analyst for Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. “Spot prices are about $16.9 a kilogram and will keep
stable in July.”  ReneSola Ltd. (SOL)  yesterday said it revived production at its
Sichuan polysilicon plant with an annual capacity of 10,000
metric tons after adding new furnaces and hydrochlorination
technology. The Jiashan, Zhejiang-based company suspended
manufacturing in November.  U.S. Probe  Daqo brought its 5,000-ton Xinjiang facility to full
production in the second quarter, Kevin He said. “Prices won’t
drop in the short term. Imports declined as tariff concerns
mounted and will remain at the May levels until the trade
dispute is resolved.”  Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. of the U.S. and  Germany ’s
 Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  are among suppliers China suspects of dumping.
The probe follows a U.S. inquiry into Chinese panel suppliers
begun in 2011 and by the EU in 2012 after falling prices led to
the collapse of companies including Fremont, California-based
Solyndra LLC. Chinese tariffs are likely to buoy prices of
polysilicon, which have dropped about 25 percent in the last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  GCL-Poly’s first-quarter output fell 29 percent to 8,654
tons from the previous year, the company said in May. “The
average spot price may be higher in the second half,” said Lv,
who is deputy manager of the company’s Jiangsu Zhongneng
Polysilicon Technology Development Co.  China  imported 5,859 tons of polysilicon in May, a 19
percent drop from a month earlier and the lowest since November,
according to data from the General Administration of China
Customs.  “The total Chinese polysilicon imports in the first five
months have increased with lower prices, thus dumping from
foreign suppliers continues,” said Liu Jing, an analyst from
the China Nonferrous Metals Industrial Association, a trade
group that advises the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  