-- Chinese Malls Waive Rents as Vacancies Loom: Real Estate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-02T09:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/chinese-malls-waive-rents-as-vacancies-loom-real-estate.html
Chinese landlords are forgoing rent
and paying to outfit stores for mass-market fashion brands
including  Zara  and H&M, a bid to blunt the impact of a boom in
shopping-mall construction that threatens to push up vacancies.  Preferential leasing terms were reserved until recently for
luxury brands such as  Louis Vuitton  and Gucci, which are coveted
because they bring shoppers into malls. Now moderately priced
labels are being enticed with offers as landlords work harder to
fill shops, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc. and RET
Property Consultancy Ltd.  Consumer demand is cooling as  China’s economy  slows and
President Xi Jinping reins in lavish spending by officials. Big
mall operators, including  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  and  Hang
Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , can withstand the slowdown at the expense
of smaller ones such as Golden Eagle Retail Group Ltd.,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG and Haitong International
Securities Ltd. Landlords focused on lower-tier markets will be
under more pressure as smaller cities add retail space at a
faster rate than larger ones.  “Competition in China’s commercial property market is very
fierce, especially at those new malls at non-central locations
in second- and third-tier cities,” said Carrie Liu, Shanghai-based general manager for development at Shui On Development
Ltd., a subsidiary of  Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  The company, which built
the city’s Xintiandi restaurant, bar and retail district, has
never offered subsidies such as free rents, Liu said.  Mall Building  Chinese developers built more malls and expanded into
smaller cities as  consumer spending  and incomes grew, elevating
China’s economy to the largest in the world after the U.S.  Half of the 32 million square meters (344 million square
feet) of shopping centers under construction around the world
are in China, according to  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  About 21 million
square meters of retail space is expected to be completed by
next year, a 38 percent increase in supply, according to broker
Cushman, which tracks 20 cities in China.  That’s setting up a test for developers as retailers
including  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and Gucci-owner
Kering SA respond to slowing growth by scaling back expansion
plans in the world’s most populous country.  Second-tier cities, including Chengdu, Shenyang, Hangzhou
and Qingdao, may be stuck with the highest vacancy rates in
2014, according to Cushman. The financial hub of Shanghai, the
capital Beijing and the southern industrial cities of Guangzhou
and Shenzhen are considered the first-tier cities.  Vacancy rates in some less affluent cities could surge to
more than 30 percent by next year from as low as 6.8 percent in
the first quarter this year, Cushman forecasts.  Large Developers  “The problem we see today in China is that there’s really
no proper planning,” Sigrid Zialcita, Singapore-based managing
director for Asia-Pacific research at Cushman, said in a phone
interview. “There are really a number of cities prone to having
periods of oversupply.”  Mall space in China’s four major cities will grow about 40
percent by the end of 2015, while in 16 smaller cities it will
double in the period, according to Steven McCord, China retail
research director at property brokerage  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   Developers of some new malls may struggle to reach even 70
percent occupancy, forcing delays in opening, said Michael
Zhang,  executive director  and co-founder of Beijing-based RET
Property Consultancy.  Best Positioned  In developed markets such as Hong Kong and Singapore,
vacancy rates are between 6 percent and 7 percent because of a
shortage of supply, according to Cushman.  “Free rent can exist in any market where the tenants have
the advantage,” McCord said. “China’s characteristics are that
there’s a lot of new construction and there is so much new
supply.”  Hong Kong-based China Resources Land has the best mall
locations and highest internal rate of return on its mature
malls at about 20 percent, among five major operators from
outside the mainland, including Hang Lung and  CapitaMalls Asia
Ltd. (CMA) , according to Credit Suisse. It rates state-owned China
Resources Land outperform with a 12-month price target at
HK$29.80. The stock closed at HK$21.20, up 4.2 percent, in  Hong
Kong  on June 28.  While “it may be debatable whether China’s housing market
is oversupplied, there’s consensus that China’s commercial
property sector is indeed,” said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at Credit Suisse. “Bigger mall developers
definitely outperformed those smaller ones.”  Two calls to Annie Li, Hong Kong-based investor relations
director at China Resources Land, weren’t answered.  Hang Lung  Hang Lung, based in Hong Kong, is investing more than $8.5
billion building malls in China, a bet by Chairman  Ronnie Chan 
on an expanding middle class. Fifteen of 23 analysts recommend
buying the stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Elisa
Fong, assistant manager of Hang Lung’s corporate communications,
declined to comment.  Brokerage Maybank Kim Eng raised its earnings forecast for
CapitaMalls Asia for the fiscal years 2013 to 2015 by 5 percent
to 10 percent, and reiterated a buy recommendation in an April
report, with a 12-month price target of S$2.57. The developer
closed at S$1.795 yesterday. The Singapore-based company will
continue to look for opportunities and expand in China to
“leverage its market leadership,” analyst  Wilson Liew  wrote.  CapitaMalls Asia, the retail property unit of Southeast
Asia’s largest developer, has 49 shopping centers in China. It
opened a  mall  in Chengdu on April 28 with 90 percent occupancy,
according to an earnings presentation April 25.  The malls in China had a “committed” occupancy rate of
more than 96 percent as of March 31, Seng Jin Lim, head of
corporate communications and marketing at CapitaMalls Asia in
Singapore, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. The company
doesn’t offer incentives to retailers to open in its malls
because it can leverage its network of more than 102 shopping
centers and 13,000 leases in Asia, Lim said.  Under Pressure  In contrast, Haitong Securities downgraded China’s
department-store industry last year. Golden Eagle was the least
favored to weather a boom in mall space because it’s “very
conservative” in terms of its operation, said Elyse Wang, a
Shenzhen-based analyst at Haitong who covers six Chinese
department stores.  About 40 percent of 32 analysts who cover the stock
recommend buying  Golden Eagle, (3308)  the second-largest Chinese
department-store operator by market value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Golden Eagle operates on a turnover rent basis with luxury
brands such as Gucci and does not collect basic rents, Lily Xu,
a spokeswoman, said in response to questions. Turnover rents are
payments based on a percentage of annual sales.  Still, Carlyle Group LP, the world’s second-biggest
private-equity firm, bought a 49 percent stake in two shopping
malls in Suzhou and Hangzhou in May to take advantage of rising
domestic consumption.  Empty Malls  At GuocoLand Ltd.’s Guoson Center, across from Shanghai’s
Changfeng Park, about 13 kilometers (8 miles) from the historic
Bund, most shops are boarded up. A few stores are scattered on
the first floor of the four-story mall that houses a KFC fried-chicken outlet and a BMW car dealership. The upper floors are
largely vacant. The Tasty Cafe has the only rented space on the
third floor. Most staff were taking a break at dinner time on a
recent visit.  GuocoLand, which gets almost a third of its revenue from
China, opened the mall in 2010 as part of a development that
includes offices, serviced apartments and a five-star hotel in
the city’s west, according to the Singapore-based developer’s
website.  The mall has an occupancy rate of only 40 percent to 45
percent because it was not planned or designed properly,
Benjamin Han, who took over as managing director of GuocoLand’s
unit in Shanghai six months ago, said in an interview.  Bund Square  The developer has started remodeling the mall to reposition
it, including removing at least 10 tenants that don’t fit in,
Han, an architect, said. The company plans to have the work
completed in the next 12 months, he added.  “The reason why the mall is doing so badly is that it was
so badly conceived,” he said.  At Bund Square, an outdoor mall operated by Shanghai
Greenland Group Co. that opened at the southwestern end of the
Bund last year, about half of the stores are occupied, including
a Nike outlet. Empty shops are covered with boards featuring
pictures of champagne glasses and slogans promoting a luxurious
lifestyle. Some fourth-floor shops are still under renovation.  Though some stores are under renovation, they have been
rented out, Shanghai Greenland spokesman Wang Xiaodong said in a
phone interview. He declined to give the mall’s vacancy rate.  Collecting Rent  Worsening the problem, economic growth is weakening. The
 International Monetary Fund  in May lowered its forecasts for
China’s growth this year after a slowdown in the first quarter.  Retail sales in the first five months of 2013 grew 12.6
percent, slowing from 14.5 percent a year earlier, according to
the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics.  Retail rents in the four major cities fell 6.2 percent to
2,090  yuan  ($341) per square meter a month in the first quarter
from the previous one, while in second-tier cities they declined
6.3 percent to 994 yuan per square meter, according to Cushman.  Retail vacancy rates in Shanghai rose to 6 percent in the
first three months this year from 5.4 percent in the previous
quarter, Cushman said. They will rise as high as 9.6 percent
next year, the broker estimated.  Deal Specific  Luxury brands such as Louis Vuitton or Gucci could receive
about 25 million yuan ($4 million) in fees toward fitouts when
they lease a 500-square-meter store, while fashion brands such
as Sweden’s  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and Spain’s  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara
typically get 5 million yuan to 15 million yuan in such fees,
according to a Shanghai-based property adviser who has acted as
a broker for retailers and asked for anonymity because he is
divulging industry secrets.  Each rent deal is different. High-end brands typically pay
lower turnover rents because of the prestige they bring to
shopping centers, as well as obtaining free-rent periods. Brands
with less of a cache pay a monthly turnover rent or a fixed
rent, depending on which is higher.  Gucci and Inditex said in e-mailed statements that they
don’t comment on lease contract conditions. Grace Zhao, LVMH’s
Shanghai-based spokeswoman, declined to comment on commercial
relations. H&M didn’t reply to an e-mailed request for comment
on their leases in China.  Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Swiss luxury watchmaker Piaget are
among companies reining in the pace of new store openings as
China’s economic growth slows, their businesses in the country
mature and more Chinese consumers had overseas to avoid higher
luxury taxes at home.  Developers offering to help build storefronts or offer free
rents are not uncommon in China, according to Piaget, owned by
 Cie. Financiere Richemont SA. (CFR)   “It’s part of the marketing strategies of different
malls,” Dimitri Gouten, Piaget’s Asia-Pacific president, said.
These shopping centers are usually “weaker malls,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  