-- Chinese Stocks Rise as Drug Makers Advance, Banks Decline
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-02T07:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/china-s-stock-futures-gain-signaling-indexes-may-advance.html
Chinese stocks  rose for a third day,
the longest winning streak in five weeks, as gains among drug
and liquor companies overshadowed declines by financial shares.  Yunnan Baiyao Group Co., which makes traditional Chinese
medicine, jumped to a record high on optimism regulators will
take steps to support the industry.  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519) , the
nation’s largest liquor maker, climbed to a one-month high on
speculation product prices have bottomed. Industrial Bank Co.
slid 2.3 percent, leading financial companies to the biggest
loss among industry groups.  About three stocks gained for each one that fell in the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which added 0.6 percent to 2,006.56 at
the close. The gauge has slumped 18 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 6 as record money market rates fueled concern that
higher  capital costs  will curb economic growth. The one-day
 repurchase rate  fell for an eighth day today to a one-month low
on speculation the central bank used targeted injections to ease
the cash squeeze.  “Stocks fell too much in June so we will see some
technical rebound in the first half of July as panic selling has
eased,” said Zeng Xianzhao at Everbright Securities Co. in
Chongqing. “The upside is limited and short-lived. There’s
concern about the economy deteriorating. Also investors worry a
relief of the credit crunch is only temporary.”  The  CSI 300 (SHSZ300)  Index gained 0.4 percent to 2,221.98. The Hang
Seng  China  Enterprises Index fell 0.9 percent as  Hong Kong ’s
markets resumed after a holiday. Shanghai Composite trading
volumes were 15.5 percent lower than the 30-day average today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slowing Economy  Bank of America Corp. cut today its forecast for China’s
second-quarter economic growth to 7.6 percent from the previous
estimate of 7.7 percent. Industrial output growth may have
slowed to 9.1 percent last month as the credit crunch in the
 interbank market  may raise concerns about higher financing costs
in the corporate sector, Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist,
wrote in a note to clients.  The report comes a day after data showed two gauges of
manufacturing fell in June. Data on last month’s inflation is
scheduled for July 9, while a trade report is set be released
the following day. China’s exports may have gained 2 percent in
June year-on-year, while inflation may have rebounded to 2.4
percent last month, Lu said.  Yunnan Baiyao gained 6.8 percent to 93.99  yuan . Tasly
Pharmaceutical Group surged 4.9 percent to a record 43.30 yuan.
A gauge of drug companies in the CSI 300 surged 3.9 percent, the
most among 10 industry groups.  Government Support  Chinese traditional medicine industry has a sound
foundation for development, Wang Guoqiang, the head of the State
Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine said in a
statement posted on the agency’s website yesterday. Conditions
are ripe to bolster the industry, Wang was cited as saying.  Goertek Inc. (002241) , an Apple Inc. supplier, rose 2.6 percent to
38.96 yuan. China’s Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology  will make policies to boost the sale of information
products, the China Securities Journal reported, citing an
unidentified person from the ministry.  Kweichow advanced 1.9 percent to 197.95 yuan.  Wuliangye
Yibin Co. (000858)  increased 2.2 percent to 20.40 yuan. There’s
speculation in the market that high-end baijiu prices may have
reached a bottom, acting as a catalyst for the stocks, said Su
Qingqing, an analyst at Hongyuan Securities.  A measure of  financial companies  in the CSI 300 including
banks and developers slid 0.5 percent today, the biggest loss
among industry groups. Industrial Bank slid 2.3 percent to 14.28
yuan, while Ping An Bank Co. retreated 1.5 percent to 9.60 yuan.  ‘Golden Era’  Investors’ disenchantment with Chinese banks reflects
concern that a crackdown on shadow banking and measures to
direct new credit away from repaying old loans and toward
boosting economic productivity will undermine earnings and
trigger a surge of bad loans. President Xi Jinping also signaled
last week that China’s new leaders will tolerate slower growth.  “The golden era of banking is over,” said  Mike Werner , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong who
recommends clients buy shares of ICBC and divest mid-sized
Chinese lenders. “Investors have to recognize that more market
discipline is going to be imposed upon the banks.”  Shandong Gold Mining Co.  dragged  down a measure of material
producers, falling by the 10 percent daily limit for a second
day to 25.89 yuan. The company said on June 28 it plans to buy
about 13 billion yuan ($2.1 billion) of assets from its parent
and four other parties and will fund the purchase through a
share swap and a a private share sale.  The Shanghai gauge trades at 8.27 times 12-month projected
profit, up from 7.99 on June 24, the cheapest level in at least
five years. The index’s 14-day  relative strength index ,
measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped during a
specified time period, was at 30 today. Readings below 30
indicate it may be poised to rise. Its 30-day  volatility  was at
22.4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at +65-6212-1886 or
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  