-- China Overnight Money Rate Drops on Cash Injection Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-02T03:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/china-overnight-money-rate-drops-on-cash-injection-speculation.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
dropped to a one-month low on speculation the central bank used
targeted injections to ease the worst cash squeeze on record.  Around 50 transactions for overnight funds in the  interbank
market  were recorded at rates of 4 percent or less in the final
90 minutes of trading in  Shanghai  over the past five days,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show. The People’s Bank of China hasn’t
conducted any repurchase-agreement operations today, according
to a trader required to bid at the auctions.  “The market is confident that the central bank won’t stand
by if liquidity gets tight,” said Song Qiuhong, a bond analyst
at Foshan Shunde Rural Commercial Bank Co. in Foshan, a city in
the southern province of Guangdong. “Money rates may have small
declines in the short term.”  The one-day repurchase  rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell 64 basis points, or 0.64 percentage
point, to 3.78 percent as of 10:14 a.m. in Shanghai, the lowest
since May 30, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That compares with a daily
average of 6.64 percent in June.  The People’s Bank of China signaled on June 25 that
liquidity support during the cash squeeze would be focused on
banks that lend to help the economy. The nation’s lenders have
to adjust holdings placed with the central bank on the 5th, 15th
and 25th of each month to meet  reserve requirements .  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, dropped 10 basis
points to 3.87 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The seven-day repo  rate  slid 69 basis points to 4.75 percent and
touched 4.71 percent earlier, the lowest since June 5. It
reached a record high of 12.45 percent on June 20.  “The falling seven-day repo shows we probably don’t need
to worry about cash supply before the payment date on July 5,”
Foshan Shunde’s Song.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Anil Varma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 