-- China Investigates Danone, Nestle on Milk-Powder Pricing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-02T18:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/china-investigates-danone-mead-johnson-on-milk-powder-pricing.html
China  is probing foreign milk-powder
companies including Danone and  Nestle SA (NESN)  for possibly violating
anti-monopoly laws and setting prices too high, the official
People’s Daily reported, citing a government agency.  The National Development and Reform Commission, the
country’s top economic planning agency, started an investigation
into the pricing of  infant formula  sold by companies also
including  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , Dutch
producer Royal FrieslandCampina NV, and local firm  Biostime
International Holdings Ltd. (1112) , the newspaper reported today.  The NDRC has evidence the companies sold products at high
prices in China and their pricing increased about 30 percent
since 2008, according to today’s report, which cited the agency.
Safety scares such as a melamine-tainted milk powder scandal in
2008 which killed at least six infants have increased Chinese
consumers’ distrust of local milk and driven up their purchases
of foreign brands at home and overseas.  “Prices of milk powder, particularly from foreign brands,
have gone up because of the far greater trust Chinese consumers
have in the brands,” said James Roy, an analyst at China Market
Research Group. “Chinese consumers see the higher price point
partly as an assurance of the product safety.”  The agency didn’t immediately respond to a fax seeking
comment on its investigation.  Domestic Brands  The NDRC reviewed documents related to product pricing at
Glenview, Illinois-based Mead Johnson’s China unit recently and
the company is cooperating fully, it said in an e-mailed
statement. Jonathan Dong, a Beijing-based spokesman for Nestle,
Agnes Berthet-d’Anthonay, a Paris-based spokeswoman for Danone,
and  Scott Stoffel , a spokesman for  Abbott Park , Illinois-based
Abbott, said their companies are aware of the issue and are
working with government authorities.  Jan-Willem ter Avest, a spokesman from Royal
FrieslandCampina, said he has no information on the probe and
will look into the matter. Biostime said in a statement today
that the company hasn’t raised prices since 2008.  The investigation follows China’s attempt to consolidate
its milk-formula industry and create strong domestic brands.
China targets creating 10 large companies in the industry within
two years, each with annual revenue of more than 2 billion  yuan 
($326 million), China National Radio reported last month, citing
Gao Fu, an official at the Ministry of Industry and Information.  Industry Consolidation  Danone shares slipped 1.5 percent to 56.59 euros in Paris.
Nestle fell less than 1 percent to 62.50 Swiss francs in Zurich.  China  Mengniu Dairy (2319)  Co., the country’s largest dairy
producer, led gains by domestic dairy companies after the report
from the newspaper, which is published by the Chinese Communist
Party.  Mengniu  shares  surged 4.1 percent to HK$28.90 in Hong Kong
trading today, the biggest gain since June 19. Inner Mongolia
Yili Industrial Group Co. rose 1.7 percent in Shanghai trading.  Biostime’s Hong Kong-listed shares declined the most in
almost two years on June 28 after the baby-care products
provider said one of its units was under investigation for
alleged anti-monopoly law violations. The company said last week
that it will “actively cooperate” with the investigation.  The  shares  fell 1 percent to HK$43.05 in  Hong Kong  today.  Mengniu Dairy offered HK$12.5 billion ($1.6 billion) to buy
local infant-formula maker  Yashili International Holdings Ltd. (1230) 
on June 18. The acquisition was part of the government-led push
for consolidation, Mengniu Chief Executive Officer Sun Yiping
has said. COFCO, the state-backed agricultural and food industry
supplier, owns 19 percent of Mengniu, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Mead Johnson had a 14 percent share of China’s 77.9 billion
yuan milk-formula market last year, according to industry
researcher Euromonitor International. Hangzhou Beingmate Group
Co. was second with a 10 percent share, followed by Danone’s 9.2
percent and Yili’s 7.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  