-- China’s Oilseed Imports Seen Rising by Oil World as Output Falls
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-07-02T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/china-s-oilseed-imports-seen-rising-by-oil-world-as-output-falls.html
China , the world’s largest soybean
consumer, may see its oilseed harvest drop to a “multi-year
low” in the next season, spurring an increase in imports as
stockpiles decline, Oil World said.  Oilseed production may be 48 million metric tons in the
2013-14 season that starts Aug. 1, about 2 million tons less
than a year earlier, the Hamburg-based researcher said in an e-mailed report today. Soybean imports in June were probably a
record 8 million tons, 43 percent more than in the same month
last year, with most shipments arriving from  Brazil , according
to the report.  Lower production “along with the comparatively low Chinese
soybean stocks at the start of the new season will result in a
pronounced increase of total Chinese oilseed imports,” Oil
World said.  Soybean futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, rallied to a record last September as drought in the
U.S. followed dry weather in South America in the previous
season. China consumes almost a third of the world’s soybean
output, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  China’s purchases of rapeseed from January through May were
a record 1.66 million tons, Oil World said. The country’s crop
this year may be below 11.5 million tons, declining for a fourth
straight season, it said.  Consumption of 12 major oilseed meals in China from October
through May was little changed from a year earlier at 45.5
million tons, Oil World said. Soybean meal exports in the first
five months of 2013 were 548,000 tons, more than double a year
earlier, with shipments to South Korea,  Japan  and the European
Union.  “Domestic consumption of oil meals fell short of
expectations so far this season,” Oil World said. “There was
even a decline from a year earlier in recent months as a result
of the bird flu crisis.”  China’s imports of grain, including wheat, corn and barley,
totaled 4.67 million tons from January through May, down 24
percent from a year earlier, Oil World said. Purchases may
rebound during the rest of this year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  