-- Chrysler Extends U.S. Growth Streak as Ford Gains 13%
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-07-02T13:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/chrysler-extends-u-s-growth-streak-as-ford-gains-13-.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the third-largest
U.S. automaker, extended its streak of U.S. sales gains in June
and predicted demand in its largest market will keep growing
even if accommodative monetary policy is scaled back.  Deliveries for Chrysler, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , rose
8.2 percent to 156,686 vehicles, matching the average of 10
analysts’ estimates in a survey by  Bloomberg News .  Ford (F)  Motor
Co. sales of cars and light trucks climbed 13 percent to
234,917, beating the 12 percent increase that was the average of
11 estimates.  Chrysler’s U.S. deliveries have gained for 39 consecutive
months, boosting an auto market that’s on pace for its best year
since 2007 as Americans replace the oldest vehicles ever on U.S.
roads. Pent-up demand, attractive financing offers and an
improving economy will keep propelling industry sales as the
 Federal Reserve  winds down its unprecedented easing programs,
said  Reid Bigland , Chrysler’s U.S. sales chief.  “The fundamentals for continued growth in the new vehicle
sales industry are intact,” Bigland told reporters June 28 in
Chelsea, Michigan. “The availability of credit for automotive
loans is as good as it’s ever been. Pent-up demand is still a
big factor out there. Even this telegraphing a little bit of
tapering is a sign that the economy is getting better.”  Chrysler’s Ram pickup deliveries surged 24 percent to
29,644, its best June total in six years, the Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based company said today in a statement. Deliveries of
the Jeep Grand Cherokee sport-utility vehicle surged 33 percent
to to 16,626 and the Dodge Durango SUV 39 percent to 4,590.  Sales Pace  Chrysler forecast an annualized industry sales  rate ,
adjusted for seasonal trends, of 16 million for June. That
projection includes medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, which
typically account for at least 200,000 deliveries per year.  U.S. light-vehicle sales may have climbed 7.1 percent to
1.38 million, the average of 10 estimates in the Bloomberg
survey. The industry sales rate may have risen to 15.6 million,
the average of 17 estimates, from 14.4 million a year earlier.
That would be the best monthly pace since 15.8 million in
December 2007, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  The projected growth in June probably was led by  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  and Ford, according to analysts. Ford, Chrysler and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  paced much of the industry’s expansion
through the first five months of the year, with all three
gaining market share. The last time all three finished the first
half of a year having increased share was 1993, according to
Automotive News Data Center.  Fed Signals  Ford has gained the most share of any automaker in the U.S.
this year. Joe Hinrichs, head of the Americas for the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company, told reporters June 27 that industry
sales may have slowed the preceding week and pinned it on
signaling by the Fed.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said last month that
the Fed will probably taper its $85 billion monthly bond-buying
program later in 2013 and halt purchases around mid-2014, citing
a slowly improving economy. Still, most members of the central
bank committee don’t expect to begin raising the benchmark
lending rate out of its lowest-ever range of zero to 0.25
percent until 2015.  “The industry was really strong in the first half of the
month, but maybe slowed a bit in the last week,” Hinrichs said.
“It will be interesting to watch where  consumer confidence  goes
as the market kind of fluctuated in the last week and they talk
around eventually higher  interest rates , and what that means for
consumers’ buying confidence.”  Nissan’s Growth  Nissan probably led all automakers with a 13 percent
increase in U.S. sales, the average of eight estimates. The
Yokohama, Japan-based company’s deliveries surged 25 percent in
May, triple the industrywide increase, after cutting the price
of seven models, including its top-selling Altima sedan.  GM, fresh off the industry’s best showing in a closely
watched quality survey, may have sold 2.1 percent more vehicles
in June than a year earlier, the average of 11 estimates. The
Detroit-based automaker passed  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and led J.D.
Power & Associates’ Initial Quality Study for the first time.  Toyota sales probably rose 6.2 percent, the average of
eight estimates. The Toyota City, Japan-based company sees
stable rates for auto buyers in the near term, Bill Fay, group
vice president for U.S. sales, said last month on Bloomberg
Radio.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  deliveries may have climbed 10 percent, the
average of eight estimates. Competitors may have a tougher time
offering no-interest financing that Tokyo-based Honda Motor
doesn’t offer once the Federal Reserve does begin raising
interest rates, said  John Mendel , Honda’s head of U.S. sales.  Cheap Financing  “If you’re a manufacturer that depends on zero percent
financing to do your business, that proposition is going to get
more and more expensive,” Mendel said last week in a telephone
interview.  Combined sales for  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and its affiliate  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)  may have slipped 1.7 percent in June, the average
estimate of seven analysts. The Seoul-based carmakers have
trailed industrywide sales growth in every month since September
as they contend with production constraints and more competitive
U.S. automakers.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , based in Wolfsburg, Germany, may post a 0.9
percent drop in combined sales for its VW and Audi brands in
June, the average of four estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  