-- GM, Ford Sales Rise as U.S. Pace Reaches 67-Month High
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-07-02T21:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/chrysler-extends-streak-of-monthly-u-s-sales-gains.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , makers of the best-selling big pickups in the U.S., said
new-vehicle deliveries in June topped estimates as the industry
selling pace accelerated to the fastest in 67 months.  Ford sales of cars and light trucks gained 13 percent to
234,917, beating the 12 percent increase that was the average of
11 estimates. GM deliveries rose 6.5 percent to 264,843,
exceeding the 2.1 percent average estimate of 11 analysts. Sales
climbed 9.8 percent for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , 9.7 percent for
 Honda (7267)  Motor Co. and 8.2 percent for Chrysler Group LLC.  Americans are buying new cars and trucks at the fastest
rate since 2007 as they replace the oldest vehicles ever on U.S.
roads. Ford, Chrysler and analysts said they expect replacement
of older models, attractive financing offers and an improving
economy will keep propelling industry sales as the  Federal
Reserve  winds down its unprecedented easing programs.  “The same factors are still in place: Pent-up demand is
unleashing, credit is cheap and widely available, and in terms
of trucks, it’s all about the economy recovering and housing
starts,” Michelle Krebs, an analyst at auto researcher
Edmunds.com, said in a telephone interview.  U.S. light-vehicle sales climbed 9.2 percent to 1.4
million, exceeding the 1.38 million average estimate of 10
analysts in a survey of analysts by  Bloomberg News . The industry
sales rate surged to almost 16 million, exceeding the 15.6
million average estimate of 17 analysts. That’s the best monthly
pace since 16.1 million in November 2007 and compares to 14.4
million a year earlier, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  U.S. Pickups  Sales of Ford F-Series pickups surged 24 percent to 68,009,
the Dearborn, Michigan-based company said in a statement. GM’s
Chevrolet Silverado climbed 29 percent to 43,259. Ram pickup
deliveries increased 24 percent to 29,644 for Chrysler, which is
majority owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)   Ford rose 2.8 percent to $16.18 at the close in New York,
while GM gained 0.3 percent to $34.10. Ford has climbed 25
percent this year and GM has increased 18 percent, exceeding a
13 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said last month that
the Fed will probably taper its $85 billion monthly bond-buying
program later in 2013 and halt purchases around mid-2014, citing
a slowly improving economy. Still, most members of the central
bank committee don’t expect to begin raising the benchmark
lending rate out of its lowest-ever range of zero to 0.25
percent until 2015.  Tailwinds Continue  Replacement demand and “historically low  interest rates 
irrespective of the conversations surrounding the Fed” are
fueling continued growth for the  auto industry ,  Ken Czubay ,
Ford’s vice president of U.S. marketing, sales and service, said
today on a conference call. “The tailwinds continue to be
strong” and are “pretty forceful,” he said.  Sales growth in June was led by Ford and  Nissan (7201)  Motor Co.,
in line with a survey of analysts by Bloomberg News. Ford,
Chrysler and GM paced much of the industry’s expansion through
the first six months of the year, with all three gaining market
share. The last time all three finished the first half of a year
having increased share was 1993, according to Automotive News
Data Center.  Nissan deliveries increased 13 percent in June, the
automaker said in an e-mailed statement, matching the average of
eight estimates. The Yokohama, Japan-based company’s rise
followed a 25 percent surge in May, which tripled the
industrywide increase that month, after cutting the price of
seven models.  Nissan Prices  The price reductions by Nissan included the Altima sedan,
the company’s top-selling model. Altima deliveries rose 23
percent to 26,904 in June.  Sales for Chrysler, the third-largest U.S. automaker, have
increased for 39 consecutive months. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker’s gain in June matched the average of 10
analysts’ estimates.  “The fundamentals for continued growth in the new vehicle
sales industry are intact,”  Reid Bigland , Chrysler’s U.S. sales
chief, told reporters June 28 in Chelsea,  Michigan . “The
availability of credit for automotive loans is as good as it’s
ever been. Pent-up demand is still a big factor out there. Even
this telegraphing a little bit of tapering is a sign that the
economy is getting better.”  GM’s deliveries in June were higher than any month since
September 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went
bankrupt, the Detroit-based automaker said today in a statement.  ‘Better Off’  “American families are better off than they were at the
beginning of the year,” Kurt McNeil, GM’s vice president of
U.S. sales operations, said on a conference call today. “They
also believe that the economic expansion is going to continue,
so they’re buying more homes and more cars and trucks.”  Toyota sales topped the 6.2 percent of eight estimates. The
Toyota City, Japan-based company sees stable rates for auto
buyers in the near term, Bill Fay, group vice president for U.S.
sales, said last month on  Bloomberg Radio .  Honda’s deliveries trailed the 10 percent average increase
of eight estimates. Competitors may have a tougher time offering
no-interest financing that Tokyo-based Honda Motor doesn’t offer
once the Federal Reserve does begin raising interest rates, said
 John Mendel , Honda’s head of U.S. sales.  “If you’re a manufacturer that depends on zero percent
financing to do your business, that proposition is going to get
more and more expensive,” Mendel said last week in a telephone
interview.  Combined sales for  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and its affiliate  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)  rose 0.4 percent in June, beating seven analysts’
average estimate for a 1.7 percent decline. Deliveries for the
Hyundai brand rose 1.9 percent while Kia’s slipped 1.5 percent,
the Seoul-based companies said in separate statements.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , based in Wolfsburg, Germany, said combined
sales for its VW and Audi brands in June dropped 0.3 percent,
beating the 0.9 percent decline that was the average of four
estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Durisin in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  