-- CIK Starts Haven Bank Offering Deposits at Norway’s Central Bank
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-07-02T09:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/cik-starts-haven-bank-offering-deposits-at-norway-s-central-bank.html
CIK A/S is starting a new bank to
offer accounts with deposits at the Norwegian central bank to
tap demand after western  Europe ’s biggest oil producer emerged
as a haven during Europe’s debt crisis.  The bank will be called Safe Deposit Bank of  Norway  AS and
will offer accounts with interest based on Norges Bank’s deposit
rates, according to an e-mailed statement from CIK. The bank,
which will open for business in the fourth quarter, will place
no limits on cash withdrawals and offer long- and short-term
deposits, according to the statement.  “By maintaining liquid deposits with the central bank in
one of the world’s most creditworthy countries, we are convinced
that demand for a deposit product with very low risk and very
high liquidity will be great,” said Danckert Mellbye, chief
executive officer at CIK, in the statement. “We foresee a
substantial market, where the target group is first and foremost
large public and private companies, institutions and pension
funds -- particularly at the international level.”  Norway, which boasts the biggest budget surplus of any AAA
rated nation and has no net debt, has emerged as a haven from
the euro area’s debt crisis. Norwegian government debt has the
lowest credit default swap spread of any developed nation,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank in 2011 initiated a plan to wean banks off
reserves as it sought to improve liquidity in its  interbank
market . The central bank’s key sight deposit rate is currently
at 1.5 percent. It pays 1 percentage point less on deposits that
exceed a daily quota.  CIK said it received a license from the  Finance Ministry  to
establish a “pure deposit” bank, which will have Mellbye as
chief executive and Petter Skouen as chairman.  The deposits will also help institutions escape the
volatility of the Norwegian Treasury bill market, CIK said.  “Norwegian Treasury bills currently represent the only
risk-free option for liquidity management by enterprises,”
Mellbye said. “These securities are traded in a very small
market with few players and are therefore illiquid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  