-- Columbia Management Buying TIPS After Worst Losses Since 1997
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-07-02T23:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/columbia-management-buying-tips-after-worst-losses-since-1997.html
Columbia Management Investment
Advisers LLC said it’s buying Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities after the debt lost more than three times the decline
in the broader Treasury market this year.  TIPS are poised to reverse course as the economy
strengthens, the Federal Reserve cuts stimulus and inflation
expectations rise from almost a two-year low, Gene Tannuzzo, a
Minneapolis-based portfolio manager at the company, said
yesterday in an interview.  “With how low inflation and inflation expectations have
gotten lately, you don’t need much inflation for TIPS to make
sense,” said Tannuzzo, whose company oversees $340 billion.
“Over the long term, the Fed doesn’t want to see inflation
expectations come down too much further. Even though they have
crafted a new course of policy with talk of tapering, inflation
expectations will still matter.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and
comparable TIPS, a  gauge  of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, widened to as much as 2.08
percentage points yesterday after touching 1.81 percent on June
24, the least since October 2011.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 policy makers may
begin slowing their third round of bond purchases under the
quantitative-easing stimulus strategy this year and end it in
2014 if economic growth meets their estimates. Central-bank
officials forecast expansion of as much as 2.6 percent this year
and 3.5 percent in 2014.  Fed Purchases  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
bonds every month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.
It purchased $2.3 trillion of assets from 2008 to 2011 in the
first two rounds.  “The reason the Fed is tapering is because the economy can
handle it,” Tannuzzo said. “The economy is better, and
inflation is likely to print higher, sending inflation
expectations up.”  TIPS lost 8 percent in the first half of the year,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Inflation-Linked Treasury Index, the worst two-quarter performance ever
for the securities since at least 1997, as far back as the gauge
extends. The broad Treasuries market fell 2.5 percent from
January through June, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Treasury Index.  Returns on the inflation-indexed debt had topped those of
nominal Treasuries even year from 2009 through 2012, the Merrill
Lynch indexes show. TIPS averaged an annual gain of 9.4 percent,
while nominal Treasuries averaged an advance of 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  