-- Container Store Sells Zen and Glamour in a Box
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2013-07-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/container-store-sells-zen-and-glamour-in-a-box.html
The most glamorous store in America
may be going public.  I don’t mean Neiman Marcus Inc. -- or Bergdorf Goodman,
which it owns -- although the luxury retailer is glamorous to
many people, and it did just file for an initial public
offering.  I’m talking about Container Store Inc.  The retailer, which has  61 stores  and two more opening this
fall, is known as an exemplary employer, ranking  high  on Fortune
magazine’s “100 Best Companies to Work For” list for 14 years
running. It  avoided  layoffs after the 2008 downturn. It talks a
lot about values, and its executives regularly say things like,
“We all know we’re doing more than selling a product.”  All those good feelings -- and the sales that topped $750
million last year -- depend on something every Container Store
customer knows well: The store’s merchandising is amazingly
seductive. Like a luxury retailer, the Container Store gets a
premium price for its products and persuades people to buy more
than is strictly necessary because, knowingly or not, it
traffics in glamour.  Glamour is not a synonym for luxury, celebrity or fashion.
It isn’t a style, like mirrored furniture or satin dresses. Like
humor, it’s a form of communication that elicits a distinctive
emotional response. Glamour lets us feel that the life we yearn
for is almost within our grasp. It is a powerful form of
nonverbal persuasion.  Better Self  “We’re really selling not space as much as we are time,”
says Chief Executive Officer Kip Tindell. Like the sight of
chairs looking seaward on a white sandy beach or a model
strutting down a runway in the latest fashions, a walk through a
Container Store makes a customer imagine a better self in better
circumstances. With the right equipment, it suggests, your life
can be peaceful and orderly, giving you more time to relax and
enjoy yourself.  “In a world that is so stressful and busy, I think it’s
refreshing to enter an organized, clean and refreshing space.
And not only is it organized, but it’s empowering me to think I
can become that organized,” Leigh Atherton, a 27-year-old
public-relations director for a Chattanooga, Tenn.-based health-care company, said in an e-mail. She recently wrote on her
personal Twitter feed that “it would be so fun to walk into the
Container Store and purchase one of everything.” It’s a common
sentiment, as are versions of “I’ve died and gone to heaven.”  As a business concept, the chain’s intense allure is
surprising. You can, after all, find plastic shoe boxes,
colorfully printed file folders, felted coat hangers and acrylic
jewelry boxes elsewhere. You can live your whole life and never
imagine needing a flip-flop holder, a “hanger hamper” for
storage between dry-cleaner runs, a tiny bottle for carrying a
single serving of salad dressing or a plastic box shaped like a
giant Lego block. Even in suburbia, you can survive without a
gift-wrap work station, roll-out cabinet drawers or a flexible
cutting mat. But a trip to a Container Store, perhaps to buy
subsidiary Elfa International AB’s proprietary closet-organizing
system, will stir longings you never knew you had.  Although it points to emotional truths, glamour always
includes an element of illusion. (The word “glamour” originally
meant a literal magic spell that made people see things that
weren’t there.) Every form of glamour hides flaws, difficulties,
costs and effort. This grace is both an essential element of
glamour and an object of it. “Glamour,” writes Diego Rodriguez
of design-consulting firm IDEO, describing the meticulous but
hidden maintenance required to keep a Lamborghini perfectly
polished, “gives us a chance to  believe  that there’s no such
thing as entropy.”  In his  report  on the prospective public offering, Bloomberg
Businessweek’s Kyle Stock invoked the same promise. “The
Container Store’s tidy, colorful aisles suggest that we can, at
least for a time, triumph over the messy inevitable,” he
concluded.  ‘Zen Quality’  Unlike competitors such as Bed, Bath & Beyond Inc., the
Container Store doesn’t stack shelves above customers’ reach or
make aisles so tight that shopping carts can barely maneuver. It
offers carefully edited abundance, including colorful but
soothingly repetitive permutations of essentially the same
boxes, coat hangers and kitchen gear. “There’s a Zen quality to
having everything in its place,”  says  Tindell. That applies as
much to the stores themselves as to your dream kitchen.  Creating that sense of order required a big strategic
decision. Early on, chief merchandising officer Sharon Tindell,
Kip’s wife, convinced the founding partners not to sell a full
range of housewares. You won’t find lamps, clocks or towels in a
Container Store. The selection is curated to keep customers
thinking about their new, orderly lives. The store’s glamour
depends on it.  Those tough decisions, like the everyday maintenance
efforts and information-technology  investments  required to keep
the shelves stocked and in order, are hidden behind the scenes.
Similarly, the store never reminds you how much sorting your own
organized ideal might take to achieve.  What people find glamorous tells us something about who
they are. It shows us what we find lacking in real life and who
we want to be. The yearning for stillness runs through many
forms of contemporary glamour, particularly those aimed at
affluent women, from the ubiquitous photographs of hot-stone
massages to the 2011 Louis Vuitton  ad  featuring Angelina Jolie
posing on a battered boat in a Cambodian swamp. The Container
Store, too, appeals to people overwhelmed by having so much.  But -- critically -- this metaphorical form of Zen
indulges, rather than denies, material desire. You don’t have to
relinquish anything to find peace, its merchandising suggests.
You can, in fact, have a great time buying ingenious, adorable,
tactile or beautiful new things. The Container Store sells
glamour for an age of abundance.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 