-- Croatia to Use EU Cash to Upgrade Its Infrastructure, Pusic Says
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-07-02T12:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/croatia-to-use-eu-cash-to-upgrade-its-infrastructure-pusic-says.html
Croatia , which yesterday became the
28th European Union member, will use funds from the trading bloc
to upgrade its communist-era infrastructure, Deputy Prime
Minister Vesna Pusic said.  The nation wants to improve irrigation, upgrade rail lines,
build bridges and expand its sewage system, Pusic, who also
serves as foreign minister, said in an interview yesterday in
her office in the capital, Zagreb.  Croatia, struggling to kickstart an economy that hasn’t
grown since 2008, is looking to the fiscal boost to create jobs,
diversify industry and bring living standards up to those of
other eastern EU members such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia
and  Poland . The Balkan country stands to receive as much as 10
billion euros ($13 billion) in EU funds through 2020 after
joining the Brussels-based trade bloc.  “This is huge for us,” Pusic said. “The plan is to use
about half of the funds for five or six big infrastructure
projects, while the rest would go into agricultural projects,
such as improved irrigation.”  Croatia’s leaders are also counting on EU entry to attract
investors to the $63 billion economy that is dominated by
tourism and services. Foreign direct investment in 2012 fell to
about one-fifth of the $4.2 billion in 2008. Since then, economy
shrank by a combined 10.9 percent, according to Eurostat data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Government plans include bypassing a slice of Bosnian
territory that separates Dubrovnik, Croatia’s most-popular
southern tourist region, from the rest of the country. A
European Commission study on whether to build a bridge, a tunnel
or a road corridor is scheduled to be completed in August.  Passport-Free Travel  The solution will have to meet conditions for eventual
membership in the passport-free Schengen Zone, which Croatia may
join by 2015, according to Pusic. A bridge may cost about 250
million euros and would have the advantage of being “an
uninterrupted passage across the European Union territory” and
onward into  Montenegro , she said.  The government is also considering a plan to build a rail
link from Slovenia in the north to the Serbian border in the
south to help expand cargo transport, she said.  Joining the Schengen agreement, an EU system that allows
travel across member states without border controls, is
Croatia’s “big goal” Pusic said.  “This is our target and it’s doable, considering what we
have done already,” she said. “Croatia was made to meet very
many Schengen criteria until today and the remainder is to see
that all these things are put in practice, to show this is
actually working, that there are no counterfeit products or
illegal crossings.”  Border Agreements  That includes signing agreements with neighbors Serbia and
Montenegro on border controls to complement accords already
concluded with Bosnia-Herzegovina, which shares a 1,000-kilometer-long border with Croatia. Part of the costs of
implementing new practices are covered by EU funds, Pusic said.  The Adriatic country, which emerged as an independent state
in 1991 during the bloody breakup of  Yugoslavia , is looking to
EU membership to help solidify peace throughout the Balkan
region and support neighbors such as Serbia and Montenegro on
their EU path.  As Balkan leaders met yesterday in Zagreb to discuss
regional cooperation, Croatian President Ivo Josipovic said EU-supported meetings will continue, with plans to invite French
President Francois Hollande to the next gathering.  “Our plan is to have a good influence in the region,
because this is absolutely in our immediate interest,” Pusic
said. “Any instability in the region would affect us
directly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James M. Gomez in Zagreb at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  