-- WTI Crude Nears $100 a Barrel as Trading Surges
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-07-02T20:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/crude-near-two-week-high-as-stockpiles-seen-falling.html
West Texas Intermediate oil climbed
near $100 a barrel on concern that protests in Egypt will
threaten supplies and speculation that U.S. stockpiles shrank
last week. Trading volume was the most in 16 months.  Crude rose to a 14-month high as the political showdown
escalated in Egypt, which controls the  Suez Canal , a key transit
point for  oil tankers . Hundreds of thousands massed to demand
the departure of President Mohamed Mursi. Inventories may have
dropped to the lowest level since May 31, according to a
Bloomberg survey before government data tomorrow. Brent’s
premium over WTI narrowed to the least in almost 30 months.  “There is some genuine concern with regard to vessel
traffic to the Suez,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “WTI is acting as
a proxy for these geopolitical concerns.”  WTI for August delivery gained $1.61, or 1.6 percent, to
$99.60 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since May 3, 2012. The volume of all futures traded
was 85 percent above the 100-day average at 3:22 p.m. The
futures have advanced 8.5 percent this year.  Brent for August delivery rose $1, or 1 percent, to settle
at $104 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Volume was 4.6 percent below the 100-day average. The
European benchmark’s premium to WTI narrowed to $4.40 a barrel,
the smallest gap since Jan. 4, 2011.  API Report  WTI was little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported that U.S. crude inventories dropped 9.36
million barrels to 382.6 million last week. The August contract
rose 1.6 percent to $99.55 a barrel at 4:34 p.m. It traded at
$99.47 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  In Egypt, Mursi’s Islamist supporters vowed to stand firm
against what they saw as a threat of a military coup. The armed
forces pledged yesterday to impose their own plan if Mursi
didn’t end Egypt’s political crisis within 48 hours.  The U.S. embassy in Cairo will be closed tomorrow. The
embassy warns U.S. citizens to avoid areas where demonstrations
may occur.  “Because of the Suez Canal, the escalating unrest in Egypt
does increase supply risks,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago.  Egypt controls the canal and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 2.24 million barrels a day
moved to markets in Europe and  North America  in 2011, according
to the Energy Information Administration.  ‘Bullish Numbers’  U.S. crude stockpiles fell 2.25 million barrels, or 0.6
percent, to 391.9 million in the week ended June 28, the
Bloomberg survey showed. Refineries probably increased operating
rates to the highest level in more than 10 months as motor fuel
production climbed before the U.S. Independence Day holiday on
July 4, the survey showed.  “There is still some room for some bullish supply
numbers,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “You really want to sell oil ahead of
inventory data that may show some sharp drops? There is a lot of
price chasing going on.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex exceeded 987,955
contracts as of 4:35 p.m., the most since Feb. 7, 2012. It
totaled 688,900 contracts yesterday, 9.5 percent higher than
three-month average. Open interest was 1.79 million contracts.  The September contract’s premium to October widened to
$1.04 from yesterday’s 86 cents.  “The spread blew out,” said  Addison Armstrong , director
of market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“It’s a reflection of the expectation of supplies tightening.”  More Demand  Motor-fuel demand is highest from the last weekend in May
to the Labor Day weekend in early September, the prime vacation
season in the U.S.  “It’s the peak demand season,” said Bill Baruch, a senior
market strategist at Iitrader.com in Chicago. “The path of
least resistance is higher.”  The U.S. accounted for 21 percent of global oil demand last
year, according to the  International Energy Agency ’s monthly oil
market report published on June 12.  “We are looking at a decline in inventories,” said Gordy Elliott, a risk-management specialist at Intl FC Stone LLC in
 St. Louis Park ,  Minnesota . “Brent is having more challenges to
find a reason to rally. You’ll probably see WTI trading even at
a premium to Brent.”  The drop in the gap between Brent, a gauge for more than
half the world’s oil, and WTI shows how improved pipeline
networks and the use of rail links have helped to unlock a glut
at America’s oil-storage hub at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery
point for WTI futures.  “You have more pipeline capacity than you had before and
that helped draw those prices together,” Evans said.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 19.8 percent, up from 19.4 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  