-- Cuomo Creates Panel to Investigate N.Y. Campaign Corruption
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-07-02T15:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/cuomo-creates-panel-to-investigate-n-y-campaign-corruption.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
created a commission with subpoena power to investigate campaign
corruption after two senators and an assemblyman were arrested
in the past three months.  The 25 members were deputized by state Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman, which enhances their investigative power to
dig through campaign-finance filings and lawmakers’ interactions
with state agencies, Cuomo said today at a press briefing in
 Albany . The commission is authorized under the 1907 Moreland
Act, which gives a New York governor broad investigative powers.  The panel will be led by Nassau County District Attorney
Kathleen Rice, a Democrat; Onondaga District Attorney  William Fitzpatrick , a Republican; and Milton Williams, a former federal
prosecutor who runs the Fund for Modern Courts, a Manhattan-based nonprofit that says it works to remove the influence of
money on politics.  “This is a very powerful step that this state government
is taking,” Cuomo said. “Our obligation as elected officials
is first and foremost to make sure the wrongdoers are punished
and, second, to make sure there’s a system in place that’s
working to prevent the wrongdoing.”  Cuomo’s father, Governor  Mario Cuomo , used the Moreland Act
to create a similar commission in 1987 headed by John Feerick,
then the dean of the Fordham University School of Law.  Threatening Lawmakers  Andrew Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, had threatened
lawmakers with a Moreland Commission if they didn’t act on anti-corruption legislation he put forward. When the legislative
session ended last week, the bills died. They included a public
funding system for political campaigns modeled after New York
City’s.  The corruption issue has overshadowed some of the
governor’s accomplishments, including a post-budget victory
tour. On April 2, the day after the start of his third on-time
spending plan -- a feat not achieved since 1984 -- Senator
Malcolm Smith, a Queens Democrat, was charged by federal
prosecutors of trying to bribe his way onto the  New York City 
Republican mayoral ticket.  “A show-me-the-money culture seems to pervade every level
of New York government,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
said in a statement after Smith’s arrest.  In the weeks since, Senator John Sampson, a Brooklyn
Democrat, and Assemblyman Eric Stevenson, a Bronx Democrat, were
charged in separate corruption cases.  All three lawmakers have pleaded not guilty.  Hevesi Kickbacks  Meanwhile, a subcontractor for a $415,000 lake house built
by Senator Tom Libous, the Republican from Binghamton who heads
his party’s election committee, said the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  spoke with him in March about his work there.  Bonnie Mariano, an FBI spokeswoman in Albany, declined to
comment on the questioning. In a May 9 radio interview, Libous
said the FBI questioning was “disturbing.”  The circumstances were similar when Cuomo came to Albany in
2011 with a pledge to clean it up.  Alan Hevesi , a Democrat who as comptroller was the sole
trustee of the state’s pension fund, pleaded guilty in October
2010 to approving a $250 million pension investment in exchange
for a $1 million kickback. Democratic Governor  Eliot Spitzer 
resigned amid a prostitution scandal, and in March 2011 Senator
Carl Kruger, a Democrat, was accused of taking payoffs. He was
sentenced to seven years in prison.  Former Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno, a Republican,
was accused last year by federal prosecutors of taking a bribe
after a previous conviction on corruption charges was thrown out
in 2011. He pleaded not guilty.  ‘Witch Hunt’  Dean Skelos, the Long Island Republican who co-leads the
Senate, said in a radio interview yesterday that it would be
“inappropriate” if Cuomo’s commission becomes a “witch hunt”
focused on the legislature. He said he’s ready to respond with
an investigation into Cuomo’s re-election campaign, which has
raised almost $30 million.  “He’s doing what he thinks is appropriate,” Skelos said.
“We’ll see how it plays out.”  The commission will look into all campaign finances,
potentially including his own, Cuomo said today.  “This is not about a witch hunt,” Cuomo said. “It’s
clear there are cases that need to be policed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  