-- Daimler Trucks Head Bernhard Pushes to Accelerate Savings
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-07-02T10:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/daimler-trucks-head-bernhard-pushes-to-accelerate-savings.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s truck business, the
world’s biggest maker of the vehicles, needs to accelerate
spending cuts and delivery gains to achieve this year’s earnings
goal and fulfill a savings and sales-growth plan through 2014.  “We have a lot of catching up to do by the end of the
year,”  Wolfgang Bernhard , head of the Daimler Trucks division,
said at a press briefing yesterday in Woerth,  Germany .  The unit, which makes Mercedes-Benz, Freightliner, Western
Star, Fuso and BharatBenz commercial vehicles, has a target this
year of matching 2012’s earnings before interest and taxes.
Bernhard, who took his  post  at the division in April, said
Daimler Trucks still has work to do to reach a targeted 1.6
billion euros ($2.09 billion) increase in Ebit by the end of
next year through reduced costs and increased sales.  “It’ll be an ambitious goal” to equal last year’s
earnings in 2013, said Frank Biller, a Stuttgart, Germany-based
analyst with LBBW. “We expect them to post a slight decline.
What the company can influence always also depends on how many
trucks they can sell. And the markets remain difficult.”  Five-month industrywide registrations of new heavy trucks
in  Europe  dropped 12 percent from a year earlier to 85,220
vehicles, according to the Brussels-based ACEA industry group.
Daimler Trucks’ worldwide deliveries in the period declined 3
percent to 180,119 vehicles, with western European deliveries
dropping 6.5 percent, and North American demand declining 2.5
percent, the company said today. New orders rose 19 percent to
212,000 units worldwide.  Targets Postponed  Daimler, which is also the world’s third-biggest maker of
luxury cars, postponed long-standing profitability targets in
October for its vehicle-manufacturing units as recessions in
Europe hurt sales. The Stuttgart-based company said it remained
committed to reaching the goals at a later date.  “We’re not satisfied with the current state” of Daimler
Trucks’ two-year efficiency program, Bernhard said. “To reach
our goal, we need to improve considerably.” The majority of the
earnings improvements will take effect in 2014, he said.  Daimler  rose  as much as 1 percent to 47.26 euros and was
trading up 0.1 percent at 12:09 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has
gained 13 percent this year, valuing the manufacturer at 50
billion euros.  Margin Shrinks  The truck division has an eventual target of generating
Ebit at 8 percent of revenue. The first-quarter  margin  at the
unit was 1.7 percent as Ebit plunged 69 percent to 116 million
euros and sales dropped 5 percent to 7.02 billion euros. Ebit
last year at Daimler Trucks totaled 1.71 billion euros, a
decline of 8.6 percent.  About 30 percent of the earnings improvement through next
year should come from increased sales as customers buy new
models such as Freightliner’s Cascadia Evolution, Bernhard said.
Of the remaining 70 percent, about half should come from lower
material costs, with another third resulting from spending cuts
in research and development, and more efficient production
accounting for the rest, he said.  “We can’t say when we’ll reach the 8 percent margin,”
Bernhard said. “The environment has to be right,” and “we
have no visibility on how the markets will develop beyond this
year.”  New Engines  The division has renewed its Mercedes-Benz heavy-duty truck
line in the past 1 1/2 years, including the Actros long-haul
model, Antos heavy-distribution vehicle and Arocs construction-project version. Daimler has completed investing in engines
across the range that comply with tighter emission standards,
dubbed Euro 6, taking effect in the European Union next year.  Bernhard was in charge of purchasing at the Mercedes-Benz
car division when he swapped positions with Andreas Renschler
earlier this year. Bernhard said yesterday that he sees the
European truck market bottoming out and demand in  North America 
stabilizing.  Daimler scaled back  workforce  cuts in North America, laying
off 600 employees versus the originally planned 1,300, after
sales in the region beat its forecasts, Bernhard said. Daimler
Trucks plans to add five Saturday shifts at the plant in Woerth
in July and September to meet demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  