-- DaVita Among Dialysis Outlets Facing 9.4% Medicare Cut
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-02T20:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/davita-among-dialysis-outlets-facing-9-4-medicare-cut.html
DaVita HealthCare Partners Inc. (DVA) , the
second-largest dialysis provider in the U.S., fell the most in
21 months after the U.S. Medicare system proposed cutting
payments to the industry by 9.4 percent in 2014.  DaVita tumbled 5.9 percent to $114 at the close in New
York, its biggest one-day decline since Sept. 29, 2011.
 Fresenius Medical Care AG (FME) , the world’s biggest provider of
kidney dialysis, declined 8.7 percent to 49.71 euros in  Germany ,
where the company is based.  Much of the $1 billion reduction is the result of a  federal
budget  agreement that targeted overspending on anemia drugs such
as  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Epogen for patients in Medicare, the U.S. health
plan for the elderly and disabled. The Health and Human Services
Department said yesterday in its  proposal  it will consider
phasing in the reduction over more than one year, citing concern
that the cuts may “impact beneficiary access to care.”  “This is a very dramatic cut,” Robert Sepucha, Bad
Homburg, Germany-based Fresenius’s senior vice president for
government affairs in the U.S., said by telephone. “We’re
concerned it would push dialysis clinics under the cost of care,
which is not the right thing for Medicare to be doing.”  Medicare profit margins for dialysis payments are 3 percent
to 4 percent this year, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
 estimated  in March. Sepucha said that level is “very thin” and
the proposed cuts would be too aggressive.  The proposal is subject to public comment and may change
before taking effect.  Significant Shock  Fresenius reported a profit margin of 9.6 percent before
extraordinary items in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. DaVita’s margin was  7.84 percent  last year.  Medicare’s proposal focuses on drug spending “while
ignoring broader components of the payment system and advances
in quality outcomes for patients,” Skip Thurman, a spokesman
for Denver-based DaVita, said in an e-mail. “Unfortunately, the
proposed cuts may ultimately threaten access to one of America’s
sickest patient populations.”  “Yesterday’s news comes as a significant shock to the
investment community,” Lisa Bedell Clive, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London , wrote in a note to
investors today. If the proposed cut is made final, Bernstein
would reduce its earnings-per-share estimates for both companies
for 2014 and beyond, Clive said.  About 414,000 people in the U.S. in 2010 were on dialysis,
a procedure in which waste is periodically removed from the
blood in patients with malfunctioning kidneys. Diabetes and high
blood pressure are the most common reasons for kidney failure.  Losing Money  “The agency has missed the mark here and has cut too
deeply into the program,” Cherilyn Cepriano, the executive
director of the Kidney Care Council, the industry’s Washington-based trade association, said in a phone interview.  About 35 percent of U.S. dialysis centers already lose
money on Medicare patients, according to Cepriano. The centers
that lose money on Medicare stay afloat on payments from
commercial insurers and individuals, which comprise about 15
percent of the industry revenue, she said. Large dialysis chains
also “cross-subsidize” money-losing centers with profitable
ones, she said.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, has served on DaVita’s board since
1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  