-- Debut Bonds Turn Market Nightmare as Honduras to Rwanda Sink
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-07-02T14:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/debut-bonds-cause-market-nightmare-as-honduras-to-rwanda-tumble.html
Debut emerging market borrowers from
 Honduras  to  Rwanda , welcomed with record low interest rates this
year, have lost as much as 14 percent for bond investors as U.S.
policy makers consider paring economic stimulus measures.  Developing nations sold $35.5 billion of dollar debt in the
first half with yields as little as 2.72 percent while investors
searched for higher returns as rates on everything from
Treasuries to corporate  junk bonds  reached record lows. Emerging
sovereign bonds fell the most last quarter since the global
financial crisis in 2008 as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the central bank may reduce its $85 billion a
month of bond purchases this year.  Honduras’s $500 million of 7.5 percent securities due 2024
lost 14.46 percent last quarter, the biggest drop, and Rwanda’s
notes due 2023 declined 9.88 percent since their April sale,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Rising yields may make it
costlier for countries including Kenya and  Uganda , which are now
planning sales.  “For the likes of Rwanda and others, where we’ve seen
ridiculously low bond yields for new offers, investment managers
will definitely be thinking twice before trying to buy any of
that paper going forward,” Craig Veysey, the London-based head
of fixed income at Sanlam Private Investments Ltd., which
manages $10.3 billion in assets, said in a June 26 interview. He
said he steered clear of the Rwanda bonds.  Yields Surge  Yields on developing nations’ debt climbed by an average
0.95 percentage point in the second quarter to 5.8 percent, the
most since the fourth quarter of 2008, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes. Yields on Honduras’s bonds have risen 2.14
percentage points to 9.64 percent on July 1, and fell four basis
points to 9.6 percent today. Rwanda’s yield jumped to 8.48
percent from an initial 6.875 percent, and slipped 17 basis
points to 8.31 percent as of 3:07 p.m. in  London .  Money managers ordered eight times the $400 million of
securities offered by Rwanda, which is rated five levels below
investment grade of B by  Standard & Poor’s , to pay for a
convention center, development of the national carrier and a
hydropower plant.  “We came to the market knowing our bond would be around 7
percent,” John Rwangombwa, the governor of the National Bank of
Rwanda, said June 27 at a conference in London. “It’s gone up
to 8 percent, so we would not be thinking of coming to the
market today.”  Rwanda Development  The yield on two-year U.S. Treasuries touched  0.19 percent 
in May and that for notes included in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index reached 5.98 percent, both
record lows. They have since risen to 0.36 percent and 6.97
percent, respectively.  Less than 20 years after the genocide that killed about
800,000, Rwandan President  Paul Kagame  is borrowing to boost
transport links and promote regional trade with the aim of
lifting the land-locked tea- and coffee-growing nation into a
middle-income economy by 2020.  Rwanda’s total debt stood at 24 percent of gross domestic
product at the end of last year. The ratio was 43 percent in
 South Africa , the largest economy in  Africa , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Rwanda ranks eighth out of 185 countries for the
ease of starting a company and 52nd for doing business, the
highest in sub-Saharan Africa after South Africa.  Government Policies  MFS is keeping its Rwanda bond holdings because of market-friendly government policies and lower public debt than peers,
Matthew Ryan, who helps oversee $18 billion of emerging-market
debt as a  fund manager  at  MFS Investment Management  in  Boston ,
said by e-mail.  “This is in contrast to Honduras, where we see slippages
increasing and the upcoming elections injecting even more
uncertainty to an already tenuous story,” he said.  S&P cut its outlook for Honduras’s long-term ratings of B+,
which is one level above Rwanda, to negative from stable on Feb.
27, citing the risk fiscal policy will be eased in an election
year.  “The volatility of the international market has caused the
yields to rise,” Sammy Castro, Director of Public Credit for
the Honduras Finance Secretary, said in a July 1 telephone
interview. “The current yield of 9.6 percent is extremely high
and expensive and we will continue to monitor the international
market before making any decision about going back.”  Appetite Hit  Debt levels in Honduras increased to 35 percent of GDP last
year, from 25 percent in 2009, according to a bond prospectus
issued by the Central American country. Presidential elections
are scheduled for Nov. 24, with Xiomara Castro, the wife of
former president  Manuel Zelaya , leading the race with 28 percent
support, according to a CID-Gallup poll, which surveyed 1,233
potential voters from May 2 to May 8 and has a margin of error
of 5 percentage points.  Kenya is seeking a lead manager to sell $1 billion of notes
to fund infrastructure projects, the Treasury said in a
statement published in the Nairobi-based Standard newspaper June
25. Uganda is also looking at a “big” international bond,
Finance Minister Maria Kiwanuka said during a June 27 interview
in London. Nigeria expects to raise $1 billion today in a sale
of five- and 10-year bonds as it seeks funds to finance power
projects, according to a person with knowledge of the plans.  “The appetite for frontier markets has now taken a serious
hit,”  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-markets strategy at
Societe Generale SA in London, said in a June 26 e-mail,
referring to a term for less advanced developing economies.
“The backdrop for new entrants into international  capital
markets  has deteriorated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  