-- Derek Fisher, Players Union Seek Dismissal of Hunter Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-07-02T19:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/derek-fisher-players-union-seek-dismissal-of-billy-hunter-case.html
Derek Fisher , president of the
National Basketball Players Association, and the union asked a
judge to toss Billy Hunter’s lawsuit alleging they engaged in
secret negotiations with team owners to end the 2011 lockout.  Hunter, who was fired as the union’s executive director in
February after a 16-year tenure, sued the NBPA and Fisher in May
claiming breach of contract and defamation. Lawyers for the
union said in court filings today in Oakland, California, that
Hunter’s lawsuit must be dismissed because his contract was
never approved, while an attorney for Fisher and his publicist
Jamie Wior, who was also sued, says they weren’t parties to the
contract and the defamation claims are an attempt to retaliate
against Fisher for exercising his right to free speech.  “Today we jointly filed four motions seeking to dismiss
the claims in the lawsuit brought by former Executive Director
 Billy Hunter ,” said Christina Sarchio and Andrew Kassof,
attorneys for the union and Fisher, in an e-mail. “The
allegations are unfounded, and we intend to defend this lawsuit
aggressively.”  Bill McBride, a spokesman for Hunter’s attorney,  David
Anderson , said they haven’t seen the filings.  A hearing on the requests is scheduled for Aug. 27.  Hunter claims the secret talks were aimed at benefiting the
participants, the owners and certain players, according to his
complaint filed May 16 in California state court in Oakland.  The case is Hunter v. Fisher, RG13679736, California
Superior Court, Alameda County (Oakland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  