-- Deutsche Annington Said to Cut IPO Size to $845 Million
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-07-02T15:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/deutsche-annington-said-to-cut-ipo-size-to-845-million.html
Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN) ,
 Germany ’s largest residential landlord, is reducing the size of
its initial public offering to about 650 million euros ($845
million) after investor demand fell short, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  Deutsche Annington, majority owned by Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd., will raise a targeted 400 million euros from the
sale of new shares while a secondary offering of shares has been
cut to about 250 million euros, the people said, asking not to
be identified because the process isn’t public. Shares will be
priced at 18 euros, the lower end of a price range of 18 to 21
euros, they said.  Deutsche Annington, the second German real estate company
to list this year, has been attempting to attract investors as
market indexes are paring their gains. China money-market rates
have reached a record, in one sign of a cash squeeze, and the
 Federal Reserve  recently said it may cut back bond buying should
the  U.S. economy  improve. In June, the Stoxx 600 index had its
first monthly loss in over a year.  The residential landlord in which Apollo Global Management
LLC owns a stake was seeking to raise 1.1 billion euros from the
IPO that closed for subscription today. Banks managing the sale
sent a message to investors earlier today saying order books
were 80 percent subscribed.  HD Supply Holdings Inc. and CDW Corp., two U.S. companies
backed by private-equity firms, had to price their IPOs below
their original targets last month. Votorantim Cimentos SA,
 Brazil ’s biggest cement producer, rescheduled a planned $3.7
billion IPO for September.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley are leading
Deutsche Annington’s IPO. Other managers include Bank of America
Corp., Deutsche Bank AG, Societe Generale SA, Berenberg Bank,
Commerzbank AG and Kempen & Co.  A spokesman for Deutsche Annington declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  