-- Disabled Recruited From Walgreen to AMC Seeking Diversity
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-02T14:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/disabled-recruited-from-walgreen-to-amc-seeking-diversity.html
Angela Mackey says she struggled to
land a job, even with a master’s degree earned with top grades,
as employers focused on her cerebral palsy instead of her
qualifications.  So Mackey, 37, who once sent out 250 resumes without
success, regards her current job as a personal triumph. She
holds a managerial position at  Walgreen Co. (WAG) ’s Anderson,  South
Carolina , distribution center, hiring and performing human
resource work for the 500-employee workplace.  “Growing up having a disability, I was not an athlete, I
never was a beauty queen, the playing field was not equal,”
said Mackey, who landed her role in 2006. “Working at
Walgreen’s lets me show what I can accomplish. I am not just a
woman with  cerebral palsy .”  Deerfield, Illinois-based Walgreen is among employers
including  Hershey Co. (HSY)  and AMC Entertainment Inc. actively
recruiting workers with disabilities as a way to gain a loyal
workforce, tap overlooked talent and add diversity.  Such efforts could be crucial as more people with physical
and mental challenges who attended school after the 1990 passage
of the  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act  reach
adulthood. Students who took advantage of expanded educational
opportunities know they have skills and expect to work, said
Randy Lewis, who retired in February from his job as Walgreen’s
senior vice president of supply chain and logistics.  Rising Expectations  “The expectation is rising, which is great,” said Lewis,
who has an adult son with autism and led the push for disabled
hiring at Anderson. Opportunities aren’t keeping pace, though:
disabled people have been leaving the  labor force  in greater
numbers following the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009
as competition increased for jobs.  “Is it going to get better fast enough?” Lewis said.
“No, probably not.”  In May, 17.9 percent of people with disabilities had jobs
compared with 64.3 percent for those with no impairments, based
on unadjusted  data  from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The
ratio is down from its high of 21 percent in September 2008,
during the first year data was kept, and has fallen 0.2
percentage point from a year ago, even as employment improved
for the non-disabled population.  “There are a lot of companies getting on the bandwagon,
but I also think we have a long way to go,”  National Governors
Association  Chairman Jack Markell, the Delaware governor who is
heading a yearlong initiative to spur hiring of disabled
Americans, said in an interview. “There are a lot of people
with disabilities who would love to work but who are not given
the opportunity.”  No Promotion  Mackey said she had 65 interviews before the Anderson-based
vocational rehabilitation center where she had interned hired
her in 2000. After six years, she hadn’t been promoted to the
supervisory role she wanted.  Then a colleague introduced her to Lewis, who wanted to
establish a distribution center that would hire a 30 percent
disabled workforce. They would be supported by technology,
including individualized computer monitors at each repacking
station to track progress and give directions. They would be
held to the same standards as other workers and receive
comparable pay.  “He said he felt that people with disabilities were just
as capable as those without,” Mackey said. “In my experience
as a person with disabilities, I had never heard anyone say
that.”  Shaping Workforce  Mackey signed on before the plant opened and helped to
shape its workforce, now made up of 42 percent disabled
employees. She performs the same role at a nearby Pendergrass,
 Georgia , center, which opened later and has a labor force of 25
percent disabled workers.  On a late June afternoon, Mackey, wearing cropped blonde
hair and a dark blouse, chatted amiably with workers at the
Anderson center as they labored in a cavernous warehouse. They
keep a quick tempo while transferring toiletries from whizzing
conveyor belts into cardboard boxes.  Efforts like Walgreen’s are catching on, said Jill
Houghton, executive director of the  U.S. Business Leadership
Network , an Alexandria, Virginia-based advocate for including
the disabled in the workplace. The group talks to about four new
companies weekly, Houghton said.  The business leadership network and U.S. Chamber of
Commerce will present a disability employment summit on July 25
in  Washington , according to a  release .  Actively Seeking  AMC also ranks among companies actively seeking people with
disabilities for a variety of jobs. The movie theater chain
began recruiting workers with disabilities in late 2009,
starting with a pilot program in collaboration with the
Bethesda, Maryland-based Autism Society. The program has
expanded and gained additional partners since.  “You end up being a healthier company from a lot of
different perspectives: innovation, engagement, morale,
productivity,” said Keith Wiedenkeller, chief people officer.  Hershey is also benefitting after taking a page from
Walgreen’s playbook, said Victoria Zefran, a human resources
generalist at the Hershey, Pennsylvania-based confectioner.  “It supports our diversity inclusion,” said Zefran. “We
find a pipeline of talent that we haven’t gone after before.”  Of U.S. workers reporting a disability, 32.2 percent are in
management, professional and related occupations, compared with
38.1 percent for the population without a disability, according
to Current Population Survey data from 2012.  Business Choice  Advocacy groups and political leaders are promoting
inclusion as a business choice. The National Governors
Association plans to release a report in August that will show
governors and states how to find more employment opportunities
for people with disabilities, Markell said.  Employment statistics for those with disabilities have not
improved even with such efforts. Job competition has grown as
11.8 million Americans in the labor force remained  jobless  as of
May, according to Department of Labor data. Companies that once
hired mentally and physically impaired workers as part of normal
recruitment may now pass them up.  “When the labor market is very slack, as it has been for
the past five years, employers start to say, ‘Why should I
settle for someone with just a college degree when I can have a
PhD?” said  David Autor , an economist at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  in Cambridge, who studies disability
benefits. “Why should I hire someone with a disability?”  Participation Dropped  Workforce  participation  dropped and unemployment climbed
for the disabled during and following the economic downturn, so
that today only about one-fifth of the disabled population is
active in the labor market. Of those, 13.6 percent couldn’t find
jobs in May, according to BLS data.  Many companies shy away from disabled workers out of
concern that they will require expensive accommodation, Lewis
said. Others view impaired employees as charity cases and hold
them to lower production standards, he said, so they’re first to
be cut.  “That did not happen to us,” he said.  Walgreen analyzed  performance differences  between
distribution centers with disabled and non-disabled workforces.
Employee turnover over three years was 48 percent less for those
reporting a disability and productivity was roughly equal,
according to a report.  More than 200 companies have toured Walgreen’s Anderson
facility, Mackey said.  First Job  Visitors see that the workspaces, with buzzing conveyor
belts and thudding sounds of repacking, look simply like a high-tech warehouse. They meet people like Violet Gentry, 40, who has
cerebral palsy and had never had a job before last year, rapidly
reshuffling items, practically indistinguishable from those
working nearby.  Lewis’s book on his experiences,  titled  “No Greatness
Without Goodness,” is scheduled for release in April 2014. His
own son, 25-year-old Austin, benefits from Walgreen’s latest
undertaking: a program training disabled employees to work in
retail stores.  “My son drives, and that was like graduating summa cum
laude from MIT,” Lewis said. “A job, that’s like winning a
 Nobel Prize .”  His son marks each month’s paydays on a calendar Lewis got
him to track his work schedule. “So yes, a job is important to
him, too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  