-- LDK Falls as Credit Concerns Spur Rout: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-07-02T20:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/ldk-falls-as-credit-concerns-spur-rout-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks fell the most in a
week in  New York , led by  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  and  Aluminum Corp. of
China Ltd. , on concern regulators’ efforts to rein in bank
balance sheets will worsen a slowdown in the economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. dropped 2.2 percent to 84.12
yesterday. LDK tumbled on concern new share sales would dilute
value for existing holders and Aluminum Corp., China’s biggest
producer of the metal, sank for the first time in six days.
Video website operator  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  slid for a third day,
while online game company  Perfect World (PWRD)  Co. surged to the
highest price since 2011.  Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said China’s worst
cash crunch in a decade last month is a reminder to banks that
they need to adjust their “asset businesses,” China Business
News reported July 1. Higher interbank borrowing costs may force
lenders struggling to repay funds raised through wealth
management products, some of which are held off balance sheets,
to curtail new credit to companies and households. China’s
official  manufacturing index for June  fell to a four-month low.  “The big issue in China now is the new stance of the PBOC
against shadow banking,”  Michael Shaoul , the chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management in New York, said by e-mail. “If
we see that kind of credit squeeze then I really think things
start getting very difficult by the middle of fourth quarter.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., dropped 1.4 percent to $32.02,
slumping the most in six days. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slipped less than 0.1 percent, as investors awaited a monthly
jobs report and the start of corporate earnings.  Diluting Shareholders  LDK’s American depositary receipts slid 5 percent to $1.33,
the biggest decline since June 24.  The company, which is burdened with $2.8 billion in debt,
sold 25 million new shares to Fulai Investments Ltd. for $25.75
million, completing a purchase agreement they signed in April,
according to a statement from the Xinyu, China-based solar
manufacturer yesterday. LDK has sold shares three times in the
past nine months, issuing new shares to Fulai, which is
incorporated in the British Virgin Islands.  “The company is diluting its existing shareholders every
times it sells shares,”  Gordon Johnson , an analyst with Axiom
Capital Management Inc. said by e-mail in New York. “This is
also bad as it shows credit in China is tight. Instead of simply
getting new loans from Chinese sources, LDK is having to sell
shares to pay off its debt holders.”  Chalco, Shanda  ADRs of China Aluminum, known as Chalco, slid 4.2 percent
to $7.53. The ADRs, each representing 25 underlying shares in
Beijing-based Chalco, traded 1.5 percent  below  its stock in Hong
Kong, a third day of discounts.  A private PMI survey from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics published July 1 slid to 48.2, the weakest since
September. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. The
government is scheduled to release a June PMI index for the
service sector today.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a casino operator in Macau,
slumped 3.7 percent to $22.16 in New York, trading at a 2.9
percent discount to its Hong Kong shares, the biggest gap in a
week. Each ADR of Hong Kong-based Melco equals three ordinary
shares.  Youku Tudou, owner of China’s biggest video websites,
dropped 4.8 percent to a six-day low of $18.25.  Shanda Games
Ltd. (GAME) , a Shanghai-based web game developer, retreated 3.1 percent
to $4.01 after a two-day rally.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a real-name social
networking website, fell 1.7 percent to $2.98, after rising the
previous five days.  Perfect World  Perfect World, based in Beijing, jumped 8.7 percent, the
most in a month, to $19.82. The price was the highest level
since September 2011. Trading volume on the stock was 3.7 times
the daily average over the past three months, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced for a third day, the
longest winning streak in five weeks, gaining 0.6 percent to
2,006.56. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong 
slumped 1.2 percent to 9,203.85 in the first trading day this
month, after sinking 12 percent in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  