-- Dollar Declines Before U.S. Employment Report; Pound Strengthens
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-03T21:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/dollar-climbs-to-highest-in-month-versus-yen-before-jobs-report.html
The  Dollar Index  fell from a more
than one-month high as traders speculated whether the U.S. jobs
report for June will be strong enough to move the  Federal
Reserve  closer to slowing monetary stimulus.  The yen climbed against the most major currencies amid
renewed speculation  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is worsening
as  Portugal ’s bonds slumped after two ministers resigned from
the government. The pound rallied after  U.K. services  expanded,
while  Australia ’s dollar slid after central-bank Governor  Glenn
Stevens  said the economy “will probably get” a weaker currency
if needed.  “This is just one more piece of data in a long line that
the Fed will look at to make a decision about whether or not
tapering makes sense,” Douglas Borthwick, a managing director
and head of foreign exchange at Chapdelaine FX in New York, said
of the jobs report in a telephone interview.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six major
U.S. trading partners,  dropped  0.4 percent to 83.211 at 5 p.m.
in New York after increasing earlier to 83.717, its strongest
level since May 29.  The yen appreciated 0.7 percent to 99.91 per dollar after
gaining as much as 1.4 percent earlier, its biggest intraday
advance since June 14.  Japan ’s currency strengthened 0.5 percent
to 129.97 per euro. The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.3009 to
the European currency after rising 0.4 percent earlier.  Sterling Climbs  The pound jumped the most in four weeks versus the dollar
after a report showed U.K. services growth accelerated in June,
adding to evidence the economic recovery is gaining strength.  Britain’s currency advanced against all of its 16 most-traded peers as reports this week showed manufacturing grew at
the fastest in more than two years last month and construction
expanded.  Mark Carney  began as governor of the  Bank of England 
on July 1 and will announce his first policy decision tomorrow.  “The numbers were a positive surprise, and the pound is
showing some strength,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “These are levels at
which you don’t talk about a weak economy anymore.”  Sterling rose 0.8 percent, the most since June 6, to
$1.5283 and gained 0.6 percent to 85.14 pence per euro.  Australia’s dollar weakened against most major counterparts
and touched the lowest in almost three years against the
greenback after Stevens said the Aussie has been too high. The
currency sank 0.7 percent to 90.87 U.S. cents and reached 90.37
cents, the weakest since September 2010.  U.S. Employment  Initial claims for  jobless benefits  in the U.S. fell by
5,000 last week to 343,000, the Labor Department said today. A
Bloomberg survey forecast a decline to 345,000. The ADP Research
Institute said American companies boosted employment by 188,000
workers in June, exceeding a Bloomberg survey’s forecast of a
gain of 160,000.  The Labor Department report on July 5 may show U.S. nonfarm
payrolls increased by 165,000 jobs, a Bloomberg survey forecast.  The U.S. central bank buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage bonds each month to put downward pressure on borrowing
costs and fuel growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19
policy makers may slow the purchases this year and end them in
2014 if economic growth meets policy makers’ goals.  U.S. financial markets are closed tomorrow for the
Independence Day holiday.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield jumped above 8 percent for
the first time since November after Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  told voters in a televised speech from Lisbon yesterday
he’s trying to hold his government together.  Portuguese Turmoil  Portuguese Foreign Affairs Minister Paulo Portas, leader of
junior coalition party CDS, quit yesterday in protest at the
government’s budget policy. Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar also
stepped down this week, saying his credibility had been
compromised by the government’s failure to meet budget targets
set by the European Union.  “Any time you have any sort of political uncertainty or
anything that’s going to disrupt political stability, it’s going
to be risk-off for the underlying currency,” said Eric Viloria,
senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New
York , in a phone interview. “That’s weighing on the euro.”  The premium for one-year options granting the right to sell
the euro against the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases increased to 1.94 percentage points, the most since
Sept. 12, the 25-delta risk reversal shows.  The euro has still gained 4.8 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar climbed 6.5 percent, the
best performer, and the yen tumbled 9 percent.  ‘Long Dollar’  “In a global risk-off environment, particularly when
things are being triggered by say European events or events in
the  Middle East , I think the dollar will perform very well,”
 Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said in an interview
on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee . “It’s very much a case of long dollar for me.” A long
position is a bet an asset will increase in value.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $33 billion, compared with $36 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $6.8 billion, the
largest share of trades at 21 percent. Euro-dollar options
totaled $4.3 billion, or 13 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 12 percent below the average
for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
15 percent above average.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Group of Seven Volatility Index,
based on currency-option premiums, increased to 11.15 percent,
from 10.97 percent yesterday. It touched 11.96 percent June 24,
the highest since January 2012. The 2013 average is 9.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  