-- Trump Organization in Talks for New Jersey Online Gambling Role
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/donald-trump-still-searching-for-new-jersey-online-casino-deal.html
Donald Trump , the billionaire whose
name sits atop two  Atlantic City  resorts, is negotiating for a
partner in New Jersey’s online gambling market after all 12
casinos notified the state of plans to offer Internet wagering.  Trump, who retains online gambling rights to his name, has
held talks with Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc., the company
that owns Atlantic City’s Trump Taj Mahal and Trump Plaza
hotels, and other potential partners, according to his daughter
Ivanka Trump, an executive with the New York-based Trump
Organization Inc.  “Given the way online gaming is rolling out on a state-by-state basis, we really want to keep our options open,” Ivanka
Trump said in an interview.  Trump could sign a deal with one of his namesake casinos or
another operator, she said. Trump Taj Mahal has paired with
Ultimate Gaming, part of Station Casinos LLC. Online gambling in
 New Jersey  may start this year.  All 12 New Jersey casinos met a June 30 deadline to seek
state permission to offer betting online, according to Lisa Spengler, a spokeswoman for the Division of Gaming Enforcement.  Trump’s online initiative is complicated by the ownership
of the New Jersey hotels. Trump Entertainment  emerged  from
bankruptcy in 2010 with Donald Trump as a minority investor and
no management role. A  licensing agreement  signed with the
company that year left him in control of his name for online
gambling, according to the agreement.  Brian Cahill, a spokesman for Trump Entertainment, declined
to comment.  Local Boost  New Jersey legalized online betting in February as a way to
boost the state’s $3 billion casino market. Online operators are
required to partner with a casino located in the state.  The casinos have all identified their prospective online
partners to the state and either have agreements in hand or are
still in talks, according to Spengler, the state spokeswoman.
They have to file completed applications by July 29. New Jersey
isn’t disclosing the names of the online companies.  Ultimate Gaming, owned by Las Vegas-based Station Casinos,
said this week it entered into a partnership with the Trump Taj
Mahal. The online games will be marketed under the Ultimate
Gaming brands, the company said in a statement.  Las Vegas-based  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the largest
operator in Atlantic City with four properties, will offer
online games with Gibraltar-based  888 Holdings Plc (888)  under the
Caesars and World Series of Poker brands, according to Seth Palansky, a spokesman for the casino company.  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD) , which own
Atlantic City’s top-grossing Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa, have
partnered with  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc (BPTY) , also based
in Gibraltar.  Those games will be marketed with the Borgata and Bwin
PartyPoker names, according to Robert Boughner, an executive
vice president of Las Vegas-based Boyd, which manages the
property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  