-- Heat Wave Persists in West as Flooding Threatens East
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-02T12:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/heat-wave-persists-in-west-as-flooding-threatens-east.html
Temperatures in the U.S. West will
reach as much as 20 degrees above normal today while heavy rain
threatens the East Coast, the  National Weather Service  said.  The high may be 111 Fahrenheit (44 Celsius) in Bakersfield,
California, and 103 in Sacramento as another day of baking heat
takes hold in the West, the agency said.  “Excessive heat warnings and heat advisories remain in
effect where daytime temperatures will yet again soar past the
century mark and overnight lows will struggle to drop into the
70s and 80s,” said Mary Beth Gerhardt, a forecaster at the
 Weather Prediction Center  in College Park, Maryland.  Heat in high population areas spurs electricity demand as
more people turn to air conditioners to keep cool. That may also
translate into an increased need for natural gas as  power plants 
will consume 32 percent of the fuel in the U.S this year, Energy
Information Administration data show.  The  California  Independent System Operator Inc., which
manages the state’s electricity grid, issued a  Flex Alert  for
today asking consumers in Northern California to conserve energy
and utilities to restrict maintenance.  Power consumption is expected to peak at 46,715 megawatts
today and 47,219 megawatts tomorrow, according to California
ISO’s website.  Precautions Urged  The weather service urged people to limit daytime activity
and to rest in air conditioned rooms if possible. Heat warnings
and advisories cover parts of California, Nevada, Oregon,
Washington,  Idaho ,  Montana , Utah and Arizona.  From 1999 to 2009,  heat killed  an average of 658 people per
year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta.  Along the East Coast, flood warnings and flash flood
watches have been posted from New Hampshire to  Georgia  as
another round of heavy rain and thunderstorms is expected to
sweep the region, according to the weather service.  Thunderstorms yesterday generated high winds that toppled
trees and power lines from New England to South Carolina,
according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,
 Oklahoma . An EF-0 tornado, the weakest on the Enhanced-Fujita
scale, swept through Union County in  New Jersey , according to
the weather service’s office in Upton,  New York .  Almost 580 flights in the U.S. were canceled yesterday in
part due to the storms, according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based airline tracking service. Philadelphia International
Airport had 128 flights scrubbed and New York’s LaGuardia had
108 arrivals and departures grounded.  The high temperature is expected to reach 80 in New York
City, where a flash flood warning is in effect through tonight.
Most rain will probably be before noon and as much as 1 inch
(2.5 centimeters) may fall today, the weather service said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  