-- ECB Says Debt Crisis Weighed on Role of Euro in Global Markets
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-07-02T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/ecb-says-debt-crisis-weighed-on-role-of-euro-in-global-markets.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said unsound public finances in the euro area have curbed
the single currency’s use in global financial markets.  “In 2012 the euro-area sovereign debt crisis continued to
weigh on the international use of the euro, which declined
moderately in some market segments,” Draghi said in the
foreword of an ECB report published today on the international
role of the currency. “The persistent fragmentation of the
euro-area financial system is one of the main underlying causes
of these developments, as it affects the depth and liquidity of
euro-area  capital markets .”  The 17-nation region is struggling to emerge from a
sovereign debt crisis, now in its fourth year, that has led to
five countries seeking bailouts and fostered speculation about a
breakup of the currency bloc. Since European leaders agreed last
year to set up a banking union and the ECB committed to backstop
the euro with its Outright Monetary Transactions program,
confidence has returned, according to the report.  The euro’s share in globally disclosed foreign-exchange
reserves declined to 23.9 percent at the end of 2012 from 25.1
percent in 2011, the ECB said.  Currency Reserves  “Several survey indicators suggest that the decline in the
international role of the euro might have bottomed out or even
partly reversed during the second half of 2012,” Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen told reporters in  Frankfurt  today.
“We can say that the trend goes in the right direction, but we
all have to continue to work to tackle the fundamental causes of
financial fragmentation in the euro area. In this respect,
moving decisively towards a banking union is crucial.”  An “overwhelming majority” of foreign reserve managers
credits the ECB’s yet-to-be-used bond-purchase program for
alleviating concerns that the euro will collapse, Asmussen said.
Prime U.S. money market funds increased their exposure to short-term debt instruments issued by financial institutions in the
currency bloc in the second half of last year, he said.  In emerging and developing economies, the share of the euro
as reserve currency dropped to 24.2 percent at the end of 2012
from 27.4 percent a year earlier, according to the report. The
share in international debt markets slid to 25.5 percent from
26.2 percent as issuers continued to favor dollar-denominated
securities.  Risk Aversion  “The  U.S. dollar  and the euro, as the second-most
important reserve currency, continued to perform their function
as a credible store of value for foreign central banks,” the
ECB said.  Foreign demand for euro banknotes increased, implying that
“the intensification of the euro-area sovereign debt crisis in
the second half of 2011 did not have a major impact on the use
of euro banknotes outside the euro area,” it said.  About a quarter of euro currency in circulation was used
outside the euro area at the end of last year, particularly in
 Switzerland , the U.K.,  Russia  and northern  Africa , Asmussen
said.  Higher  risk aversion  in foreign-exchange markets and
perceptions of heightened credit risk for government debt in
some advanced economies have boosted the use of alternative
reserve currencies such as the Australian and Canadian dollars,
the report shows.  Alternative Currencies  While those countries “have a track record of rapid and
resilient growth,  price stability  and sound public finances,”
the lack of “large, deep and liquid financial markets limits
the potential of non-traditional currencies to become truly
major reserve units,” the ECB said, adding that their use may
decrease once market conditions normalize.  China ’s currency increased its prominence in global trade,
the report showed. Between 2010 and the end of 2012, the share
of the nation’s trade in goods settled in yuan increased to
nearly 10 percent from almost zero.  Still, “the lack of sufficiently deep and liquid domestic
financial markets, tight financial restrictions, remaining
 capital controls  and insufficient exchange-rate flexibility
hamper the development of the international use of the  renminbi ,
notably as a reserve currency,” the ECB said. “It is
nevertheless conceivable that the renminbi could play an
increasingly prominent role to the extent that the Chinese
authorities continue to gradually address these challenges.”  China has allowed businesses to settle foreign trade in
 yuan  and signed swap agreements to promote the use of the
currency in international trade and investment. It has also
eased rules for foreign companies to invest in the country using
yuan raised offshore, as well as starting direct trading with
currencies including the yen as part of efforts to make the yuan
a global currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  