-- Tech Stocks Signaling Sustained U.S. Growth: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-07-02T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/tech-stocks-signaling-sustained-u-s-growth-ecopulse.html
Shares of technology companies are
rallying as investors see capital spending for their products
strengthening along with the economy, consistent with the
Federal Reserve’s latest growth forecasts.  Tech stocks capped their best 10 weeks of relative
performance since 2009 last week, and the Guggenheim Standard &
Poor’s 500 Equal-Weight Technology exchange-traded fund has
outpaced the  Guggenheim S&P 500 Equal-Weight ETF (RSP)  by 4.8
percentage points since April 19. The gains show a “hand off”
is starting, as investors move into industries that could
outperform benchmarks later in the economic expansion, said
Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $221.2 billion as chief
portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee
Falls,  Wisconsin .  “If the Fed is confident enough to begin taking the
training wheels off the economy, then that should benefit tech
stocks,” he said. Wells Fargo maintains an overweight
recommendation on the sector partly because capital spending on
these products would improve with increased assurance about the
durability of the expansion, he said.  The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco’s Tech Pulse
Index, which tracks the health of the U.S. information-technology industry, is showing an improvement in investment,
consumption, employment, industrial production and shipments.
The index rose to 98.96 in May, the highest since 2008.  Unprecedented Stimulus  The equal-weight technology ETF began to lead the benchmark
index shortly before the Fed started bracing investors for a
phase-out of its unprecedented monetary-stimulus program. At the
conclusion of a two-day meeting May 1, the Federal Open Market
Committee said it was “prepared to increase or reduce the pace
of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as
the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes.”  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke provided more detail on June 19
when he said the central bank may begin to taper its $85 billion
in monthly bond buying later this year and halt purchases in
mid-2014 as long as the world’s largest economy performs in line
with its projections.  Officials  project  the U.S. will expand 3 percent to 3.5
percent in the fourth quarter of 2014 from the same period this
year, according to their central-tendency estimate, which
excludes the three highest and three lowest estimates. The March
projection was a range of 2.9 percent to 3.4 percent.  U.S. Growth  Gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent annualized
rate in the first quarter, revised from a prior reading of 2.4
percent, Commerce Department data show.  As the expansion enters its fifth year, there are signs it
is “closer to being self-sustaining,” which is helping to
spark interest in technology stocks because these companies’
earnings are cyclical and benefit from an improving economy,
said David Katz, who oversees about $850 million as chief
investment officer at New York-based Matrix Asset Advisors Inc.
“Over the next six to 12 months, tech is going to be a good
place to invest.”  Shares of  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  TE Connectivity Ltd. (TEL)  “have done well and are
poised to do better” as demand improves, Katz said. Similarly,
 Workday Inc. (WDAY) ,  Splunk Inc. (SPLK)  and  Tableau Software Inc. (DATA)  offer
“interesting” opportunities with “revenue that’s growing like
a weed,” said Erick Maronak, chief investment officer at
Victory Capital Management Inc. in New York, which oversees $28
billion.  ‘Favorite’ Stocks  Tech stocks now are JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s “favorite”
because they offer a “beta play on growth” and attractive
fundamentals, said Thomas Lee, the bank’s chief U.S. equity
strategist in New York. “Investors haven’t been that excited
about this group,” though sentiment has been improving as the
prospect of changing Fed policy encourages some repositioning,
he said. A stock with a high beta tends to rise or fall more
than the broader market.  The equal-weight technology ETF reduces the influence of
any one “oversized” company, and while “everybody talks about
the big-cap names,” small-cap companies also offer an
interesting investment opportunity, Jacobsen said.  Small-cap tech stocks capped their best 10 weeks since 2011
last week, and the Russell 2000 Technology Index has outpaced
the Russell 2000 Index by 6.9 percentage points since April 19.
The relative performance of both the equal-weighted and small-cap groups shows that “investors have more conviction” in this
industry now, said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of
research at Greenwich, Connecticut-based research company
Technical Alpha Inc. and a chartered market technician.  Clear Sign  If these indexes were to trade above highs set in August
2012 relative to the market, this would be “a clear sign that
investors are more comfortable overweighting this sector as
their expectations for earnings are improving,” Stellakis said.
Another “bullish signal” is that the equal-weight ETF
“reversed all of its relative weakness and ended up
outperforming the market on June 28,” he said, even as shares
of  Accenture Plc (ACN)  tumbled  10 percent  to $71.96 that day, the
biggest decline since August 2011.  The world’s second-largest technology-consulting company
and a member of the equal-weight ETF said June 27 that fiscal
fourth-quarter revenue will be $6.7 billion to $7 billion,
falling short of the $7.36 billion average estimate of analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Less Leveraged  Higher interest rates historically bode well for tech
stocks, as they tend to lead the broader market during periods
of rising short-term yields, Jacobsen said. That’s in part
because these companies are less financially leveraged than
peers in other industries, so they’re “not as vulnerable” to
higher costs for servicing debt, Lee said.  Valuations also are compelling, Jacobsen and Lee agreed.
The stocks are trading at about 13 times earnings on a forward-looking basis -- a similar level to the S&P 500 -- compared with
a historical average of 17, Jacobsen said. That’s unusual
because tech usually trades at a premium to the broader market,
he said.  In addition, consensus analysts’ estimates suggest
“subdued” earnings growth in the next five years -- about 12.5
percent versus 14.5 percent historically -- so if these
companies can exceed expectations it will push their stocks
higher, Jacobsen said.  ‘Really Gun-Shy’  Not everyone agrees the industry is poised for an increase
in business demand.  “There’s plenty to be worried about in tech because it’s a
tale of two economies when it comes to spending,” Maronak said.
While consumers have been “unbelievably resilient,” companies
still are “really gun-shy,” he said. “The economy is nowhere
near where it needs to be for companies to go spending the
amount of money they used to on computers and other equipment.”  Some investors remain reluctant because they worry about
the industry’s global exposure, Lee said. He’s less concerned
about that, though significant weakness in  emerging markets 
would pose “the biggest risk” to stock performance, he said.  That’s not the case for Cisco, as its sales in emerging
markets could expand by as much as three times total growth,
Chief Executive Officer John Chambers said in a June 20
interview with Bloomberg Television. In the three months ended
April 27, Cisco saw “continued improvements from a total
geographic perspective,” and for the first time in six
quarters, reported growth across its four customer segments, he
said on a May 15 conference call.  Shares of the San Jose, California-based company have
outpaced the S&P 500 Index by about 17 percentage points since
May 15, when it reported fiscal third-quarter results.  “Any sense that businesses are spending more freely in
capital-spending cycles helps,” Katz said. “The bull case for
these stocks is enforced by a self-sustaining U.S. economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  