-- Ecobank Plans to Hire Investment Bank Head to Tap African Growth
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-07-02T05:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/ecobank-plans-to-hire-investment-bank-head-to-tap-african-growth.html
Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  is seeking
a new investment banking chief as Africa’s most geographically
diverse lender hires people across the continent to tap growth.  Ecobank’s corporate and investment bank arm has almost 600
staff in 33 African countries plus Paris and London, Albert Essien, the Lome, Togo-based bank’s deputy group chief executive
officer, said in a June 28 interview in Johannesburg.  “We’ve been building the team and we’re now a commercial
bank with an investment arm, like  Standard Bank (SBK) ,” Essien said.
“We’re also building a transaction services team.”  Ecobank merged its corporate and investment banking
businesses last year as it vies with  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Citigroup
Inc. and  Standard Bank  Group Ltd., the continent’s biggest
lender, for opportunities arising from African growth rates that
outstrip those of developed economies. The bank, which has more
than 9.6 million African customers, is also looking for
partnerships with insurers to widen its product range and help
build a presence in asset and wealth management, Essien said.  Growth can in part be funded from  cash flow  after the bank
maintained its earnings momentum in the second quarter, after
first-quarter profit rose 26 percent, said Essien.  While Ecobank is concentrating on organic growth, a Kenyan
acquisition is possible, said Essien. The bank is waiting for
approval for full banking licenses in Mozambique and Angola and
is about to open its first branch in South Sudan, he said.
Ecobank also plans a representative office in Ethiopia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  