-- EDF Nuclear Deal in U.K. May Take ‘A Few Months’
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-07-02T17:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/edf-nuclear-deal-in-u-k-may-take-a-few-months-.html
The U.K. may take “a few months” to
agree the price that  Electricite de France SA (EDF)  will get for power
from Britain’s first new nuclear power station in two decades,
Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  suggested.  The government has been in talks for months with EDF to
agree a so-called strike price the French utility will get for
power from a planned plant at Hinkley Point in southwest
 England . Davey told Parliament’s multi-party Energy and Climate
Change Committee he won’t sign a contract with EDF unless it
represents “value for money” for consumers.  “Even if we agree in the next few months, a nuclear
reactor at Hinkley point won’t be producing until the end of
this decade at best,” Davey said today. “They have been very
constructive negotiations. They are taking some time, and that’s
because they are very complicated.”  The comments signal that the decision that ministers had
hoped to make by the middle of this year may not be made before
Parliament rises for its summer recess on July 18. Failure to
reach a deal with EDF would delay construction of new reactors
in Britain, where all except for one existing atomic plants are
due to close by 2023.  Power shortages are possible this decade without a better
strategy, the energy regulator Ofgem warned last week. The
committee in March said Britain may miss its carbon targets
without a ‘Plan B’ to replace nuclear power.  EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said in April
that he isn’t “in a hurry” to get a deal and that the utility
is prepared to allow the talks to fail.  Davey said the talks have spurred “interest from so many
nuclear vendors,” and that competition may spur EDF to seek to
finalize a deal. He cited the example of Japanese utility
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , which in October agreed to buy Horizon Nuclear
Power, another U.K. nuclear project, from  Germany ’s two largest
utilities for 696 million pounds ($1.1 billion).  “EDF will, I’m sure, have noticed that Hitachi have bought
the Horizon project and Hitachi are powering ahead,” Davey
said. “We’ve had a lot of discussions with Hitachi and they
will bring an awful lot to British nuclear efforts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  