-- Telecom Italia Talks on Hutchison Wireless Merger Stall
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-07-03T15:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/telecom-italia-talks-on-hutchison-wireless-merger-stall.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s discussions with
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  over a proposed merger of their Italian
mobile-phone assets have stalled amid disagreements over
valuation, according to four people familiar with the matter.  Telecom Italia directors, three months after agreeing to
examine a combination with Hutchison’s H3G unit, will probably
decide to halt the project at a meeting tomorrow, said two of
the people, asking not to be identified because the
deliberations are private. Telecom Italia executives intend to
focus on spinning off the company’s fixed-line assets, a plan
approved by its board at the end of May, they said.  While Telecom Italia could revisit a wireless merger in the
future, putting the plan on hold would be a lost chance to
consolidate in Europe’s overcrowded mobile-phone industry
through a combination of Italy’s biggest and No. 4 carriers. In
Ireland, Hutchison last week agreed to acquire  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s
local unit for as much as $1.1 billion.  “Hutchison’s unrealistic view of the value of the H3G unit
combined with the high uncertainty of the regulatory environment
and the conditions of structural separation make a deal
virtually impossible to negotiate today,”  Robin Bienenstock , a
London-based analyst at Sanford C Bernstein, said by phone.  ‘Appropriate Decision’  Telecom Italia shares fell 1.9 percent to close at 52 cents
in Milan, adding to yesterday’s 1.8 percent decline after
 Bloomberg News  reported the deliberations and the planned board
meeting. Hutchison lost 0.9 percent to HK$82 in  Hong Kong .  In a statement, Telecom Italia said its board will take
“an appropriate decision” over Hutchison at a board meeting
tomorrow. It didn’t elaborate what the decision would be. Hans Leung, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Hutchison, declined to
comment.  While H3G has a so-called fair value of 1.5 billion euros
($1.9 billion), the lack of clarity on how much of the carrier’s
accumulated losses can be used to offset taxes means the price
could differ by billions of dollars, a person familiar with the
matter said in May.  Franco Bernabe, Telecom Italia’s chief executive officer,
told analysts May 9 that reaching an agreement with billionaire
 Li Ka-Shing ’s Hutchison would be “complex” because of
regulatory obstacles. Telecom Italia and H3G together control
44.6 percent of Italy’s wireless subscribers based on  first-quarter  data compiled by the Agcom regulator. Wind SpA and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  are the other network carriers.  2010 Attempt  A failed linkup between Telecom Italia and Hutchison
wouldn’t be a first. Hutchison held discussions in 2010 over a
sale of the business to Telecom Italia, and the talks didn’t
result in a deal because of differences in valuation, people
with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Telecom Italia had initially planned to recommend a
decision on Hutchison by early June after a month-long “in-depth” review. Board members postponed their ruling at a June 5
meeting. Tomorrow’s gathering is scheduled to take place in
Milan.  Some members of a Bernabe-led panel tasked with the review
were skeptical about a transaction from the beginning, while
leading Telecom Italia shareholder Telefonica was concerned
about potential losses in any deal, a person familiar with the
matter said in May. A Telefonica spokesman in  Madrid  declined to
comment yesterday.  Mediobanca Exit  Telecom Italia  board members  on May 30 authorized the
carrier to spin off its copper and fiber assets into a new
company and to hold talks over a sale of a stake in the entity
to state lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. The assets are valued
at about 14 billion euros, a person familiar with the matter has
said.  Bernabe told a parliamentary panel in  Rome  today that the
separation can only proceed after a “clear regulatory
framework” is created. Cassa Depositi is free to invest in the
spun-off company “at market conditions,” though Telecom Italia
isn’t seeking state intervention in the project.  Even though Italy’s government no longer owns a stake in
the company, fixed-line assets are considered strategic by the
state. Telefonica is the biggest investor in Telco SpA, which
owns almost 22.5 percent of Telecom Italia. Other Telco
shareholders are  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
and investment bank  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)  Telefonica, Spain’s biggest
carrier, competes with Telecom Italia in  Latin America .  Mediobanca said last month it intends to exit from Telco’s
investor agreement and sell its 2.6 percent holding in Telecom
Italia within three years.  “Telecom Italia is still finding it hard to cope with its
pile of debt, which is forcing management to consider things
that would otherwise be totally unthinkable,” said Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at  Banco de Sabadell SA (SAB) , referring to
Telecom Italia’s 28.8 billion-euro net debt at the end of March.
“If the situation worsens, Telecom Italia could end up selling
precious assets such as Argentina or Brazil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  