-- Emerging Stocks Fall as Ibovespa Tumbles to Four-Year Low
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-07-02T21:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/emerging-stocks-snap-5-day-rally-as-south-korean-automakers-drop.html
Emerging-market stocks snapped a
five-day rally, led by losses in Brazilian shares, and 
currencies fell after Nomura Holdings Inc. said Latin America’s 
largest economy may enter a recession. Bond yields declined for 
a sixth day.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slumped 1 percent to
932.12, following the longest advance since March. Brazil’s
Ibovespa stock measure tumbled to the lowest level since April
2009 as companies controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista 
plunged. Twenty out of the 24 developing-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg weakened as the real retreated for the
third time in four days. The premium investors demand to own
emerging-market debt over U.S. Treasuries declined four basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Brazil’s industrial production fell more than economists
forecast, as the government’s fight against inflation
complicates its strategy to revive growth. The nation may enter
a recession by the end of this year, Nomura Holdings’ analysts
wrote in a note, citing the negative impact that tighter
monetary policy in the U.S. might have on Brazil’s economy as it
curbs capital inflows. Bank of America Corp. cut today its
forecast for China’s second-quarter economic growth.  “The bloom is coming off the rose with respect to
prospects for emerging markets in the near term,”  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated
Investors Inc., which oversees about $380 billion, said by
phone. “There is certainly suspicion growth rates will continue
to decelerate from here.”  Biggest Losses  Nine out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
fell, led by financial and consumer discretionary shares. The
broad measure has slumped 12 percent this year, compared with an
8 percent gain in the MSCI World Index. The developing-nation
gauge  trades  at 9.7 times projected 12-month earnings, lower
than the MSCI World’s valuation of 13.2, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 1.8 percent to $37.93. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
climbed 18 percent to 30.18.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  slid 4.2 percent, the biggest decline
since September 2011, while the real fell to 2.2547 per dollar.
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil company  controlled
by billionaire Batista, extended a four-day plunge to 52 percent
after Morgan Stanley cut the stock to the equivalent of sell.
Mining company MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA and port developer
LLX Logistica SA sank at least 11 percent.  Russian Shares  The Micex Index gained 0.1 percent in Moscow, reversing
earlier losses, as  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY)  joined crude higher. West Texas
Intermediate oil climbed near $100 a barrel. Benchmark gauges in
Hungary and Turkey dropped more than 0.3 percent, while Poland’s
WIG20 Index surged 2.1 percent.  Chinese stocks rose for a third day, the longest winning
streak in five weeks.  PetroChina Co. (857) , the country’s biggest
natural gas supplier, capped its biggest gain in four years in
 Hong Kong  trading after Beijing announced it will raise prices
for non-residential users. BYD Co., the Chinese electric
carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., rose the most in two months in Hong Kong as Shenzhen City
said it is considering incentives to promote electric vehicles.  India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  retreated 0.6 percent, while the
measure’s 30-day volatility climbed to the highest in more than
a year. Reliance Industries Ltd., owner of the world’s largest
refining complex, fell for the first time in four days.  SK Hynix  The won halted its longest run of gains in two months on
speculation importers bought dollars after the South Korean
currency rallied 2.6 percent over the previous five days.
 Government bonds  advanced.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  fell the most in 13
months in Seoul after CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets advised selling
the stock on expectations memory-chip prices will drop.  Egypt’s stocks surged the most in a year after the military
gave President Mohamed Mursi 48 hours to find a solution to the
political impasse. Bond yields declined.  The extra yield for emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries declined 0.04 percentage point to 332 basis points,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  