-- Emerald Thieves Brave Dogs to Sap Zambia’s Gem Revenue
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-07-03T15:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/emerald-thieves-brave-dogs-to-sap-zambia-s-gem-revenue.html
As goat meat sizzled over glowing
coals nearby, Daniel Sakanya held out a shiny green crystal the
size of a AAA battery, an emerald worth hundreds of dollars.  Sitting with friends in the Bulangililo slum of the
northern Zambian town of Kitwe, Sakanya explained that he
pilfered the stone from a pile of ore at  Gemfields Plc (GEM) ’s Kagem
mine, the world’s biggest emerald operation, about 40 kilometers
(25 miles) to the south. Police officers took a bribe to let him
in, he said.  “There are a lot of people working there as illegal
miners,” Sakanya, wearing a red t-shirt and a red and white
cap, said through a translator, speaking in the Bemba language,
last month as he and his colleagues prepared to depart for the
mine. “It goes by luck; some days we can get nothing.”  The illegal emerald trade in Zambia, the third-biggest
producer of the green gemstones, accounts for almost 40 percent
of the southern African nation’s total output, Deputy Finance
Minister Keith Mukata said in an interview in Lusaka, the
capital. The theft cuts revenue for companies including
Gemfields and weakens the country’s drive to reduce dependence
on copper, which provides about 70 percent of exports.  Zambia produces as much as $200 million a year worth of
emeralds, with its stones known for their dark color and often
bluish hue, lagging behind  Colombia  and  Brazil , according to
Sean Gilbertson,  executive director  at London-based Gemfields.
While it is difficult to know the size of the illegal trade, he
estimates as much as $60 million worth of emeralds may be
leaving Zambia illegally annually.  ‘Serious Racket’  “It’s a very serious racket,” Mukata said. “It’s all
shrouded in secrecy.”  The illegal miners collect broken lumps of emerald-bearing
rock, loading them into sacks which they carry to makeshift
camps at the Kafubu River, about a kilometer south-west of
Kagem’s main pit. The miners use picks and shovels to break the
rocks into smaller pieces, and then wash them in the river,
plucking out the emeralds, Sakanya said.  “They will operate on the periphery of the pits but also
come onto the mine dumps looking for emeralds that we might have
missed, and we do miss them from time to time,” Gilbertson
said.  Zambia’s government pays police, often accompanied by dogs,
to patrol the Ndola Rural Emerald Restricted Area, which
surrounds Kagem and other emerald mines. Elizabeth Kanjele,
national police spokeswoman, declined to comment, referring
queries to Mary Tembo, police commissioner for the Copperbelt
region, who didn’t answer calls to her mobile phone.  Gurkha Guards  Gemfields is employing  Nepalese Gurkhas  as guards, partly
to make communication more difficult to stop collaboration
between miners and security, Gilbertson said.  The global emerald market is a 1Oth of the size of the $14
billion uncut diamond business, Jeremy Wrathall, head of global
natural resources in  Europe  for  Investec Plc’s (INL)  investment-banking and securities unit, said in a June 28 interview from
 London .  Gemfields estimates it lost as much as $17 million in
potential revenue from emerald theft in the 12 months to June
30, 2012. The steady supply of illegal emeralds in Zambia
“destroys our prices,” Gilbertson, a director at Kagem and
Gemfields said in a speech in Lusaka on June 19. The company’s
share price has fallen 42 percent over the last year in London
to 21.625 pence.  He opposes the Zambian government’s ban on holding offshore
emerald auctions, because local sales make it easier for foreign
buyers to source gems from the country’s illegal market. Workers
at the mines also collaborate with security officers to steal
and smuggle the stones, Gilbertson said in an interview in
Lusaka on June 19.  Frozen Fish  “We had a case some years ago with a gentleman who had
been fishing on the lakes on our operation. He was freezing the
fish and taking them to the local town to sell them,”
Gilbertson said. “One of security officers decided to open up
one of the frozen fish and found emeralds inside.”  Buyers of stolen emeralds usually bribe mine workers with
mobile phones,  laptop computers  or even cars, according to
Clever Kalolo, a rock driller at Kagem who has worked at the
mine since 2004. He hasn’t taken part in the trade.  Workers extracting emeralds in the open pit swallow the
stones when they see that a security camera is pointing in
another direction, Kalolo said in a June 7 interview at his
house in Kitwe’s Chimwemwe area. The gems are later passed to
couriers known as “go-comes,” who take them to dealers.  Traders either smuggle the emeralds out the country or
export them legally to buyers in the U.S., Bangkok,  India  and
 Hong Kong , Jean Claude Michelou, vice president at the
International Colored Gemstone Association, said in a May 31
interview in Lusaka.  Kimberley Process  The country collected 16.8 million kwacha ($3.1 million) in
royalties from the emerald sector last year, according to Joseph
Nonde, an assistant director at the Zambia Revenue Authority.
Kagem paid over 80 percent of this, he said in a copy of a
presentation delivered on May 30. In addition to royalties,
government collects income tax from mining companies.  In a bid to stem the illegal trade, the  International
Colored Gemstone Association  is working with the  United Nations 
to put in place a system for gems similar to the  Kimberley
Process  in diamonds, Michelou said. The system will track and
trace the provenance of gemstones, he said. The  Kimberley
Process , which came into force in 2003, is an organization that
monitors the sale of diamonds mined in war zones.  “This is what our system is about:  asking where it came
from,” he said.  Countries involved in the initiative include  Sri Lanka ,
Brazil and Colombia, while Zambia is still expected to join, and
the project will take four years to to implement, he said.  A mine worker who gets paid $500 a month might sell two
stolen uncut emeralds each the size of an adult’s small finger
for the same amount as his paycheck, according to Julius Petsch,
a fourth-generation German gem dealer.  “You see your old shoes. You have five children, school is
$500,” he said in an interview in Lusaka. “You do not feel
guilty if you’re improving your life. In all the gemstone mines
in the world it’s the same problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  