-- Tokyo Electric to Seek Restart of Kashiwazaki-Kariwa
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-07-02T09:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/tepco-rises-by-daily-limit-on-atomic-plant-restart-speculation.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , operator of
the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic station, plans to file an
application with  Japan ’s nuclear regulator to restart its
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant.  The Tokyo-based utility, also known as Tepco, will apply to
restart the No. 6 and No. 7 reactors at the station about 220
kilometers (137 miles) northeast of Tokyo as soon as possible,
it said in a statement today.  Tepco, which had a 685.3 billion yen ($6.9 billion) loss
last fiscal year, said in May 2012 that it would return to
profit this year if it’s allowed to restart the reactors at
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa. The company will seek to explain its
decision to local governments, according to the statement.  “We have been implementing safety measures based on the
lessons we learned as the company that caused the accident,”
President Naomi Hirose told reporters at a briefing in  Tokyo .  All but two of Japan’s 50 functioning reactors are idled
for checks after the March 2011 disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station, which caused the evacuation of 160,000
people. The Nuclear Regulation Authority, set up last year, will
accept restart applications from July 8.  Tepco rose 19 percent to its daily limit of 623 yen at the
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the most since May 16. The
Topix Electric Power & Gas Index rose 3.8 percent, while the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.8 percent.  Safety Guidelines  Japan’s nuclear regulatory authority last month finalized
new safety guidelines required for any nuclear plant restarts.  The NRA was set up after the disaster to independently
review Japan’s nuclear power.  Under the new safety rules, nuclear  power plants  will need
to build secondary control centers at least 100 meters from
reactor buildings to manage emergency cooling systems, and must
install radiation filter vents. They also stipulate tsunami
defenses must be based on the largest estimated waves from the
most recent scientific assessments.  Tepco will finish installing the filter vents by the end of
March 2014, Takafumi Anegawa, deputy chief for nuclear plant
siting, told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  