-- Terra Firma’s Deutsche Annington Postpones $1.4 Billion IPO
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-07-03T09:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/terra-firma-s-deutsche-annington-postpones-ipo-on-weak-demand.html
Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN) ,
 Germany ’s largest residential landlord, postponed its 1.1
billion-euro ($1.4 billion) initial public offering, citing
“persistent adverse market conditions.” It’s the largest
European IPO to be pulled this year.  The company, controlled by  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd., announced the delay in a statement after the
market closed yesterday without giving a new date. The plan to
sell shares for as much as 21 euros each failed because investor
demand fell short, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Deutsche Annington “had the bad luck that it set its  price
range  just before the global turbulence with  interest rates 
started,” said Torsten Klingner, an analyst at Warburg Research
in Hamburg.  Government bond yields soared from Germany to  New Zealand 
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 19 said
U.S. policy makers may end bond purchases in mid-2014. That was
the same day that Bochum-based Deutsche Annington announced its
price range. The  Bloomberg Emerging Markets and Europe Real
Estate Index  has lost more than 5 percent since Bernanke’s
statement, partly on concern that fixed-income investors will no
longer need to buy real estate to achieve stable returns.  LEG’s Decline  Deutsche Annington would have been the second German
property company to list its shares this year. LEG Immobilien
AG, a competitor formerly owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
raised about 1.3 billion euros in stock sale in February that
was the largest in Germany’s real estate industry. The shares
have since dropped by more than 7 percent.  “This decision doesn’t impact Deutsche Annington’s
strategy,” Chief Executive Officer Rolf Buch said in the
statement. “We will focus on driving our operational
performance including continuing our investment and
modernization program as planned.”  The owner of 180,000 German apartments was prepared to
price its shares at the low end of its targeted range because of
weaker-than-expected demand, people familiar with the situation
said yesterday. Banks managing the sale sent a message to
investors yesterday saying there was demand for 80 percent of
the share sale.  IPO Candidates  Deutsche Annington’s decision probably won’t affect two
other property IPOs in Frankfurt slated for this year, according
to Peter Papadakos, an analyst at Green Street Advisors in
London. Cerberus Capital Management LP plans to sell shares in
German retail properties in an IPO that may take place in the
second half, two people with knowledge of the plan said in
April. Austria’s  Immofinanz AG (IIA)  plans to list its residential
unit as early as November, board member Daniel Riedl said during
the same month.  “I wouldn’t read too much into the lack of demand for
Annington for the other IPOs,” Papadakos said. “It was a
matter of price, rather than structural demand or structure.
Annington may well come back at another time and, if the price
is fair, it’s likely that it will float.”  In yesterday’s statement, Deutsche Annington said it will
continue to evaluate the market regarding a potential IPO. The
 FTSE EPRA/Nareit index  of German property stocks has dropped 8
percent this year, after climbing 33 percent in 2012. The
benchmark DAX Index has gained about 2 percent this year.  HD Supply Holdings Inc. and CDW Corp., two U.S. companies
backed by private-equity firms, had to price their IPOs below
their original targets last month.  Votorantim Cimentos SA (VEBM) ,
Brazil’s biggest cement producer, rescheduled a planned $3.7
billion IPO for September.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were leading the
Deutsche Annington offering. Other banks on the deal included
 Bank of America Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG,  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,
Berenberg Bank, Commerzbank AG and Kempen & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  