-- MetLife Joined by State Watchdogs Challenging Fed
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-07-02T16:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/metlife-joined-by-state-watchdogs-challenging-fed.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU)  have been joined by state regulators challenging the
Federal Reserve on how to oversee the biggest insurers under the
Dodd-Frank law.  The insurers and watchdogs are pressuring the Fed to avoid
bank-like capital rules for firms that may eventually fall under
central bank oversight. The Fed has said it can be flexible with
the standards.  “No amount of ‘tailoring’ will ever make bank capital
standards fit a life insurer’s balance sheet,” MetLife Chief
Executive Officer Steven Kandarian said in a  speech  in
 Washington . “There is a better way.”  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, proposed to the Fed
an alternative that it said is more appropriate for insurers
deemed systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs.
No. 2 Prudential also  met with  the Fed to discuss capital
standards. Both companies say they aren’t systemically risky.  Tighter capital rules could lead to higher prices for
consumers and put the company at a disadvantage against smaller
rivals, Kandarian said in the speech on April 10. Fed oversight
could also limit companies’ flexibility in buying back shares,
New York-based MetLife has said.  “What’s at stake for them is huge,” said Howard Mills,
chief adviser of Deloitte LLP’s insurance-industry group and a
former  New York  State insurance regulator. “You just cannot
take banking regulation and apply it to insurance.”  Bailout Prevention  The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 empowered a council of
regulators to declare non-bank financial institutions as
potential threats to financial stability because of their scope,
size or interconnectedness, placing them under Fed supervision.
Lawmakers have sought to avoid a repeat of the 2008 rescues that
propped up companies considered too big to fail.  While most bailout recipients were lenders, and the largest
banks automatically qualify for added oversight under Dodd-Frank, the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  helped
convince regulators that more supervision is needed for non-bank
firms.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council in June declared
AIG, Prudential and a  General Electric Co. (GE)  finance unit as
systemically important, putting them closer to tougher U.S.
oversight. MetLife has said it may face the same designation.
AIG, which last year finished repaying a bailout that swelled to
$182.3 billion, has said it won’t contest the SIFI label.  AIG almost failed in 2008 amid losses at the Financial
Products unit, which wasn’t overseen by state watchdogs. The
Office of Thrift Supervision, the company’s overseer at the
time, “fell short” monitoring the unit and overlooked
liquidity risk tied to AIG’s derivative bets on mortgages, the
regulator later said.  ‘SIFI Standards’  Tighter supervision could strengthen the industry, without
benefiting MetLife’s rivals, Wells Fargo & Co. analysts led by
John Hall said in a June 4 research note.  “We don’t see either Met or Pru being placed at a
competitive disadvantage if they are required to hold
incrementally more capital,” they wrote. “Other life insurance
companies will face competitive pressures in the marketplace to
bring their capital up to stronger SIFI standards rather than
compete with less strong balance sheets.”  The latest version of rules for bank oversight, released
today by the Fed, says the central bank’s board will further
consider the requirements for insurers with banking units.
Savings and loan holding companies “substantially engaged” in
insurance won’t be covered by the rules during the review,
according to the document, tied to the implementation of the
Basel III international banking standards.  State Regulators  MetLife’s Kandarian is working to shape the rules for non-bank SIFIs. MetLife designed an alternative framework for
insurers with consulting firm Oliver Wyman and Promontory
Financial Group LLC, and presented it to the Fed in May,
according to a  document  on the Fed’s website.  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, a
group of state watchdogs, was also briefed, according to two
people familiar with the meeting. The NAIC has also  pushed  to
avoid applying bank rules to insurers. Insurers in the U.S. are
primarily overseen by regulators at the state level.  “We are having a dialogue with the Federal Reserve,” Ben Nelson, CEO of the NAIC and a former U.S. senator, said in an
interview. “As to what will happen with the Federal Reserve, I
don’t think we know. My sense is that progress is being made.”  The Fed is writing rules under Dodd-Frank that will
describe heightened capital and risk-management standards for
the largest firms. Michael Gibson, the director of the Fed’s
Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, said in
 testimony  last year the Fed can tailor standards to fit the
business models of non-bank firms.  ‘Inappropriate Application’  Fed spokeswoman Barbara Hagenbaugh declined to comment on
whether the Fed is considering alternative frameworks. She
pointed to the Fed’s proposed rule for the enhanced capital
standards, which says that the Board of Governors may adjust
application of the standards to non-bank financial companies.  Prudential has also proposed a method of determining
capital adequacy, based on the state regulatory system,
according to a  letter  it sent to federal officials. The  Newark ,
New Jersey-based insurer has said it’s weighing whether to
challenge the SIFI designation. Companies were told they had 30
days to appeal, a deadline that expires tomorrow.  “We’re being heard with respect to the concerns that
Prudential, as well as others in the industry, are expressing
about the inappropriate application of bank-centric capital
models,” Prudential Vice Chairman Mark Grier said on a May 2
conference call.  MetLife’s system would be superior to using Basel III bank
rules because it takes into account the long-term nature of
insurer’s liabilities and how the companies invest to back
obligations, the company said in its document.  Bond Holdings  A life insurance policy might be backed by a long-duration
bond, for example. That’s different from banks, which make loans
using deposits that typically can be readily withdrawn.  MetLife said insurer funding levels should be based on the
amount of capital required at each subsidiary using local
regulatory rules, according to the presentation from May. For
instance, risk-based capital would be used for a U.S. insurance
division and solvency margin ratio for a Japanese unit.  Insurers that own banks would only have their deposit-taking units subjected to bank rules. Adjustments could be made
for holding company leverage and assets, and surcharges could be
added for non-traditional insurance, such as contracts that
guarantee investment appreciation.  House Legislation  U.S. Representative Gary Miller, a California Republican,
introduced legislation that would amend Dodd-Frank to let the
Fed board tailor capital requirements to insurers. Joining the
push, a group of lawyers for insurers sent a letter to the Fed
saying it has flexibility to design rules suited to insurers.  The March 20 letter was signed by attorneys including  Eric Dinallo , the former New York insurance regulator now at
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, and V. Gerard Comizio, the former
deputy general counsel at the OTS, now with Paul Hastings LLP.  MetLife’s capital plans have been stymied by the Fed
before. The company was regulated as a bank-holding company
because it owned a deposit-taking institution, and it was
restricted from raising its dividend or repurchasing shares
until exiting that status in February after selling deposits.  Bernanke’s Anger  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told lawmakers in March 2009
that saving AIG made him “more angry” than any other measure
the government undertook to counter the financial crisis.  “AIG exploited a huge gap in the regulatory system, there
was no oversight of the financial-products division,” Bernanke
said. “This was a hedge fund basically that was attached to a
large and stable insurance company.”  The AIG bailout was repaid last year by  Robert Benmosche ,
who became CEO later in 2009. Benmosche has said that while the
company has been simplified and reduced risk, AIG understands
why it was a candidate for SIFI status.  “All large financial services and insurance companies
should have well regulated holding companies,” he said in a
Nov. 1 letter to the Treasury. “We welcome supervision by the
Federal Reserve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  