-- EU Lawmaker Urges Backing of Fund Manager Pay Curb
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-07-02T23:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/eu-lawmaker-urges-backing-of-fund-manager-pay-curb.html
The European Parliament’s lead
lawmaker on draft fund-manager pay rules urged support for plans
to cap bonuses at no more than fixed salaries as legislators
prepare to vote on the measures today.  The curbs are needed to tame “a dreadful culture of
excessive bonuses,” Sven Giegold, the German Green group
lawmaker, told other legislators during a debate in the
assembly’s Strasbourg premises. “The question is, do we want an
excessive short-term driven culture or not?”  European asset-management firms are concerned the pay
proposal, which targets managers of UCITS funds, will lead to a
bidding war for their  top traders , increasing fixed costs and
making the industry more vulnerable to market downturns.
Supporters of the plans argue that it would tame excessive risk
taking and protect consumers.  The plans were narrowly adopted earlier this year by the
parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee.  While the bonus limits received support during the
parliament debate from Socialist and Green lawmakers, concerns
were expressed by Liberal,  Christian Democrat  and Conservative
members that the measure goes too far. Legislators were also
split over planned curbs on performance fees charged by UCITS
funds.  Bonus Ceiling  “We do not support the bonus ceiling,” Anne Jensen, a
Danish lawmaker in the parliament’s Liberal group, said during
the debate.  UCITS, or Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities, had more than 6 trillion euros ($7.8
trillion) under management as of April 2012, according to the
European Commission. The funds are regulated at  EU level  and
have the right to operate throughout the 27-nation bloc if they
meet minimum oversight and investor-protection standards.  Parliament is weighing whether to add the rules to a draft
law proposed by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
chief, to toughen UCITS regulation. The planned legislation must
be approved by the parliament and national governments before it
can take effect.  Parliament’s vote today will establish its negotiating
position in the talks to come.  Barnier told lawmakers that he supported the principle of
tackling excessive pay, and offered his services in brokering
compromises on the draft law.  The EU “must take into account imperatively the long term
interests of the consumer,” Barnier said, adding that he hoped
that discussions on pay curbs “wouldn’t prevent this important
file being finalized during the life of this parliament.”
European Parliament elections are scheduled to take place next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  