-- EU’s Carbon Fix Gets Second-Chance Vote in Parliament
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-07-03T07:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/eu-s-carbon-market-fix-faces-second-chance-vote-in-parliament.html
The European Parliament votes today
on a rescue plan intended to bolster emission-permit prices in
the world’s biggest carbon market after they tumbled to an all-time low.  The European Union assembly’s  environment committee  last
month endorsed a watered-down version of a proposal advanced by
the European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm. That plan to
allow delaying the sale of some carbon permits in an effort to
support prices was blocked by the full parliament in April,
triggering a 45 percent drop in carbon prices. Lawmakers will
vote on the amended bill after 11:30 a.m. in Strasbourg,  France .  “I’m confident this time we will have a majority in
favor,” Matthias Groote, a German lawmaker from the Socialists
and Democrats group who oversees the proposal in parliament,
said in an interview. “It’s an innovative approach and the
first step to support the transition to a low-carbon economy.”  Emission permits in the EU’s $72 billion cap-and-trade
program have lost more than 70 percent in the last four years.
The euro area’s  record-long recession  has reduced demand for
pollution rights, worsening a glut that swelled to about 2
billion tons in 2012. That’s almost equal to the EU’s annual
limit that the system imposes on some 12,000 power plants and
factories. The caps were set before the economic slowdown.  ‘Key Consideration’  EU carbon allowances for delivery in December dropped 1.6
percent to 4.22 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange as of 8:06 a.m. in  London . The contract slumped to a
record low of 2.46 euros on April 17, a day after the Parliament
blocked the emergency fix in its first plenary vote.  The rescue plan, known as backloading, has divided policy
makers and industry. Opponents of the fix, ranging from  Poland 
to steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT) , say it pushes up energy costs
during an economic slump. The EU commission and companies
including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  say intervention is needed to
bolster prices that are too low to stimulate investment in clean
technology.  “Signs are hopeful about the vote, but no one is very
confident yet,” said Jesse Scott, head of the environment
policy unit at power industry association Eurelectric. “The key
consideration for members of parliament who voted no in April is
whether they really want to risk the consequence of another no,
which would be the collapse of the ETS carbon market.”  Under the compromise, intervention would be limited to a
one-time move, and the postponed permits would start to be
returned to the market one year after they are set aside. The
deal also includes a provision to earmark 600 million permits
for a fund to develop clean technologies. The commission
originally proposed delaying 900 million allowances in the three
years through 2015 and reintroducing them in 2019-2020.  Price Increase  The restrictions backed by the environment panel have
reduced the expected impact of backloading on the supply-demand
balance, analysts Kathrin Goretzki and Jochen Hitzfeld at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  said in a July 1 research note.  “We expect a price increase if the voting outcome is
positive, but think it will be limited to a maximum of 5.50
euros a metric ton,” they said. “In the event of a renewed
rejection of the proposal in parliament, we anticipate a price
decline to 3.40 euros.”  The new version of the emergency fix is likely to win
majority support in the Parliament, lawmakers Chris Davies of
the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and Peter
Liese of the European People’s Party said on June 25.  Split on Backloading  While the EPP, the biggest group in the assembly, is split
on backloading, several lawmakers who were against the proposal
in the first plenary vote changed their minds, according to
Liese. At the group’s internal meeting yesterday in Strasbourg,
members voted 79 to 27 to reject the compromise version of
backloading during today’s vote, EPP lead lawmaker on the
measure Eija-Riitta Korhola said.  A decision in favor of backloading today would authorize
Groote to start talks with representatives of national
governments on the final wording of the legislation. The outcome
of the talks will need official approval by the parliament and
EU ministers.  In the second stage of the regulatory process, member
states will decide on the details of backloading in a separate
regulation, which will set the amount of allowances to be
postponed and the schedule of auction delays. The measure will
then become subject to a three-month scrutiny.  Withholding Permits  The EU is unlikely to start withholding first permits
before mid-2014, later than the originally planned 2013,
according to Itamar Orlandi, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in London. Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard first
floated the idea of backloading as a stopgap fix before a deeper
overhaul of the cap-and-trade program in April 2012, when the
price of permits was almost 8 euros.  Member states may decide about their position by “early
fall,” according to Arunas Vinciunas, Lithuania’s Deputy
Permanent Representative to the EU. His country holds the bloc’s
rotating presidency in the second half of this year. While most
EU countries favor backloading, they are short of the qualified
majority needed to approve the proposal because several nations,
including  Germany , remain undecided.  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said in May she hoped Germany would be able to tackle the plan
soon after elections on Sept. 22.  “We think the current backloading plan, which is already a
compromise on a compromise, will not have any meaningful impact
on CO2 prices,” Patrick Hummel, an analyst at UBS, said in a
research note on July 1. “If at all, there is risk of a
temporary moderate liquidity squeeze in the years 2014-15.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  