-- Ex-FBI Chief Freeh to Head BP Settlement Program Probe
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-07-02T22:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/ex-fbi-chief-freeh-to-head-bp-settlement-program-probe.html
Former FBI Director Louis Freeh will
head an ethics probe of the organization that’s processing and
paying oil-spill damage claims for  BP Plc. (BP/)   Freeh, a former federal judge, will conduct an external
investigation to supplement an internal probe already under way
of a staff attorney at the Deepwater Horizon Court Supervised
Settlement Program. The attorney was suspended after being
accused of accepting fees from law firms while processing their
clients’ claims from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  “The court has concluded that in order to ensure the
integrity of the program for the benefit of the parties and the
public, an independent, external investigation of this matter
should be performed,” U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New
Orleans said in an order today.  Freeh will also conduct “fact finding as to any other
possible ethical violations or other misconduct” within the
claims-settlement program, Barbier said. He’ll evaluate the
organization’s internal compliance program and “anti-corruption
controls” and recommend improvements.  London-based BP has been pressing Barbier for an
independent ethics probe “to get to the bottom of this
troubling allegation of unethical and potentially criminal
behavior within the claims facility,” Geoff Morrell, a BP
spokesman, said in a June 21 statement. Morrell applauded the
appointment in an e-mail message today.  ‘Isolated Incident’  “We welcome Mr. Freeh’s appointment, and are confident
that any impropriety, if confirmed, will prove to be an isolated
incident,” Stephen Herman and James Roy, co-lead counsels for
spill victims, said in an e-mail today. Freeh was appointed
with the consent of plaintiffs’ attorneys as well as BP, they
said.  The company has asked Barbier for a comprehensive public
audit of the organization, which as of June 10 has paid
$2.44 billion in compensation to victims injured by the more
than 4 million barrels of crude that gushed from BP’s blown-out
well off the coast of Louisiana in 2010. The judge has not acted
on that request.  BP is battling Patrick Juneau, the head of the Deepwater
Horizon claims facility, over what the company has said are
Juneau’s misinterpretation of settlement terms, which has
resulted in the payment of hundreds of millions of dollars in
claims for “fictitious” losses.  Barbier has three times rejected BP’s request to force
Juneau to adopt the interpretation the company prefers. A U.S.
appeals court is scheduled to hear arguments in the dispute on
July 8.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  