-- Ex-Tiffany Executive Charged in $1.3 Million Jewel Theft
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-02T16:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/ex-tiffany-executive-charged-in-1-3-million-jewel-theft.html
A former  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  executive was
charged with stealing jewelry from the company and selling it
for $1.3 million.  Ingrid Lederhaas-Okun, 46, a former Tiffany vice president,
was arrested today at her home in Darien,  Connecticut , and
charged with wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen
property, according to a statement from the office of U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan .  Prosecutors claim that from January 2011 to February 2013,
Lederhaas-Okun checked out 165 pieces of jewelry, including
diamond bracelets, platinum and gold earrings and platinum and
diamond pendants, then sold them to an unnamed jewelry reseller
in Manhattan.  In a criminal complaint unsealed today, Elliot McGinnis, a
special agent with the  Federal Bureau of Investigation ,
identified Lederhaas-Okun as a former vice president of product
development at “one of the world’s premier high-end jewelers”
with headquarters in Manhattan. A 2012 Tiffany & Co. regulatory
filing identified Lederhaas-Okun as “Vice President, Product
Development and Design.” Tiffany wasn’t named in the complaint.  Lederhaas-Okun was fired Feb. 13 “as part of an overall
downsizing” at the company, McGinnis said in the criminal
complaint.  Linda Buckley, a Tiffany spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that “it is correct that Ingrid Lederhaas-Okun is a former
Tiffany employee.” She declined to comment on the case.  Lederhaas-Okun will be presented in Manhattan federal court
later today, according to Bharara’s office. The  wire fraud 
charge carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison.  U.S. v. Lederhaas-Okun, 13-mg-01590, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  