-- Excel Maritime Files for Bankruptcy After Voting Extended
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-07-02T16:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/excel-maritime-files-for-bankruptcy-after-voting-extended.html
Excel Maritime Carriers Ltd. (EXMCF) , the
Greek shipping company that operates 38 dry-bulk vessels, filed
for  bankruptcy protection  in the U.S. after extending a voting
deadline on a reorganization plan with senior lenders.  Excel listed assets of $2.7 billion and debt of $1 billion
in a Chapter 11 petition filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in  White Plains ,  New York . A group of senior lenders owed
$771 million -- backed by almost all of the company’s assets --
signed off on a restructuring plan before the filing.  The agreement and the court process “provide for a clear
and expedited path to strengthen our financial profile and
position Excel Maritime for future growth and success,”
Chairman Gabriel Panayotides said in a statement yesterday.  The “prepackaged” reorganization plan, which needs
approval from a bankruptcy judge, calls for $50 million in new
cash and the release of $30 million more that was restricted,
according to yesterday’s statement. The Athens-based company,
which ships commodities including  iron ore , coal and grains,
said the court process won’t affect its suppliers or customers.  Excel’s financial situation was brought on by “macro-economic conditions that have led to volatility and overall
declines in charter rates,” the company said in a statement
issued last month.  Excel’s creditors on June 10 began voting on a plan that
called for secured lenders to take ownership, the company said
in a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
That plan is “substantially similar” to the one linked to the
Chapter 11 filing, the company said yesterday.  Under Water  “Because the company’s senior secured lenders’ claims are
vastly under water, the lenders are entitled to receive almost
all of the value of the reorganized company,” Excel said in the
regulatory filing. Under the deal, the maturity of the company’s
senior secured facility would be extended through 2018.  Excel also owes $150 million on 1.875 percent unsecured
convertible notes, the company said. Holders of the notes and
other unsecured creditors, with claims totaling $163 million,
will get a 3 percent recovery, according to the filing. Their
recovery will come from $5 million held by Excel’s non-bankrupt
joint-venture affiliate, Christine Shipco LLC, Excel said.  The company said its total enterprise value is estimated to
be from $575 million to $625 million.  The case is In re Excel Maritime Carriers Ltd. 13-bk-23060.
U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White
Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  