-- Fed’s Powell Sees Accommodative Policy for ‘Quite Some Time’
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-02T21:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/fed-s-powell-sees-accommodative-policy-for-quite-some-time-.html
Federal Reserve  Governor Jerome Powell, who has never dissented from a policy decision, said
monetary policy will remain accommodative “for quite some
time,” with below-target inflation and unemployment “well
above” the longer-term normal level.  “The case for continued  support  for our economy from
monetary policy remains strong,” Powell said today in the text
of prepared remarks in  New York .  Powell said “our private sector shows real signs of
underlying improvement,” echoing a view expressed earlier today
by New York Fed President William C. Dudley, who said he sees
“persuasive evidence of improved underlying fundamentals for
much of the private sector.” Both central bankers mentioned
stronger automobile and housing demand.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  affirmed
its plan on June 19 to keep buying $85 billion per month in
mortgage-backed securities and Treasuries. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference following the FOMC meeting
that, should the economy continue to improve in line with its
forecast, the Fed could begin trimming its purchases later this
year and end the program altogether in mid-2014.  A “strongly” recovering housing market is a basis “to
hope for the kind of self-reinforcing cycle of economic growth
that we have been waiting to see,” Powell said. “I expect that
inflation will return gradually to our 2 percent objective, and
that we will continue to make progress in reducing
unemployment.”  Stocks Fall  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent today to
1,614.08, while the yield on 10-year Treasury notes slipped 0.01
percentage point to 2.47 percent.  The FOMC reiterated last month that it expects to keep
 interest rates  near zero as long as unemployment is above 6.5
percent and inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent. The Fed has
kept its benchmark borrowing cost near zero since December 2008.  In his speech earlier today, Dudley, the vice chairman of
the FOMC, said economic growth will probably quicken in 2014,
possibly warranting a reduction in the bond-purchasing program.
“The private sector of the economy should continue to heal,
while the amount of fiscal drag will begin to subside,” he said
in a speech in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Powell also said today that “much remains to be done”
before U.S. banking regulators eliminate the perception that
some financial institutions are too big to fail.  Bank Resolution  “I share the view expressed recently by several of my
board colleagues that the work of large bank resolution is not
complete, and that further measures may be necessary,” the Fed
governor said.  The Fed’s board today unanimously approved global rules
known as Basel III requiring lenders to hold bigger cushions
against losses. The U.S. is “very close” to proposing a
leverage ratio of capital to assets for banks that exceeds the 3
percent minimum set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said today. The Fed has
taken a leading role in overhauling regulation since the 2008
credit crisis led to the worst recession since the 1930s.  “The Federal Reserve is considering a requirement that
systemic institutions maintain sufficient long-term debt at the
parent company level to absorb losses and recapitalize operating
subsidiaries in the event of failure,” Powell said. “We expect
to propose such a requirement later this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  