-- Fed’s Dudley Sees Faster Growth in 2014 as Fiscal Drag Wanes
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-07-02T18:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/fed-s-dudley-predicts-faster-growth-in-2014-as-fiscal-drag-wanes.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley, who has supported record stimulus,
said economic growth will probably quicken in 2014, possibly
warranting a reduction in the central bank’s bond purchase
program.  “A strong case can be made that the pace of growth will
pick up notably in 2014,” Dudley, who serves as vice chairman
of the  Federal Open Market Committee  and has never dissented
from a  monetary policy decision , said today in a speech in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “The private sector of the economy should continue to
heal, while the amount of fiscal drag will begin to subside,”
Dudley said in prepared remarks that were similar to a June 27
statement he made in New York.  Policy makers are debating when to dial back accommodation
following comments by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 19 that
the Fed may cut $85 billion in monthly bond buying this year and
halt purchases around mid-2014 if the economy meets central bank
forecasts. Monthly buying of Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities has pushed up Fed assets to a record  $3.48 trillion .  Dudley said in reply to an audience question that he
“wouldn’t want to rule out” asset purchases exceeding the
current monthly level of $85 billion if the  central bank  were to
be “surprised on the downside” by weaker economic data.  The Fed must ensure that the U.S. does not slip into a
prolonged deflationary slump like  Japan ’s, Dudley said in
response to questions at a Business Council of Fairfield County
forum.  ‘Firmly Anchored’  “Inflation expectations are still pretty firmly anchored
consistent with our 2 percent inflation objective and it’s
really important that we keep it that way,” Dudley said. “Our
policy is basically designed to prevent, to reduce to the
absolute minimum amount possible, any risk of a Japanese-style
outcome here in the  United States .”  The New York Fed president repeated his comment last week
that the central bank will probably prolong bond purchases if
the economy turns out weaker than Fed forecasts.  “If labor market conditions and the economy’s growth
momentum were to be less favorable than in the FOMC’s outlook --
and this is what has happened in recent years -- I would expect
that the asset purchases would continue at a higher pace for
longer,” Dudley said again today.  Fed officials’ forecasts for growth are more optimistic
than private economists, projecting growth of 2.3 percent to 2.6
percent this year and 3 percent to 3.5 percent next year,
according to their June 19 forecasts. By contrast, economists in
a Bloomberg survey see 1.9 percent growth this year and 2.7
percent growth in 2014.  Reduce Buying  Speculation an improving economy may prompt the Fed to pare
bond buying sooner than expected has roiled global markets. The
yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury climbed last week to a
22-month high of 2.66 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slipped as much as 4.8 percent in four days after the meeting,
while shares in developing nations lost 7.4 percent.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury climbed at 1:44 p.m. to
2.49 percent from 2.48 percent yesterday in New York, while the
 S&P 500  was little changed at 1,614.71.  Fed officials have said since starting a third round of
quantitative easing in September that they’ll continue purchases
until the labor market improves substantially. They’ll see new
data about employment on July 5.  The Labor Department may say payrolls grew by 165,000
workers in June after rising by 175,000 in May, according to the
median forecast of 84 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
report probably will show the jobless rate retreated to  7.5
percent (USURTOT)  in June, matching April’s four-year low, from 7.6
percent a month earlier, according to the survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  