-- Fed Voting to Bring U.S. Capital Rules in Line With Basel
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-02T04:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/fed-voting-to-bring-u-s-capital-rules-in-line-with-basel.html
U.S. banking regulators seeking to
prevent another global financial meltdown are set to impose new
minimums for capital amid predictions that smaller lenders will
get easier terms.  The  Federal Reserve  goes first today with a vote that could
call for banks to maintain loss-absorbing capital equal to at
least 7 percent of risk-weighted assets, in line with
international standards agreed upon by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision .  The global capital accord in 2010 among the 27 countries of
the committee is meant to bolster regulation, supervision and
risk management in the banking system to reduce the chance for a
repeat of the 2008 credit crisis. Smaller lenders have lobbied
for exemptions, saying they didn’t cause markets to seize and
shouldn’t have to bear the same burden.  “Those are the banks that should enjoy the most relief
when these rules are finalized,” said  Jaret Seiberg , a senior
policy analyst at  Washington  Research Group, a unit of
Guggenheim Securities LLC.  Seiberg predicted regulators would ease rules on
calculations tied to risk and the valuation of certain holdings
that could cause volatile swings in capital demands.  After the Fed’s vote, which comes six months after a Jan. 1
deadline set by the Basel committee, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
also must vote on the new standards.  Capital Definition  The rules narrow the definition of what counts as capital,
in line with the revisions from the Basel panel. They also
double the minimum ratio of capital to assets and reclassify
derivatives and mortgage-based securities as more risky than in
previous versions.  Regulators repeatedly have said they are trying to be
responsive to concerns from community banks that take deposits
and make loans in their local areas, which make up more than 90
percent of U.S. lenders,  according to the FDIC.   Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said last year
that they may get longer transition periods and so-called
grandfather clauses to help ease them into compliance. Lobbyists
have said smaller firms have less access to capital and might
have to reduce lending.  Community Concerns  “We have heard -- and regulators have said -- that they
understand the  community bank  concerns and that they are
addressing those concerns,” said James Kendrick, vice president
for capital policy at the  Independent Community Bankers of
America . “We are very hopeful that our cries for help here have
been heard.”  The federal agencies are also working on another rule to
increase leverage minimums -- possibly doubling the 3 percent in
the Basel III rule, people familiar with the discussions have
said -- which Seiberg said could boost overall capital demands
higher than in Basel III.  The leverage minimum compares a bank’s capital to assets,
without making any adjustments for assets that bankers consider
less risky. Some regulators including former FDIC chairman
 Sheila Bair  have been skeptical of risk weightings provided by
bankers in the wake of the 2008 crisis and as formulas become
more complex.  “Why are we spending all this time, money and effort on
Basel III?” Seiberg said. A strict new leverage requirement
could largely negate Basel’s impact, he said.  Some members of Congress are trying to push even higher
capital standards. Under a measure from Senators  Sherrod Brown ,
an Ohio Democrat, and  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, the
handful of banks with more than $500 billion in assets would be
told to maintain a capital ratio as high as 15 percent.  The plan is opposed by lawmakers including  Tim Johnson , the
South Dakota Democrat who leads the Senate Banking Committee,
who said Dodd-Frank Act implementation should be finished before
trying something else.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 