-- Former Champion Kvitova Exits as Bartoli Beats Stephens
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-02T23:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/former-champion-kvitova-exits-as-bartoli-beats-stephens.html
An ace by Kirsten Flipkens eliminated
Petra Kvitova from the quarterfinals of Wimbledon, guaranteeing
a first-time women’s Grand Slam champion at the tournament.  Flipkens, the No. 20 seed from  Belgium , fought back from a
set down to beat the 2011 winner from the Czech Republic 4-6,
6-3, 6-4 on Centre Court at the All England Club yesterday and
reach her first major semifinal.  “Last year, as everybody knows already, I didn’t get into
the qualifying of Wimbledon,” Flipkens, 27, said in a news
conference “I was ranked 262. Today I’m a semifinalist in a
Grand Slam. It’s a dream, more than a dream, coming true.”  The men’s quarterfinals are scheduled for today, including
top seed Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  playing Czech Tomas Berdych
and No. 2  Andy Murray  of Britain facing left-hander  Fernando Verdasco  of  Spain .  Kvitova’s defeat means a new Wimbledon women’s champion and
first-time major winner will be crowned on July 6. Tournament
favorite  Serena Williams  of the U.S., who has 16 Grand Slam
titles, was beaten by Sabine Lisicki in the fourth round two
days ago.  Flipkens, who has had coaching assistance from fellow
Belgian and three-time U.S. champion  Kim Clijsters , will play
her first major semifinal against  Marion Bartoli  tomorrow. The
2007 runner-up from  France  ousted Sloane Stephens, the last
remaining singles player from the U.S., 6-4, 7-5 on Court 1.  Rain Delay  The match between Bartoli and Stephens was delayed for 2
1/2 hours at the end of the first set because of rain. There
were nine breaks of serve in the second set alone, with the
17th-seeded Stephens only winning one point on her serve until
she finally held in the 10th game.  “The grass really suits my game, but it was a tough
battle,” Bartoli said after the match. “I was not serving
well, but returning well in the second set.”  Barely 24 hours after the biggest win of her career,
Lisicki moved into her second Wimbledon semifinal with a 6-3,
6-3 win against Kaia Kanepi of  Estonia . She’ll play Agnieszka Radwanska, who overcame former French Open champion Li Na 7-6
(7-5), 4-6, 6-2, for a place in the final.  “I was ready today,” Lisicki, who fired 23 winners past
Kanepi, said in a news conference. “I knew from past experience
that I needed to make the switch quickly to be ready, and that’s
what I did.”  Lisicki ousted Williams 6-2, 1-6, 6-4 in the previous
round, prompting U.K. media including The Guardian newspaper to
dub her the “Serena Slayer.” The big-serving Lisicki has now
ousted the reigning French Open champion from the London grass
in four of the past five years. Before losing to Lisicki,
Williams of the U.S. had only dropped three matches since an
opening-round defeat at the 2012 French Open.  ‘Great Challenge’  Radwanska said playing Lisicki, whom she has known since
they faced each other in the juniors, is “a great challenge.”  They’ve split the two matches they’ve played.  Lisicki is the first player to follow an upset of one of
the top seeds with another win in this year’s tournament. Sergei
Stakhovsky of Ukraine lost his next match after ousting
defending men’s champion  Roger Federer  in the second round,
while Belgium’s Steve Darcis quit with an injury after he’d
beaten two-time winner  Rafael Nadal  in his opening match.
 Portugal ’s Michelle Larcher de Brito also lost after she beat
former champion  Maria Sharapova  in the second round.  Li of  China  dropped the first set against Radwanska in a
tiebreaker after squandering four set points while serving at
5-4. Television replays showed Li hit an ace that was called
wide on one of the set points.  When told about the ace by reporters afterward, Li threw
her hands up and said: “Why you should tell me now? Wow. Next
time I will challenge it for sure.”  Medical Timeout  After a short rain delay, Radwanska took the initiative as
she raced to a 4-2 lead in the second set by unsettling the
hard-hitting Li with angled shots and slices. Li, the 2011
Roland Garros champion, responded by rushing to the net as she
won the next four games to force a deciding set.  After a medical timeout for treatment on her leg and a
second rain delay, Radwanska broke twice to go up 4-1. At 5-2,
Radwanska wavered, failing to convert seven match points as she
struggled to get a first serve in. She took the eighth one as
she drew an error from Li after a long rally.  “That match was really, really good.” Radwanska told
reporters. “From the first point to the last point it was
really great battle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  