-- Fresenius Falls on Proposed Cut in Medicare Payments
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-02T07:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/fresenius-falls-on-proposed-cut-in-medicare-payments.html
Fresenius Medical Care AG (FME)  fell the
most in more than four years in Frankfurt after the U.S.
government proposed cutting payments to  kidney dialysis  center
operators by 9.4 percent next year.  The shares dropped as much as 10 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since October 2008. The stock was down 9.7
percent at 49.18 euros as of 9:11 a.m.  Much of the $1 billion reduction in payments is the result
of a federal budget-balancing agreement. That deal targeted
overspending on anemia drugs such as  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Epogen and
Aranesp for patients in Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the
elderly and disabled.  The U.S. government will consider phasing in the reduction
over more than one year, the Health and Human Services
Department said yesterday in a  regulatory filing , citing
concerns it may “impact beneficiary access to care.” The
proposal is subject to public comment and may change before
taking effect.  “This is a very dramatic cut,” Robert Sepucha,  Bad
Homburg , Germany-based Fresenius’s senior vice president for
government affairs in the U.S., said by telephone. “We’re
concerned it would push dialysis clinics under the cost of care,
which is not the right thing for Medicare to be doing.”  Medicare profit margins for dialysis payments are 3 percent
to 4 percent this year, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
 estimated  in March. Sepucha said that level is “very thin” and
the proposed cuts would be too aggressive.  Fresenius, the world’s biggest provider of kidney dialysis,
reported a profit margin of 9.6 percent before extraordinary
items in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 414,000 people in the U.S. in 2010 were on dialysis,
a procedure in which waste is periodically removed from the
blood in patients with malfunctioning kidneys. Diabetes and high
 blood pressure  are the most common reasons for  kidney failure .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  