-- GE Opts Against Contesting Risk Tag at Finance Unit
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-02T19:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/ge-opts-against-contesting-risk-tag-at-finance-unit.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance unit
and  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  opted against fighting a
decision by regulators that they pose potential risks to the
economy, clearing the way for stricter oversight.  “We have decided not to appeal or ask for a hearing,”
 Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for the finance unit of
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, said today in a statement.  The Treasury Department’s Financial Stability Oversight
Council on June 3 recommended designating GE Capital, AIG and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  as systemically important financial
institutions, or SIFIs. A 30-day window to appeal the decision
expires tomorrow. Prudential has said it was weighing a
challenge, and a spokesman for the Newark, New Jersey-based
insurer declined to comment today.  AIG repaid a U.S. bailout last year and has said it
understands why the company faces extra scrutiny. The Dodd-Frank
act increased supervision of the largest U.S. lenders and allows
the council to designate non-bank firms for extra oversight.  “AIG welcomes supervision by the  Federal Reserve , and is
already working closely with the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York as our regulator,” Jon Diat, a spokesman for the insurer,
said in an e-mail.  GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has been
shrinking the finance division since access to credit evaporated
after the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
jeopardizing the entire company. He has pared investments in
real estate and foreign financial institutions. The company has
said since at least 2010 it could face SIFI status.  “We have strong capital and liquidity positions and we are
already supervised by the Fed,” Wilkerson wrote. “We have been
and will be prepared to meet the requirements for SIFIs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  