-- German Notes Rise Sixth Day on ECB Outlook; Portugal Bonds Fall
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-07-02T16:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/german-bonds-little-changed-before-euro-area-producer-price-data.html
Germany ’s five-year notes rose for a
sixth day on speculation the  European Central Bank  will maintain
a pledge to keep monetary policy accommodative when it announces
its next interest-rate decision in two days.  Austrian and Belgian shorter-dated debt also outperformed
longer maturities after Market News International reported the
ECB was considering providing forward guidance on its policy,
citing people it didn’t identify.  Portugal ’s bonds fell as the
government said it would replace its finance minister. European
bonds slumped last month after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers may reduce debt purchases this year.
Germany will sell five-year securities tomorrow.  “People expect the ECB to be dovish at a meeting this week
to counter the impact of the Fed’s comments on bond yields,”
said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior interest-rate strategist at
ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “That is likely to benefit shorter-dated bonds more than longer-dated securities.”  Germany’s five-year yield dropped three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 0.70 percent at 5 p.m. London time
after climbing to 0.93 percent on June 24, the highest level
since March 2012. The 0.25 percent security maturing in April
2018 rose 0.125, or 1.25 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,302) face
amount, to 97.905.  Austrian  five-year yields  fell two basis points to 0.94
percent and  Belgium ’s declined two basis points to 1.40 percent.  ‘Market Friendly’  The ECB will keep its  main refinancing rate  at a record-low
0.5 percent at its meeting on Thursday, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  “People are expecting a market-friendly message from the
ECB which will reassure investors, and they’re just getting in
ahead of that,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at
Bank of America Corp. in London. “It makes sense for shorter-dated yields to come back down.”  European  government securities  also advanced after a report
showed producer prices declined in May, signaling inflation
remains in check in the 17-nation region.  Euro-area  factory-gate prices  fell 0.1 percent in the 12
months through May after a 0.2 percent annual decrease in April,
the European Union’s statistics office said. Analysts had
projected that prices would be unchanged, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  German Sale  German five-year notes rose even though the government is
scheduled to sell 4 billion euros of the securities tomorrow.  Germany last sold five-year debt on June 5 at an average
yield of 0.54 percent. A sale at the current secondary market
rate would have the  highest auction yield  since April 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  extra yield  on 10-year bunds over five-year notes
increased one basis point to 101 basis points, the widest level
since June 4.  Austria sold 1.65 billion euros of bonds maturing in 2018
and 2034 today.  Investors should buy the 2034 Austrian securities and sell
2.5 percent Dutch bond maturing in 2033, Pooja Kumra, a
strategist at Nomura International Plc in  London , wrote in a
note yesterday. Recent declines may have gone too far as any
exit by the ECB from accommodative monetary policy is still some
way away, Kumra wrote.  Portuguese Bonds  Portugal’s  10-year bonds  dropped for the first time in five
days as the government said Secretary of State for Treasury
Maria Luis  Albuquerque  would replace Vitor Gaspar as Finance
Minister.  The securities extended declines after Foreign Minister
Paulo Portas, who leads a smaller party in the government
coalition, resigned in protest at the appointment of the new
finance minister.  Portugal’s 10-year yield climbed 33 basis points to 6.72
percent after dropping to 6.35 percent yesterday, the lowest
level since June 20.  Finland sold 250 million pounds ($379 million) of sterling-denominated bonds due in December 2017 through banks today, and
Luxembourg sold 2 billion euros of 10-year bonds also via banks,
according to people familiar with the sales who asked not to be
identified because they’re not authorized to speak about them.  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest among euro-region markets today, followed by those of Ireland and  Italy ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps. Swedish
securities were the most volatile among all developed markets,
the indexes showed.  German securities handed investors a loss of 1.6 percent
this year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Austrian bonds fell 1 percent, while Portuguese
securities returned 3.9 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  