-- Getco Newly Public in Knight Cuts High-Frequency Focus, CEO Says
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-07-02T19:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/getco-newly-public-in-knight-cuts-high-frequency-focus-ceo-says.html
Getco LLC, publicly traded for the
first time as KCG Holdings Inc. after acquiring  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG) , will see its focus on high-frequency trading reduced
by the merger, according to the chief executive officer.  The Chicago-based firm is evolving into a technology
provider focused on cutting execution costs for 650 broker-dealer and 2,000 institutional clients, rather than proprietary
trading,  Daniel Coleman  said in an interview with  Erik Schatzker 
and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  “What people should look at is what we’re putting
together, not what we had,” he said.  “We’ve been investing in
new businesses, building out new products, trying to get closer
to clients, and in fact these investments make the Knight merger
that much more attractive. Yes, we were involved in HFT, but for
the new firm it’s really not what we’re about.”  Knight Capital  agreed in December to be purchased by Getco
in a $1.4 billion deal, ending a four-month saga in which it
nearly went bankrupt. Closely held Getco, founded in 1999, was
among six financial firms that bailed out Knight Capital in
August, after a software malfunction caused more than $450
million in trading losses.  The acquisition ended the 17-year independence of  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based Knight, a company propelled by the
explosion in electronic  trading  in American stock markets. While
joining with Getco preserves Knight’s listing and expands its
reach, both companies are contending with U.S. stock trading
that has contracted for three straight years.  KCG Shares  “There’s enough unexplained about the merger that I think
it’s wait and see for a little while,”  Richard Repetto , analyst
at Sandler O’Neill, said in a July 2 telephone interview. He has
a hold rating on the company. In when-issued trading today, KCG
Holdings shares jumped 17 percent to $12.62, a price that
reflects a 1-for-3 reverse split of Knight’s old stock.  Knight reported a $9.4 million loss in the first quarter as
revenue from continuing operations declined 5.7 percent. Getco’s
pretax earnings last year were $26.4 million compared to $193.5
million in 2011. Revenue fell 40% to $551.5 million.  Getco had two main units, according to a  May 13 filing  that
outlined the merger. It makes markets in about 6,000 securities
on more than 50 exchanges and other venues worldwide, using
automated models to capture profits from spreads between prices
where stocks are bought and sold. In its execution services
division, Getco collects fees for the use of algorithms and
order routing systems, and operates a venue known as GETMatched
where U.S. and European stocks and bonds trade.  Execution Services  Knight also has market making and execution services  units .
In contrast to Getco’s proprietary models, Knight operates a
more “customer-centric” business, providing liquidity to
brokerages with retail clients, according to the filing. Based
on publicly available data for the first quarter, the combined
company had a 16 percent market share in exchange-traded U.S.
cash equities and 4 percent in  Europe , the filing said.  “Our merger’s very different to many mergers,” Coleman
said. “A lot of mergers in the financial sector will have two
people covering a client and you have to decide which person
will we keep to cover this client. Getco didn’t have a lot of
people covering clients. Knight has a tremendous distribution
force. We think we have some really good products, we think
Knight has good products, bring them together and we think we
can add value immediately.”  The new company will have roughly 1,400 employees, based on
estimates it provided in regulatory filings. It will be the
largest designated market maker on the  New York  Stock Exchange
and NYSE MKT exchange and the biggest trader in Russell 2000
stocks, according to a company report.  Low Point  Getco and Knight may have seen the natural low point in the
equities cycle, which should improve in the next year or two,
 Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of the Tabb Group in New
York, said in a phone interview. Volatility and volume have
picked up in the past month, and as the economy improves, flows
into stocks should increase, he said. All these trends should
help the new company.  “I think that if they can execute on what they need to
execute -- reduce the cost of their infrastructure, not upset
their retail or institutional clients and successfully merge the
two companies -- I think they have a very positive future,”
said Tabb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  