-- Glencore S. Africa Hiring Workers as Union Demands Reinstatement
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-02T11:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/glencore-s-africa-hiring-workers-as-union-demands-reinstatement.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  expects to
appoint new employees “shortly” at its South African chrome-mine operations as the union whose members were fired for taking
part in a strike demands their reinstatement.  “They won’t reapply for their jobs,” Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union President Joseph Mathunjwa
said in a phone interview. “Why should they be dismissed for
fighting racism at the workplace?”  The world’s fourth-largest mining company, which laid off
about 1,000 workers after wildcat strikes in May at the Helena
mine in Mpumalanga province spread to its Thorncliffe and
Magareng sites, has received more than 38,000 applications for
the available positions, according to Christopher Tsatsawane, a
spokesman for the company. About 1,500 in total were employed at
the three sites before the firings.  Miners downed tools after a member of the AMCU accused a
shift supervisor of assault. About 200 of the fired workers
delivered demands calling for an end to alleged racist practices
and their reinstatement to Glencore Xstrata June 28 at the
company’s offices in Johannesburg.  “The dismissed employees will not be reinstated, they have
been advised to apply for the vacant positions as advertised,”
Tsatsawane said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The
process of appointing new employees has not been finalized but
will be completed shortly.”  Glencore Xstrata had extended a deadline through July 1 for
fired workers to reapply for their jobs, the company said in a
letter to the AMCU, a copy of which was e-mailed to Bloomberg.  South African workers may strike with their jobs protected
as long as an independent mediator agrees to the stoppage and
talks between unions and companies have failed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net  