-- GM, Honda Set Fuel Cell Alliance in Renewed Hydrogen Push
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-07-02T23:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/gm-honda-set-fuel-cell-alliance-in-renewed-hydrogen-push.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Honda (7267)  Motor
Co. are teaming up in a renewed push to market clean vehicles,
with the two automotive giants seeking to have cheaper power-making fuel cells and hydrogen tanks ready by 2020.  The partnership between the largest U.S. automaker and
Tokyo-based Honda is to include exchanging engineers, joint use
of research facilities and shared sourcing of parts and
materials, they said yesterday. The goal is a common hydrogen
powertrain to make the low-polluting vehicles more affordable,
they said, without providing details about prices or investment.  “We’re talking about a complete sharing of all of our
respective intellectual properties on the subject,” Steve Girsky, GM’s vice chairman, said at a  New York  press conference.
“The cost of such technology has not come down as far as it
must to become more commercially viable.”  The allure of hydrogen as a clean automotive fuel led
carmakers including the former General Motors Corp. to predict a
decade ago that millions of fuel-cell autos would be on the road
by now. While a mass market for hydrogen cars may be another
decade or more away, automakers continue to pursue the
technology.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which had a hydrogen-technology
alliance with GM in the early 2000s, plans to release a fuel-cell sedan in 2015 that will be unveiled in November. Honda,
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz also plan
retail sales of hydrogen cars in 2015, and Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG has said it plans to use Toyota’s fuel-cell system.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Daimler and Nissan Motor Co. also announced
plans in January to collaborate on hydrogen-vehicle research to
introduce fuel-cell autos by 2017.  ‘Definitive Advantage’  Environmental rules in the U.S., Europe and  Japan  encourage
automakers to sell vehicles that don’t emit climate-warming
gases. That has aided hybrid sales, led to lighter cars and
smaller engines, and convinced  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and Nissan to
push high-volume sales of battery cars.  “Among all zero-CO2 emission technologies, fuel-cell
electric vehicles have a definitive advantage with range and
refueling time that is as good as conventional gasoline cars,”
Honda President Takanobu Ito said in a statement.  GM and Honda also said they’ll jointly lobby for an
expanded network of hydrogen fuel stations, now clustered in the
U.S. in  California .  Battery-electric cars such as Tesla’s Model S and  Nissan (7201) ’s
Leaf hatchback share technologies with fuel-cell cars, including
similar electric motors to power the wheels, brakes that capture
power when stopping, software and related electronics.  Electricity Source  The difference is the electricity source. Battery cars
store it in large lithium-ion packs -- Tesla’s weigh 1,000
pounds (454 kilograms). Fuel cells generate it in an electro-chemical reaction of hydrogen and air.  In a fuel cell, hydrogen gas passes through a stack of
plastic membranes and metal plates -- like syrup soaking a tower
of platinum-dusted pancakes -- to produce electricity.  Because of the precious metals needed, fuel-cell stacks
remain expensive, as do high-pressure hydrogen tanks. Prototypes
have cost $1 million to make.  Toyota’s hydrogen fuel-cell sedan will be “price
competitive” with Tesla’s $69,900 Model S,’’ Chris Hostetter,
U.S. group vice president for advanced product development, said
in an interview last month, without elaborating.  Tetsuo Iwamura, Honda’s executive vice president, said
yesterday a more advanced version of the FCX Clarity fuel cell
sedan it leases only in California will be sold in 2015, without
elaborating.  Supportive Tone  The industry push for hydrogen coincides with a more
supportive tone from federal regulators, who advocated policies
favoring battery-powered cars and production of lithium-ion
batteries during President  Barack Obama ’s first term.  The Energy Department initiated  H2USA , a public-private
partnership aimed at opening hydrogen stations, in May. Toyota,
Hyundai, Honda, Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz, GM and Nissan have
joined that effort.  California, the primary U.S. market for fuel-cell vehicles,
is expanding its station network.  The California Energy Commission awarded $18.7 million on
June 12 to open as many as seven new hydrogen stations in the
state, which now has just nine. About a dozen more are also in
development, and the state’s goal is to have at least 68 public
hydrogen stations by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  