-- Goldman Sachs Names Hitchner as Asia Head, Replacing Ryan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-07-02T08:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/goldman-sachs-names-hitchner-as-asia-president-replacing-ryan.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the top
underwriter of share sales in  Asia  excluding  Japan  this year,
said Ken Hitchner will become president for the region after
 David Ryan  retires later this year.  Hitchner, who currently runs health-care banking and is co-head of the technology, media and telecommunications group, will
be based in Hong Kong, New York-based Goldman Sachs said in an
e-mailed statement. Ryan, 43, will become a senior director, the
bank said, without providing a reason for his retirement after
two years in the role.  The Wall Street firm, which this year ceded its position as
the top mergers adviser for Asia excluding Japan, hired Kate Richdale from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in March to strengthen investment
banking services. Hitchner will also work with  Mark Schwartz ,
who rejoined the firm last year as chairman of the Asia-Pacific
business, and Masa Mochida, who oversees Japan.  “Goldman Sachs has been pretty good at regularly rotating
people through the top positions,” said Philippe Espinasse, a
Hong Kong-based former equity capital markets banker at UBS AG
and Nomura Holdings Inc. Hiring someone with mergers experience,
“is probably a function of the maturity of the Asian market
now.”  Navy Pilot  Revenue for Goldman Sachs in Asia climbed 16 percent to
$5.39 billion last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hitchner, a 53-year-old former U.S. Navy pilot, has been
with Goldman Sachs since 1991. As a banker in the health-care
industry for more than 15 years, he has advised clients
including  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  on its $19.7 billion takeover of
Synthes Inc. in 2012. He will oversee the day-to-day operations
of Asia-Pacific businesses, excluding Japan, the bank said.  Goldman Sachs is the top-ranked adviser for equity and
equity-linked offerings in Asia, excluding Japan, this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from No. 5
last year, the data show. The bank slipped to fourth in Asian
M&A advisory this year, excluding Japan, after having held the
top spot for the past two years, the data show.  Ryan, a former head of the Asian financing group, was named
co-president of the bank’s Asian operations in 2011, along with
Yusuf Alireza, who has since left the firm. During his tenure,
the bank exited its seven-year investment in  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd ., the world’s largest lender by
market value. He has been with the firm since 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  