-- Gouging Windshield Wipers Start Safety Push Led by Honda
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-07-02T02:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/gouging-windshield-wipers-start-safety-push-led-by-honda.html
Occupants of a car are protected by
seat belts, airbags and dashboards devoid of sharp objects. A
pedestrian’s only defense generally is to get out of the way.  More than 4,000 people are killed and 70,000 injured each
year in the U.S. when hit by cars. Typically they’re struck in
the legs and thrown onto the hood. Their bodies slide until
their heads smash into the windshield-wiper arms, the
windshields or both.  With U.S. regulators considering rules or incentives to
make pedestrian accidents more survivable,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and
Volvo Cars have led automakers making design changes that bring
safety advances to the outside of vehicles.  They include breakaway wipers, hoods with space between
them and engines to absorb impact energy, and exterior airbags
designed to keep a pedestrian’s head from hitting the
windshield.  “A pedestrian that’s hit by a car, it doesn’t have to be a
death sentence,” said Jacqueline Gillan, president of Advocates
for Highway and Auto Safety.  The number of pedestrians  killed  in U.S. traffic crashes
declined from 4,892 in 2005 to 4,109 in 2009 before rising again
to 4,432 in 2011, the most recent year available from the
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration . Fourteen percent
of people killed in crashes that year were pedestrians.  In  Japan , pedestrian deaths are about a third of traffic
fatalities. That led Honda, based in  Tokyo , to make design
changes to vehicles that it has brought to the U.S., said Doug
Longhitano, a U.S.-based Honda safety research manager.  Fenders, Wipers  Fenders on Honda or Acura models sold in the U.S. are
offset from the frame, as are hoods from engines, to provide
some limited cushion if a pedestrian is hit. Windshield wipers
are designed to break away so they don’t gouge or gore a person
on impact, Longhitano said.  Those design changes have been standard on Honda and Acura
vehicles sold in the U.S. since 2008.  Volvo, the Swedish carmaker owned by  China ’s Zhejiang Geely
Holding Group Co., introduced the windshield  airbag  as standard
equipment on its V40, which isn’t available in the U.S., for the
2013 model year, said Laura Venezia, a U.S.-based spokeswoman.  General Motors Co. (GM)  designs include space between the hood
and engine to provide a buffer, said Heather Rosenker, a
spokeswoman for the Detroit-based company.  Global Standards  Auto regulators are working on global pedestrian safety
standards that could be adopted into a U.S. regulation, NHTSA
Administrator  David Strickland  said in an interview yesterday,
declining to give a timeline.  “It’s a two-step process, but traditionally speaking,
those global technical regulations are very close to what will
ultimately result in a final regulation here in the  United
States ,” he said.  If regulators include pedestrian safety in their safety-rating system, they could choose to give an incentive to
vehicles that perform well in crash tests or that include
particular technologies or designs, Strickland said.  While they may also save lives of bicyclists, the studies
and automaker design changes are specific to collisions with
pedestrians.  Europe first set pedestrian-protection requirements in
2003. Last December, it added more stringent requirements for
how vehicles perform in pedestrian crash tests for the bumper,
hood and its edge and windshield.  The European Union has even stricter performance
requirements set to take effect in 2015.  Japanese automakers changed hood designs to comply with
required tests in that country for pedestrian head injury.  Rules, Incentives  In the U.S., most research and government work has focused
on preventing car-pedestrian crashes, rather than lessening
their severity.  In January, NHTSA proposed a rule requiring electric and
hybrid-electric cars to emit sounds to warn and protect
bicyclists and pedestrians, particularly the visually impaired.  NHTSA  said  in April that it might evaluate pedestrian
protection in the next revision to its five-star safety rating
system, known as the New Car Assessment Program, or NCAP. Car
buyers consult the agency’s ratings, which help influence
vehicle purchases.  Encouraging pedestrian-related design changes by offering
higher safety ratings, instead of requiring them, would be the
same approach NHTSA is using to induce automakers to install
backup cameras throughout their fleets.  ‘Really Complex’  Even that approach would be too much for the Alliance of
Automotive Manufacturers, a trade group whose members include
American, Japanese and European automakers. Honda isn’t a
member.  “This is a really complex issue, and we believe it’s best
to address this through a universal, worldwide regulation before
we consider adding this to NCAP,” said  Wade Newton , a spokesman
for the Washington-based group.  Customers don’t have much motivation to pay for pedestrian
protection if it’s sold as an option, said Jessica Caldwell, an
analyst with auto-researcher Edmunds.com in  Santa Monica ,
 California .  “People are reluctant to pay for safety features that
would benefit them or the other people inside the car,” she
said. “I don’t think the willingness necessarily is there.
Perhaps if it’s packaged with other safety features more
tangible with the consumer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  