-- TGS Climbs as Platou Says Drop Is Buying Opportunity: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-07-02T10:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/tgs-climbs-as-platou-says-drop-is-buying-opportunity-oslo-mover.html
TGS Nopec Geophysical ASA (TGS)  climbed the
most in three months in Oslo trading as RS Platou Markets AS
advised investors to buy shares in  Norway ’s largest surveyor of
underwater oil and gas fields after recent declines.  TGS, based in Asker near Oslo, gained as much as 3.5
percent, the  most since April 2 , and traded 3 percent higher at
182.2 kroner as of 12:55 p.m. That makes TGS the biggest gainer
on the Oslo stock exchange’s OBX index today.  TGS, scheduled to release its second quarter results on
Aug. 1, will report “strong late sales, partly offset by below
year-average investment levels and pre-funding,” RS Platou
analyst Goeran Andreassen said in an e-mail today. “We expect
TGS to reiterate its full year guidance and consider the recent
share price correction a buying opportunity.”  Shares in seismic surveyors, which use ships to search for
petroleum reserves under the seabed, have rallied since mid-2010
as oil producers operating off  Africa , Norway and  South America 
increased spending on exploration. Those gains are now at risk
as  oil prices  fail to top $100 a barrel, squeezing profits.  Shares in TGS and  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS) , Norway’s
second-largest seismic surveyor, have slumped more than 20
percent since the start of April amid concerns that oil and gas
producers may cut exploration spending as energy prices
stagnate.  Licensing Boost  Growth in contract rates for seismic surveying will be 5
percent in 2014, ABG Sundal Collier said on June 5, reducing its
estimate from 10 percent.  TGS will report “strong second quarter late sales of $158
million, partly driven by significant sale uplifts following the
award of licenses” in the 22nd Norwegian licensing round,
Andreassen said. “We reiterate buy, but reduce our target price
to $40 from $45 on a combination of a slight reduction in
estimates and higher  risk premium .”  TGS is expected to report second quarter earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of  $202.7 million ,
according to the average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with $162.9 million in the previous
quarter and $183.1 million a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo on  at
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg on  at
 cwwienberg@bloomberg.net  