-- Liberty Global Said Unlikely to Raise German Cable Offer
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-03T07:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/liberty-said-unlikely-to-counter-vodafone-on-kabel-deutschland.html
Billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty
Global Plc (LBTYA)  is unlikely to raise its offer for  Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG (KD8)  after  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  agreed to buy the German
cable company, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Liberty, which made a preliminary offer for  Kabel
Deutschland  last month, recognizes its bid would face antitrust
obstacles and considers Vodafone’s offer expensive, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. The company hasn’t made a final decision, they said.  Vodafone announced June 24 that it planned to buy Kabel
Deutschland after increasing its bid for Germany’s largest cable
company to 87 euros a share, or 7.7 billion euros ($10.1
billion). Liberty, whose offer a week earlier was said to be
valued at 85 euros a share, hasn’t been in touch with Kabel
Deutschland executives since the agreement with Vodafone, said
another person familiar with the matter.  Liberty already owns  Germany ’s no. 2 cable operator after
combining Unitymedia and Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH last
year, making antitrust approval difficult, the people said.
While Vodafone’s offer is all-cash, Liberty proposed a complex
structure that involved injecting Malone’s existing cable assets
into Kabel Deutschland, people familiar with the matter said
earlier.  Kabel’s board is set to recommend the offer from the U.K.
company, in what would be the second-biggest takeover of a
telecommunications network in  Europe  this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slimming Odds  Mobile operators are looking to acquire fixed-line assets
as smartphone adoption slows and heavy regulation restrains
wireless profits. Last year Vodafone agreed to buy the U.K.’s
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc to cope with surging data traffic
on its own network in its home country.  Marcus Smith, a spokesman for London-based Liberty, and
Insa Calsow, a spokeswoman for Kabel Deutschland, based near
Munich, declined to comment.  “The odds of Liberty success seem slimmer and slimmer,”
 Robin Bienenstock , an analyst with Sanford C Bernstein in
London, said in a July 1 note. German regulators would probably
subject the deal to a heavy review and Kabel Deutschland’s board
has welcomed the Vodafone bid, she said.  Vodafone’s 87-euro offer is 37 percent more than Kabel
Deutschland’s  closing price  on Feb. 12, the day before
Vodafone’s interest was initially reported. Liberty considers
that a high price based on earnings multiples, the people said.  Kabel Deutschland shares fell 0.2 percent in Frankfurt to
83.87 euros today. Liberty increased almost 1.7 percent to
$75.65 at yesterday’s close in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  