-- Ibovespa Sinks as Nomura Says Brazil May Be Headed for Recession
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-02T19:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/ibovespa-futures-slump-as-brazil-manufacturing-expansion-slows.html
The Ibovespa plunged the most since
September 2011 as Brazil’s  industrial production  shrank more
than analysts forecast and Nomura Holdings Inc. said the economy
may sink into recession.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the  oil company 
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , extended a four-day
plunge to 49 percent after Morgan Stanley cut the stock to the
equivalent of sell.  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  plunged to a record low
as homebuilders declined.  The Ibovespa tumbled 4 percent to 45,325.99 at 3:57 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. It was the steepest drop among the world’s 20 biggest
benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg. Brazil may enter a recession in
the last quarter of 2013 as tighter monetary policy in the U.S.
curbs capital flows to Latin America, Nomura’s analysts wrote in
a note to clients today. The real weakened 1 percent to 2.2507
per dollar, the most among 24 emerging currencies.  “Everyone seems to be trying to stay as far as possible
from anything Brazilian, from equities to currency,” Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380 million reais at Sao Paulo-based
Legan Administracao de Recursos, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The Ibovespa slumped into a  bear market  last month and is
down 26 percent this year, the worst performer among 94 global
stock gauges, as concern mounts that surging inflation is
squelching Brazil’s economic expansion.  Industrial Production  A central bank survey yesterday showed that economists’
median estimate for gross domestic product this year fell for an
eighth straight week to 2.4 percent. Industrial production
contracted 2 percent in May from April after rising 1.9 percent
in April, the national statistics agency said today in  Rio de
Janeiro . Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg had expected output to
shrink 1.1 percent in May.  “Industrial production figures were very bad,”  Pedro Galdi , the chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW
Corretora, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “And on top of all
that we have all Eike’s companies plunging, as more and more
people think they’ll go under.”  Rousseff’s administration is trying to revive growth in
Latin America’s biggest economy that slowed for two straight
years to 0.9 percent last year from 7.6 percent in 2010.  Inflation in mid-June climbed to 6.67 percent on an  annual 
basis, prompting monetary policy makers to boost the benchmark
interest rate by 0.75 percentage point this year to 8 percent.
The government has taken additional steps to curb inflation by
intervening in industries ranging from energy to utilities.  Street Protests  A rise in bus fares last month sparked the biggest street
demonstrations in two decades, leaving at least six dead and
hundreds injured. The fare increases were quickly reversed.  The selloff in Brazilian stocks was further fueled by
mounting speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve later this
year will taper its $85 billion in monthly bond buying that has
kept  interest rates  close to zero and pushed investors into
higher-yielding  emerging markets .  OGX slumped 16 percent to 47 centavos. The shares fell 30
percent yesterday after the producer said it may shut its only
producing wells after a technical review and scrapped three
other offshore projects.  Rossi retreated 6 percent to 2.67 reais. All but three
stocks on the 71-member Ibovespa dropped today.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.1 times
analysts’  earnings estimates  for the next four quarters,
compared with 9.9 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21
developing nations’ equities. Trading volume for stocks in Sao
Paulo was 8.97 billion reais on June 28, compared with a daily
average of 7.93 billion reais this year through June 25,
according to data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  