-- Microsoft CEO Said to Give Bates Mergers Role in Revamp
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-07-03T17:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/microsoft-ceo-said-to-give-bates-mergers-role-in-revamp.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer  is considering a reorganization that would
put Skype president Tony Bates in charge of acquisitions and
relationships with software developers, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Ballmer may also give Windows chief Julie Larson-Green
oversight of hardware engineering for the whole company, said
one of the people, who asked not to be named because the plans
are private. Ballmer is expected to reveal a reorganization as
early as next week that aligns Microsoft’s business units around
devices and services, the people said.  Microsoft, which is struggling to gain share in mobile
phones and tablets, announced a  shift  in strategy last year for
the world’s largest software maker to focus on computing devices
and Internet-based services. Restructuring will concentrate
units under these areas and also separate product engineering
from business functions like marketing and finance, which will
get their own groups.  The restructuring isn’t finalized and Ballmer may still
shuffle roles around up until it’s officially announced, the
people said. Xbox head Don Mattrick had been a contender for the
hardware post before left the company to become CEO of  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA) , a move announced July 1.  Under this scenario, Larson-Green would oversee hardware
engineering for all devices, including Xbox gaming consoles and
Surface tablets, one person said. Windows Phone software chief
Terry Myerson would be given added responsibility for Windows
operating system engineering under a group combining both
businesses, the person said.  Cloud, Enterprise  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment on new positions in the
reorganization.  Satya Nadella, current head of the server business, would
oversee a unit focused on cloud computing and products for
corporate customers, one person said. Qi Lu, chief of the online
group, would run an applications and services engineering unit
comprised of online businesses such as the Bing search engine as
well as Office and Skype engineering, the person said.  Within the broad business functions, Bates would lead
strategy and business development and work to build
relationships with software makers and partners who make
hardware running Microsoft programs, two people said.  Tami Reller, who now leads Windows marketing, would oversee
a marketing unit, one person said. The finance heads for each
unit would report to Amy Hood, Microsoft’s chief financial
officer, this person said. Previously the CFOs in each unit
reported to the head of their respective divisions.  Any staffing changes will also provide clues as to the
executives who may eventually succeed Ballmer.  Microsoft rose less than 1 percent to $34.01 at the close
in  New York . The stock has gained 27 percent this year, compared
with a 13 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  