-- Highest-Grossing U.K. Law Firms’ Profit Stagnates as Deals Fall
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-07-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/highest-grossing-u-k-law-firms-profit-stagnates-as-deals-fall.html
Four of the highest-grossing U.K. law
firms will probably say their annual revenue has stagnated as
they deal with a legal market where one lawyer said there isn’t
“a lot going on.”  Clifford Chance  LLP, Linklaters LLP,  Allen & Overy  LLP and
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP -- four of the five London-based firms known as the Magic Circle -- will report as soon as
this week that revenue has grown only slightly since the prior
year, two law firm advisers said. With revenue of more than 1
billion pounds ($1.5 billion), they are four of the largest in
the world.  “When you’re a billion-pound business you have to put a
lot of coal in the furnace every day,” Tony Williams, the
founder of Jomati Consultants LLP, said in a telephone
interview. “You’ve got a market where there’s not a hell of a
lot going on.”  The firms have been relying more heavily on fees from
litigation and regulatory advice as restructuring, deal work and
advice in  emerging markets  slowed. The value of global deals
shrank by 20 percent during the year that ended April 30
compared to the prior year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Williams, who was previously the managing partner of
London-based Clifford Chance, predicted that earnings at the
four firms will remain close to flat. Revenue at the U.K.’s 10
largest law firms increased by 1.5 percent in the year that
ended April 30, 2013, according to the accounting firm Deloitte
LLP, which doesn’t do a separate breakdown for the five firms.  Cost Pressure  Hiring across the group increased by just over 0.5 percent
in the same period, according to the accounting firm, which
publishes a quarterly survey on the legal sector, without naming
individual firm results.  “Firms are a lot more focused on running the business in
as an efficient a way as possible,” Jeremy Black, a partner at
Deloitte, said in a phone interview. “They are much more active
in managing their headcount. There is a cost pressure.”  In a sign of an improving outlook, three of the five law
firms raised pay for junior lawyers this year. The five firms
cut or froze pay over several years as the deal work slowed down
during the financial crisis.  “Profit has stagnated, but I think that’s where we are in
the economy,” Williams said. “I’m more optimistic for the
second half of the financial year. I think we’ll look back at
2013 as the start of the recovery.”  Pre-Lehman  Clifford Chance was the highest-grossing  law firm  of the
group in the year that ended April 2012, with 1.3 billion pounds
in revenue, a 7 percent increase. Linklaters was second with 1.2
billion pounds in earnings, Allen & Overy third with 1.18
billion pounds, and Freshfields said its revenue was 1.13
billion pounds.  DLA Piper LLP is the largest law firm in the world by
revenue with $2.4 billion in 2012, according to the American
Lawyer, a trade publication.  “It may be some time or a very long time before things get
back to where they were pre-Lehman,” Black said, referring to
the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, which
roiled financial markets around the world. Top law firms
benefitted from advising on a boom in mergers and acquisitions
prior to the bank’s collapse, and on bankruptcy and
restructuring work afterward.  “All of the people at the firms are having to work harder
to stand still,” Black said. “Their results aren’t stellar but
they’re still managing to increase profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  