-- In China, Visit Granny or You Might Get Sued
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-07-02T22:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/in-china-visit-granny-or-you-might-get-sued.html
What are elderly parents to do when
their children no longer bother to visit? In  China , there’s a
new answer: sue the kids.  That’s what 77-year-old “ Granny Chu ,” of Wuxi, China,  did
in April . On Monday, a court heard her case against her
allegedly neglectful daughter and son-in-law, and quickly issued
a verdict: an order that the daughter and son-in-law visit on a
bimonthly basis, as well as during important holidays.  The timing was impeccable: Also on Monday, China’s long
awaited revision to its “ Law to Protect the Elderly ” was
enacted, along with a controversial new provision requiring
adult children to visit their parents “often.” The court wasted
no time in citing the law as the basis for its decision.  Granny Chu’s is a tale worthy of a  guilt-ridden Woody Allen
comedy , except that the verdict -- and the law that enabled it -
- are designed to address a serious problem in contemporary
China: How to financially and “spiritually” (in the words of the
new legislation) support an aging population. Of course, major
problems meeting the pension and health-care needs of a rapidly
aging population are certainly  not unique to China .  But the scale of the looming problem in China makes the
pension shortfalls in the U.S. and Europe Union seem trivial. In
2012, Zhu Yong, deputy director of the Chinese government’s
National Committee on Aging,  told a Beijing conference on
pension reform  that in 2013 the number of Chinese over age 60
would exceed 200 million; it would peak in 2050 at 483 million.  In China’s traditional agrarian culture, those aging
relatives would live with, and be supported by, their children.
But the country’s modernizing economy means children are moving
far from their parents to work. Moreover,  thanks in large part
to population-control policies , Zhu estimates that China’s
workforce will shrink to 713 million by 2050, down 24.2 percent
from 2011, leaving fewer children to support aging parents. This
demographic crunch is creating something relatively new in
China: empty-nesters.  In other words, the number of households containing parents
whose adult children have moved out is growing. According to
data gathered by the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , in 2011
 empty nests accounted  for 49.7 percent of urban households and
38.7 percent of rural households. This number will increase as
China’s population ages, reaching more than 54 percent of all
elderly households in 2050,  says  Zhu Yong.  China is woefully under-prepared for this shift. In
February, the independent  Economic Observer newspaper reported ,
in an article quoting Yan Qingchun, deputy director of China’s
National Committee on Aging, that there are only 300,000
caregivers for the elderly in China, and less than 100,000 have
“obtained professional qualifications;” of China’s 30,000 rural
retirement homes, only 11,000 are “registered and legal.”  In large part, these are the alarming facts that led to the
Law to Protect the Elderly. Much of the legislation is about
establishing social security and health care for aging
residents. But the actual details of these programs are left for
bureaucrats to devise. This isn’t unusual: National Chinese
legislation is typically a set of guidelines, with the fine
points -- including funding mechanisms -- left to those expected
to implement the provisions.  For example,  article 29 of the new law  declares: “The
state shall gradually establish a long-term care insurance
system. Encourage and guide the commercial insurance companies
to undertake the long-term care insurance business. For the
long-term disabled and older persons with financial
difficulties, local governments should provide subsidies
according to need.”  That’s it. And then we move on to article 30.  Of course, creating a state-run long-term care insurance
system is something many developed countries have struggled to
achieve. It is somewhat understandable that the Chinese
government is unwilling -- or unable -- to spell out how
precisely it plans to guide its insurance sector to do the all-but-impossible. Similarly, it’s reasonable that -- lacking a
government program to address the elderly-care issue -- the
government would emphasize the traditional role of family
caregivers.  The problem is, even for Chinese who desperately want to
visit their parents on a regular basis, the burden of doing so
in the  mobile, urbanizing society  that the Chinese government
has engineered, is difficult. “If the parents live in
northeastern China, and their children living in the southeast,
they’re unlikely to go home with any frequency,”  tweeted  a user
in Shaanxi province via Sina Weibo -- China’s most popular
microblogging service -- on Monday. “Can they take several
flights in a week? What if the children live in another
country?” For China’s  hundreds of millions  of low-paid migrant
laborers, the burden is even heavier: For them, travel  tends to
be restricted  to national holidays and unbearably expensive.  Nevertheless, few Chinese would object to the notion that
visiting and caring for one’s parents is a moral imperative.
Reverence for elders remains a cultural obligation. But over the
last three decades, Chinese society has been transformed into
one where modern responsibilities are overwhelming traditional
responsibilities. For many, this is the bittersweet price of
progress, and some microbloggers and newspaper editorialists
have produced poignant commentary on the evolution of Chinese
values. One of the best was published Monday in the Communist
Party-owned  Zhuhai Daily newspaper :  “While applauding the progress the law represents, we feel
a kind of sadness in our hearts. Taking care of one’s parents is
a basic Chinese duty that shouldn’t require legal encouragement.
It’s shameful for children to be encouraged by the law in this
way. The new law should be a wake-up call to visit your parents
before they’re gone, or feel regret.”  The Chinese government is counting on it.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 