-- India Urges Resisting Gold as Curbs Fail to Stem Currency Slump
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-02T06:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/india-urges-resisting-gold-as-curbs-fail-to-stem-currency-slump.html
Indian policy makers are urging
citizens to resist buying gold and boosting scrutiny of
speculative currency trades after import curbs and dollar sales
failed to stem the world’s biggest currency loss.  The rupee fell 4.9 percent last month, the worst
performance among 78 global currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as
the  Federal Reserve  signaled it may pare stimulus measures this
year. The currency plunged to an all-time low of 60.7650 per
dollar on June 26.  Standard Chartered  Plc and Credit Suisse
Group AG predict a decline to around 62 in a year.  Global funds pulled $7.1 billion from Indian stocks and
bonds last month through June 27, leaving the rupee vulnerable
to a record current-account deficit, even as the government
allowed them to buy more sovereign debt. Graft allegations
delayed plans to allow foreign companies to invest more in
 Asia ’s No. 3 economy. Some jewelers plan to stop selling gold
coins and bars after Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
asked the biggest bullion-consuming nation to forego the
“temptation” and help rein in imports that hurt the currency.  “Policy makers have been resorting to persuasive
techniques to stem the rupee’s fall, while much bolder,
reformist, steps need to be taken,”  Manik Narain , a strategist
at UBS AG in  London , said in an e-mail interview on June 26.
“There is a real worry among foreign investors that the
government will implement meaningful reforms only glacially
ahead of elections next year.”  ‘Produce Mandate’  The  Reserve Bank  of  India   said  June 26 overseas funds must
“produce a clear mandate” from thier clients to hedge exposure
to the rupee using derivatives, and banks must verify that
investors hold the underlying local securities. The statement
indicated that the central bank is seeking to check  currency
speculation , according to IndusInd Bank Ltd.  The RBI has also enquired about foreign banks’ open
positions involving the rupee, though the lenders haven’t been
asked to unwind the trades, said two people familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be named as the information isn’t
public.  “The RBI wants to be seen to be doing something,” J. Moses Harding, executive vice president at IndusInd in Mumbai,
said in a June 27 telephone interview. The authority “can do
nothing” about such trades as long as rules are being followed,
he said.  Record Deficit  Finance Minister Chidambaram estimates India needs more
than $75 billion in the fiscal year through March 2014 to
finance its current-account deficit. The shortfall in the
broadest measure of trade widened to a record 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the year ended March 31 from 4.2
percent in the previous period, official data show. The RBI has
said gold imports account for 80 percent of the gap.  The central bank estimates the sustainable level of the
deficit at 2.5 percent of GDP and says the gap is the biggest
risk to India’s  economy , which grew 5 percent in the last fiscal
year, the least in a decade.  Standard & Poor’s  has said weakness
in growth and investment put the nation at risk of losing its
investment-grade  credit rating .  India has raised bullion import tariffs fourfold from
January 2012, prompting the World Gold Council to say June 6
that further increases may boost illegal trade. The central bank
placed restrictions on overseas purchases on a consignment basis
and limited imports for local use against cash only.  ‘Resist Temptation’  Even so, gold imports surged in April and May as buyers
thronged shops for ornaments after bullion entered a  bear market 
last quarter, prompting Chidambaram on June 13 to urge Indians
“to resist the temptation.” The metal’s use is deeply rooted
in the nation’s culture and tradition, and import curbs may not
significantly dent demand, Prem Hinduja, chief executive officer
of jeweler Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Ltd., said in a June 14
interview.  The All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation, which
represents about 300,000 businesses, said June 24 it will ask
members to suspend sales of coins and bars to retail investors.  “We are of the view that if the government is worried, we
as responsible citizens must help the government,” Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director at the Federation, said in a June 26
telephone interview. “We want to tell the government that
increasing import duties, putting curbs on imports is not the
solution.”  Corruption Scandals  The rupee also weakened as a series of corruption scandals
roiled Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition and disrupted
parliament this year, derailing efforts to revive investment and
boost growth before general elections in 2014. Bills to simplify
taxes and allowing foreign investment in the pensions and
insurance industries stalled, as inflation risks posed by the
currency’s weakness prevent the RBI from adding to three
interest-rate cuts this year.  The RBI on June 17 left its benchmark rate unchanged for
the first time this year, saying it would need evidence of a
“durable” cooling of inflation and a stabilizing of flows that
hurt India’s balance of payments.  While the latest rupee drop isn’t triggered by India’s
economic fundamentals, the currency’s weakness can lead to
concerns about a financial crisis,  Anubhuti Sahay , an economist
with Standard Chartered in Mumbai, said in a July 1 telephone
interview.  Global funds cut  holdings  of local bonds by $5.4 billion
last month through June 27, latest exchange data show, after
adding in each of the previous six months, and are set to snap
12 months of net-buying in equities. The yield  premium  offered
by 10-year Indian sovereign debt over similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries has fallen 125 basis points from this year’s high of
622 on April 5.  Trigger Backlash  Policy makers can do little to stem the fund outflow,
because moves such as raising  interest rates  to make yields more
attractive aren’t feasible given weak growth, Irene Cheung, a
strategist at  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
 Singapore , said in a June 27 research report. Banning gold
imports will trigger a public backlash and capital controls will
have a “devastating” impact on investor confidence, she wrote.  The rupee pared its monthly loss as it surged 1.4 percent
on June 28, the most since September, after comments by Fed
officials prompted investors to reassess their expectations for
a reduction in U.S. stimulus and India’s government agreed to
double natural  gas prices  effective April 2014. Its 8.6 percent
loss last quarter is the biggest since September 2011.  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said June 27
unprecedented U.S. bond purchases could be prolonged should the
world’s biggest economy fail to meet forecasts. India’s cabinet
on June 27 agreed to link natural-gas prices to global
benchmarks to encourage exploration. The move will cut reliance
on imports in the medium term, according to FirstRand Ltd.  ‘Still Keen’  “This shows that the government is still keen on reform,”
Harihar Krishnamoorthy, treasurer at the Indian unit of
FirstRand in Mumbai, said in a June 28 telephone interview.
“The rupee should see a more steady correction from here.”  Krishnamoorthy predicts the currency will climb to 59 per
dollar in coming weeks and extend gains to between 58 to 56 this
year. The rupee rose 0.2 percent to 59.4200 as of 11:45 a.m. in
Mumbai.  A sustainable strengthening of the rupee will need a pick-up in foreign-direct investment rather than risk-dependent
portfolio inflows, according to Citigroup Inc. With Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh’s Congress party lacking a majority in
parliament, the government will find it tough to overhaul labor
and land-acquisition laws, the lender predicts.  ‘Limited Firepower’  Net direct investment  fell  to $19.8 billion in the year
ended March 31 from $22.1 billion 12 months earlier, while
portfolio flows increased to $26.7 billion from $16.6 billion,
official data show. Foreign  reserves  stood at $287.8 billion as
of June 21, down from an all-time high of $321 billion in 2011.
That’s just enough to cover about six months of imports and
limits the RBI’s ability to intervene, Citigroup estimates.  “The measures which can help to revive the investment
cycle, draw in foreign investments over the medium-to-long term
and boost the export industry are politically difficult and
unpopular with the electorate,” Citigroup analysts, including
Singapore-based Gaurav Garg, wrote in a June 27 research report.
“The government has very limited firepower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  