-- Mirabaud to Follow Pictet in Ending Unlimited Liability
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-07-02T13:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/mirabaud-to-follow-pictet-in-ending-unlimited-liability.html
Mirabaud & Cie., the Swiss private
bank established in 1819, is following Pictet & Cie. and Lombard
Odier & Cie. in dropping a centuries-old partnership structure
under which bankers assume unlimited liability for losses.  While the managing partners will continue to own and manage
the firm, Mirabaud plans to establish a corporate partnership
overseeing a Swiss limited company from early next year, the
Geneva-based firm said in an e-mailed  statement  late yesterday.  The move to end the unlimited liability partnerships
favored by Geneva’s oldest private banks, and registered as a
trademark in 1997, comes after the  U.S. Department of Justice 
indicted Wegelin & Co. last year for helping American clients
dodge taxes. While Mirabaud was never active in the U.S. cross-border market and isn’t one of 14 Swiss firms being investigated
by the DOJ, the new structure is a response to increasing
“regulatory constraints and requirements,” the bank said.  “We are always thinking about our structure,” Senior
Partner Yves Mirabaud said in a telephone interview today. “All
our personal assets are and remain committed to the bank.”  The firm said the new structure will help Mirabaud grow at
home and overseas as a crackdown on secrecy makes it less
profitable for Swiss banks to manage the $2.2 trillion of cross-border assets booked in the Alpine country. Mirabaud managed
about 25 billion Swiss francs ($26.4 billion) for clients at the
end of December.  Better Understanding  Most employees already work under a limited liability
company outside  Switzerland , Mirabaud said.  “When you want to open a bank or structure in  Asia  or in
the  Middle East  or somewhere else, it is true that limited
liabilities type of companies are better understood than
unlimited liability partnership by the regulators or by local
authorities,” he said. “That’s why every time we have opened
new operations it was done through limited liability
companies.”  While Mirabaud said it planned to keep the unlimited
liability model in February, when Pictet, Geneva’s largest bank,
and Lombard Odier announced they would adopt new structures next
year, the firm changed its mind two months later, the senior
partner said.  The rejection last month by the Swiss Parliament of a
proposed law to allow more banks to cooperate with the U.S.
offshore tax-evasion probe could lead to another firm facing
criminal charges, Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said
two weeks ago.  The Swiss-U.S. tax issue “illustrates nevertheless how
risks are evolving,” Mirabaud was cited as saying today by Le
Temps. “They are becoming more political and more difficult to
predict, less controllable.”  Mirabaud plans to open a bank in Luxembourg next year to
develop private banking activities in the U.K.,  France  and
 Spain , the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  