-- IRS Already Under Siege Must Make Rules for Gay Marriages
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/irs-already-under-siege-must-make-rules-for-gay-marriages.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service ,
already under unprecedented scrutiny, must make another tough
call -- whether to recognize the same-sex marriages of taxpayers
whose home states don’t consider the unions legal.  Underneath that big decision are dozens more stemming from
the June 26 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that invalidated the
federal government’s definition of marriage as between one man
and one woman. The IRS, which said last week it would “move
swiftly,” must set rules for amending prior years’ returns and
weigh potential penalties for under-withholding.  Each decision may mean thousands of dollars in costs or
benefits to couples across the country who are trying to figure
out what the court’s ruling will do to personal finances that
long were structured to avoid running afoul of the IRS.  “It’s a simple statement and then there’s all these
complexities,” said Nanette Lee Miller, a partner at Marcum LLP
in  San Francisco  who leads the accounting firm’s practice for
same-sex couples.  The IRS will make those determinations under a
congressional and political microscope because of the extra
attention it gave to small-government groups’ applications for
tax-exempt status. The IRS has also been stretched thinner
because of its expanding responsibilities under the 2010 health-care law and  federal budget  cuts. Agency employees will be on
unpaid furlough July 5 as the result of the budget cuts.  “No matter what they do, it’s such a volatile issue,
they’ll end up getting a challenge,” said David Herzig, a tax
law professor at Valparaiso University in Valparaiso,  Indiana .  5-4 Decision  The Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision in an estate-tax case
turned the attention of same-sex married couples from the legal
system to federal agencies, particularly tax enforcers.  For same-sex couples living in  Washington , D.C., or the 13
 states  that allow and recognize their marriages, the path
forward is relatively clear. They will file tax returns just
like heterosexual spouses do.  The IRS’s major decision comes for residents of the other
37 states. Will it rely -- as it has in some previous cases --on
states’ own definitions of marriage? Or will it set a nationwide
definition requiring all same-sex married couples to file as
married taxpayers? What will happen to couples in civil unions
or domestic partnerships?  “The court’s decision, for a decision of this magnitude,
is relatively short,” Joanne Youn, a member in the employee
benefits practice at Caplin & Drysdale in Washington, told
Bloomberg BNA. The justices refer to more than 1,000 federal
laws pertaining to marriages and “they don’t go into details.”  Nationwide Rule  A single nationwide rule would make the most sense, said
Patricia Cain, a tax-law professor at Santa Clara University in
 California . Without it, taxpayers could find ways to game the
system, establishing a temporary domicile in whatever state fit
their tax needs that year.  “The IRS has the power to construe the Internal Revenue
Code, so for them it’s ‘What does the word spouse mean?’” she
said. “Nonconsistency would be an administrative hassle.”  President  Barack Obama  said it was his “personal belief”
that same-sex couples should get the same federal benefits as
married couples regardless of where they live. He said he had
asked federal agencies to research the legal issues involved.  Such a ruling, though, might cause challenges for the IRS,
which has argued in other contexts that state law controls the
definition of marriage, Herzig said.  ‘Another Problem’  “You may solve this problem, but you may open up another
problem,” he said.  For many same-sex couples, decisions from the court and the
IRS that give them more rights might also cost them money.  Couples with roughly equal incomes typically pay a marriage
penalty under the  tax code , because more of their income is
subject to higher marginal tax rates. Same-sex married couples
in that situation may technically owe penalties for under-withholding for 2012 and 2013 if the IRS doesn’t provide relief.  Some same-sex couples have been able to take advantage of
their separate status, claiming multiple adoption tax credits or
multiple capital loss deductions unavailable to opposite-sex
married couples.  Couples with unequal incomes would get a marriage bonus and
would be most likely to try to file amended returns -- if the
potential benefit exceeds tax preparation fees. Typically, the
IRS allows taxpayers three years to redo their tax returns.  Amending Returns  “One of the biggest issues is what to do retroactively,
and the IRS has to outline what is mandated, what is not
mandated,” said Elda Di Re, a partner at Ernst & Young LLP in
 New York . “One would think that the IRS will allow there to be
filing refunds but not mandate filing to pay additional tax.”  The IRS may also need to address potential payroll tax
refunds for companies that paid the taxes on health insurance
for employees’ same-sex spouses, which isn’t taxable for married
couples.  The companies would then need to figure out how to
distribute any payroll tax refunds to employees and ex-employees. Companies may also need to decide whether to seek
reimbursement from employees who get tax refunds this year
related to their spouses’ benefits, and who got past help from
their employers with additional income to cover those tax costs,
which could disappear retroactively after the  Supreme Court 
ruling.  Alimony Payments  Among the other issues are the tax treatment of alimony
payments in past gay divorces and what happens to recently
inherited individual retirement accounts, which now will pass to
gay spouses under different tax rules than to unmarried
partners. Some of the same questions would apply in estate tax
cases, such as the one the Supreme Court decided.  Couples will navigate these transitional issues and then,
at least in states that recognize same-sex marriage, have to
spend much less money on accountants and tax lawyers.  “For same-sex couples, we’re always concerned with
creating inadvertently taxable gifts or taxable compensation,”
said Phyllis Epstein, an attorney at Epstein, Shapiro & Epstein
in Philadelphia. “And a lot of those concerns are gone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  