-- Islanders to Buy Out Goalie DiPietro’s Contract for $24 Million
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-02T14:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/islanders-to-buy-out-goalie-dipietro-s-contract-for-24-million.html
The  New York  Islanders will place
goaltender Rick DiPietro on waivers today and intend to buy out
the remainder of his 15-year, $67.5 million contract, once the
longest in National Hockey League history.  The team will be responsible for paying DiPietro $24
million, two-thirds of the $36 million remaining on the deal.  DiPietro will earn $1.5 million annually through 2029. The
league’s labor agreement allows each team in the next two
seasons two compliance buyouts, which do not count against the
franchise’s salary cap space. Teams that exercise that option
must pay the player two-thirds of his remaining salary across
twice the remaining length of the deal.  “It is an extremely tough decision to use the compliance
buyout on Rick’s contract,” Islanders General Manager Garth Snow said in a statement.  “His drive to win games and compete
at the highest level for the  New York Islanders  was never
questioned. With Rick back at 100% health, we wish him nothing
but the best.”  DiPietro was selected by the Islanders with the first pick
in the 2000 NHL draft and signed a 15-year, $67 million contract
with the team in 2006.  DiPietro ends his Islanders career with a 130-136 record.
He was limited to a total of 50 games over the past five seasons
because of injuries. He played in three games last season, going
0-3 with a 4.09 goals against average before clearing waivers in
February and being sent to Bridgeport of the American Hockey
League.  DiPietro will become a free agent on July 5. Under the
league’s labor agreement he is free to sign with any NHL club
except the Islanders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  