-- Mitsubishi UFJ to Buy Ayudhya in Biggest Thai Bank Takeover
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-07-03T06:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/mitsubishi-ufj-said-to-seek-deal-for-bank-of-ayudhya-this-month.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
plans to buy Thailand’s  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl  for as much as 560
billion yen ($5.6 billion) in the largest banking takeover in
the Southeast Asian nation.  Japan’s biggest bank will seek to buy as much as 75 percent
of the Bangkok-based lender from shareholders including  General
Electric Co. (GE)  through a tender offer, Mitsubishi UFJ said in a
filing to the Tokyo Stock Exchange yesterday. The Japanese
company plans to offer 39 baht a share for the Thai bank, or 5.4
percent more than yesterday’s closing price.  The purchase would give Mitsubishi UFJ a bigger foothold to
expand retail and corporate banking in Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy, which is forecast to expand more than three
times faster than  Japan ’s next year. Japanese megabanks are
buying assets abroad to counter the nation’s shrinking
population and the lowest loan profitability in Asia.  “Bank of Ayudhya has a wide branch network and strong
retail customer base that will give Mitsubishi UFJ immediate
access to Thailand’s lucrative market,” said Jintana Mekintharanggur, who helps oversee about $200 million as
director of equity investment at Manulife Asset Management Co.
“Mitsubishi’s strong lending to large corporations, especially
Japanese companies operating in Thailand, will support Ayudhya’s
wholesale banking.”  Ratanarak Family  Assuming Mitsubishi UFJ buys the 75 percent stake for 560
billion yen, that would imply a multiple of 2 times book value
at the end of last year, according to Mac Salman, an analyst at
Jefferies Group LLC in  Tokyo . That compares with average 1.7 for
listed Thai lenders, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mitsubishi UFJ would be the first Japanese bank to gain
control of an Asian lender, Salman wrote in a note yesterday.
The plan is based on the Ratanarak family retaining 25 percent
ownership, Mitsubishi UFJ said. GE will sell its 25 percent
stake, according to the statement. The Japanese lender will work
with the family to expand Bank of Ayudhya’s business.  Mitsubishi UFJ said it will seek approval from Thai
authorities before carrying out the tender offer from early
November to December. Thailand’s central bank received a request
from the Japanese company to approve its plan to buy shares in
Bank of Ayudhya, Deputy Governor Krirk Vanikkul told reporters
today in Bangkok.  Ownership Restrictions  Rules in Thailand restrict foreign ownership of local banks
at 49 percent.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) ,  Malaysia ’s second-largest lender, and  Singapore ’s  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  are
among firms that control Thai banks.  Mitsubishi UFJ and Bank of Ayudhya will consider merging
the Japanese bank’s Bangkok office into the Thai lender to meet
the rules, the statement showed. Mitsubishi UFJ was advised by
Bank of America Corp. and GE was advised by Morgan Stanley.  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ rose 0.8 percent to 644 yen at the
close in Tokyo, outpacing a 0.2 percent gain in the benchmark
 Topix Index. (TPX)  The stock has climbed 40 percent this year.  Bank of
Ayudhya  fell 1.4 percent to 36.5 baht in Bangkok, retreating
from the highest since October 1997.  The purchase would be the biggest takeover in Asia by a
Japanese bank, eclipsing  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s
plan to buy a stake in  Indonesia ’s PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan
Nasional for $1.5 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rising Profit  Formed in 1945, Bank of Ayudhya makes retail and corporate
loans and had 601 domestic branches at the end of last year,
according to its annual report.  Net income  rose 58 percent to
14.6 billion baht ($472 million) in the year ended December as
loans grew 17 percent, the report shows.  With a focus on consumer credit, the company known locally
as Krungsri has the most profitable lending business of
Thailand’s six biggest publicly traded banks. Its 4.2 percent
net interest margin exceeds the 3.2 percent average among the
six, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Japan’s three
largest banks have an average net interest margin of 0.93
percent, the smallest in Asia, the data show.  Economic growth in  Thailand  will accelerate to 5 percent
next year from a projected 4.6 percent in 2013, according to
median estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Japan’s
expansion will slow to 1.5 percent in 2014 from an estimated 1.8
percent this year, a separate survey shows.  Mitsubishi UFJ has been investing elsewhere in Southeast
Asia. The bank led by President Nobuyuki Hirano bought a stake
in Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade --
known as VietinBank -- this year for about $740 million.  The lender is also expanding in the U.S., where it owns
about 22 percent of Morgan Stanley and has San Francisco-based
UnionBanCal Corp. In April, Mitsubishi UFJ said it will buy $3.7
billion of U.S. real-estate loan assets from Deutsche Bank AG
through UnionBanCal to boost commercial lending.  “Mitsubishi UFJ wants to turn Bank of Ayudhya into a
platform for extending various businesses not only in Thailand
but also its neighboring countries,” said Yoshinobu Yamada, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “This is going to be a
very positive and meaningful deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  