-- Japan Pension Fund Posts Record Return as Stocks Rally
-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-07-02T09:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/japan-pension-fund-posts-record-return-as-stocks-rally.html
Japan ’s Government Pension Investment
Fund, the world’s largest manager of retirement savings, posted
a record 10.2 percent annual return as stocks surged and a
weaker yen boosted the value of overseas assets.  The GPIF held 120.5 trillion yen ($1.2 trillion) of assets
as of March 31, boosted by a 29 percent surge in overseas
equities and 23 percent gain in Japanese stocks, according to a
statement released by the fund today. The total return is the
biggest since 2006, when the pension fund was established in its
current form by the government.  The pension fund said on June 7 that it’s cutting local
bond holdings to buy more stocks and foreign securities, and
plans to leave its asset allocations at the new levels until at
least March 2015. The shift toward higher-yielding assets comes
as the manager prepares to fund retirements in the world’s
oldest population.  “The 10 percent return was OK given it’s a pension fund,”
said Ichiro Takamatsu, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based Bayview
Asset Management Co, which oversees 129 billion yen ($1.29
billion). “But in retrospect, they could’ve earned a bit more
if they allocated more to equities like foreign pension funds
do.”  The  Topix index , the country’s broadest equity measure,
rose 21 percent in the financial year ended March 31, the best
gain since 2010. Benchmark 10-year government bond yields have
swung from an all-time low of 0.315 percent to as much as 1
percent since the  Bank of Japan  announced monetary easing
measures in April.  First Change  Overseas bonds returned 18 percent in the year, while
domestic bonds yielded 3.7 percent, the statement said.  GPIF is the biggest pension fund in the world by assets,
followed by  Norway ’s government pension fund, according to the
Towers Watson Global 300 survey in August. The Japan fund didn’t
alter the structure of its holdings during the 2008 financial
crisis or in response to the 2011 earthquake and nuclear
disaster.  “Returns from Japanese stocks were positive, and the
weaker yen helped and stocks abroad rose too,” GPIF President
Takahiro Mitani said in a June 21 interview. “Last year, with
all domestic and foreign assets being positive, was a very
unusual case. Normally when stocks rise, bonds fall and vice
versa. That’s why we invest in various assets -- so if somewhere
is bad, somewhere else is good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  