-- Japanese Men’s Allowance at 1982 Low as They Await Abenomics
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-07-02T02:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/japanese-husbands-allowance-at-1982-low-as-men-await-abenomics.html
The average Japanese husband’s
monthly allowance slumped to the lowest level since 1982 at the
start of the financial year as workers await the dividends
promised by Abenomics.  Salarymen’s spending money, typically set by wives managing
family budgets, was 38,457 yen ($386), down 3 percent from last
year and less than half the 1990 peak, according to  Shinsei Bank
Ltd. , a Tokyo-based lender whose data go back to 1979. The
survey of 2,000 people was done April 20th and 22nd via the
Internet, the report published June 28 showed.  With Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledging to revive the
world’s third-largest economy through unprecedented monetary
expansion, fiscal stimulus and business deregulation, salarymen
allotted more of their budget to going out drinking. They went
out an average 2.2 times a month, spending 3,474 yen a time, up
21 percent from last year, the Shinsei report showed.  “Husband’s allowance is the most lagging indicator of
 Japan ’s economy, while female  spending  is the first to
increase,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, senior economist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in  Tokyo , who says
his own ration has been unchanged for a while. “Japanese salary
men don’t have to be pessimistic. Their pocket money should
gradually increase to reflect Japan’s recovery.”  Stagnant Wages  In a sign that the benefits of  a growing economy  and rising
company profits aren’t yet flowing through to workers, salaries
were unchanged in May from a year earlier, the Labor Ministry
said in Tokyo today. The average monthly wage for a Japanese
worker was 314,127 yen last year, according to the ministry.  The government will create a panel to encourage companies
to raise wages, Yuzuru Takeuchi, parliamentary secretary for
finance, said in an interview last month. Wages fell or were
unchanged in 11 of 12 months through May even as Japanese
companies’ stockpile of cash rose to a record, exceeding the
size of  Italy ’s economy, Bank of Japan data for the first
quarter showed last month.  Abe’s three-pronged strategy of ending deflation and
stoking growth has helped household’s net worth, by propelling
gains in the country’s stock market. Household assets climbed
even as salaries have dropped, rising 4.7 percent to 1,207
trillion yen in the first three months of this year, the highest
since 2007, before the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  