-- Japan Nears Switching on Reactors After Tepco’s Meltdown: Energy
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-07-03T07:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/japan-nears-switching-on-reactors-after-tepco-s-meltdown-energy.html
A countdown is starting in  Japan  for
restarting some of the 48 nuclear reactors that were idled after
the 2011 Fukushima meltdowns caused the worst atomic accident
since Chernobyl.  The nation’s Nuclear Regulation Authority will receive
applications for switching on plants starting July 8, and more
than five utilities plan to seek permits. Tokyo Electric Power
Co., operator of the wrecked Dai-Ichi plant that spread
radiation in the Fukushima area, said yesterday it will seek
permission to start its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear plant as soon
as possible. Its shares jumped 19 percent yesterday.  Meeting new safety rules to restart is urgent for utilities
bleeding cash from importing extra oil and gas for backup
generation. Japan  paid  24.7 trillion yen ($241 billion) for
fossil fuels in the year ended in March, up 36 percent from the
12 months before the disaster. Imports this year are even more
expensive with the yen’s 14 percent drop against the dollar.  “The decision to seek this safety review is an important
one,”  Tokyo  Electric President Naomi Hirose told reporters at a
briefing in Tokyo yesterday. “In our existing turnaround plan,
restarts were scheduled from this past April. It’s almost
impossible to become profitable again when conditions are
different from the ones anticipated in the plan.”  Japan’s nine utilities with atomic plants reported combined
losses of 1.59 trillion yen ($16 billion) in the year ended
March 31. Only Hokuriku Electric Power Co. posted a profit,
ending the year 100 million yen ahead, and only two reactors are
currently running, both belonging to Kansai Electric Power Co.  Back into Action?  After the Fukushima accident caused the evacuation of
160,000 people and left a cleanup bill of more than $130 billion
for Japanese taxpayers, winning approval to resume splitting
atoms for power generation isn’t guaranteed.  The operator of the destroyed plant, Tokyo Electric, also
known as Tepco, will file with the nuclear regulator to restart
the No. 6 and No. 7 reactors as soon as possible at the
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa station about 220 kilometers (137 miles)
northeast of Tokyo.  The utility, Japan’s largest, will explain the application
to local governments in a bid to win their backing, according to
a statement from the utility. Tepco, majority-owned by the state
after the accident, lost 10 percent in Tokyo trading today,
giving back much of the previous day’s 19 percent gain.  At the Ikata nuclear station in western Japan, Shikoku
Electric Power Co. is installing radiation filters and emergency
power units, seeking to be among the first to restart, Takuji
Suzaki, a spokesman, said by e-mail.  Filters, Power  Kyushu Electric Power Co. (9508)  is also readying reactors at its
Sendai and Genkai plants on the island neighboring Shikoku,
spokeswoman Naoko Iguchi said, while  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509) 
completes preparations at its Tomari facility at the other end
of Japan, according to spokesman Shota Okada.  “Our import costs are surging, which is causing our
financial situation to deteriorate rapidly,” Shikoku Electric’s
Suzaki said by e-mail. “Our goal is to get the reactors running
again quickly.”  Analysts including Reiji Ogino at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. put the No. 3 reactor unit at Shikoku’s
Ikata plant among the first likely to restart. Other candidates
for restarts include two reactors at Kyushu Electric’s Sendai
plant and one at Hokkaido Electric’s Tomari station, according
to Ogino, SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. analyst Hidetoshi Shioda
and Tom O’Sullivan, an independent energy consultant in Tokyo.  Together, these four plants would restore 3.25 gigawatts of
installed capacity, about 7 percent of Japan’s operable nuclear
fleet. Japan relied on nuclear plants for more than a quarter of
its power before the Fukushima accident.  Losses Mounting  Tepco, the nation’s biggest power producer, said in May
2012 that it would return to profit this fiscal year if it could
restart reactors in its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear station.
Tepco posted a 685.3 billion yen loss last fiscal year.  Shikoku Electric assumed a July 19 restart at the Ikata
plant’s No. 3 reactor when it requested government permission in
February to raise rates due to its growing fossil fuel bill,
Suzaki said. The utility faces about 6 billion yen in additional
costs for every month after that in which the restart is
delayed, he said. That’s the equivalent of 72 billion yen a
year, or about 13 percent of the utility’s total operating
revenue for the year ended March 31.  Fuel Costs  Kansai Electric (9503) , whose Ohi plant’s Nos. 3 and 4 reactors
are the only ones currently operating, was able to save 9.5
billion yen per 1 percent increase in nuclear power utilization,
Ogino said.  “Once nuclear power is restored, fuel costs drop,” Ogino
said. “That has a positive impact.”  The NRA’s new rules require nuclear power plants to build
secondary control centers at least 100 meters (328 feet) from
reactor buildings to manage emergency cooling systems and
demands that tsunami defenses be based on the largest estimated
waves from the most recent scientific assessments.  They also stipulate that plants using boiling water
reactors, the same type employed at Kashiwazaki-Kariwa and that
melted down at Tokyo Electric’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after
the March 11, 2011, earthquake and tsunami, must install
filtration vents before restarting.  Pressurized water reactors, such as the ones used by the
Shikoku, Kyushu and Hokkaido power companies, are required to
install the vents within five years after resuming operations.  Nuclear Opponents  The facilities are also relatively new by atomic plant
standards. Shikoku’s Ikata No. 3 unit, for example, started
operating about 18 years ago in December 1994. The oldest of the
six reactors at the Dai-Ichi plant began operating in 1971.  Those facts do little to soothe nuclear power opponents,
such as Kyoko Ono, a member of the Genpatsu Sayonara Shikoku
Network. Ono’s group has been holding rallies and distributing
fliers aimed at opposing the restart of the Ikata plant.  “Human beings and radioactivity cannot coexist,” Ono
said. “If we don’t stop the restarts, I don’t think Japan has a
future.”  About 59 percent of the 1,781 respondents to a  survey 
conducted by the Asahi Shimbun in early June said they’re
opposed to restarting reactors. The poll found 28 percent in
favor.  Inspections  Utilities that plan to submit applications on July 8 have
been asked to inform the NRA of their intentions by 3 p.m. on
July 5, the agency said in a statement today. After the
applications are filed, the NRA will begin inspections that are
expected to take about three months, according to Ogino.  All applications received on July 8 will be given equal
priority, the NRA said in the statement. The agency has three
inspection teams, each of which can work at one facility at a
time, Kumiko Tsukuda, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an
interview. No decision has been made on whether to hire more
inspectors, she said.  “The NRA has a very limited number of staff,” O’Sullivan
said. “That’s going to be one of the constraining factors.”  Once any restarts are approved by the NRA, local government
officials where the plants are located will be asked for their
endorsement. While that process is expected to take about a
month, delays could form another choke-point for the utilities,
Ogino said.  Ono said the restarts are against the region’s interests,
since they pose a hazard while making the local economy overly
reliant on the plant.  “Most of the money for nuclear goes to big corporations,
while local businesses have to be satisfied with small
subcontracting jobs,” Ono said. “Then, once an accident
occurs, our community members can do nothing but abandon their
homes.”  Eiji Mori, a spokesman for  Ehime prefecture , where Shikoku
Electric’s Ikata plant is located, said that the utility’s
restart application would be comprehensively evaluated.  “We need a stable, affordable power supply,” he said.
“And we need realistic measures that can avoid disruptions in
our people’s daily lives and business activities, although we
have to strive to reduce our reliance on nuclear power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  