-- Jordan Threatened as Chaos Flows Across Mideast Borders
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/jordan-threatened-as-chaos-flows-across-mideast-borders.html
Every day, thousands of Syrians flee
their war-torn country for refugee camps and cities in Jordan.
It may be Jordanians mixed among them who most concern leaders
in the Hashemite Kingdom.  Some Jordanian militants who’ve joined the fight to oust
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad are coming home in body bags.
Those who return alive, possibly burning with Islamic fervor,
concern officials there, in Israel and in the U.S., who worry
that the Western ally on Israel’s longest and quietest border
could be the next Arab nation to implode.  The specter of militant Islam isn’t the Hashemite Kingdom’s
only challenge.  King Abdullah  faces a faltering economy, tribal
tensions, anger over the pace of political reform, the spillover
of Syrian violence, as well as the estimated half-million Syrian
refugees who are straining the country’s scant resources and its
political balance.  “The Jordanian government is terrified,” said Robert
Blecher, the Arab-Israeli Project Director for the  International
Crisis Group , a  New York  policy group. “What’s happening to the
north is fundamentally changing the nature of the country. This
is an existential challenge.”  “All the elements are in place for a crisis,” said
Hussein Ibish, a senior fellow at the American Task Force on
 Palestine , a Washington policy group.  Worsening Conditions  Conditions in Jordan, a secular U.S. ally vital to  Israel ’s
security and to halting the spread of Islamic extremism, will
only get worse as the Syrian conflict continues, according to
interviews with current and former government officials,
analysts and development specialists.  “The consequences are already unbelievably bad,” said
Fred Hof, the Obama administration’s former special envoy to the
Syrian opposition and now a senior fellow at the Atlantic
Council, a Washington policy group. “But if you think they’re
bad now, wait six months.”  In one sign of the U.S. administration’s concern, the
Pentagon left F-16 fighter jets, Patriot missile defense
batteries and military personnel in the kingdom after a two-week, 15,000-person military exercise -- the largest in two
decades -- ended in southern  Jordan  last month.  A more telling symbol of Jordan’s vulnerability may lie to
the north -- the border with  Syria , where sand-swept tent cities
for refugees are rising and militants cross with regularity.  Extremist Influx  U.S. and other intelligence officials have reported that
Islamic extremists, including some with ties to al-Qaeda
offshoots in  Iraq  and elsewhere, are infiltrating Jordan by
posing as Syrian refugees, said a U.S. official who spoke on the
condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence reports.  While some militants may be seeking only rest and
recuperation, the official said, others may be bent on jump-starting an Islamic rebellion against a pro-Western monarchy
that has a peace treaty with Israel, cooperates with the U.S.
and is known for aggressively pursuing extremists.  “Those qualities are greatly hated by Salafist types,”
Ibish said. “Those driven by strategic ideas could make a case
that Jordan is a juicy target, given what it provides the West
and the status quo, and ripe for the picking.”  Jordan has its own salafis, or militant Islamists, crossing
into Syria to join rebel forces, said Chas Freeman, a former
U.S. ambassador to  Saudi Arabia  and lifetime director of the
Atlantic Council.  ‘Staging Area’  “It’s become a staging area for fighting in Syria and
covert training,” Freeman said. “King Abdullah sounds terribly
worried about all this, and with good reason.”  At the same time, chaos plaguing other Arab countries may
help bolster the king’s standing as head of a stable regime,
said  Aaron David Miller , a vice president at the Wilson Center,
a Washington policy group.  Monarchies like Abdullah’s have been “redeemed by the
viciousness and the chaotic nature of the opposition and the
violence” in Syria and elsewhere, Miller said. “The worse it
gets, the more stable, the more continuity the king enjoys.”  The influx of people fleeing upheaval elsewhere is a
challenge for Jordan. Mounting sectarian violence in Iraq could
send a renewed flow of Iraqi refugees into Jordan, perhaps mixed
with Islamic extremists whose objectives are political rather
than personal, the U.S. official said.  The 494,000 people that the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees  estimates  have fled Syria for Jordan
already pose a heavy burden. The UN projects that refugees could
double by the end of the year. Jordan’s Zaatari camp, with
125,000 residents, is now the second-largest in the world,
according to CARE, the international humanitarian organization.  Significant Burden  Uma Kandalayeva, a veteran of man-made misery and natural
disasters that prompt massive refugee flows, is posted to
Zaatari, where her job also entails helping local Jordanians.  “The international community is helping refugees, who are
a significant, significant burden on Jordanians,” said
Kandalayeva, who works for International Relief & Development, a
humanitarian group based in Arlington, Virginia.  Only three countries in the world face more severe water
shortages than Jordan, according to the Crisis Group’s Blecher.
Refugee camps are stretching those water resources even thinner,
and straining systems to provide health care, education and
food.  Despite the burdens, Jordanians aren’t getting much
support, Kandalayeva said. “Who is helping them with increased
food prices, less water?” she asked in a telephone call from
the camp.  Thousands of refugees have bypassed the camps to settle in
Jordanian cities, where they’re driving up rents and food costs
and driving down wages by competing for jobs.  Reduced Subsidies  Economic strains were already hitting Jordanians. To meet
conditions for loans from the  International Monetary Fund ,
Jordan has cut fuel and food subsidies, moves that brought
people into the streets in protest. Cuts to electricity
subsidies are pending. The  inflation  rate was 7.1 percent in
May, up from 4.1 percent a year earlier.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Jordan’s government
bond rating on June 26 to B1 from Ba2, citing “dramatic
deterioration in Jordan’s public finances,” including a deficit
that peaked at 8.2 percent of gross domestic product last year.  The  unemployment  rate is approaching 13 percent, and youth
unemployment, a major driver in the protests in Tunisia, Libya
and  Egypt , is higher. “We’ve witnessed frustrations boil over
as young people grow disillusioned,” the country’s Queen Rania
told the  World Economic Forum  in Jordan last month.  Social Contract  Economic woes are eroding the social contract between the
king and indigenous groups known in Jordan as East Bankers,
which have traditionally received military, government and
public sector jobs in return for their loyalty.  The influx of Syrian refugees may exacerbate long-standing
tensions between East Bankers and Palestinians, who make up as
much as 70 percent of the population and complain of second-class status, Blecher said. Because many of these refugees could
be of Palestinian origin, they could upset the country’s
delicate political balance.  “Jordan is almost desperate, not only because of refugee
inflows, but because of the unbalancing of Jordanian politics
because of the refugee flows,” said Freeman.  If popular opinion turns against the king, said Ibish of
the American Task Force on Palestine, he’ll get support from
Jordan’s friends and neighbors.  “The great strength of the Jordanian kingdom is not its
internal strength,” Ibish said. “It’s that everyone around
them -- the Israelis, the Saudis, the Turks, the U.S. -- need
them to do what they do.”  “The status quo can go on without Bashar al-Assad,” Ibish
said. “The status quo can’t really go on without the Hashemite
Kingdom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  