-- Judges Seen Raising French Power Prices to Rescue EDF
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-02T13:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/judges-seen-raising-french-power-prices-to-rescue-edf.html
Tradition holds that once the French
are comfortably ensconced on their summer holidays, the
government quietly announces an increase in household power
rates charged by the utility  Electricite de France SA .  This year, the ritual may take a different turn and end up
before judges. A June report by regulators concluded domestic
power rates,  half those of neighboring Germany , should rise
almost 10 percent. That’s five times the increase the government
proposed last year.  An industry group may ask the Conseil d’Etat,  France ’s
highest court, to intervene if the government doesn’t boost
rates enough to cover costs for Paris-based EDF, the world’s
biggest nuclear-plant operator. The same court last year allowed
the nation’s biggest gas supplier  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA to raise rates
more than the government wanted.  The regulator “has rocked the boat,” Francois Brottes, a
Socialist member of parliament who tracks  energy policy , said in
an interview. “The report will likely give rise to a court case
and this will force us to abandon the status quo.”  Higher prices would benefit EDF’s 55 billion-euro ($72
billion) spending plan to 2025 for maintaining the largest
reactor fleet. At the same time it imperils Socialist President
 Francois Hollande ’s pledge to moderate home energy costs.  France has joined a group of nations including  Spain  and
 South Africa  that stop their utilities from charging enough to
cover all their regulated costs. Spanish utilities have
accumulated about 26 billion euros in debt since 2000, helping
to undermine their credit ratings.  Jill Coulombez, an EDF spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Attending a meeting in Paris with her German counterpart, French
Energy Minister Delphine Batho declined to comment today on what
price increase the government would propose.  Added Increases  EDF’s power rates for 25 million retail customers in France
should rise as much as 9.6 percent in 2013 to cover production
and marketing costs, the Commission de Regulation de l’Energie
said in the  report  published June 5. The government immediately
rejected the recommendation.  The increase would have to come on top of a 7.6 percent
gain needed to make up for a 1.47 billion-euro shortfall last
year between EDF’s costs and the rates it was allowed to charge,
the regulator said. Looking further ahead, power charges should
gain another 3.2 percent next year and also in 2015, the
regulator said.  The recommendations contrast with the 2 percent increase in
power prices granted by the government last July. Prices have
been rising slowly -- less than or equal to inflation for four
of the past six years, according to an EDF  presentation  in
February and national statistics office  Insee .  EDF has gained 26 percent this year partly on optimism the
company will win higher prices. The stock remains about 80
percent below a 2007 high as costs of keeping aging reactors
running more than 40 years hold back earnings.  Antinuclear Campaigners  Deutsche Bank AG analysts including Martin Brough have
estimated that every 1 percent change in the aggregate tariff in
France, where the company earns more than 60 percent of
operating profit, has a 5 percent impact on group earnings.  The regulator’s contention that much higher rates are
needed to pay the price of EDF’s atomic production has played
into the hands of antinuclear campaigners like Greenpeace, which
want the utility’s reactors closed. The organization on June 24
sent fake 2017 power bills to consumers indicating a 17 percent
increase and called for “massive” spending on renewables
rather than on prolonging the lives of atomic generators.  Any court challenge to state-set EDF rates will likely come
from  Anode , an organization representing alternative power and
natural gas suppliers on the French market who have sought to
make inroads since liberalization of the consumer market in
2007. The group successfully contested  gas prices  at the Conseil
d’Etat.  Skewing Competition  “We will defend our interests in electricity the same way
we did for gas,” Fabien Chone, head of Anode and deputy chief
of energy distributor  Poweo Direct Energie (ALPWO) , said in an
interview.  The company, which has about 850,000 electricity customers
in France, contends that EDF’s regulated rates are too low and
hinder competition. Anode wants rates increased 5 percent to 6
percent a year for three years.  For at least the past six years, successive French
governments have announced power price adjustments in July and
August when people are away from their homes and less concerned
with heating bills and reading the news.  A decision on rates will be made in July, Batho and Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  have said in response to the
commission’s report. They have also asked EDF to strengthen its
program to control costs.  “The Conseil d’Etat has proven to be very alert to the
principle that energy companies have to be able to cover their
costs,” said Romaric Lazerges, a lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in
Paris, who represents Anode. “The regulator has acknowledged
the wide and growing gap in France between the costs for EDF and
tariffs charged to consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  