-- Junk-Loan Rates Soar on Record 43% on Debt as Buyers Balk
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-07-02T15:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/junk-loan-rates-soar-on-record-43-on-debt-as-buyers-balk.html
Junk-rated companies agreed to boost
 interest rates  on more U.S. loans than any time since at least
2011, as lenders extracted more compensation with prices of the
floating-rate debt tumbling from a six-year high.  Drug distributor  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) 
to toothbrush-maker Water Pik Inc. were among companies that
sweetened terms on $17.7 billion of loans in June, accounting
for 43 percent of total deals, according to Standard & Poor’s
Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data. That’s 10 times greater
than in May and the highest in data going back to January 2011.
Twenty issuers failed to get loan financing, versus 22 for the
first five months of the year, as the average price of the
senior-ranking debt  fell  by the most since May 2012.  Investors are demanding more in interest to fund the $550
billion market for leveraged loans after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated the central bank could slow
the pace of its stimulus if economic growth keeps pace with its
forecasts. The comments triggered a surge in debt yields,
causing a drop in loan prices as high-yield fund managers dumped
the debt to mitigate losses on  junk bonds .  “With the drop in loan prices, new issuers have had to do
more to make their debt look attractive,” Frank Ossino, a
Hartford, Connecticut-based  money manager  who oversees about
$2.5 billion of leveraged loans at Newfleet Asset Management,
said in a telephone interview. “The ability for lenders to push
back has been largely created by the weakness in the high-yield
 bond market .”  Loan Prices  Loan prices, which had climbed to a six-year high on May
22, declined 0.89 cent to 97.33 cents on the dollar in June, the
biggest monthly decline in more than a year, according to the
Standard & Poor’s/LSTA Leveraged Loan Index.  The Fed chairman’s statements at the end of a Federal Open
Market Committee meeting on June 19 stoked speculation the
central bank will soon begin to scale back efforts that have
pumped more than $2.5 trillion into the financial system since
2008. That sparked the three biggest weekly outflows from high-yield bond funds.  For the week ended June 26, investors pulled $3.1 billion
from U.S. junk-bond funds, putting the month on track to set a
new record of about $16 billion of outflows, according to a June
27 report from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Loans, which have rates
that fluctuate and offer defense against higher borrowing costs,
held up better and gained $5 billion.  ‘Nervous’ Markets  “The loan market isn’t driven directly by Bernanke’s
comments,” Eric Meyer, a money manager at Deutsche Asset and
 Wealth Management , where he oversees about $4 billion in U.S.
loans, said in a telephone interview. “If those comments make
people nervous about credit markets in general, loans will see
an impact, even if it is to a lesser extent.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.19 basis point to a mid-price of 84.6 basis points
as of 11:22 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Goldman Sachs  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.25 basis point to 16.6 basis
points as of 11:22 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 3.8 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 11:23 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Junk bonds lost 3.1 percent in June, cutting gains this
year to 1.1 percent, according to the  Bloomberg USD High Yield
Corporate Bond Index. (BUHY)  Leveraged loans  shed 0.6 percent  during
the same time period in the first monthly loss since May 2012,
S&P/LSTA data show.  High-Yield Holdings  Leveraged loans and junk bonds are high-yield, high-risk
debt rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower
than BBB- by S&P.  High-yield funds had increased holdings of loans to 8.3
percent in December, from 7.5 percent six months earlier,
according to a review of select funds by S&P LCD. Since 2010,
the senior-ranking debt in such funds doubled to $24 billion of
the $293 billion in total assets, according to an S&P/LCD
estimate.  The fund managers discarded loans to meet redemptions in a
bid to limit losses, Newfleet’s Ossino said.  As high-yield managers sell loans “it put pressure on loan
prices and in turn loan yields,” he said. “This in effect
results in the market repricing itself.”  The spread on loans sold to non-bank lenders averaged 4.29
percentage points more than benchmark rates in June, according
to S&P/LCD. That’s up from 3.7 percentage points in May, which
was the lowest since November 2007.  Loan Issuance  Less than 50 percent of outstanding loans are trading above
par, according to data compiled by Barclays. That compares with
figures in excess of 80 percent two months ago, according to a
May 3 report from the bank.  Term-loan issuance dropped to the slowest pace this year,
with about $35 billion of floating-rate debt syndicated last
month, bringing issuance this year to about $445 billion,
Bloomberg data show.  Beats Electronics LLC, the headphone maker founded by music
producer  Jimmy Iovine  and rapper Dr. Dre, withdrew plans June 24
to borrow as much as $650 million in loans due to market
conditions.  Proceeds of the loan would have been used to refinance $225
million of maturing debt and for additional purposes, including
distributions to shareholders.  Carl Icahn-controlled auto-parts supplier Federal-Mogul
Corp. canceled plans to refinance $3.05 billion of debt. The
company was seeking a $1.75 billion term loan, a $550 million
revolving  credit line  and $750 million of bonds, according to a
June 10 regulatory filing.  Pulling Back  “Expectations had been set by bankers based on how the
first few months of the year had gone,”  Trey Parker , head of
credit research at Highland Capital Management LP, which manages
about $14.5 billion in leveraged-loans, said in a telephone
interview. “When the high-yield guys pulled back, it softened
the excess demand.”  Valeant increased the rate on a $3.55 billion loan backing
its purchase of Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc. The Canadian drug
distributor is offering the  term loan  at 3.75 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate, with a 0.75 percent
minimum on the lending benchmark, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal who asked not to be identified because the
terms aren’t set.  That compares with a margin of 3.25 percentage points to
3.5 percentage points proposed earlier, with the same Libor
floor. The loan will be offered to lenders at 98.5 cents on the
dollar, compared with 99.5 cents previously.  Water Pik increased the rate on bank debt backing its
leveraged buyout by MidOcean Partners LP. The margin on a $215
million term loan widened to 4.75 percentage points more than
Libor from 4 percentage points more than the benchmark,
Bloomberg data show.  “When borrowers really need the money, and there’s market
volatility, that’s when lenders strike the better-structured and
good-paying deal,” Ossino said. “It’s when the markets are
hot, that transaction terms loosen and yields tighten.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  