-- Nationstar-Serviced Mortgage Bonds to Realize Losses, Fitch Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-02T14:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/nationstar-serviced-mortgage-bonds-to-realize-losses-fitch-says.html
U.S.  home-loan bonds  without
government backing serviced by Nationstar Mortgage LLC will
recognize about $1 billion of losses because of an accounting
change tied to modified loans, according to Fitch Ratings.  The losses, amounting to about 1.5 percent of the total
balance of the mortgage pools affected, are likely to be
realized by the transactions in July and mostly influence bonds
with ratings at least eight levels below investment grade, the
New York-based firm said today in an e-mailed statement.  The accounting change is tied to mortgages with forborne
principal amounts whose servicing was acquired by Nationstar
from Aurora Bank FSB in 2012, Fitch said.  The event is similar to about $1 billion of losses realized
in May on loans whose servicing rights were acquired by  Ocwen
Financial Corp. (OCN) , Fitch said. A survey of other services suggests
that additional large losses shouldn’t be expected, the company
said.  Marshall Murphy, a spokesman for Lewisville, Texas-based
Nationstar, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail about the
statement by the rating company.  Fitch said that Nationstar had informed it of the planned
change in the servicer’s reporting for the mortgages whose
borrowers had been offered forbearance during modifications.
That step entails homeowners not paying any interest or
principal on some of their loan amounts until a later date.  The uncertainty about cash flows in subprime-mortgage
securitizations contributed to declines in the debt that reached
almost 22 percent in June among some of the notes as prices
tumbled, according to Bank of America Corp. data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 