-- Neymar-Investing Hedge Fund Doyen Said Backed by Kazakh Family
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-02T22:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/neymar-investing-hedge-fund-doyen-said-backed-by-kazakh-family.html
A property developer and luxury hotel
chain owner are among a small group of investment partners in
 Doyen Capital LLP , which has made bets on the career of soccer
stars Neymar and Radamel Falcao, two people who have worked with
the hedge fund said.  The families of Tevfik Arif, founder of Bayrock Group LLC,
and Fettah Tamince, chief executive officer of  Rixos Hotels , are
investing in soccer, energy trading and other areas through
Doyen, said the people, who weren’t authorized to speak publicly
about the subject. The fund’s managers include Arif’s son,
according to one of the people.  Doyen is one of the largest funds making deals with cash-strapped soccer teams for a share in the future transfer fees of
players. The sport’s European ruling body, UEFA, wants to ban
the practice, citing concerns that it may interfere in the $3
billion transfer market. The funds have sought to remain low-profile in the world’s most popular sport, according to Sandalio
Gomez, a professor at IESE business school in  Madrid  who teaches
soccer executives.  “The investors don’t want to get into a controversy that
will mess up their investment,” Gomez said.  London-based Doyen is also betting on players’ image
rights, and in May agreed to manage Neymar’s advertising deals
outside  Brazil . The fund guaranteed a minimum amount to Neymar,
who joined  Spain ’s Barcelona from Santos that month. It will
also share income it generates for him, in common with athlete
representation agencies like IMG Worldwide Inc., one of the
people said. Neymar scored in Brazil’s 3-0 win against Spain in
the Confederations Cup final last weekend.  Yacht Arrest  Kazakhstan’s Arif didn’t respond to an e-mail with
questions about his involvement in the fund. He helped develop
the 46-story Trump Soho hotel and condominium in  Manhattan  with
 Donald Trump  and the Sapir Organization. Arif was acquitted
after being arrested on a yacht in 2010 by Turkish police
investigating a prostitution ring.  Rixos spokeswoman Begum Guven declined to make Tamince, of
 Turkey , available for interview.  In the player trading market, the hedge fund buys a stake
in an athlete’s transfer rights via Malta-based Doyen Sports
Investments and shares any fee when he is traded. Soccer ruling
body FIFA is reviewing the investment model, which began in
 South America  in the 1990s.  Fans are suspicious of such funds because they bring
“ultra capitalism” to the sport, said Jose Maria Gay, a
professor at Barcelona University who has written reports on
soccer finance for  Nyon, Switzerland-based UEFA . The practice is
banned in the English Premier League.  ‘No Pistol’  Nelio Lucas, a Doyen executive, told a seminar in Madrid in
March that the fund has allowed some soccer clubs to “survive
in their day-to-day business” by providing finance at a time
when Spanish banks have shut off lending. He says Doyen doesn’t
have any influence on whether clubs trade players, contrary to
what UEFA says.  “There’s no pistol on the table,” Lucas said.  Lucas and Simon Oliveira, another Doyen executive, declined
to say who the fund’s investors are.  In December 2011, Doyen provided a one-year loan to
 Atletico Madrid  that would have paid out a share of any transfer
fee if Falcao was traded during the period, one of the people
said. The loan matured before the 27-year-old Colombian striker
moved to  Monaco  on May 31, the person said.  Doyen has also acquired stakes in the transfer rights of
midfielder Geoffrey Kondogbia, 20, and defender Eliaquim
Mangala, 22, according to their clubs, Sevilla and Porto. Both
have represented  France ’s national team at youth level. Mangala
is a possible target for Premier League team Chelsea, L’Equipe
newspaper reported June 25, a day after the Evening Standard
said that Kondogbia could join the London club owned by
billionaire  Roman Abramovich .  Chelsea spokesman Steve Atkins didn’t immediately return a
call and e-mail seeking comment on the newspaper reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  