-- Norway Says Cermaq Stake Lets Ministry Control Sales Process
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-07-02T15:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/norway-says-cermaq-stake-lets-government-control-sales-process.html
Norway ’s government increased its
stake in  Cermaq ASA (CEQ) , the largest maker of fish feed, to give it
control over the sale of the company’s Ewos unit, Trade and
Industry Ministry Trond Giske said.  Norway, which last week increased its stake in the company
to  59.2 percent  from 43.5 percent, doesn’t expect to maintain
such a large position in Cermaq, the minister said in an
interview in Oslo today. “This is just a position that we want
to hold to control the process.”  Norway bought shares in Cermaq on June 24 and 25 after
earlier that month rejecting an offer from  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) ,
the world’s largest salmon producer, as too low. The government,
which holds strategic stakes in companies including  Statoil ASA (STL) 
and  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) , has maintained its investment in Cermaq is
financial and that it’s open to an “industrially sound
solution” for the company.  Giske didn’t say if the government will accept an offer
from Bain Capital LLC and Altor Equity Partners for Ewos, which
values the unit at 6.2 billion-kroner ($1 billion). Cermaq will
hold an extraordinary meeting on July 11 to decide on the deal,
which needs the backing of 50 percent of shareholders.  “When the process with Cermaq is complete, then we will
either be totally out of the company” or perhaps hold a
“smaller strategic position,” Giske said today, without giving
further detail.  Morpol Integration  Cermaq’s fish feed operations contributed operating revenue
of 10.3 billion kroner last year, compared with sales of 3.3
billion kroner for its fish farming operations, according to its
 annual report . Ewos is the biggest salmon feed supplier by
volume, while its farming operation, which includes units in
 Chile , Canada and Norway, is the third-largest salmon producer.  Cermaq closed 0.5 percent higher at  108 kroner  in Oslo,
extending its gain during the last 12 months to 35 percent and
giving the company a market value of 10 billion kroner.  Marine Harvest, controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen ,
has now sold all its shares in Cermaq and will focus on
developing its greenfield feed capacity in Norway, expanding its
farming operations at home and in Chile, and integrating smoked
salmon producer Morpol ASA into its business, it said on June
26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo on  at
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  