-- NWR Gains Most in Three Years on Asset Sale Report: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-07-02T14:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/nwr-gains-most-in-three-years-on-asset-sale-report-prague-mover.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR)  rose the most
in more than three years after a report stoked bets the
unprofitable Czech supplier of steelmaking coal will sell assets
as it revamps its business.  The stock surged 13 percent, the most since April 2010, to
21.65 koruna by the close in Prague. Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa
SA is among “many” European companies that have been invited
to analyze assets put up for sale by NWR, PAP newswire reported
yesterday, citing the Polish mining company’s chief executive
officer, Jaroslaw Zagorowski.  “Investors are betting that asset sales will help the
company reduce indebtedness or build a cash cushion in case
negative trends in the steel industry continue,”  Josef Nemy ,
analyst at Komercni Banka AS in Prague, wrote in an e-mail
today. “No one has officially expressed interest in the assets
so far, but NWR shares are now extremely sensitive to any news
or speculation.”  NWR said in May it was seeking a buyer for its OKK coking
unit and that it may sell or close some mines after it posted a
 first-quarter loss . The company’s shares tumbled 74 percent in
the three months ended June 30, the biggest  quarterly slump  on
record, as a recession in the Czech Republic and the euro area
damped demand from steelmakers.  ‘Possible Idling’  NWR is “seeking the divestment of the OKK coking company
and is also stress-testing its coal-mining assets with a view to
the possible idling, divestment or closure of some mining
operations,” company spokesman Joe Cook said in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News late yesterday, when asked to comment on the PAP
report.  The deteriorating outlook for the coal and steel sectors
prompted analysts including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of
America Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank AG to recommended
investors  sell the stock.  Basic resources companies are the
biggest decliners this year among 19 industry groups in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NWR shares, which have rallied 22 percent since reaching a
record low on June 27, are down 78 percent this year, compared
with a drop of 15 percent for the benchmark PX Index. NWR led
gains in the gauge today, with over 660,000 shares traded, more
than  1.4 times  the three-month daily average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  