-- Obama Climate Plan Seen by Environmentalists Adding Jobs
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-07-02T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/obama-climate-plan-seen-by-environmentalists-adding-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to use
regulations to curb carbon-dioxide emissions from power plants
could result in the  U.S. economy  adding jobs -- not losing them
-- as well as lower electricity rates, according to an analysis
released by an environmental group that favors the rules.  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , which proposed a
plan in December to curb  greenhouse gases  from power plants,
said today that its analysis showed that Obama can make good on
his pledge last week to curtail the emissions blamed for global
warming without harming the U.S. economy.  “To avoid the worst impacts of climate change, we must act
now, but we must do so in a way that creates and maintains
quality jobs for American workers,” David Foster, executive
director of the  BlueGreen Alliance , a group of unions and
environmental groups, said in a statement accompanying the
report.  Obama made curtailing carbon-dioxide emissions from power
plants the centerpiece of a plan he unveiled June 25 to address
global warming. That plan, according to Republican lawmakers and
representatives of coal producers, could end up undercutting the
American economy by curtailing the use of low-cost coal and
increasing electricity rates.  “The president views this as a legacy issue, and on this
point he and I agree,” Mike Duncan, the president of the
American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, said in speech on
June 26. “But that legacy is going to be higher energy costs,
less reliable electricity, lost jobs and a shattered economy.”  NRDC Plan  The NRDC’s analysis of its plan is meant to show that
needn’t be the case. Its proposal from December would give
states leeway to use  energy efficiency  and changes in dispatch
away from coal plants to reduce carbon dioxide. That flexibility
is key to making the plan work, according to the New York-based
group.  According to its report, by a pair of NRDC staff members,
if the group’s plan were implemented it would result in an net
increase of 210,000 jobs in the U.S. with workers installing
carbon-capture technologies, efficiency systems and clean-energy
projects, and a lower average residential electricity bill of 90
cents a month as less power is consumed. It won’t affect gross
domestic product, the researchers concluded.  “Energy efficiency is the primary means for reducing
carbon under NRDC’s proposal,” the report said. “Power
companies can earn credit toward compliance for avoided
pollution by helping their customers use less electricity,”
which is cheaper than building new plants or retrofitting
existing ones, it said.  The group says that if the new standards it calls for were
put in place,  carbon emissions  from plants would decline 26
percent over this decade from 2005 levels. Annual costs would
amount to about $4 billion in 2020, and estimated benefits from
“saving lives and reducing the risks of catastrophic  climate
change ” would range from $25 billion to $60 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  