-- Hollande Fires Energy Minister Batho Amid Nuclear-Power Debate
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-02T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/hollande-fires-energy-minister-batho-after-budget-criticism.html
President Francois Hollande’s ouster
of Environment Minister Delphine Batho after she criticized the
government’s budget plans for next year comes at a critical time
for the country’s energy policy.  Batho, 40, was summoned to Prime Minister Jean-Marc
Ayrault’s office yesterday after calling Hollande’s 2014 spending
plans “bad” in a morning radio interview because they cut her
department’s available funds about 7 percent. She leaves in the
midst of debate about  France ’s future energy mix, now heavily
dependent on nuclear.  The departure is the second by a key cabinet member in
Hollande’s government since Budget Minister Jerome Cahuzac
resigned in March after admitting to holding an undeclared Swiss
bank account. By dismissing Batho, who held both the energy and
environment portfolios, Hollande is signaling his determination
to shrink government spending that last year accounted for
almost 57 percent of gross domestic product.  “Hollande is showing brutally that he’s the boss,” said
Laurent Dubois, a politics professor at the Institute of
Political Studies in Paris. “The longer he’s in power, the more
Hollande is shifting towards the center.”  Socialist lawmaker Philippe Martin was named to replace
Batho, Hollande’s office said. Martin, elected in the
southwestern Gers department, is a member of the National
Assembly’s sustainable and regional development commission and
the shale gas study group. He is a critic of genetically
modified organisms.  Reduced Dependence  Hollande pledged to lower the country’s dependence on
nuclear energy to 50 percent of total output from the current 75
percent, the highest proportion of any country in the world. An
energy law was to be formulated in the coming months and sent to
parliament at the start of 2014, Batho had said. It was to
follow months of organized debates during which Batho regularly
called for “massive” development of renewable energies and job
creation through green technologies.  Environmental groups called Batho’s firing unfair and a
poor signal of the country’s ecological credentials.  “Delphine Batho is collateral damage of the complete
absence of environmental ambition of the government and
president,” Greenpeace said in a statement.  The stakes of the energy debate are high for  Electricite de
France SA , operator of the country’s 58 nuclear reactors,
because it wants to extend the lives of its generators rather
than have any of them shut down.  Fracking Critic  As energy minister, Batho was the government’s most vocal
critic of hydraulic fracturing for shale energies, a technology
banned in France under the administration of former President
Nicolas Sarkozy. The drilling method is causing “considerable”
environmental damage in the U.S. including earthquakes, aquifer
pollution, heavy metal contamination, increased truck traffic
and damage to the countryside, Batho said last month.  The country’s business lobby has stepped up pressure in
recent months to have the ban lifted as a way to make France
less dependent on fuel imports and to create jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  