-- Holland & Knight, Debevoise, Morgan Lewis: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/holland-knight-debevoise-morgan-lewis-business-of-law.html
A group of 24 lawyers including 12
partners from Patton Boggs LLP are joining Holland & Knight LLP,
which is opening its 18th U.S. office in Dallas.  James C. Chadwick, former co-chairman of Patton Boggs’s
business department, will lead Holland & Knight’s Dallas office
as executive partner.  “The outstanding group of lawyers joining our firm will
enable us to expand our existing corporate finance and
restructuring practices throughout the U.S.,” Steven Sonberg,
Holland & Knight’s managing partner, said in a statement. “In
addition, Holland & Knight’s entry into the Texas market will
offer client expansion opportunities for our other practices.”  Michelle White Suarez, who was the managing partner of
Patton Boggs’s Dallas office, and commercial finance partner
Matthew Fontane will also assume leadership roles at Holland &
Knight, the firm said.  Additional partners who practice in the areas of corporate
and commercial finance, mergers and acquisitions and
restructuring and bankruptcy joining the firm include Robert W. Jones, Scott C. Wallace, Kenneth M. Vesledahl, Fred S. Stovall,
James L. Baker, Eric W. Kimball, Anthony J. Herrera, Brent R.
McIlwain, and Eric M. Pfeifle.  The firm also hired 11 associate lawyers and a senior
counsel and expects to make additional hires in the future.  Last week, after it was reported that a group was leaving
Patton Boggs for Holland & Knight, Patton said in a statement,
“These colleagues are our friends and we thank them for their
service and wish them well in their new endeavors.” The firm
had no further comment yesterday.  The lawyers joining Holland represent clients in the
financial services and corporate sectors on leveraged
acquisitions and leveraged recapitalizations, senior and
subordinated debt, syndicated bank facilities, private
placements, asset-based lending and restructurings, workouts and
bankruptcy, among other matters, the firm said.  The group also advises institutions and funds on mergers,
acquisitions and other business combinations, as well as
securities and general corporate matters.  King & Spalding announced yesterday that former Patton
Boggs partner David J. Farber, a life sciences and health-care
regulatory litigator, joined the firm’s food and drug
administration, life sciences and health-care practices in
 Washington .  Patton Boggs, with about 500 lawyers, has 10 offices in the
U.S. and the  Middle East . In Dallas, the firm has more than 75
lawyers, including more than 30 partners, according to its
website.  Holland & Knight has more than 1,000 lawyers with offices
in  Abu Dhabi , Beijing, Bogota and Mexico City as well as the
U.S.  Deals  Debevoise, Covington Advise Tribune on $2.73 Billion Deal  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and Covington & Burling LLP are
advising  Tribune Co. (TRBAA) , which agreed to buy Local TV Holdings
LLC’s 19 television stations for $2.73 billion in cash, the
biggest U.S. broadcasting deal in six years. Dow Lohnes PLLC
advised the sellers.  The Debevoise team is led by partners Paul S. Bird and
Jonathan E. Levitsky and includes partners Jeffrey E. Ross,
Peter A. Furci and Lawrence K. Cagney. Covington’s team was led
by partners Mace Rosenstein and Matt DelNero.  Dow Lohnes’s team included partners Kevin Mills and Len
Baxt, corporate, and Michael Basile, communications.  The acquisition of Local TV, principally owned by Oak Hill
 Capital Partners , will almost double the number of Tribune’s
stations to 42, according to a statement yesterday. Local TV
assets include 16 markets, with top-rated stations in Denver,
 Cleveland  and  St. Louis , the companies said.  The deal, which reduces Tribune’s reliance on newspapers,
offers a wider audience to advertisers and gives the company an
edge in talks with cable and satellite carriers, who pay to
distribute local channels on their networks. Including Gannett
Co.’s agreement to buy Belo Corp. for $1.5 billion, the industry
saw $3.2 billion in deals last quarter, the biggest for
takeovers since 2007.  “Television is hot,” said  Ed Atorino , an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in  New York . “Right now these companies want to
get bigger.”  Tribune’s acquisition is the largest takeover of a
broadcast-TV company since a group led by  Haim Saban  acquired
Spanish-language broadcaster Univision Communications Inc. for
$12.3 billion in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Moves  Crowell & Moring Lures Six-Member Team from Dickstein  Crowell & Moring LLP added a six-member energy team from
Dickstein Shapiro LLP in the environment, energy & resources
group.  The new additions include partners Larry F. Eisenstat, who
led Dickstein’s energy group, and corporate-transactional
partners Patrick W. Lynch, and Jonathan C. Odell, the firm said
in a statement. A policy adviser, counsel and associate also
join the firm.  “They bring a wealth of experience, industry knowledge and
relationships to our firm that will significantly enhance
Crowell’s ability to assist its many energy industry clients,”
Scott L. Winkelman, partner and co-chairman of Crowell &
Moring’s environment, energy and resources group said of the
hires. “Through their sophisticated understanding of energy
markets, their project development and management skills, and
their corporate transactional experience, the team will help
Crowell & Moring clients navigate regulatory challenges, advise
on emerging policy issues, structure and document corporate and
transactional matters, as well as tackle bet-the-company
disputes.”  The team has regulatory, project development,
transactional, litigation, and compliance experience on behalf
of companies that develop, finance, operate, acquire, sell,
restructure, or manage energy and other infrastructure projects,
the firm said.  Crowell & Moring’s environment, energy and resources group
is comprised of almost 40 attorneys who work from the
Washington, New York, California, Alaska and Wyoming offices.
The firm has about 500 lawyers with 11 offices in the U.S.,
 Europe , Cairo and Rydadh.  Chicago Office Chief Gillette Leaving SEC to Become Law Partner  Merri Jo Gillette will step down as director of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s Chicago office to join the
the  law firm  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP as a partner, the
agency said yesterday in a statement.  Gillette will leave the SEC later this month after more
than 25 years, the agency said.  At  Morgan Lewis , Gillette will focus on representing
financial institutions, corporations, boards of directors and
individuals before financial services regulators and other
regulatory authorities. She will also advise clients on internal
investigations, developing effective compliance programs, risk
and  crisis management  and corporate governance issues, the firm
said in a statement.  Morgan Lewis has more than 1,600 legal professionals at 24
offices in the U.S., Europe, and  Asia .  Gibson Dunn Expands, Adding Two Brussels Competition Lawyers  Competition lawyer Jens-Olrik Murach joins Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP’s Brussels office along with another
lawyer. Murach, who joins the firm as a partner, previously
practiced at Flick Gocke Schaumburg in Bonn, Germany, where he
headed the EU and competition practice.  “We have expanded our competition practice in the U.K.,
U.S. and now Brussels to meet client demand,” Ken Doran,
chairman and managing partner of  Gibson Dunn , said in a
statement.  Murach is a German-qualified lawyer with more than 10
years’ experience in antitrust law in Brussels and Germany. He
will practice from both the Brussels and Munich offices,
focusing on the German market, the firm said.  His antitrust practice includes merger control, restrictive
practices, market dominance and cartel investigations. His
representative work has included matters including Bayer/Aventis
CropScience, Siemens/VA Tech and Areva/Alstom.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers at 18 offices in
the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Shearman Arbitration Specialist to Join Cleary in Frankfurt  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  announced that Richard Kreindler, a partner at Shearman & Sterling LLP, will join the
firm as a partner based in  Frankfurt .  Kreindler will be part of the  Cleary Gottlieb ’s
international arbitration and litigation practice.  Kreindler “will further strengthen our global disputes
practice, which has represented corporate and sovereign clients
in many of the largest and most complex commercial and
investment treaty arbitrations, and has grown over the past
decade to include more than 80 senior lawyers based in New York,
Washington, Brussels, Frankfurt, Cologne, Rome, Milan, Paris,
London and Hong Kong,” Cleary Gottlieb Managing Partner Mark Leddy said in a statement.  Kreindler has experience in Europe, the U.S., Asia and the
Middle East, representing clients in disputes under all of the
institutional and ad hoc arbitration regimes, and serves
regularly as presiding arbitrator, party arbitrator, and expert
witness, the firm said. He has experience in commercial
arbitration as well as disputes in the public international law
arena, including multilateral and bilateral investment treaty
based arbitrations.  Cleary Gottlieb has more than 1,200 lawyers worldwide.  Rockefeller Group CEO Joins Proskauer Rose in New York  Proskauer Rose  LLP announced that Kevin R. Hackett, who was
president and chief executive officer of the Rockefeller Group,
joined the firm as a member of the private-equity real estate
practice in the New York office.  Hackett joined the Rockefeller Group in 2004 as chief
operating officer of the subsidiary Rockefeller Group
Development Corp., becoming chief executive officer of that
company in 2007 and assuming his most recent position in 2009,
the firm said.  “His real estate expertise on both the business and
investment side is at the highest level and will be a tremendous
asset to our clients,” Proskauer Chairman Joseph M. Leccese
said in a statement.  Proskauer has lawyers at 13 offices in the Americas, Europe
and Asia.  News  M&A Slows as Stock Market Rally Fails to Spark 2013 Comeback  A healthy stock market and cheap debt have traditionally
been two ingredients that helped fueled booms in mergers and
acquisitions. The recipe isn’t quite working this year.  Instead, the ingredients may paradoxically be prolonging a
lull in transactions, say investment bankers and lawyers, many
of whom had predicted a deal-making comeback in 2013.  Higher
stock prices , coupled with a shaky recovery, have made some
executives wary of overpaying for acquisitions, or selling too
cheaply. And some potential targets have tapped cheap credit to
win a lifeline and stay independent.  “If I go through my checklist of what needs to be in place
to enable M&A to happen, I can put a tick in many of the key
boxes,” said Mark Warham, head of mergers and acquisitions for
Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  at Barclays Plc. “Yet so far
we haven’t seen a real intensity of deals this year.”  While transactions worldwide reached about $490 billion in
the second quarter, up 3 percent from the previous three months,
they were down about 10 percent compared with the same period in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The sustained runup in stock market prices has made it
more challenging in many situations for cash buyers like
private-equity firms to put together deals that make financial
sense,” said Lee Meyerson, head of the M&A group at law firm
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP.  At the same time, the buoyant market also pushed some
private-equity firms to take their portfolio companies public to
get a better valuation than in a sale, said John Eydenberg, co-head of America’s investment banking and head of financial
sponsors for Deutsche Bank AG.  For more, click here.  Texas Filibuster Star Rose From Teen Mom to Harvard Law Graduate  Texas lawmakers returned to Austin yesterday for another
attempt to put the state at the forefront of a Republican-led
push to legislate away abortion, resuming a fight that made
state Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat, into an
overnight sensation last week.  Davis, who went from teenage single mother to Harvard Law
graduate, shot to fame as she tried to block new abortion limits
with a filibuster. Barred from restroom breaks, drinking water,
sitting or even leaning on her desk, she held the floor more
than 11 hours as word of her marathon monologue spread over the
Internet.  Davis, 50, and party colleagues joined by raucous
spectators in the galleries, prevented a vote on a bill that
would have shut almost all the state’s abortion clinics and
banned the procedure after 20 weeks. The same measure tops the
agenda in a new special session, prompting a pledge from
thousands to  rally  against it at the Capitol.  Support from Republicans who control the Legislature means
the Democrats’ victory probably will be short-lived. More
important to abortion-rights advocates is what Davis may
represent: a newly awakened voter bloc rebelling over what they
see as government overreach into health-care decisions made by
women in consultation with their families and doctors.  Born poor with three siblings, Davis began working at 14 to
help her single mother make ends meet. By 19 she had become a
single mother herself, according to her  website . Starting at a
junior college to become a paralegal, she graduated first in her
class at  Texas Christian University  and went on to Harvard, in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  After nine years on the Fort Worth City Council, she won in
an upset to take a Senate seat from a Republican incumbent in
2008. As a lawyer, she works for Cantey Hanger LP in Fort Worth
on matters including litigation, real estate and regulation,
according to the firm’s  website . She spent more than five years
as an executive in a real-estate title business in the city.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  