-- Honda Threatens Suzuki Lead in Compacts Battle: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-07-02T18:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/honda-threatens-suzuki-lead-in-compacts-battle-corporate-india.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  may have cracked the
formula for success in India: a diesel-powered compact sedan.  The Amaze, introduced in April, fueled the Japanese
automaker’s sales to a record the following month and propelled
Honda to the third spot among carmakers in Asia’s third-biggest
market from as low as No. 8 in 2011. After denting sales of
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ’s bestselling sub-compact Swift DZire
in May and June, Honda is doubling capacity and planning more
models, said Jnaneswar Sen, senior vice president for sales and
marketing at Honda Cars India Ltd.  “We’ve never faced this happy situation,” Sen said in an
interview at the company’s factory in Noida, near New Delhi.
“We will grow fast and we are working towards becoming the most
trusted brand in  India .”  Honda, which was the only automaker in India that didn’t
offer a diesel-engine car until March, is catching up with its
rivals to benefit from the popularity of a fuel that is 26
percent cheaper than gasoline. The Amaze will hurt Maruti, which
is seeking to shield its market and margins amid the worst slump
in more than a decade in Asia’s third-biggest economy, according
to Mayur Milak, an analyst with Dolat Capital Market Pvt.  “The launch of the Amaze has given people an opportunity
to look beyond the DZire,” said Mumbai-based Milak. “Having a
Honda badge helps and going forward, growing competition will
hamper Maruti.”  Fuel Subsidies  The share of diesel cars sold in India swelled to 47
percent in the year to March 31 from 40 percent in the previous
12 months as the government subsidizes the fuel to benefit
farmers and freight operators. Gasoline at a New Delhi pump
costs 68.58 rupees ($1.15) a liter, while diesel sells for 50.84
rupees.  The Amaze sub-compact, which is the Brio hatchback with a
boot, has a 4-5 month waiting period, Sen said. The diesel
variant starts from 602,900 rupees in the nation’s capital,
while the DZire equivalent sells for 599,500 rupees.  Sales at Honda’s Indian unit, including those of the City,
Accord and CR-V, reached 11,342 units in May and jumped 248
percent to 9,297 cars in June, versus as few as 1,072 in
December 2011, according to data provided by the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s local unit sold 12,548 DZire cars in
June, down almost 9 percent from a year earlier. The dispatches
declined 2.5 percent in the previous month. Mayank Pareek,
Maruti’s head of sales, didn’t answer two calls made to his
mobile phone.  ‘Significant Pull’  “Honda does have a significant amount of pull as far as
the Indian buyer is concerned,” said Mohit Arora, executive
director at J.D. Power Asia Pacific in  Singapore . “Clearly,
with a slowdown in the market, the largest player is bound to be
hit. There would be impact on Maruti if it doesn’t come up with
a new model.”  The slowdown for Maruti’s DZire comes at a time when
industrywide car sales are on course for the eighth consecutive
monthly decline in June as decelerating economic growth and high
interest rates keep buyers from showrooms. Annual sales in the
year through March 31 fell 6.7 percent to 1.89 million units,
the biggest decline since 2001, according to SIAM.  India’s $1.8 trillion economy expanded at the weakest pace
in a decade in the period, hurt by an uneven global recovery and
moderating investment.  To boost demand in the current economic environment,
carmakers from  General Motors Co. (GM)  to  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Ford
Motor Co. are introducing new models and offering discounts to
induce buyers. Rising competition from global carmakers has
eroded Maruti’s marketshare from about 60 percent a decade ago
to 39 percent last year. Now, Honda may challenge it further.  Double Capacity  The automaker will add a seven-seat minivan based on the
same platform as the Amaze next year that will compete against
Maruti’s Ertiga model, followed by a compact sport-utility
vehicle, a new version of the Jazz hatchback and the City sedan,
Sen said. The automaker will also open a 120,000 car-a-year
factory in the western state of Rajasthan next year that will
double its capacity in India, he said.  Suzuki Motor, which sells about 40 percent of its annual
deliveries in India, will open a sixth plant this year at
Manesar, near New Delhi, that will raise its capacity to 1.75
million units. The company is also building a new factory in the
western state of Gujarat that will add a further 250,000 car
capacity.  Best Performer  Maruti’s net income in the three months ended March 31 rose
to 12.4 billion rupees from 6.4 billion rupees as a weaker yen
reduced the cost of components and sales of its Ertiga minivan
and revamped DZire increased. The earnings  margin  before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization widened to 9.82
percent, the highest since 2011.  Maruti’s  shares  have risen 6 percent this year, making it
the best performer on the 10-member S&P BSE Auto Index. The
stock fell 1.7 percent to 1,578.65 rupees in Mumbai at the close
in Mumbai yesterday.  Honda is targeting to sell a record number of vehicles this
year on demand in the U.S., its biggest market, as well as a
cheaper yen that makes exports competitive. In India, Sen says
that Honda expects to sell over 120,000 cars this year, half of
which will be the Amaze.  Honda plans to add 10 dealers this year in India, and
further increase localization on its models, Sen said.  “Honda has been resurgent throughout the world,” said
J.D. Power’s Arora. “The challenge was the availability of
diesel products, and that is clearly behind them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  