-- Monster, Apple, Google, Snowden: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-02T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/monster-apple-google-snowden-intellectual-property.html
Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) , maker of
Hansen’s Natural Soda and Monster energy drinks, was sued for
patent infringement by a  Texas  company.  Monster, based in Corona,  California , is accused of
infringing patent 7,662,863, which covers a “therapeutic agent
for the use in reducing alcohol intoxication,” according to the
complaint filed June 28 in federal court in Waco, Texas. The
patent was issued in February 2010.  Applied Food Sciences Inc., of Austin, Texas, claims that
Monster’s “Rehab” product infringes the patent. According to
an exhibit included with the court filings, one of the labels on
the Monster Rehab product promises to “bring you back after a
hard day’s night.”  The Texas company produces “ Gtox ,” a beverage it claims
“attaches itself to alcohol for faster removal, according to
the website. It asked the court to order Monster to quit
infringing the patent, and for awards of money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs. Claiming that Monster’s alleged
infringement is deliberate, Applied Food Sciences requested that
the damages be tripled to punish the California company.  Monster Beverage didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment on the suit.  The case is Applied Food Sciences Inc. v. Monster Beverage
Corp., 6:13-cv-00195-WSS, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Texas (Waco).  Apple Seeks Patent on Combined Input Port for Mobile Devices  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and iPhone, has applied for a
patent on an input port for a mobile device that receive a
variety of connectors.  Application  20130166786 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office June 27, covers a port that
could connect to Universal Serial Bus connector, an audio
connector, a miniature USB connector, or a high-definition
multimedia interface.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, said the technology
would eliminate the need for multiple ports on a device, with
each one configured to accept a specific connector. According to
the application, this port would have multiple depths.  Apple filed this application in December 2011.  Pharrel Williams Says ‘I Am Other’ Marks Don’t Infringe
Will.I.Am  Pharrell Williams, the rapper, music producer and
entrepreneur, filed a trademark case seeking a court declaration
he doesn’t infringe marks belonging to  William Adams , also known
as Will.I.Am.  The suit, filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan,
seeks clarification that Williams’s use of “I am other”
doesn’t infringe Adams’s “I am” marks.  According to court papers, beginning in December 2012,
Williams has received multiple cease-and-desist demands from
Adams. The letters, included in the court filings, threaten
litigation and claim that Williams’s use of “I am other” is
likely to confuse the public into thinking falsely that an
affiliation exists between the two performers and their various
respective business ventures.  Williams argues in his pleadings that Adams’s “I am”
marks are weak and that the “I am” phrase is so commonly used
in the  music industry  that it is non-distinctive when it is
standing alone. He noted that performer Beyonce Knowles released
an album titled “I am ... Sasah Fierce,” and that her 2009
concert tour was titled “I am ... World Tour.”  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, on June 18 counsel for Adams filed a request that his
opposition to multiple trademark applications Williams filed to
register “I am other” be consolidated. These included
applications to register the mark for use with cosmetics,
jewelry, luggage, clothing, musical recordings, temporary
tattoos and music production.  In that filing, Adams claims he has prior rights to the
mark.  Williams asked the federal court to declare “I am other”
doesn’t infringe, and contends that Adams has no basis to oppose
the “I am other” trademark registrations. Additionally, he
asked for awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  The case is I Am Other Entertainment LLC v. William Adams,
1:13-cv-04547, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Files for Japanese ‘IWatch’ Trademark for Wearable Device  Apple Inc., the world’s most valuable technology company,
is seeking a trademark for “iWatch” in Japan as rival Samsung
Electronics Co. readies its own wearable computing device.  The iPhone maker is seeking protection for the name, which
is listed in a category for products such as a handheld computer
or watch, according to a June 3 filing with the Japan Patent
Office that was made public last week. Takashi Takebayashi, a
Tokyo-based spokesman for Apple, didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  Apple’s shares have retreated more than 40 percent from a
record high in September amid concern that Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  has taken too long to deliver a new
breakthrough product to help make up for stiffer iPhone
competition. The company has a team of about 100 product
designers working on a wristwatch-like device that may perform
some of the tasks now handled by the iPhone and iPad, two people
familiar with the company’s plans said in February.  Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of smartphones, is
developing a wristwatch, the company said in March.  Sony Corp. (6758) 
has sold its SmartWatch, which wirelessly connects to phones
using Google Inc.’s Android operating system and allows users to
take calls and reply to e-mails or texts, for more than a year.  Apple’s application in Japan is not the first time the
Cupertino, California-based company has sought protection for
“iwatch.” CNET News  reported  June 5 that Apple has filed an
application to register the term as a trademark in Russia.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Wins Reversal of Class-Action Status in Authors’ Suit  Google Inc. (GOOG)  won the reversal of a court order allowing
authors to sue as a group in a $3 billion lawsuit alleging the
technology company violated copyrights with its project to
digitize millions of books.  The trial judge should have considered whether the fair-use
defense would apply to Google’s project, a federal appeals court
in Manhattan ruled yesterday. “Fair use” allows the use of
copyrighted materials without permission for educational,
research and news purposes.  The  Authors Guild , which represents writers, and individual
authors sued in 2005, alleging that Google, owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, infringed copyrights by scanning and
indexing more than 20 million books without writers’ permission.
Google’s legal defense relies on copyright law’s fair-use
provision.  “We are delighted by the court’s decision,” Matt Kallman,
a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-based Google, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Google said in court papers that it has digitally scanned
more than 20 million books worldwide and that Internet searchers
would be able to view “snippets” of each book online.  Robert LaRocca, a lawyer for the writers, said on the phone
that he didn’t have an immediate comment on the ruling.  The appeals court had indicated how it might rule during
the arguments in May. U.S. Circuit Judge Pierre Leval repeatedly
questioned Google’s lawyer about the timing of its appeal. Leval
suggested that the district court might consider the fair-use
issue first and then the appeals court could decide the class
certification matter.  Chin rejected a settlement between the authors and Google
in 2011, and attempts to renegotiate that deal failed.  The appeals case is Authors Guild v. Google, 12-3200,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-cv-08136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Snowden Leaks Cast Shadow Over U.S. Plan to Curb Chinese Hacking  The Obama administration’s strategy for confronting China
over the theft of commercial technology has been battered by
Edward Snowden’s disclosures of U.S. spying, leaving officials
rushing to salvage a plan they crafted in secret over the past
two years.  A public confrontation with China that appeared to erupt
spontaneously this year actually coalesced after significant
shifts in U.S. policy and years of internal argument, analysis
and vetting, according to two people briefed on the plan who
asked not to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak on the matter.  Approved by top national security advisers and presented to
President  Barack Obama  in a series of meetings in 2012 and early
this year, the plan includes classified counterintelligence
operations, the seizure of assets and even the possible
indictment of Chinese hackers, those people said.  The U.S. already has privately provided China’s leaders
with evidence it gathered linking the hacks of commercial
companies to China’s intelligence agencies -- a risky demarche
that exposed the methods of U.S. spy agencies tracking those
activities, according to the two people.  While some elements of the plan are well under way, other
parts were intended to be rolled out over the next several
months to increase pressure on China’s leaders.  What the administration didn’t anticipate was that a
disaffected American would expose some U.S. spying operations as
it prepared for Obama’s first meeting with China’s new
president.  Snowden, a former worker for government contractor  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , disclosed top-secret U.S. National
Security Agency programs that collect phone and Internet data.
He fled to Hong Kong and then Moscow, as the administration has
pleaded for his extradition.  “It’s now going to be a lot harder to convince people in
 South Africa  or Indonesia or Brazil that we are any different
than the Chinese,” said Adam Segal, a specialist in
cybersecurity at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in New York.  The question is how much of the plan remains effective and
workable. The first test may come early this month, when U.S.
and Chinese officials convene for the first time a working group
on cybersecurity, including  data theft .  IP Talk  U.S. Is Back Among Most Innovative Countries, UN Agency Says  The U.S. moved back among the top five most-innovative
countries in the world, according to a study by the  United
Nations ’  World Intellectual Property Organization .  The country followed  Switzerland ,  Sweden , the U.K. and
 Netherlands , according to a  statement  about the report. The last
time the U.S. was among the top five on the Global Innovation
Index was in 2009. Last year it ranked 10th.  The annual report, ranking 142 economies by their
“innovation capability and measurable results,” began in 2007.
Its publication yesterday is timed with the opening of a four-day conference in Geneva hosted by the UN Economic and Social
Council, focused this year on how science and technology can
help achieve the “Millennium Development Goals.”  In 2000, the UN established the Millennium Development
Goals, a 15-year plan to reduce poverty and child mortality, and
boost access to health care in developing nations.  The U.K. advanced from fifth place, Finland sank to sixth
from fourth, and Singapore also fell from the top five, coming
in at eighth this year.  The index was prepared with help from Chenghai, China-based
Huawei Technology Co. Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 