-- Onyx Snubbing Amgen Paves Way for 89% Premium: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-07-02T20:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/onyx-snubbing-amgen-paves-way-for-89-premium-real-m-a.html
Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , which
surged more than 50 percent after rejecting a bid from Amgen
Inc., is betting that potential suitors from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  to
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  are willing to offer even more.  Onyx said the $120-a-share bid “significantly
undervalued” the company’s  prospects  for its cancer therapies
and that it’s in contact with other possible acquirers. Bayer,
which already partners with Onyx on two drugs, could be among
those interested, while Amgen still may come back with a higher
offer, Maxim Group LLC said. For Bristol-Myers or  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
buying Onyx would bolster their efforts to build blood-cancer
treatment franchises, Jefferies Group LLC said.  Onyx rejected Amgen’s proposal because management sees it
as too low compared with other recent deals in the industry,
according to a person familiar with the matter. While $120 was
37 percent more than Onyx’s 20-day average before the bid was
disclosed, the stock soared past that price yesterday, signaling
investors expect competing offers. Onyx should be valued at $130
to $165 a share in a takeover, as much as an 89 percent premium,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “I would guess there’s going to be more than one bid and
that’s great for Onyx shareholders,” Phil Nadeau, a New York-based analyst with Cowen Group Inc., said in a phone interview.
“The oncology space is of such strategic importance to large
pharmaceutical and biotech companies.”  Soliciting Interest  Onyx said June 30 that it turned down an all-cash offer
from Amgen last week and asked its financial adviser to contact
other potential acquirers. Since then, the company has solicited
interest from at least two pharmaceutical companies involved in
oncology, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.  Lori Melancon, a spokeswoman for Onyx, declined to comment
further, as did Christine Regan of Thousand Oaks, California-based Amgen, which has a market value of about $72 billion.  Onyx shares  rose  51 percent yesterday to $131.33, exceeding
Amgen’s bid and valuing the South San Francisco, California-based company at $9.55 billion.  Today, Onyx climbed an additional 3.2 percent to $135.58, a
new record-high closing price.  “It’s a good offer,” Michael King, an analyst with JMP
Group Inc. in New York, said in a phone interview. But
“obviously the market thinks it’s low, and I would agree.”  Onyx reported $362 million of  revenue  in 2012, with 80
percent coming from two drugs it sells in partnership with
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer -- Nexavar for liver and kidney
cancer, and Stivarga for stomach cancer.  ‘Always Attractive’  Kyprolis, a blood-cancer treatment that Onyx markets on its
own, is projected to have sales topping $2.3 billion in 2019, up
from $257 million this year, according to the average of
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Overall, the
company’s revenue growth through 2015 is forecast to outpace its
closest peers including Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. and
Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc., the data show.  “Onyx has Kyprolis, an unencumbered, approved asset in
cancer, so that’s always attractive,” Robyn Karnauskas, a New
York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a phone
interview. “Onyx is a mature company, they have a sales force
built, they have less clinical risk. People understand where
this product fits into the marketplace.”  Onyx’s management sees Amgen’s bid as insufficient based on
premiums fetched in recent, comparable health-care deals, such
as Gilead Sciences Inc.’s takeover of Pharmasset Inc. announced
in 2011, said a person familiar with the matter.  Biotech Appeal  Gilead paid 94 percent more than Pharmasset’s average price
in the 20 days before the deal was announced, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Applying that premium to Onyx’s 20-day average
stock price before the  Amgen (AMGN)  bid was disclosed would yield an
offer for almost $170 a share.  “This kind of reminds people that biotech companies with
good assets do get taken out for good prices,” Cowen’s Nadeau
said.  Nadeau said it’s likely that Onyx gets acquired for at
least $130 a share, while Salveen Richter, an analyst at
Canaccord Financial Inc., estimates as much as $165 apiece.
Deutsche Bank’s Karnauskas said Onyx could fetch $140 to $148 a
share in a takeover.  While Echo He, a New York-based analyst at Maxim Group,
values Onyx at as much as $140 a share, she said a buyer could
justify paying more than that by cutting costs after a deal and
consolidating Onyx’s sales force with its own. A 15 percent
reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses could
add $10 a share to Onyx’s value, He said.  ‘Makes Sense’  Bayer, because of its partnership with Onyx, may emerge as
a bidder, according to He. In addition to splitting profits on
Nexavar, Onyx receives a 20 percent royalty from the $89 billion
drugmaker on global net sales of Stivarga.  “It makes sense from that standpoint to bring those
royalties in-house,” Biren Amin, a New York-based analyst at
Jefferies, said in a phone interview. “Bayer has publicly
disclosed that they believe Stivarga will be one of their
blockbuster assets.”  Novartis, a Basel, Switzerland-based pharmaceutical company
with a market value of $193 billion, and New York-based Bristol-Myers, a $74 billion drugmaker, are developing treatments for
multiple myeloma, the blood cancer Onyx’s Kyprolis is approved
to treat. They could seek to acquire Onyx to help build a
franchise around those drugs, Amin said.  Pfizer Drug  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , with a market value of $197 billion, is
developing a therapy for breast cancer called palbociclib on
which Onyx would receive an 8 percent royalty if approved,
making the New York-based company a potential interested buyer,
according to Cory Kasimov, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Christian Hartel, a spokesman at Bayer, Julie Masow of
Novartis, Fred Egenolf of Bristol-Myers and Pfizer’s Joan Campion said the companies don’t comment on market speculation,
when asked whether they’re considering bids for Onyx.  Onyx’s collaboration with Bayer may be a hurdle for other
suitors, Maxim Group’s He said. Still, it didn’t stop Amgen,
which could boost its offer, according to Karnauskas of Deutsche
Bank.  Amgen Chief Executive Officer Robert Bradway didn’t say
$120 a share was its final offer, and Onyx believes there could
be a new bid, a person familiar with the matter said.  “Amgen could very well come back,” Karnauskas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  