-- U.S. Factory Orders Rose in May on Machinery, Computers
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-07-02T14:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/orders-to-u-s-factories-rise-on-demand-for-machinery-computers.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
rose in May, reflecting broad-based gains that signal
manufacturing is stabilizing.  The 2.1 percent gain in  bookings  followed a revised 1.3
percent advance the prior month, the Commerce Department
reported today in  Washington . The median forecast of 61
economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 2 percent
increase. Demand for capital equipment increased more than the
government estimated last week.  Sales of motor vehicles, gains in  residential construction ,
and a boom in domestic energy production are helping make up for
weakness in U.S. export markets. A pickup in business investment
in new equipment and improving consumer demand would help
bolster manufacturing and the expansion in the second half of
2013.  “We’re expecting a second-half growth story, which should
promote better investment,” said Bricklin Dwyer, an economist
at BNP Paribas in New York, the top forecaster for factory
orders over the past two years according to Bloomberg analysis.
“Growth is pretty stagnant at this point.”  Stocks held earlier gains after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to 1,620.28 at 10:13 a.m. in
 New York , led by shares of financial and consumer companies.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a 1 percent
drop to a 4.9 percent gain after a previously reported 1 percent
advance in April.  Factory orders excluding the volatile  transportation 
component climbed 0.6 percent after a 0.2 percent increase the
prior month, the Commerce report showed.  Aircraft Demand  Bookings for commercial aircraft jumped 50.8 percent after
climbing 18.4 percent in April. Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) 
received 232 aircraft orders in May after 51 in April.  Bookings for durable goods, which make up more than half of
total factory demand, rose 3.7 percent. Today’s reading was
little changed from the 3.6 percent gain the Commerce Department
initially  estimated  on June 25.  Orders for non-durable goods including petroleum climbed
0.7 percent. The gain in non-durables reflected gains in fuel
and chemicals, today’s report showed. Because the figures aren’t
adjusted for inflation, they’re often influenced by changes in
prices rather than shifts in demand.  Bookings for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, an indicator of future  business investment , increased
1.5 percent in May, a third consecutive advance. The reading was
revised up from the government’s first estimate last week which
showed a 1.1 percent gain.  Growth Impact  Shipments of those goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, rose 1.9 percent in May, also more than
estimated last week, after a 2.1 percent drop in April.  Orders for machinery increased 0.7 percent, led by a 7.6
percent jump in  construction (CNSTTMOM)  equipment. Demand for computers
rose 8.8 percent.  Home values continue to rise, boosting sales and prompting
builders to step up housing starts, which in turn generate more
orders for building materials, furniture and appliances.  Construction spending climbed in May, led by the strongest
expenditures on residential projects in more than four years,
the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Los Angeles-based  KB
Home (KBH)  is among builders raising prices and buying land, President
and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said.  “If a consumer feels good about their personal situation,
they will always work through any obstacles and find a way to
become a homeowner,” Mezger said on a June 27 earnings call.
“With job growth accelerating and  consumer confidence  hitting a
five-year high last month, I expect the housing recovery will
continue its solid advance.”  Autos, Homes  Automakers and homebuilders are helping keep America’s
factories busy. Vehicle  purchases  increased to a 15.24 million
annual  rate  in May, the strongest in three months, according to
figures from Ward Automotive Group.  Purchases probably climbed to a 15.5 million rate in June,
the most since June 2009, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed before industry data today.  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
and  General Motors Co. (GM)  sales last month topped analysts’
estimates.  Today’s report showed manufacturers are having trouble
boosting stockpiles as demand improves. Factory inventories were
unchanged in May after climbing 0.1 percent the prior month.
Manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.3 months at the
current sales pace, down from 1.31 the prior month.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, is projected to keep contributing to growth this year.
At the same time, the outlook may be clouded by across-the-board
federal spending cuts that began on March 1, when lawmakers
failed to reach a compromise on ways to reduce the debt.  A report yesterday showed American factories rebounded in
June as orders picked up. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
manufacturing  index  climbed to a three-month high of 50.9 from
49 in May. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  