-- Morgan Stanley Sells Its Biggest Range-Accrual Note in 15 Months
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-07-02T17:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/morgan-stanley-sells-its-biggest-range-accrual-note-in-15-months.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  sold $25 million of
notes that pay investors the most when the difference between
long- and short-term rates widens so long as stocks don’t
plummet, its biggest “range-accrual” offering in 15 months.  The 15-year securities, issued June 25, are tied to the gap
between 30- and five-year constant maturity swap rates. After
two years of yielding 10.5 percent, they pay an annual rate of
five times the rate spread, capped at 10.5 percent, for every
day the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is at least 1,100, which was
69 percent of its value at the time of sale, according to a
prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The spreads for such notes may tighten, with the prospect
of Federal Reserve tapering “sending intermediate Treasury
yields higher,” said  Richard Gilhooly , an interest-rate
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in New
York. On June 19, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said that the
central bank may begin reducing its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases later this year.  While the 30-year dollar swap rate has climbed 19 basis
points since June 18, the five-year rate has risen 31 basis
points. That means the Treasury yield curve has become flatter,
not steeper, which is what the buyers of the Morgan Stanley
notes want.  Morgan Stanley, which received a 3 percent fee for selling
the securities, estimated their value to be 13.5 percent less
than what investors paid.  Previous Sale  The bank sold $50 million of similar notes on March 27,
2012, the most recent such offering that was larger.  Those securities, which also mature in 15 years, yield 11
percent for the first two years, then pay an annual rate of five
times the difference between the 30- and two-year swap rates,
capped at 11 percent, for each day the S&P 500  Index (SPX)  is at or
above 935, according to a prospectus filed with the SEC.  Range-accrual notes typically pay a fixed annual rate for
each day an asset’s price remains within certain boundaries.  Lauren Bellmare, a spokeswoman for the largest U.S.
structured note issuer by volume, declined to comment on the
security.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  