-- Hospital Accused of Unnecessary Throat Surgeries Closes Abruptly
-- B y   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 2013-07-02T22:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/hospital-accused-of-unnecessary-throat-surgeries-closes-abruptly.html
Chicago ’s Sacred Heart Hospital,
where the owner and two physicians are under an investigation
for allegedly unneeded  tracheotomies , closed abruptly Monday
after what owner Edward Novak called a cutoff of federal
funding.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services decided in
early May “to suspend all payments” for hospital services to
Sacred Heart patients, said Novak, who had also served as Sacred
Heart’s chief executive, in a written statement Tuesday. Novak
was arrested in April for trading money for patient referrals.  Losing the federal funds would “inevitably force the
hospital to close” and employees would lose their jobs, said
Novak, who was prohibited from running the hospital after his
arrest. Free on a $10 million bond, he also denied the
allegations in a criminal complaint.  The remaining eight patients at the 119-bed hospital were
discharged or moved to other facilities Monday, said Melaney
Arnold, a spokeswoman for the Illinois Department of  Public
Health .  “Sacred Heart is presently reviewing offers from
interested buyers,” said Rebecca Baker, a spokeswoman for
Alvarez & Marsal, a New York-based turnaround and interim
management firm that has been running it. “It remains hopeful
that a sale can be completed quickly and that the state and
federal governments will cooperate with a prompt change of
ownership.”  ‘Rare Occasion’  Officials at CMS in Chicago and the inspector general’s
office of the federal Health and Human Services Department who
are working on the Sacred Heart inquiry didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  “It’s a rare occasion for a hospital to close and this is
certainly a unique situation,” said Phyllis Pavese, a
spokeswoman for the Illinois Hospital  Association .  It’s also unusual for federal officials to suspend Medicare
payments to a hospital, said Ryan Stumphauzer, a former federal
health care fraud prosecutor in Miami.  “There’s a risk of interfering with legitimate patient
care and there are less drastic remedies,” Stumphauzer said.
“Here the government has alleged fraud and wants to stop the
bleeding.”  The FBI arrested Novak and five other people affiliated
with the hospital on Medicare fraud charges on April 15,
alleging they traded kickbacks for patient referrals. An FBI
affidavit filed with the criminal complaint alleges that doctors
also performed unneeded tracheotomies.  The hospital could get as much as $160,000 from Medicare
for each tracheotomy and related care afterward, according to
the affidavit. In such procedures, an opening is cut in a
patient’s throat to open an air passage directly to the windpipe
for patients who can’t breathe otherwise.  Sacred Heart depended on Medicare and Medicaid for 97
percent of its patient revenue in 2011.     Novak told Medicare
authorities the hospital made a $9.4 million profit in the year
ending June 30, 2012, up from $1.3 million the year before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles R. Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  