-- Lottery Tickets for Staying HIV-Free Cut Infections 25%
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-07-18T09:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/lottery-tickets-for-staying-hiv-free-cut-infections-25-.html
(Corrects findings of previous studies in third paragraph
of article published July 2.)  Offering lottery tickets as an
incentive to practice safer sex reduced the number of HIV
infections by 25 percent in a World Bank study in  Africa .  In a trial among 3,426 HIV-negative people in  Lesotho ,
about 2,000 were given a lottery ticket every four months if
they stayed free of the virus and other sexually transmitted
maladies. After two years, there were 25 percent fewer
infections among those offered tickets than those who weren’t,
according to results presented today at the  International AIDS
Society’s  meeting in  Kuala Lumpur .  The finding adds to evidence from earlier World Bank
studies that showed financial incentives can reduce infections
with HIV and other sexually transmitted infections. A study in
 Tanzania  showed cash payments to people who tested negative for
diseases including gonorrhea and chlamydia reduced infections by
27 percent over a year. In Malawi, payments to schoolgirls
lowered HIV infections by 60 percent.  “The results indicate that short-term financial incentives
to engage in safe sex can lead to a measurable decline in HIV
incidence,” the researchers, led by Damien de Walque of the
 World Bank , wrote in a  summary  of the study on the conference
website. “It would however be advisable to replicate and
potentially scale-up such an intervention in other settings.”  Some participants were eligible to receive tickets for a
lottery offering prize money of either 1,000 South African rand
($101) or 500 rand if they tested negative for HIV, syphilis and
trichomonas vaginalis, an infection that can make women more
susceptible to HIV infection. Lotteries were held every four
months in the villages in which the participants lived, with two
male and two female winners in each village.  All the participants received free testing, counseling and
treatment every four months during the trial, including if they
tested positive for HIV.  While the overall  risk reduction  was 25 percent, it was 33
percent for women and 31 percent for those who received the
higher-value tickets.  About 23.3 percent of people 15 to 49 years old in Lesotho
are infected with HIV, according to the Joint United Nations
Programme on HIV/AIDS, or  UNAIDS . Only Botswana, with a rate of
23.4 percent, and Swaziland with 26 percent, have higher
prevalence rates.  For Related News and Information:
African Girls Getting World Bank Cash Deters Sugar Daddies  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  