-- Tough New Bank Capital Rules Won’t Come a Day Too Soon
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-02T23:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/tough-new-bank-capital-rules-won-t-come-a-day-too-soon.html
The  Federal Reserve  has finally
approved new  rules  that will require U.S. banks to finance their
operations with more equity and less debt. Big global banks will
have to meet even tougher  capital requirements . And in the best-is-yet-to-come category, the Fed said a further tightening of
the rules isn’t far off.  This is all good news. The rules, part of the accords known
as Basel III, carry through the commitment to make banking safer
after the global financial system buckled in 2008. Until
recently, it seemed regulators would give way to bank lobbyists
who have argued that tougher capital rules would harm the
economy by forcing the industry to lend less.  Under the new arrangements, U.S. banks will have to
maintain common equity (meaning shares plus retained earnings)
equal to 7 percent of risk-weighted assets. They will also be
held to a so-called  leverage ratio  of 3 percent of all assets,
without adjusting for risk. The rules will be phased in,
beginning in 2014 for large banks and 2015 for smaller ones.
Other regulators -- the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency -- are expected to
adopt similar changes next week.  The new standards aren’t as tough as they should be, even
though some already surpass the Basel minimums. Regulators will
take another step with a  proposal , which the FDIC will publish
next week, for a more demanding leverage ratio, possibly as high
as 6 percent. In a few months, there will be a proposal
specifying how much combined equity and long-term debt banks
must have, allowing for the orderly dismantling of a bank that
fails.  A third measure under consideration would require large
banks that depend heavily on funding from money-market mutual
funds, possibly including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley, to hold additional capital.  The Fed dropped part of an earlier proposal that would have
forced banks to set aside more capital for home loans. It also
eased up on what it expects from community banks, including
exempting them from making frequent adjustments to the value of
securities on their trading books.  Large banks didn’t get that dispensation, probably because
they are already complying with the new rules and don’t seem to
be suffering as result. The Fed says that 90 percent of small
banks (those with less than $10 billion in assets) and 95
percent of the rest meet the new minimum capital standard.  Good, but now regulators need to go further. Fed Governor
 Daniel Tarullo , who heads the central bank’s supervision
efforts, said in a recent speech that Basel’s leverage ratio of
3 percent “may have been set too low.” He wins the prize for
understatement. That figure means a bank would be insolvent if
the value of its assets dropped just 3 percent.  Tarullo and other regulators also think that existing rules
give banks too much leeway in sorting assets by risk. The
process of risk-weighting allows banks to have less capital
underpinning assets they judge to be less dangerous. History
shows those judgments are hard to make.  Academics and lawmakers from both parties have joined the
call for more capital. FDIC Vice Chairman  Thomas Hoenig  favors a
10 percent leverage ratio, made still more demanding because it
would include more of the off-balance-sheet assets that the
Basel rules leave out.  To comply with Hoenig’s proposal, the three largest U.S.
banks -- JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc. -- would have to stop paying dividends for about
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. And
Hoenig’s plan isn’t the most demanding proposal in circulation.  Strengthening the industry against financial shocks is a
work in progress. Strong capital rules won’t completely shield
the banking system from another crisis like that of 2008. But
they will help ensure that banks’ losses, when they occur, will
be absorbed by owners, not by the wider financial system or
worst of all by taxpayers.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 