-- How Student Loans Subsidized the American Dream
-- B y   L a w r e n c e   B o w d i s h
-- 2013-07-02T18:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/how-student-loans-subsidized-the-american-dream.html
On July 1, the rate of a subsidized
Stafford student loan doubled to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent,
after Congress shut down for the Independence Day holiday
without taking action to prevent a scheduled increase. If
lawmakers fail to reach a retroactive agreement before the
August recess, the average Stafford borrower will have to pay
back about $800 more than under the previous rate for every year
of loans.  Today, about 66 percent of students borrow to attend
college. For 2011-2012, 10.4 million borrowers took out $85.9
billion in Stafford loans, for an average of about $8,200 per
borrower. In the past 50 years, more than 60 million Americans
have used  student loans  to pay for college.  In 1950, only 5 percent of Americans age 25 or older held
bachelor’s degrees. Today, that figure is 31 percent. This
explosion in attendance -- along with periods of inflation,
higher costs, state-level taxation policies and several other
factors -- has contributed to rising tuition and enrollment
expenses. The supply of university slots has increased, but not
enough to meet demand.  Veterans’ Loans  Those higher costs required new ways of paying for
postsecondary education. The federal government began its
programs in 1958 through the  National Defense Education Act .
That measure established what would become Perkins loans, a
need-based system that pinned interest rates at 5 percent and
provided affordable loans for college to former soldiers and
other eligible students.  In 1965, the  Higher Education Act  allowed the federal
government to offer more student financial assistance through
the Federal Family Education Loan Program. It expanded Perkins
loans and introduced Stafford loans that were guaranteed by the
federal government, which paid the interest that accrued during
a student’s time in college and paid the difference between a
set low rate and the market rate after graduation. In today’s
terms, when the government pays the interest while the borrower
is in school, the loan is considered “subsidized,” and when it
doesn’t, that loan is “unsubsidized.”  The government entered into a number of partnerships with
private companies to service and originate these loans, bringing
private student-loan creditors into the market. In 1972, the
government reauthorized the Higher Education Act and created the
Student Loan Marketing Association, a government-sponsored
enterprise known as  Sallie Mae .  In the late 1980s, members of Congress and the Education
Department pushed for a system of loans under which the
government would originate and service student loans, which
would eliminate the expense of the fees that private lenders
charged student borrowers.  President  Bill Clinton  signed the Federal Direct Loan
Program into law in 1993. The measure required the federal
government, and not the government-sponsored enterprises, to
originate the loans. However, the following year Congress
enacted a law that didn’t require all loans to originate through
the Federal Direct Loan Program.  Many students didn’t pursue the program’s financing because
heavy lobbying and marketing by private student-loan companies
succeeded in perpetuating the old system of using government-sponsored enterprises and private creditors to service
government-secured loans. In the 1990s, the  Federal Family
Education Loan Program  provided $215.3 billion in student loans,
while the Federal Direct Loan Program provided about $60
billion.  Federal Savings  In 2010, the federal government passed the Health Care and
Education Reconciliation Act, which made the  Federal Direct Loan
Program  the only government-backed one, eliminating the Federal
Family Education Loan Program. The federal lender and the
student borrowers could save the money that was going to the
government-sponsored enterprises, about $6 billion a year.  For most of the past 60 years, all lenders tied student-loan interest rates to the prime rate or the 10-year Treasury
yield. In 2007, Congress passed the College Cost Reduction and
Access Act to temporarily lower student-loan rates during the
recession. It eliminated the variable rates of Stafford loans,
and instead set unsubsidized loans at 6.8 percent and subsidized
loans at a lower, somewhat variable, rate.  Last week, Congress was unable to reach an agreement to
continue that reduction. Lawmakers were unable to choose between
two plans that both tied  interest rates  on subsidized Stafford
loans to the 10-year Treasury rate. One of the plans would add 1
percentage point to that rate, and allow students to lock it in
over the life of the loan. The other would let interest rates
float every year, like adjustable-rate mortgages, but with a
minimum rate of about 5 percent and a ceiling of about 8
percent.  From the mid-1990s to 2007, student-loan rates were set
somewhere between 0.5 percentage point and one percentage point
less than the prime rate, which is currently 3.25 percent. This
generally gave student loans higher interest rates than the  10-year Treasury note , now at about 2.5 percent.  That means neither of the plans represents a radical
departure from longstanding practice. The real question is
whether there is something different about today’s environment
that warrants ending 60 years of low student-loan rates. College
is certainly more expensive, both in real and nominal terms.
More people are determined to attend, and many of them don’t
have the resources to pay on their own. The government has
already bought into the idea that a college education is central
to the American dream; now it must decide how much students
should pay for it.  ( Lawrence Bowdish  is an adjunct professor of history at
American Military University. He has  written  on student loans
and on  consumer credit  in “The Development of Consumer Credit in
Global Perspective: Business, Regulation, and Culture.”)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Lawrence Bowdish at  lawrence.bowdish@mycampus.apus.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  