-- Painkiller Abuse Spurs Search for a Safer Opioid Therapy
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-02T20:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/pankiller-abuse-spurs-search-for-a-safer-opioid-therapy.html
Backed by a U.S. campaign to slow
abuse of prescription painkillers, drugmakers are devising new
forms of the medicines that don’t lead to misuse and new
products that treat dependency in a bid to change the face of a
$9.4 billion market.  Orexo AB (ORX)  is awaiting a July 6 U.S. ruling on a drug that
blocks opiate receptors in the nervous system, potentially
lessening addict dependence.  Nektar Therapeutics (NKTR)  on June 19
announced positive study results on an experimental medicine
designed to enter the brain slowly, reducing the euphoria that
can lead to addiction. And in April, the U.S. barred copies of
the original form of OxyContin after Purdue Pharma LP proved its
crush-resistant version made the therapy less valuable to
addicts on the street.  Abuse of opioid painkillers killed more people in 2010 than
 cocaine and heroin combined . The epidemic has spurred U.S.
legislation seeking to ban drugs that fail to resist tampering,
amid a push by the  Food and Drug Administration  to encourage
treatments that are less likely to become addictive.  “We are not wedded to any one way or the other” to stop
the abuse, Douglas Throckmorton, deputy director for regulatory
programs at the FDA, said in a telephone interview. “What we
want is abuse-deterrent formulations that work. We know how
important this is.”  Walgreen Fined  The FDA isn’t the only U.S. agency involved in the drive to
slow the abuse epidemic. The Drug Enforcement Agency on June 11
fined Walgreen Co., the largest U.S. drugstore chain, $80
million after a probe into whether it violated rules governing
the distribution of the pills.  The number of women who died from an overdose of
prescription painkillers jumped almost fivefold from 1999 to
2010, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a
briefing today. The deaths totaled almost 48,000.  “It’s getting worse, and it’s getting worse quickly,” CDC
director  Thomas Frieden  said on a conference call, adding that
pain medicine abuse “has skyrocketed in the past decade.”  Painkiller abuse also has driven up the cost of insurance
claims, a trend that the industry has been studying, said  Robert Benmosche , chief executive officer of New York-based  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , one of the largest U.S. providers of
workers’ compensation coverage.  “People are desperate for their painkillers, and there was
no algorithm in process for us to deal with people who we saw
that were abusing that,” Benmosche said in a June 4
presentation. The insurer has been evaluating data with  Johns
Hopkins University  in Baltimore as part of an effort to help
“drive people back to work,” he said.  U.S. Sales  OxyContin sales made up about $2.81 billion of the $9.38
billion U.S. market for prescription painkillers in 2012,
according to IMS Health Inc., a health-care data provider based
in Danbury,  Connecticut .  The FDA decision banning generic-drug makers from copying
the original form of OxyContin was critical to the fight against
the epidemic, said U.S. Representative Bill Keating, a
 Massachusetts  Democrat who is sponsoring legislation designed to
block any new drug, including generics, lacking tamper-resistant
properties.  Without that FDA ruling in support of Purdue’s OxyContin
reformulation, generic-drug makers “would’ve been going forward
with a whole new supply of drugs that were dangerous and
cheaper, and undoubtedly would have resulted with a geometric
increase of deaths,” Keating said in a telephone interview.  “In Massachusetts, almost two people a day die from
prescription drug overdose,” he said. “In some parts of the
country like Appalachia and  Kentucky , it’s so pronounced that 10
percent of babies are born addicted.”  Regulatory Saga  In a January  draft guidance , the FDA outlined several
strategies to formulate new treatments and to make existing
opioid analgesics less susceptible to recreational abuse. A
drugmaker can slow the release of the active ingredient into the
bloodstream, decreasing the initial rush in favor of longer
effectiveness. Still, recreational users can crush the pills
before snorting or injecting them to create a concentrated high.  To combat this manipulation, a pill can be fitted with
physical features that make it harder to grind up and ingest.  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP) ’s Opana, for instance, was
fitted with a harder shell to hinder crushing. Purdue’s
reformulation of OxyContin makes it congeal when crushed,
ruining the powdery consistency ideal for snorting or injection.  Street Appeal  The OxyContin reformulation has been successful in
diminishing street appeal, according to research that shows the
new form  sells for 28 percent less  on the black market than the
original formula. During a  November pharmacy robbery  in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, the assailant refused to accept
OxyContin -- once the gold standard in prescription painkiller
abuse -- and instead demanded methadone and Opana.  Drugmakers could also introduce chemical combinations into
the pill itself that would neutralize the ability to ingest it
in non-prescribed manners. King Pharmaceuticals Inc. marketed a
medicine under the brand name Embeda that combined morphine with
an inner core of naltrexone, an opioid receptor antagonist. The
core, which negates the potency of the morphine, would only
release when the pill was crushed. King withdrew the therapy
from the market in 2011.  Alternatively, pills that induce an unpleasant sensation
can discourage overuse or alternative administration.
Ingredients such as niacin or capsaicin, found in chili peppers,
would make overindulgence undesirable.  Unattractive Opiate  “Putting other things in the opiate that make it
unattractive and unpleasant to use could create abuse deterrent
properties,” the FDA’s Throckmorton said. “Putting soap in a
product makes it more unpleasant to put it in your nose and
snort it up.”  Some activists say the fight against abuse may make cheap
medications scarcer.  “The primary reason the FDA needs to act is patient
safety, but the market for abuse-deterrent medication is very
fragile,” said Michael C. Barnes, executive director of the
Center for Lawful Access and Abuse Deterrence in  Washington .
“If the FDA doesn’t make the right decision, it could
collapse.”  Striking a balance between the conflicting need for opioids
with advanced deterrent properties and for a robust market for
generic painkillers is a challenge for government regulators.  FDA Rulings  In the past three months, the makers of OxyContin and Opana
asked the FDA to rule that the previous formulations of their
drugs had been taken off the market for safety or effectiveness
reasons, thereby making them ineligible for reproduction in the
generic market. In April, the regulator agreed with  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Purdue on its OxyContin, preventing companies
like Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Impax Laboratories
Inc. from making copies.  The following month, the FDA rejected a similar request for
 Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania-based Endo’s Opana ER. The agency
decided that the increase in abuse deterrence in the new formula
was insufficient to block the generic.  “Reformulated Opana ER can be readily prepared for
injection,” the FDA said  in the May ruling . “It also appears
that reformulated Opana ER can be prepared for snorting using
commonly available tools and methods.”  Though the new pill was harder to crush than the original,
the agency found it could still be cut, ground, or chewed. At
the time of the decision, Endo announced that the generic
competition may reduce sales this year by as much as $120
million.  “We were surprised by the decision but remain committed as
a company to fight opioid abuse,” Endo spokesman Blaine Davis
said in a telephone interview. “There is not only a financial
impact but also a patient impact from having a more-abusable
product in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  