-- Pettitte Passes Whitey Ford as Yankees’ Strikeout Leader in Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-02T04:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/pettitte-passes-whitey-ford-as-yankees-strikeout-leader-in-win.html
Andy Pettitte  passed Hall of Fame
pitcher  Whitey Ford  as the New York Yankees’ career strikeout
leader, pushing his total to 1,958 in the Yankees’ 10-4 comeback
win against the Minnesota Twins.  Pettitte, a 41-year-old left-hander, entered last night’s
game one strikeout shy of Ford’s franchise record, set in 1963,
and recorded two over five innings in Minneapolis.  Pettitte was taken out with no outs in the bottom of the
sixth inning after allowing a solo home run to Chris Parmelee
that put the Twins ahead 4-3. Pettitte didn’t factor in the
decision, as the Yankees rallied for seven runs over the final
two innings, and remains winless in his past four starts.  “It makes it a lot easier to swallow that we were able to
come back and win,” Pettitte told reporters. “We’ve been
scuffling and we needed a win. Hopefully we can build on this.”  The  New York Mets  beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 5-4 as
Andrew Brown delivered a two-run single with two outs in the
bottom of the 13th inning. The Mets pulled out the victory after
allowing a solo home run to  Cody Ross  in the top of the 13th and
leaving 20 runners on base.  Pettitte has 2,386 career strikeouts with the Yankees and
 Houston Astros , ranking 41st in Major League Baseball history
and first among active pitchers. Teammate CC Sabathia is second
among active major league pitchers with 2,311 strikeouts,
including 918 over five seasons with the Yankees.  Robinson Cano  went 3-for-4 with two home runs and a double
for New York, which ended a five-game losing streak. The win was
 Joe Girardi ’s 600th as the Yankees’ manager.  “It’s definitely a much better feeling than we’ve had in
some time,” Girardi told reporters.  Harper Returns  The Washington Nationals beat the Milwaukee Brewers 10-5
yesterday as outfielder Bryce Harper hit a home run in his first
at-bat off the disabled list after missing 31 games with an
inflamed left knee.  Jayson Werth  had five runs batted in for
Washington and starting pitcher Jordan Zimmerman allowed four
runs in six innings to pick up his 12th win of the season and
tie Detroit’s Max Scherzer for the major league lead.  Zimmerman also went 3-for-3 at the plate, and scored twice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  