-- Pimco Total Return Had $9.9 Billion Withdrawals in June
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-07-02T17:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/pimco-total-return-had-9-9-billion-withdrawals-in-june.html
Bill Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ,
the world’s largest mutual fund, absorbed a record $9.9 billion
in net redemptions last month as investors fled bonds in
anticipation of the Federal Reserve scaling back its purchases.  Pacific Investment Management Co., the Newport Beach,
California-based firm that runs the fund, provided the
preliminary estimate to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , the Chicago-based
research firm said today in an e-mailed statement. The
withdrawals left the fund with $268 billion in assets at the end
of June, Morningstar said.  “Money really came out of core bond funds in June,”
Michael Rawson, an analyst with Morningstar said in a telephone
interview. “The market reacted to the Fed.”  The withdrawals show the vulnerability of Pimco and other
fund managers with a heavy weighting in bonds to a sustained
decline in fixed-income markets. More than 90 percent of Pimco’s
$2.04 trillion in assets as of March 31 were in bonds.  Pimco Total Return lost 2.9 percent this year through
yesterday, trailing 87 percent of peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 2.5 percent over the past month,
worse than 92 percent of comparable funds.  The 10-year U.S. Treasury note traded at 2.48 percent
today, up from 1.93 percent May 31.  Gross’s Outlook  Gross and others have argued that the worst is over for
bond investors. In a Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene 
June 27, Gross said yields on the 10-year notes can go 25 basis
points or 0.25 percent, lower, which would help reverse some of
the losses in May and June.  Jeffrey Gundlach , founder of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine
Capital LP, said in a webcast the same day, “There’s profits to
be made in the bond market between now and the end of the
year.” Gundlach’s $39 billion DoubleLine Total Return Fund lost
0.3 percent this year, better than 83 percent of rivals.  The highest yields on Treasuries have probably already been
reached for the year, according to Bryan Whalen, a portfolio
manager at TCW Group Inc. Yields will move in the low to mid-2
percent range this year, he said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  The $8.6 billion  TCW Total Return Bond Fund (TGLMX)  lost 0.5
percent this year, better than 80 percent of rivals.  Industry Redemptions  Investors withdrew $52.8 billion from bond mutual funds and
$8.9 billion from bond exchange-traded funds through June 24,
according to TrimTabs Investment Research in Sausalito,
 California , surpassing the previous monthly record of $41.8
billion set in October 2008.  The 30-year bull market for bonds probably ended in late
April as yields reached a low and prices peaked, Gross said in
May. “You need to look at an amalgamation of Treasuries,
mortgages and corporates, and not just Treasuries,” he said in
an e-mailed statement. “Measured on that basis, 4/29/13 has
been the price high and yield low, to this point.”  Gross’s fund experienced withdrawals in six of the 12
months in 2011, Morningstar data show, as the star bond manager
missed a rally in Treasuries and trailed 70 percent of peers for
the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund lost $6.7 billion to redemptions in December 2010,
the previous high, Morningstar data show.  The $4.4 billion Pimco Total Return ETF has had redemptions
of $663 million since May 21, about 13 percent of its assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and San Francisco-based
IndexUniverse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  