-- Portugal’s Portas Quits Over Choice of New Finance Minister
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-07-02T19:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/portugal-foreign-minister-quits-over-choice-of-finance-minister.html
Portuguese Foreign Affairs Minister
Paulo Portas, leader of junior coalition party CDS, handed in
his resignation after disagreeing with Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s choice for finance minister.  “The prime minister decided to follow the path of mere
continuity at the  Finance Ministry ,” Portas said in a statement
e-mailed by the Foreign Affairs Ministry. “I respect that but
disagree.”  Coelho yesterday named Secretary of State for Treasury
Maria Luis Albuquerque to replace Vitor Gaspar as finance
minister, two years after the government took office. The
government has been backed by Coelho’s Social Democrats and the
conservative CDS party, which together have a majority of seats
in parliament. Coelho is due to speak at 8 p.m. in Lisbon.  The political turmoil comes amid an increase in  Portugal ’s
bond yields since May, when the country was able to sell  10-year (GSPT10YR) 
bonds for the first time in more than two years. It had stopped
selling bonds until this year after requesting a bailout in
April 2011 following a surge in debt levels and borrowing costs.  ‘Alarm Bell’  “It’s still not clear if this is just a minister being
replaced or if this will lead to a minority government and pave
the way for early elections, but there was an acceleration of
market pressure at the end of trading,” said  David Schnautz , a
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  New York . “It sounds the alarm
bell of austerity fatigue.”  The yield on Portugal’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 33
basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 6.72 percent today.
The two-year bond yield climbed 7 basis points to 3.504 percent.
The extra yield that investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year
bonds instead of equivalent German bunds has narrowed to 5.01
percentage points from a euro-era record of 16 percentage points
in January 2012.  Portugal pays an average  interest rate  on its aid loans of
3.25 percent, Coelho said on May 10. The country’s debt is
ranked below investment grade by  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  Coelho is battling rising  joblessness  and a deepening
recession as he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet the terms
of a 78 billion-euro ($101 billion) aid plan from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund . He announced measures
on May 3 intended to generate savings of about 4.8 billion euros
through 2015 that include reducing the number of state workers.  Deficit, Debt  On March 15, the government announced less ambitious
targets for narrowing its  budget deficit  as it forecast the
economy will shrink twice as much as previously estimated this
year. It targets a deficit of 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3 percent
limit in 2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. Portugal
forecasts debt will peak at 123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  In September, Portugal was given more time to narrow its
budget gap after  tax revenue  missed forecasts.  “The repetition of this slippage undermined my credibility
as finance minister,” Gaspar said in his resignation letter
yesterday.  The Socialist Party, the biggest opposition group, saw its
lead over Coelho’s  Social Democrats  widen by 2 percentage points
in a June 7 survey of voters’ intentions, published by weekly
newspaper Expresso. The Socialists’ support increased to 36.9
percent from the previous month compared with 24.8 percent for
the Social Democrats. The CDS was on 7.7 percent.  Coalition Governments  Coelho formed the majority coalition with the CDS after
June 2011 elections, taking over from a Socialist minority
government that had requested the EU-led bailout in April 2011.
The Social Democrats have 108 seats in the 230-member
parliament, while the CDS party has 24 seats.  Coalition governments in Portugal have tended to be
unstable and short-lived. Between 1974, when the country
returned to democracy after a four-decade dictatorship, and
Coelho’s election in 2011, Portugal had six coalition
governments, none of which survived a full term.  The last one collapsed in 2004 after two years when  Jose Barroso  resigned to head the European Commission and newly
appointed Prime Minister Pedro Santana Lopes was ousted by
President Jorge Sampaio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  