-- Portugal’s Coelho Won’t Resign After Foreign Minister Quits
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a ,   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-03T17:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/portugal-s-coelho-won-t-resign-as-foreign-minister-portas-quits.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said he won’t quit after a coalition partner
resigned, adding to political turmoil as bond yields surged.  Passos Coelho told voters he’ll try to hold his government
together in a televised speech from Lisbon last night after
Foreign Affairs Minister Paulo Portas, leader of junior
coalition party CDS, quit in protest at the government’s budget
policy.  Portugal ’s  10-year (GSPT10YR)  bond yield jumped to a 7-month high.  “I don’t see an important reason to lose the majority in
parliament,” Coelho said today at a press conference in Berlin.
“Portugal needs a stable government.”  Portas was the second minister to resign this week after
finance chief Vitor Gaspar stepped down, saying his credibility
had been compromised by the government’s failure to meet budget
targets set by the European Union. Portas disagreed with the
prime minister’s decision to name Secretary of State for
Treasury Maria Luis  Albuquerque  as a replacement for Gaspar,
saying it would mean a continuation of the policies deepening
the country’s recession.  “The combination of higher yields and political
uncertainty reduces the prospects of Portugal regaining full
 market access  in the next year, and hence leads to expectations
of a new full program being required,” Bank of America Merrill
Lynch economists Ruben Segura-Cayuela, Sphia Salim and  Laurence Boone  said in a note.  Aid Program  Portugal’s aid program is due to end in June 2014. The
eighth review of the country’s progress is due to take place
from July 15, the  Finance Ministry  said on June 19. The
government has started raising cash to finance its 2014 deficit
after covering its needs for this year, Gaspar said on May 7.  The German government is confident that “Portugal will
continue to stay the course on the agreed path of reform,”
Steffen Seibert, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman,
said in Berlin today.  The yield on Portugal’s 10-year debt breached 8 percent
today, up from as low as 6.35 percent earlier in the week and
reaching the highest level since Nov. 21. That’s more than
double the average interest rate of 3.2 percent charged for the
country’s bailout loans. The difference in yield that investors
demand to hold 10-year Portuguese bonds instead of German bunds
widened 79 basis points today to 581 basis points.  Draghi’s Test  The increase of about 250 basis points in 10-year yields
over the past six weeks is the biggest reversal for the
country’s bonds since European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge to do “whatever it takes” to hold the euro
together last July. The pressure of meeting the terms of its
2011 bailout is buckling Coelho’s coalition with investors’ risk
appetite already trimmed by speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve
is preparing to reduce bond purchases and slowing growth in
 China .  “It’s the biggest challenge since Draghi” made his
promise, Fredrik Erixon, the director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels, said in a phone
interview today. “We are very soon going to see his words
tested.”  Social Security Minister Pedro Mota Soares and Agriculture
Minister Assuncao Cristas will hand in their resignations to
Coelho today after a meeting of the CDS party’s executive
commission, broadcaster TVI reported on its website last night,
without saying how it obtained the information. Both ministers
are from Portas’s CDS party.  Talks  Coelho said he didn’t accept Portas’s resignation and
hasn’t asked President Anibal  Cavaco Silva  to dismiss his
partner, citing the foreign affairs minister’s role as leader of
a coalition party.  “In the next few hours I will try to clarify and guarantee
with the CDS party all the conditions for the stability of the
government and to proceed with the strategy of overcoming the
nation’s crisis,” Passos Coelho said last night. “Whatever the
differences that are at the base of this crisis, we will know
how to overcome them in the name of the national interest.”  President Cavaco Silva will meet with Coelho at 5 p.m.
tomorrow and will also meet the country’s political parties
following the foreign minister’s resignation request, the
presidency said on its website today.  Unfortunate Time  “Any government collapse will come at an unfortunate time
in terms of being able to deal with the next budget target
miss,” said  Harvinder Sian  and Michael Michaelides, fixed-income strategists at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “A
minority government buys time but this is unlikely to solve much
in terms of market credibility.”  Coelho is battling rising  joblessness  and a deepening
recession as he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet the terms
of a 78 billion-euro ($101 billion) aid plan from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund . He announced measures
on May 3 intended to generate savings of about 4.8 billion euros
through 2015 that include reducing the number of state workers.  “The situation in Portugal is worrying,” Jeroen Dijsselbloem, head of the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said in The Hague today. “From here I would like to appeal to
the  Portuguese government , the political leaders of Portugal,
the coalition, to take their responsibilities. I therefore
assume that the problems within the Portuguese coalition can be
solved.”  Slippage  On March 15, the government announced less ambitious
targets for narrowing its  budget deficit  as it forecast the
economy will shrink twice as much as previously estimated this
year. In September, Portugal was given more time to narrow its
budget gap after  tax revenue  missed forecasts.  “The repetition of this slippage undermined my credibility
as finance minister,” Gaspar said in his July 1 resignation
letter.  The Socialist Party, the biggest opposition group, saw its
lead over Coelho’s  Social Democrats  widen by 2 percentage points
in a June 7 survey of voters’ intentions, published by weekly
newspaper Expresso. The Socialists’ support increased to 36.9
percent from the previous month compared with 24.8 percent for
the Social Democrats. The CDS had 7.7 percent.  Coelho formed the majority coalition with the CDS after
June 2011 elections, taking over from a Socialist minority
government that had requested the EU-led bailout in April 2011.
The Social Democrats have 108 seats in the 230-member
parliament, while the CDS party has 24 seats.  New Elections  Coalition governments in Portugal have tended to be
unstable and short-lived. Between 1974, when the country
returned to democracy after a four-decade dictatorship, and
Coelho’s election in 2011, Portugal had six coalition
governments, none of which survived a full term.  “The Portuguese do not deserve this situation,” Socialist
Party leader Antonio Jose Seguro said in Lisbon after Coelho’s
speech. “Our country needs a new government. It’s necessary to
have elections.”  Any new government is likely to accept the EU’s aid program
for Portugal as the Socialists have voted alongside the
governing coalition on certain key policy decisions such as the
European Stability Mechanism treaty, even though Seguro is
calling for a renegotiation of the terms of the existing rescue
package.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  