-- Power Prices For Industry Part of German, France Energy T
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-02T16:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/power-prices-for-industry-part-of-german-france-energy-t.html
France  and  Germany  need to resolve
differences over power prices paid by industry as the two
countries battle to keep their factories competitive, according
to a German minister.  “It’s a problem that has to be addressed,” Environment
Minister Peter Altmaier said at a press conference today in
Paris following meetings with his counterpart Delphine Batho.
“We will work on a solution.”  French industrial groups have complained in recent months
that their competitive edge of affordable electricity compared
with rivals in other countries has been whittled away. U.S.
companies benefit from cheaper natural gas from shale while
Germany grants businesses fiscal breaks on electricity costs.  While France’s biggest industrial power users have long-term supply deals with  Electricite de France SA (EDF) , operator of the
country’s 58 nuclear reactors, some energy-intensive industries
in Germany such as steel plants don’t pay subsidies for wind and
solar power being rapidly deployed across the country. French
factory owners pay for renewables, although the contribution is
capped for the biggest power users.  “We both have every interest in protecting industrial jobs
in France and Germany,” Altmaier said. “Sometimes there is
debate between French and Germany companies. We have to know
precisely what are their competitive conditions.”  France and Germany should work towards harmonizing energy
laws and better cooperation between renewables companies, the
German minister said, citing traditional rivals Alstom SA and
 Siemens AG. (SIE)   France is working to preserve its system of long-term power
supply contracts for industry, Batho said. Electricity costs for
French factories are a “priority,” she has said.  The two countries are big power traders. For the first year
ever, France was a net importer of power from its neighbor every
month in 2012 as German solar output more than doubled and its
coal-fired production was competitive thanks to lower prices of
U.S. exports freed up by the shale-gas boom, according to the
French grid operator  Reseau de Transport d’Electricite .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  