-- Prescription Painkiller Overdose Deaths Rise for Women
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/prescription-painkiller-overdose-deaths-rise-for-women.html
The number of women who died from an
overdose of prescription painkillers jumped almost fivefold in
the past decade amid an abuse epidemic, U.S. officials said.  Almost 48,000 women died from 1999 to 2010 from overdoses
of prescription painkillers such as OxyContin or  Vicodin (ABT) , the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a  report .
While more men died from painkiller abuse during the period, the
increase of fatal overdoses was higher among women and the CDC
warned the gender gap is closing quickly.  “When I look at all of the problems we deal with at CDC,
there are few that are getting worse,”  Thomas Frieden , director
of the Atlanta-based agency, said yesterday in a conference call
with reporters. The problem of overdoses from prescription
painkillers among women “is getting worse, and it’s getting
worse quickly,” he said.  Since 2007, more women have died from drug overdoses of all
kinds than from car accidents and in 2010 four times as many
women died from fatal overdoses as were victims of homicides,
the CDC said in its report released yesterday.  There was a direct relationship between a larger number of
prescriptions for opioid painkillers during the period and the
increase in deaths, Frieden said. Women are more likely to have
chronic pain and receive larger prescriptions for higher doses
than their male counterpart, according to the CDC’s report.
Prescription painkiller abuse can endanger or addict a pregnant
woman’s fetus, and cases of  neonatal withdrawal  grew almost
fourfold from 2000 to 2009.  In its report, the CDC urged federal and state governments
to share information from prescription drug monitoring programs
and work with doctors to reduce abuse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  