-- Rangers Keep Richards’s $60 Million NHL Deal After Benching
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-02T22:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/rangers-keep-richards-s-60-million-nhl-contract-after-benching.html
The  New York Rangers  will keep  Brad Richards , the team’s second-highest-paid skater, under contract
even after he was benched during the National Hockey League
playoffs, team spokesman Brendan McIntyre said.  The 33-year-old center has seven years left on a nine-year,
$60 million contract with an annual salary cap impact of $6.66
million, according to ESPN. Only Rick Nash ($7.8 million) is
paid more among Rangers forwards and defensemen.  The league’s labor agreement allows each team two
compliance buyouts, which do not count against the franchise’s
salary-cap space. The Rangers used their first in January on the
contract of defenseman Wade Redden, and won’t use their second
this offseason, McIntyre said today in an e-mail.  An All-Star in 2011, Richards had one point in 10 playoff
games this season. He was demoted to the fourth line during  New
York ’s first-round series against the  Washington Capitals  and
was benched toward the end of their second-round series loss to
the  Boston Bruins .  New Rangers coach Alain Vigneault, who replaced  John Tortorella  this offseason, said during his introductory news
conference that he intended to give the team’s “top skilled
players” more freedom on the ice.  “They have to understand the game and the time in the game
when you need to play higher percentage, but they also have to
be given that latitude to make something out of nothing,”
Vigneault said last month.  Worst Season  Winner of the NHL’s postseason Most Valuable Player award
in 2004 with the  Tampa Bay Lightning , Richards had 11 goals and
23 assists in last year’s lockout-shortened season. His 0.73
points per game was the lowest of his 12-year career, and he
averaged less than 19 minutes per game for the first time since
his rookie season in 2000-01.  Richards said after the Rangers were eliminated from the
playoffs that the season was disappointing for him. He said that
while he understands the business of the game, he still felt he
could contribute to the Rangers and hoped to have the
opportunity next year.  “I didn’t play the last two games of the season in the
playoffs, so obviously I’ve got to do something to get back,”
he told reporters in May. “It was tough but life goes on, and
I’ve got to regroup and figure some things out and start over.”  Also today, the Rangers announced that they had acquired
Danny Kristo from  Montreal  in a trade for Christian Thomas,
exchanging forwards.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  