-- Rare In-Vitro Technique Raises Autism Risk, Study Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-07-02T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/rare-in-vitro-technique-raises-autism-risk-study-says.html
A rare  in-vitro fertilization 
technique that addresses male infertility is associated with an
increased risk of autism and mental disability in children,
compared with standard methods, according to a study that may
prompt parents and doctors to take steps to reduce the danger.  The increased risk was among children born as a result of
 intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection  in which a sperm surgically
extracted from the testes is injected directly into an egg
before being transplanted to the womb. Using the injection
method with ejaculated sperm also raised the risks, though not
as much, the researchers found. Less than 2 percent of children
with either disorder were conceived using IVF, they said.  About 5 million children worldwide have been born by IVF
since 1978, and 1.4 percent of total births in the U.S. annually
and as many as 4.4 percent in western Europe result from the
procedure, according to government and industry figures. Across
all types of IVF procedures, compared with spontaneous
pregnancies, the study found no increase in the risk of autism
and a small increase for mental disability linked only to
multiple births, such as twins and triplets.  “A perhaps more unexpected finding was an increased risk
for both autism and mental retardation after treatment of more
severe and not very common cases of male infertility compared
with other ICSI techniques,” said  Karl-Goesta Nygren , one of
the study authors and associate professor of obstetrics and
gynecology at  Sweden ’s Karolinska Institute, during a briefing
today in  London .  Extracted Sperm  Babies born using intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection, or
ICSI, with extracted sperm had a 4.6-fold increased risk of
autism, and more than twice the risk of mental disability,
compared with more common IVF methods, according to the study.
Deploying the technique using ejaculated sperm had a risk of
autism that was 1.2 times higher, and a risk of mental
disability about 1.47 times higher, compared with standard IVF
procedures.  The findings, mined from data in the Swedish national
health registers, were published today in the Journal of the
 American Medical Association .  Factors such as the age of the patients, their psychiatric
history, hormone treatments and duration of infertility couldn’t
explain the result, Nygren said.  Male Infertility  The concern about ICSI is “whether the risk is associated
with the procedure or the indication for the procedure -- male-factor infertility,”  Marcelle Cedars , professor and director of
the University of  California ,  San Francisco ’s Women’s Health
Clinical Research Center, said in an editorial accompanying the
article. “Continued studies and ongoing surveillance are
required.”  The risk of autism from ICSI using surgically extracted
sperm wasn’t statistically significant when the analysis
excluded twins and triplets. That suggests the risk can be
lowered by  transferring only one embryo  to the womb instead of
two or three, said Abraham Reichenberg, another study author at
the Institute of Psychiatry at  King’s College London .  About 3 percent of women who had IVF treatment in Sweden
between 2003 and 2007 used ICSI with surgically extracted sperm,
the authors said. The rate is likely to be similarly low in the
U.S. and other western European countries, Reichenberg said.  The research, funded by the Swedish Research Council and
advocacy group Autism Speaks, included more than 2.5 million
children born in the country between 1982 and 2007.  Reassuring Results  The findings are important for scientists because they may
uncover additional factors or mechanisms that lead to autism,
said Alycia Halladay, senior director of environmental and
clinical sciences at Autism Speaks. The overall results are
reassuring for women since there were no elevated risks for
those who underwent the most common procedures, she said.  “Most families that are going through IVF are very
concerned about the risk factors, but sometimes the benefits
outweigh the risks,” she said in a telephone interview. “There
was no risk with just the fresh embryo IVF, with ejaculated
sperm. That should be comforting for women and families
undergoing this procedure.”  Shelly Armstrong of North Little Rock,  Arkansas , said she
used ICSI in November 2005 after trying to conceive for 18
months with her husband who had a vasectomy reversal. While the
procedure, which involved surgical extraction of sperm,
successfully resulted in triplets, one of them has autism and
another has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, she said.  ‘Still Blessed’  “I still am blessed with my kids, and I’m happy to have
done it,” said Armstrong, who was 35 when she gave birth. If
she were to do it now, “I would definitely think about it, but
it would depend on the percentages -- whether it’s a 1 percent
chance or a 70 percent chance.”  More than  7 million women  and their partners in the U.S.,
about 12 percent of those in their child-bearing years, suffer
with infertility, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  One in 88 children  in the U.S. had autism or a related
disorder in 2008, the latest period for which data was
available, according to the CDC. That was a 23 percent rise from
2006, the agency’s researchers reported, saying it was unclear
how much of the increase was due to greater awareness of the
disease.  A  University of California , Los Angeles study last year
found that IVF may significantly increase the risk of  birth
defects , particularly those of the eyes, heart, reproductive
organs and urinary system.  Children of older fathers are known to be more at risk of
diseases including schizophrenia and autism as they transmit
more new DNA variations to their children than younger dads,
according to a study published in Nature last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  