-- Treasuries Trade in Tightest Range in 2 Months Amid Taper Talk
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-07-02T21:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/treasuries-rise-for-second-day-as-fed-tapering-expectations-pare.html
Treasuries traded in the narrowest
range in two months as Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said economic growth will probably
quicken in 2014, possibly warranting a reduction in the central
bank’s bond purchases.  The benchmark 10-year note yield traded near a one-week low
after Dudley, in remarks prepared for a speech in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , reiterated that the Fed may prolong bond purchases
if the economy turns out weaker than its forecasts. Investors
trimmed wagers the prices of Treasuries will drop, according to
a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co. A Labor Department report July
5 is forecast to show the U.S. added 165,000 jobs.  “All eyes are on Friday’s employment report -- the Fed has
continued to reiterate the importance of the labor market,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “Removing or tapering
quantitative easing is not the same as hiking, and an increase
in the target Fed funds rate is a 2015 or 2016 event.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.47 percent at 5 p.m. New York time after
touching 2.45 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 1.75 percent note maturing in May 2023 rose 2/32, or
63 cents per $1,000 face value, to 93 23/32. The yield dropped
to 2.44 percent on June 28, the lowest level since June 21.  The Treasury 10-year yield traded in a 4.46 basis-point
 range  today, the narrowest since May 9. Even after recent
increases, the yield is more than a percentage point below its
 decade average  of 3.56 percent.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets  Association 
recommends an early close at 2 p.m. New York time tomorrow
before the observance of the July 4 holiday in the U.S.  Fed Tapering  “The private sector of the economy should continue to
heal, while the amount of fiscal drag will begin to subside,”
Dudley said to the Business Council of Fairfield County,
reiterating remarks in a June 27 speech in New York. “If labor
market conditions and the economy’s growth momentum were to be
less favorable than in the FOMC’s outlook -- and this is what
has happened in recent years -- I would expect that the asset
purchases would continue at a higher pace for longer.”  Policy makers are debating when to dial back accommodation
following comments by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on June 19 that
the Fed may end purchases next year if the economy achieves
sustainable growth. The central bank has kept its target rate
for overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008 to support the economy.  Pimco Redemptions  Bill Gross ’s Pimco Total Return Fund, the world’s largest
mutual fund, absorbed a record $9.9 billion in net redemptions
last month as investors fled bonds in anticipation of the
Federal Reserve scaling back its purchases.  Pacific Investment Management Co., the Newport Beach,
California-based firm that runs the fund, provided the
preliminary estimate to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago-based
research firm said today in an e-mailed statement. The
withdrawals left the fund with $268 billion in assets at the end
of June, Morningstar said.  “The Fed, while they may be interested in tapering, will
take some time to start,” said Brian Edmonds, head of interest
rates in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “We’ve gotten to yields where
people are more comfortable owning Treasuries. Employment looms
-- if we get a really strong number, we will see pressure on
rates.”  Fed Buying  The  proportion  of Treasury net shorts was at 6 percentage
points in the week ending yesterday, according to JPMorgan,
compared with 18 percentage points in the previous week. The
percentage of outright longs, bets the securities will rise,
increased to 13 percent from 6 percent, according to the survey,
while outright shorts dropped to 19 percent from 24 percent.
Neutral bets fell to 68 percent from 70 percent.  The Fed purchased $1.46 billion of Treasuries today
maturing between February 2036 and November 2042 as part of its
$85 billion quantitative-easing program to buy Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities each month and support the economy by
putting downward pressure on borrowing costs.  Fed Governor Jerome Powell will address a Bundesbank
reception in New York about financial regulations later today.  Treasury yields remained lower today after a report showed
orders placed with U.S. factories rose in May.  The 2.1 percent gain in  factory orders  followed a revised
1.3 percent advance the prior month, the Commerce Department
reported in  Washington . The median forecast of 61 economists in
a Bloomberg survey called for a 2 percent increase.  U.S. employers added workers last month, a survey showed
before the Labor Department data this week, after hiring 175,000
in May.  Volatility, Volume  The Fed is “more likely than not to continue to signal the
exit process and the wind down of QE,” said Gene Tannuzzo, a
portfolio manager in  Minneapolis  at Columbia Management
Investment Advisers, which oversees $340 billion. “Any rise in
yields for the rest of the year will be modest.”  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, rose 10 percent to $276.3
billion, after closing yesterday at $250.9 billion, the least
since May 7. June’s average was $446.2 billion.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Estimate MOVE Index closed yesterday at
101.32, the most recent data available. It increased to 110.98
on June 24, the highest since November 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  