-- Removal of Trident From Independent Scotland May Take a Decade
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-07-02T18:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/removal-of-trident-from-independent-scotland-may-take-a-decade.html
The removal of Trident nuclear
warheads from an independent  Scotland  could take a decade, U.K.
Defence Secretary Philip Hammond told lawmakers today.  A Yes vote in next year’s referendum would be the starting
point for complex negotiations including who would pay for the
dismantling of the existing nuclear submarine facilities on the
River Clyde, Hammond told Parliament’s Defence Committee in
 London .  “Technically removal would be in the order of a decade
because of the very stringent safety measures involved,”
Hammond said. “The process would not be able to begin until
negotiations across the board had been completed and financial
arrangements had been finalized. If we had to include the
dismantling of the facilities, the cost of that would be
factored into the overall cost of the settlement between the
parties.”  Scotland’s ruling  Scottish National Party  last year
reversed its long-standing opposition to membership of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, the western defense alliance, on
condition that the U.K.’s nuclear deterrent is removed from
Scottish waters.  Trident might have to stay at Faslane for as long as two
years while an independent Scotland builds its naval
headquarters at the base, the largest industrial employer in
Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon, the deputy First Minister, said on a
BBC  webcast  yesterday. That represented a move on the SNP’s
part, Hammond said.  Early Element  The Scottish government said in February that the removal
of the Trident warheads would be an  “early” element  in the
transition to independence. U.K. lawmakers said last year the
warheads could be deactivated within days and removed within two
years.  It would be “ridiculous” to expect the Scottish people to
bear the cost of relocating Trident given most Scottish people
don’t want the missiles on Scottish soil,  Keith Brown , Scottish
minister for transport and veterans, told the Defence Committee
earlier.  The balance of probabilities favored U.K. orders for
proposed new warships being placed with Clyde shipyards even in
the event of independence because of their expertise, Brown
said.  The yards at Govan and Scotstoun would need civilian orders
as well as warship orders from the Scottish government to
survive, he said.  The U.K. pays more to build its own warships because it is
strategically important to maintain its sovereign capability in
that area, even though it could buy them much more cheaply from
countries such as Spain and  Italy , Hammond told the lawmakers.  Single Market  “We could no longer justify paying a premium” if the U.K.
gave up its sovereign capability.  The U.K.’s single market is the best reason for Scotland to
reject independence, Business Secretary Vince Cable said earlier
today in the British government’s latest analysis of the
implications of Scotland going it alone.  Scotland’s exports to the rest of the U.K., excluding oil
and gas, totaled 45.5 billion pounds ($69 billion) in 2011,
four times as much as to the rest of the EU and twice as much as
to the rest of the world, Cable said in Glasgow.  Independence is the flagship policy of the semi-autonomous
Scottish government headed by Scottish National Party leader
 Alex Salmond . A referendum is being held on Sept. 18 next year,
with polls showing voters in favor of retaining the status quo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  