-- Rinehart’s Hancock Must Face Trial on Wright’s Mine Claim
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-07-02T04:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/rinehart-s-hancock-must-face-trial-on-wright-s-mine-claim.html
Billionaire  Gina Rinehart ’s Hancock
Prospecting Pty must face trial in a mine ownership dispute with
the family of her father’s former partner, a judge in  Australia 
ruled.  Supreme Court  of  Western Australia  Justice Rene Le Miere in
Perth today rejected Hancock’s request to dismiss without trial
the lawsuit claiming ownership of half of the company’s stake in
a mine being built in Western Australia.  “I am unable to reach the required level of certainty that
the defense will succeed,” Le Miere wrote in his  decision.   Wright Prospecting Pty is seeking 50 percent of Hancock
Prospecting’s stake in three tenements, known as Hope Downs 4, 5
and 6, according to a copy of the writ filed Sept. 24 in Perth.
Hancock Prospecting and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-largest exporter of  iron ore , jointly own the Hope Downs assets
under a 2005 agreement.  “Wright Prospecting welcomes the judge’s decision,” the
company said today in an e-mailed statement. “Wright
Prospecting now intends to resume proceedings in this matter.”  Hancock Prospecting Chief Financial Officer Jay Newby
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment
today.  The $1.6 billion Hope Downs 4 project, owned 50 percent by
Rio, will have annual capacity of 15 million metric tons when it
starts production this year, according to an August statement
from Rio. It’ll be Rinehart’s second operating mine after the $1
billion Hope Downs 1.  Wright Prospecting was founded by Peter Wright, who
discovered the iron ore deposits with Rinehart’s father,  Lang Hancock . Rinehart inherited the mining assets and is chairman of
the company Hancock founded.  Lawsuit ‘Curious’  Wright Prospecting’s lawsuit is “curious” as Rinehart,
Asia’s richest woman, announced a mining partnership for the
properties with  Rio Tinto  more than seven years ago, Newby said
after the lawsuit was filed.  Wright Prospecting “waited until now, when construction of
the Hope 4 mine is nearing completion, and has provided none of
the significant funding required for such, to lodge such an
unusual bid for unearned late participation,” Newby had said.  Rinehart is the 34th richest person in the world, with a
net worth of $19.5 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Wright Prospecting, in its lawsuit over Hope Downs 4, 5 and
6, accused Hancock Prospecting of breach of trust for selling
the property without its consent and breaches of fiduciary
obligations, according to the writ.  Wright Prospecting sought an accounting of all profits
earned by Hancock Prospecting from those assets and compensation
for the breaches. It also asked the court to declare Hancock
Prospecting held half the property in trust for Wright
Prospecting, and to award it any proceeds from the sale and
royalties Hancock Prospecting received.  The case is between Wright Prospecting Pty and Hancock
Prospecting Pty. Civ2617/2012. Supreme Court of Western
Australia (Perth).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in  Hong Kong  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  