-- Rising Rates Tie Ivory-Tower Types in Knots
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-07-02T22:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/rising-rates-tie-ivory-tower-types-in-knots.html
There comes a time in every business
cycle when market  interest rates  start to rise, well ahead of
any official signal from the  Federal Reserve . The onset of
higher rates may precede the Fed’s first move by a few months,
as it did in 1993, or by as much as a year, as in 2003.  The response from the economics community is invariably the
same: Higher long-term rates are going to slow growth and put
the expansion at risk.  So is mine: Not so fast. Just follow that line of thinking
to its logical conclusion. Higher market rates slow the economy,
which brings rates down, which boosts economic growth and
generates higher yields. In other words, higher rates cause
lower rates, and lower rates cause higher rates. With that kind
of a closed feedback loop, how does an economy ever gain
traction? And to think such circular logic carefully avoids any
mention of the role of that ultimate supplier of credit, the
central bank.  Prices -- interest rates are the price of credit -- are
affected by changes in both supply and demand, with different
implications. You can’t look at a price in isolation and
determine the effect it will have on the quantity demanded,
which is represented on the horizontal axis. (See  graph .) This
is one of the most important lessons microeconomics teaches and
macroeconomists forget.  Half Full  As far as I can tell, Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has only
intimated his intention to wind down quantitative easing. The
slow march to normalize the  benchmark rate , which has been at 0
percent to 0.25 percent since December 2008, is a long way off.
The majority of the Fed’s Open Market Committee expects the
 first rate increase  in 2015. The increase in market rates since
the beginning of May has been anticipatory. Should the Fed fail
to deliver -- or if markets perceive that conditions don’t
warrant a relaxation of QE -- market rates will fall.  In all likelihood, they won’t return to the modern-era low
of 1.38 percent on the 10-year note in July 2012 or even the
1.62 percent from early May. And that’s a good thing. The  U.S.
economy  is gradually improving, with  housing  finally
contributing to growth. The Fed has signaled that if all goes
according to plan -- if the economy and labor market continue
improving -- it will begin to taper its long-term asset
purchases later this year and wind down the program by mid-2014,
when the  unemployment rate  should be about 7 percent.  Fed tapering is contingent on a stronger economy. A
stronger economy augurs increased demand for credit, which
pushes up the price. The  demand curve shifts out , which means a
higher price and a higher quantity demanded, not a reduction as
most economists  claim . They confuse a shift in the demand curve
with a movement along it.  That’s not all. Real, or inflation-adjusted, yields are
rising, which is usually associated with stronger growth. The
trend isn’t confined to the U.S.  Several economists  have pointed
to the rise in real yields globally, suggesting it’s more than
the Fed, or what Bernanke said or didn’t say, that is driving
the increase.  Which brings us back to our economics lesson. Is the price
of credit rising because the Fed has cut back on the supply? The
 Fed’s balance sheet  stands at $3.5 trillion and growing.
Although more than half the reserves created by QE sit in
commercial  banks’ accounts at the Fed , there has been no
constraint in the supply of credit.  That means the higher price must be coming from the demand
side. If investors expect the economy to be strong enough for
the Fed to end QE and raise the overnight rate, that’s a plus.
Both the path of short-term rates and long-term rates “are tied
to the economic outlook, not divorced from it,” says Michael Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Leading Indicator  The confusion over long-term rates goes hand in hand with
misconceptions about a steeper yield curve, which is a leading
economic indicator and harbinger of stronger growth. A wider
spread between banks’ borrowing and lending rates provides an
incentive to increase their assets and expand the  money supply .  It’s been 10 years since I wrote a column on this very same
subject. I could have gotten away with changing the dates and
updating the prices because the storyline hasn’t changed.  Back in July 2003, the first increase in the fed funds rate
was still 11 months away. Long rates had started to rise,
producing an outcry that -- you guessed it -- higher yields were
going “to nip the nascent recovery in the bud,” to quote
myself.  By the time the Fed raised the funds rate from 1 percent to
1.25 percent on June 30, 2004, the 10-year Treasury yield had
already risen 160 basis points. The spread between the overnight
rate and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note was about 375
basis points, close to a record. The same was true in the early
1990s, right before the economy took off.  If history is any guide, we should accept the modest rise
in long-term rates to date and hope for more.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 