-- Rousseff Bets on Vote to Stem Decline as Brazil Seeks Change
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-07-02T16:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/rousseff-bets-on-vote-to-stem-decline-as-brazil-seeks-change-1-.html
President  Dilma Rousseff  has staked
her bid to reverse a plunge in the polls on a plan to bring
direct democracy to  Brazil . It doesn’t fully address the demands
of the biggest street demonstrations in two decades, according
to one protest leader, or the top voter concerns in polls.  Rousseff asked Congress today to call a plebiscite
consulting voters on how to overhaul the political system, which
analysts blame for corruption and disenfranchisement that fueled
protests across the country last month. The poll should restrict
itself to five areas including public financing of campaigns and
the way representatives are elected, Rousseff said in a letter
to lawmakers.  “A political reform helps, but I’m not sure it’ll solve
the problems that were raised on the street,” Rafael Siqueira,
a music professor who met with Rousseff after organizing the
first protests in Sao Paulo against a bus fares increase, said
in a phone interview.  While the plebiscite proposal enjoyed 68 percent support in
a Datafolha poll last week, it doesn’t speak directly to demands
for immediate reassurances at a time of economic uncertainty,
said  Alexandre Barros , head of Early Warning, a political risk
consulting firm.  “Nobody on the streets asked for a plebiscite, and having
one won’t address underlying economic concerns,” Barros said in
a phone interview from Brasilia.  Health Care  The biggest concerns of voters are health care, education
and corruption, according to a poll taken June 27-28 by
Datafolha. It also found that 54 percent expect inflation,
already running above the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
government’s target range, to worsen even after the central bank
began raising  interest rates  in April to rein in prices.  The proposal for the plebiscite, which was delivered to
Congress by Vice President Michel Temer, has been criticized by
the opposition as unnecessary and costly to organize. Senator
Eunicio Oliveira, leader in the upper house of the PMDB party,
said today that the vast majority of his party, the biggest
member of Rousseff’s coalition, will support the initiative.  Rousseff, in her letter to lawmakers, said it was up to the
nation’s elected representatives “to provide an adequate
response to the voice of the streets” providing new avenues to
address popular demands.  Steep Plunge  Rousseff, who only a few weeks ago was favored in polls to
win re-election in October 2014 in the first round, now is
struggling, said Barros. Among the four likely or potential
candidates, she had 29 percent support, according to the
Datafolha poll of 4,717 people nationwide taken June 27-28.
That’s down from 49 percent at the start of June and 56 percent
in March.  Support for her government has  plunged  by almost half in
the past three weeks, to 30 percent, according to Datafolha.
That’s the steepest decline from one poll to the next since
then-President Fernando Collor froze  savings accounts  in 1990.  Benefiting the most from the slide is former Environment
Minister Marina Silva, who is forming a party that promises to
clean up politics. Support for her candidacy rose to 18 percent
from 14 percent in early June.  Opposition  Senator Aecio Neves of the opposition PSDB was favored by
15 percent, tied in third place with Supreme Court Chief Justice
Joaquim Barbosa, who gained prominence for presiding over a
landmark corruption case. The nation’s first black chief justice
had the most support in a separate Datafolha poll conducted
among protesters, although so far he’s ruled out a presidential
run.  “Polls are a photograph of the moment, they must be
respected,” Rousseff told reporters yesterday after meeting
with her cabinet. Protests “tend to make any leader,
politician, or ruler more open to debate.”  In addition to the polls, investors are watching to see
whether Rousseff resists pressure for more spending, said
Marcelo Salomon, co-head for Latin America economics at Barclays
Plc. In a June 21 televised address following demonstrations
that drew 1 million people onto the streets, Rousseff pledged to
maintain fiscal responsibility amid global financial volatility.  “The faster the government lowers the risk of populism,
the better the outcome will be viewed by the markets,” Salomon
said in a phone interview from  New York .  Market Rout  Since the protests over bus fares erupted a month ago, the
Ibovespa index has fallen 17.8 percent in dollar terms, the
worst performance among 94 benchmark indexes after stocks in
 Greece . The extra  yield  investors demand to own the Brazilian
government’s dollar debt compared with  U.S. Treasuries  has risen
31 basis points to 239, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  With Brazil’s public coffers increasingly stretched amid
sluggish growth, the 65-year-old Rousseff has little leeway to
boost spending. Brazil’s budget surplus before debt payments
fell to 1.95 percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months
through May from 2.46 percent in January. Boosting the so-called
 primary surplus  to 2.3 percent, as the government has pledged,
without resorting to accounting maneuvers as it has in the past
would be a positive result in the adverse global and domestic
environment, said Salomon.  Brazil needs “at this moment to be very careful with
fiscal solidity,” Rousseff said yesterday. She said the
government is considering cuts to spending to create room for a
more ambitious plan to improve public transportation.  Lula’s Example  Another gauge of Rousseff’s success will be the auction of
several highway concessions scheduled for September, interest in
which Salomon says may wane after Sao Paulo state last week
decided to scrap planned increases in toll roads it operates.  Rousseff’s mentor and predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , also faced a political crisis in his first term. The
former trade unionist saw his government’s approval rating
plunge to 28 percent in December 2005 after a votes-for-cash
scandal involving key aides, only to bounce back, win re-election in 2006, and leave office the most popular president in
Brazil’s history.  A career civil servant, Rousseff lacks her mentor’s
grassroots support among the nation’s labor unions. She joined
the Workers’ Party only on the eve of Lula’s first victory in
2002, and her candidacy initially faced opposition from members
of the party.  Work Stoppages  Unions plan to host a nationwide protest with work-stoppages on July 11, demanding a shorter workweek, better
pension pay and more spending on health care and education.  “The state is not fulfilling its role and meeting its
obligation to provide quality public services,” Vagner Freitas,
head of the pro-government union confederation CUT, said at a
June 28 seminar in Brasilia.  Rousseff is also presiding over an economy in which  growth 
last year was 0.9 percent, compared with 3.2 percent in 2005,
and facing an emerging middle class that after a decade of
progress is no longer content with having overcome poverty.  Lula has praised the government’s response to the street
protests, and even though polls show him performing better than
Rousseff in any election scenario, he’s so far dismissed
speculation by allies that he will attempt a return.  “She’s my candidate,” he told Valor Economico newspaper
in an interview published yesterday.  Fired Ministers  Rousseff’s approval rating soared in the first year of her
presidency as she fired a half-dozen ministers, many of them
holdovers from Lula’s administration, amid allegations of
wrongdoing.  Still, the house cleaning generated friction with allied
parties in Congress, on whom she depends to pass legislation and
get elected. One of the targets of the recent demonstrations was
what protesters called the government’s tolerance of cost
overruns in the construction of 12 stadiums for next year’s
soccer  World Cup .  “She’s facing an uphill battle,” Jeffrey Lesser, an Emory
University historian who specializes in Brazil, said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “In addition to a declining economy,
she’s in a tug of war with the expectations of large number of
people in her party and society at large.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  