-- Russia Claims First Insider Trading Case in Unilever’s Kalina
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-07-02T12:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/russia-claims-first-insider-trading-case-in-unilever-s-kalina.html
Russia ’s market regulator said it’s
identified the country’s first case of  insider trading  in
Unilever’s 2011 acquisition of skincare maker Concern Kalina.  Several people involved in the deal, including a Kalina
executive who purchased shares in his own name, bought stock
before the acquisition,  Dmitry Pankin , head of Russia’s
financial markets regulator, said in a  blog post . Kalina  shares
surged  75 percent to 2,198 rubles in the three weeks before the
announcement, which Pankin said triggered the investigation.  “This is the first proven case of the illicit use of
insider information on the Russian market,” Pankin said.  While Russia’s federal law on insider information and
market manipulation  came into force  in January 2011, those who
violate the legislation can only be criminally prosecuted from
July 27. Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer goods
company, agreed to acquire 82 percent of Kalina, the maker of
Black Pearl facial products and Silky Hands creams, in a deal
valuing the company at 21.5 billion rubles ($694 million).  Unilever (UNA) ’s Moscow press service didn’t immediately respond
to calls and e-mailed requests for comment. The case materials
will be sent to the police in the “near future,” Pankin said.  “Our laws aren’t sophisticated enough to uncover more
cases like these and they took this case and publicized it
because it was easy to crack,” Vitaly Kupeev, an analyst at
Allianz Investments in Moscow, said by phone. “This was easy to
uncover because Kalina’s shares were illiquid, had low trading
volumes, and it was possible to discover without interfering
with the interests of any influential people.”  The regulator analyzed information on more than 300 people
and about 50 companies involved in the deal, Pankin said. The
volume of trades exceeded several hundred million rubles,
according to Pankin.  “The year is 2013 and Russia might have its first proven
case of insider trading,”  Luis Saenz , head of equity sales and
trading at BCS Financial Group, said in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  