-- Russian Rocket With Navigation Satellites Crashes in Kazakhstan
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-07-02T12:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/russian-rocket-with-navigation-satellites-crashes-in-kazakhstan.html
A Russian Proton-M rocket carrying
three Glonass navigation satellites valued at billions of rubles
crashed soon after take-off from a base in  Kazakhstan .  The unmanned rocket fell 2.5 kilometers (1.6 miles) from
the Baikonur launch site after an emergency shutdown of its
engines 17 seconds into today’s flight, the space agency
Roscosmos  said  on its website. A cloud of poisonous gas from
spilled rocket fuel enveloped the crash site, Interfax said.  Russia has squandered billions of rubles as incidents in
the space industry resulted in 10 lost satellites and seven
failed launches during a period of 18 months, Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev  said in August. The disaster is the latest
mishap for the country, which controls 40 percent of the market
for space launches and plans to allocate 2.1 trillion rubles
($64 billion) on its space program in 2013-2020.  The rocket veered off course and broke apart in flames,
according to footage aired on state television channel Rossiya
24. The failure of the rocket’s first-stage engine was a
possible cause of the incident, the state-run news service RIA
Novosti  reported , citing the Kazakh Emergency Ministry.  Proton-M was carrying tons of rocket fuel, RIA cited the
Kazakh space agency as saying. Toxic propellant substances
burned up in the atmosphere, turning into nitric oxide and
mixing with precipitation in the area, Anna Vedischeva, a
spokeswoman for the head of Roscosmos, said by phone, adding
that there’s no threat to people from the fallout.  Costly Failure  The cost of the failed rocket, satellites and the launch is
 estimated  at about 4.4 billion rubles, according to Interfax.  Russia  is trying to challenge U.S. dominance in space-based
navigation systems. The country has spent at least  $3.3 billion 
in the last decade to develop its Glonass system with 24
satellites. It’s an alternative to GPS which was first developed
by the U.S. Department of Defense and then spread to civilian
applications such as mobile phones and transport monitoring.  The Russian space agency chief, Vladimir Popovkin, was
appointed in 2011 after the firing of his predecessor because a
Proton-M rocket failed to deliver three navigation satellites
into orbit. Within four months of Popovkin’s appointment, Russia
lost its most powerful telecommunications satellite, Express-AM4, after another faulty Proton-M launch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  