-- Russian Grain Yields Under Threat as July Brings Dry Weather
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-07-02T15:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/russia-s-grain-yield-may-drop-on-insufficient-rains-this-month.html
Russia , projected to be among the
world’s top five wheat exporters this season, is forecast to
have dry and warm weather in July that threatens to cut yields.  Precipitation will be 30 percent lower than usual in the
Southern and North-Caucasus federal districts and most of the
Volga Federal District, according to the state weather center’s
monthly forecast. Temperatures will exceed the norm by 1 degree
Celsius (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit), it said.  “Reduction of soil moisture will reduce yields of grains
that were planted in late spring and of corn, sugar beets and
sunflowers,” Anna Strashnaya, head of agrometeorological
forecasts at the center, said by phone from Moscow today.  Russia’s average grain yield reached 3.67 metric tons a
hectare (2.47 acres) yesterday, the start of the 2013-14 season,
according to Agriculture Ministry figures. That’s up from 2.77
tons a year earlier.  Rain was forecast yesterday and today in parts of the
Southern and North-Caucasus districts after storms hampered
winter-crop harvesting in June, according to weather center
data. The prediction includes Krasnodar, the nation’s biggest
grain-growing region. Krasnodar sped up harvesting in an effort
to finish early next week, the local government said.  The Southern and North-Caucasus districts grow most of the
grain exported from Russia and accounted for 35 percent of last
year’s national crop, state statistics data show. The Volga
district produced about 21 percent.  Russia  will export  17 million tons of wheat in the 2013-14
season running through next June, according to U.S. Department
of Agriculture estimates, tying with  Australia  and ranking
behind the U.S.,  Canada  and the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  