-- San Francisco Transit Talks to End Strike Set to Resume
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-07-02T23:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/san-francisco-transit-talks-to-end-strike-set-to-resume.html
Negotiations were set to resume late
today to end a strike idling commuter trains that usually carry
about 400,000 riders a day between  San Francisco , its airport
and the East Bay area.  The Bay Area Rapid Transit system, known as BART, has been
shut down for two days by the  Service Employees International
Union , representing mechanics and clerical workers, and the
Amalgamated Transit Union, which includes train operators and
station agents, whose contracts expired June 30.  The strike is BART’s first since 1997, when a six-day
shutdown jammed freeways and saddled workers with lengthier
commutes. The transit system’s 3,250 employees have an average
salary of $79,500 plus $50,800 a year in benefits, according to
its  website .  “After one full day of no meetings, we are eager to get
back to the table,” a BART spokesman, Rick Rice, said today in
a statement. Key issues are pay and health and retirement
benefits, he said last week.  The state is sending two negotiators -- Anita Martinez, the
head of the Public Employment Relations Board, and Loretta van
der Pol, the chief of the State Mediation and Conciliation
Service -- to join the talks as mediators, said Evan Westrup, a
spokesman for Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown .  “We’ve agreed to resume talks at the invitation of state
officials,” Josie Mooney, the SEIU’s negotiator, said in a
statement.  Officials ‘Disappointed’  The resumption set for 6 p.m. local time would follow
letters sent to both sides by state Controller John Chiang,
Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Insurance Commissioner  Dave
Jones , all Democrats, saying they were “disappointed about the
lack of productive proposals and counter-proposals” in the
talks.  They urged BART’s unions to “recognize the need of
government at all levels to balance rising employee costs,”
while saying management “would be well-advised to treat your
frontline employees” as partners.  Shane Pittman, 22, of Fremont, who works in security, said
it took him two hours to get to San Francisco yesterday morning.  “It kind of sucked,” he said in an interview. The strike
“makes everyone else’s day 10 times worse than it has to be.”  At the downtown San Francisco Transbay Terminal yesterday,
teenagers were selling  Krispy Kreme (KKD)  doughnuts to disgruntled
commuters arriving from the East Bay.  Latease Williams, a 42-year-old medical receptionist from
Oakland, said she has been taking BART for more than 20 years.
She said yesterday’s slog to her job on Market Street near the
Embarcadero was hard to bear.  “I hope they come out with a contract with these people
because this is bad -- it’s bad,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  