-- Saur to Write Off 900 Million Euros of Buyout Debt From 2007
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-07-02T15:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/saur-to-write-off-900-million-euros-of-loans-stemming-from-2007.html
Saur SAS, a French water provider, is
writing off 900 million euros ($1.2 billion) of debt in a
restructuring proposal backed by banks and shareholders.  The agreement would halve the debt of Saur’s parent
company, according to a statement from the Guyancourt, France-based business. Lenders including BNP Paribas SA, Groupe BPCE
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc will become “major
shareholders” following completion of the deal.  The company has been in talks with creditors and
shareholders to refinance 1.9 billion euros of loans raised in
2007, most of which are due to be repaid next year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenues of French water providers
have dropped as  Europe ’s economic crisis shrinks volumes.  “Saur has long-term contracts with 10,000 localities and
it requires a sustainable financial structure,” said Caroline
Catoire, Saur’s chief financial officer, in a telephone
interview. “This new refinancing gives us a chance to pursue
long-term development.”  Saur’s debt-for-equity deal, which needs to be approved by
a French court, will reduce its annual interest costs by two-thirds, to about 30 million euros, it said. The company, which
provides services to 18 million people worldwide, will also
raise 200 million euros of new credit lines.  Cash Flow  Free  cash flow  at the operating company level was always
positive, Catoire said. “What weakened the group was its
holding company’s indebtedness. Saur had to pay large dividends
to service its debt.”  The water provider’s restructured debt, borrowed by Holding
d’Infrastructures et des Metiers de l’Environnement, is due for
repayment in 2019, according to two people familiar with the
deal, who asked not to be identified because it is private. The
loans may be reduced further, to 750 million euros, if
conditions in the water market deteriorate.  Shareholder Seche Environnement sold its 33% stake in the
holding company to Saur’s lenders after its attempts to
restructure the business were rejected, it said last week.
Saur’s other shareholders are Fonds Strategique
d’Investissement,  France ’s strategic investment fund,  Axa SA (CS)  and
Cube Infrastructure Fund, according to the company’s  website .  Suez Environnement, Europe’s second-biggest water company,
said waste-treatment revenue dropped 5.3 percent in the first
quarter of the year and profit remained almost unchanged because
of “particularly difficult” economic conditions. The utility,
together with larger competitor  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , has
seen demand for industrial waste collection slide after
manufacturers reduced factory output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  