-- HSBC’s Phillips Moves to London in Investment Bank Overhaul
-- B y   C h i t r a   S o m a y a j i   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-07-03T03:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/hsbc-s-phillips-moves-to-london-amid-global-markets-overhaul.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, said Robin Phillips will relocate to London to lead a new
group for managing relationships with clients as part of an
overhaul of its investment bank.  Gordon French will succeed Phillips as head of global
banking and markets in the Asia-Pacific region, according to an
internal memo seen by  Bloomberg News . The contents were
confirmed by  Adam Harper , a spokesman in Hong Kong. A new unit
called capital financing, which includes equity and debt capital
markets and lending operations, will be led by Spencer Lake.  HSBC plans to eliminate as many as 14,000 more jobs over
the next three years as Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver 
seeks to cut an additional $3 billion of costs and revive
profitability. The London-based bank has also been selling
assets and expanding in faster-growing markets to boost revenue
that’s been crimped by Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “HSBC has been trying to restructure the organization to
become leaner and, if not meaner, then more profitable,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.,
said by telephone today. The investment bank’s overhaul “is
part of this effort.”  Jose-Luis Guerrero will head the markets unit, which will
include sales, trading and secondary-market operations, Samir Assaf, chief executive officer of global banking and markets,
said in the note to staff yesterday. Guerrero and Lake, who have
been the co-heads of global markets, as well as Phillips will
report to Assaf.  Headcount Impact  “There will be no impact on the overall portfolio of
products and services we provide or the clients we serve,” HSBC
said. “There will be no impact on headcount.”  Shares of HSBC  fell 0.9 percent to HK$80.80 as of 11:38
a.m. in  Hong Kong  trading today. The stock has climbed 16
percent in the past year. In London, it closed almost unchanged
at 694.80 pence yesterday.  Profit at Assaf’s global banking and markets unit rose 20
percent to $8.5 billion in 2012 as income at its credit business
more than doubled. The division will continue to include
securities services, payment and cash management and balance
sheet management, as well as the client coverage, markets and
capital financing units, HSBC said.  Kevin Adeson was appointed vice-chairman of global banking
and markets, reporting to Assaf, and will be responsible for
“collaboration across business lines,” according to the memo.
The reshuffle takes effect on Aug. 12.  Patrick Nolan and Mohammad Al Tuwaijri will continue as
heads of global banking and markets for the Americas and Middle
East-North Africa regions, respectively.  Cost Cuts  Gulliver has eliminated $4 billion of costs since becoming
CEO in 2011, beating his initial target. He had announced 46,000
job cuts and sold or closed 52 businesses to revive earnings
before announcing the bank’s strategy for the next three-year
period on May 15. HSBC’s pretax profit in the first quarter
increased to $8.43 billion, beating analysts’ estimates, from
$4.32 billion a year earlier.  The bank’s $1.9 billion agreement with the U.S. to resolve
charges it enabled Latin American drug cartels to launder
billions of dollars was approved by a federal judge yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chitra Somayaji in Hong Kong at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  