-- HSBC Judge Approves $1.9B Drug-Money Laundering Accord
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-03T20:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/hsbc-judge-approves-1-9b-drug-money-laundering-accord.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s $1.9 billion
agreement with the U.S. to resolve charges it enabled Latin
American drug cartels to launder billions of dollars was
approved by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn, New York,
signed off yesterday on a deferred-prosecution agreement, a
critical component of the London-based bank’s settlement.
Gleeson said in his order that he was exercising “supervisory
power” over the deal even though the bank and government
contended he didn’t have authority to approve or deny it.  “A pending criminal case is not window dressing” Gleeson
wrote, noting that the case was filed and would remain pending
for five years under the agreement. “By placing a criminal
matter on the docket of a federal court, the parties have
subjected their DPA to the legitimate exercise of the court’s
authority.”  HSBC was accused of failing to monitor more than
$670 billion in wire transfers and more than $9.4 billion in
purchases of U.S. currency from HSBC  Mexico , allowing for money
laundering, prosecutors said. The bank also violated U.S.
economic sanctions against  Iran ,  Libya ,  Sudan ,  Burma  and Cuba,
according to a criminal information filed in the case.  Civil Penalties  The bank,  Europe ’s largest, agreed to pay a $1.25 billion
forfeiture and $665 million in civil penalties under the
settlement, prosecutors announced in December. At a hearing the
same month, Gleeson told prosecutors there had been “publicized
criticism” of the agreement, which lets the bank and management
avoid further criminal proceedings over the charges.  Gleeson said he will continue supervising implementation of
the deal, under which the bank agreed not to contest criminal
charges of failing to maintain an effective anti- money-laundering  program, failing to conduct due diligence, and
violating the Trading With the Enemy Act and the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act.  Lack of proper controls allowed the Sinaloa drug cartel in
Mexico and the Norte del Valle cartel in  Colombia  to move more
than $881 million through HSBC’s U.S. unit from 2006 to 2010,
the government alleged in the case. The bank also cut resources
for its anti-money-laundering programs to “cut costs and
increase profits,” the government said in court filings.  Certain Conditions  Under a deferred prosecution agreement, the U.S. allows a
target to avoid charges by meeting certain conditions --
including the payment of fines or penalties -- and by committing
to specific reforms.  In his order, Gleeson called the terms of the HSBC
agreement, including the forfeiture and the bank’s admission of
wrongdoing, “significant.”  “Indeed, taking into account the fact that a company
cannot be imprisoned, it appears to me that much of what might
have been accomplished by a criminal conviction has been agreed
to in the DPA,” Gleeson wrote.  HSBC spokesman Rob Sherman said in an e-mailed statement
that the bank remains focused on implementing the conditions of
the agreement.  ‘Extensive Actions’  “Since 2011, we have taken extensive actions to put in
place the highest standards to protect against current and
emerging threats from financial crime,” Sherman said. “While
we are making good progress, there is much more to do, and
ensuring the highest standards wherever we do business is an
ongoing process.”  Christina B. Dugger, First Assistant U.S. Attorney in
 Brooklyn , declined to comment on Gleeson’s decision.  Several people filed letters to the judge asking him not to
approve the deal, including actress Berenice Mosca, who said
she appeared in television advertisements for the bank and
hasn’t been paid.  “To amend any part I played in contributing to HSBC
profits, I feel responsible for motivating HSBC to right their
wrongs, their illicit, horrible way they use those profits,”
she said in the letter, filed March 20. “Respectfully I ask,
please do not approve this grossly inadequate settlement
offer.”  The case is U.S. v. HSBC Bank USA NA, 12-cr-00763, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  