-- Senator Crapo Asks GAO to Study Consumer Bureau Data Collection
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-02T18:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/senator-crapo-asks-gao-to-study-consumer-bureau-data-collection.html
The U.S. Senate Banking Committee’s
top Republican is asking the investigative arm of Congress to
determine whether the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is
acting within its powers in a sweeping data collection effort.  Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican, made the request
to the Government Accountability Office in a letter dated today
in which he called for a study of the purpose, scope and use of
the data sought by the bureau. He also asked the GAO to look at
the legal authority for collecting the information, the security
of the data and the cost of collecting the material.  “The size and scope of this data collection warrant proper
government oversight to both guard consumers’ privacy and ensure
that the CFPB is acting within its existing authority,” Crapo
wrote to GAO Comptroller General Gene Dodaro.  Banks have complained about the data collection and the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce accused the bureau of breaking the law
in collecting detailed information on individual credit-card
accounts. Consumer Bureau Director  Richard Cordray  has said the
collection of credit-card account data is critical to the
agency’s mandate.  “Simply put, we cannot effectively regulate that which we
do not understand,” Cordray wrote in a May 23 letter to Crapo.
“When collecting information necessary to perform our
regulatory functions, we seek to limit to the greatest extent
possible any burdens on market participants and take all
necessary precautions to protect individuals’ personal
privacy.”  The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 directs the creation of a
research office at the agency, and authorizes direct collection
of information for supervision and enforcement. It specifies
that the bureau should get data from available databases to
minimize the burden on companies.  Cordray has said the bureau doesn’t disclose personally
identifiable information. Crapo wrote today that it is unknown
what information the bureau collects, on how many accounts and
how the information is being used.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  