-- Serb Yields Rise as Global Risk, Fiscal Concern Keep Buyers Away
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-07-02T16:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/serb-yields-rise-as-global-risk-fiscal-concern-keep-buyers-away.html
Yields on Serbian domestic bonds rose
as the government sold less debt than planned after foreign
investors shied away from the market and local buyers weighed
fiscal and political risks.  The government sold 3.3 billion dinars ($38.03 million) in
2-year Treasury bonds of 10 billion on offer, with yields on the
10-percent coupon note rising to 10.48 percent from 9.89 percent
at a May 14 auction of the same maturity debt, the Debt
Management Agency said in an e-mail today. Custody clients,
through which foreign investors take part in Serbian auctions,
were absent from the sale today, according to auction results.  The sale today was the first after the European Union said
on June 28 it would open talks with Serbia on its future
membership in January at the latest, conditional on the Balkan
nation’s reconciliation with its breakaway Kosovo province.
Emerging-market bonds and stocks tumbled last month after U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank
may start to curb stimulus.  “Foreign investors are waiting for more clarity on the
Fed’s policy and that has affected Serbia and other  emerging
markets  such as Poland, Hungary and  Romania ,” Ljiljana Grubic,
analyst with Raiffeisen Bank AD in Belgrade, said by phone.
“Domestic investors are concerned about fiscal consolidation.”  Serbia plans to raise 28 billion dinars in four bond sales
and 50 million euros in one placement of euro-denominated debt
this month, according to the Debt Agency. July repayments stand
at 19.7 billion dinars, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tough Conditions  The borrowing plan may change after lawmakers adopt a
revised 2013 budget later this week to contain the deficit
within 178.3 billion dinars, or 4.7 percent of GDP, up from an
initially planned 3.6 percent of GDP. The deficit reached 6
percent of GDP in the first quarter.  The International Monetary Fund said on May 22 the gap may
ballon to 8 percent of GDP this year if the government doesn’t
change its policies.  Yields on Serbian 10-year Eurobonds maturing in 2021 fell
24 basis points to 6.43 percent by 3:49 p.m. in Belgrade today.
Yields are up 168 basis points since the IMF issued its report.  Serbia ’s revised budget has not been planned to meet tough
IMF conditions which are “difficult to meet,” Deputy Prime
Minister Aleksandar Vucic said in Belgrade today. “It will not
be a tragedy if we don’t reach the agreement” even though
Serbia will try to talk with the IMF, he said.  The 11-month old Cabinet of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic will
be reshuffled by July 27, one year after taking office, and the
changes will be “substantial,” said Vucic, leader of the
Serbian Progressive Party of former nationalists. He said he
could not exclude the possibility of early elections.  Financial Support  The revised budget relies on lower administrative costs and
selling unprofitable companies that will leave thousands without
work. Public wages and pensions won’t be cut or frozen.  Serbia has asked the World Bank to financially support its
plan for the closure or sale of 179 unprofitable companies,
which employ around 54,000 workers. The lender said it’s ready
to help secure “technical and financial support” for the
effort it described as “critically important to address
imbalances in the public finances,” according to a June 28
statement by Ellen Goldstein, World Bank Director for the
Western Balkans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  