-- Sex Ed Rollout in China Seen Benefiting Reckitt to Ansell
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T09:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/sex-ed-rollout-in-china-seen-benefiting-reckitt-to-ansell.html
The first time Beijing college
freshman Guo Si laid hands on a condom was a month before her
20th birthday last year, when she rolled one over a banana
during a “companion education” class.  Guo, who moved to Beijing from neighboring Hebei province
in 2012, said she had never before had sex education at school.  That’s not uncommon in  China . Now, an escalation of HIV,
 syphilis , genital herpes and other sex-spread infections is
spurring demand for knowledge and condoms in a country where
intrauterine devices and sterilization are the mainstays of
 birth control . Colleges such as Guo’s  Tsinghua University  are
holding classes and dispensing free rubbers in vending machines.
That’s expanding a market forecast by researcher Global Industry
Analysts Inc. to increase 9 percent annually to reach $1 billion
by 2018, benefiting suppliers such as  Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc (RB/) , the maker of Durex condoms, and  Australia ’s  Ansell Ltd. (ANN) ,
owner of a Chinese condom brand.  “It will be a huge and growing market for a long time to
come,” said Mickie Leong, who heads a China unit for Ansell
that sells a condom called Jissbon, which  sounds  in Chinese like
“ James Bond ,” the fictional British spy. “As consumers become
more educated and more liberal, they consequently understand the
need for safety, prevention and happiness all in one.”  Shares Doubled  In China, 9.2 billion condoms were sold last year, Global
Industry Analysts estimated in an October 2012  report . The  San
Jose , California-based company predicts sales will reach 14.6
billion by 2018 amid “unprecedented growth,” bolstered by
increased expenditure on reproductive health-care products.  Enterprise Development Holdings Ltd. (1808)  shares have more than
doubled in Hong Kong since the investment holding company said
on May 16 that it would buy Techno Wing Ltd., which makes
condoms in China.  Reckitt Benckiser, the maker of the world’s top-selling
condom, said in April that  revenue  in  Latin America  and Asia-Pacific jumped 11 percent in the first quarter, helped by Durex
sales in China. Better distribution in the Asian nation has
driven the condom brand’s growth, the Slough, England-based
company said in its latest  annual report , without elaborating.  Its local subsidiary, Qingdao London Durex Co., established
in a joint venture 1998, is the world’s biggest condom-manufacturing site, according to the company’s  website , with 19
production lines making prophylactics sold in more than 20
countries.  ‘More Awareness’  “With the increasing disposable income and rising concern
for health, consumers have gained more awareness about condom
usage and are willing to pay more for high quality condoms,”
Kiki Fan, Nielsen China’s vice president of retail measurement,
wrote in a June 3 e-mail.  Still, condom use in China is growing from a low base.
Leong’s Wuhan Jissbon Sanitary Products Co., which Melbourne-based Ansell bought in 2006, has annual revenue of $12 million
and is the second-largest condom manufacturer in China with 10
percent market share, Credit Suisse AG wrote in a June 21
report.  Ansell shares fell 0.3 percent to A$18.02 at the close of
trading in Sydney. The stock has climbed 18 percent this year,
while the S&P/ASX 200 Health Care Index has advanced 11 percent.  Thirty years ago, intrauterine devices or IUDs accounted
for half of birth control methods used in China, with tubal
ligation making up a quarter. Condoms-use was only 2 percent,
researchers  reported  in 1983. Condoms’ share of the
contraception market now exceeds 4 percent, according to a  2012
report  in U.S.-China Today, a publication of the University of
 Southern California .  Ms. Contraception  That may help China counter what the National Center for
STD control  called in 2011  an “increasing epidemic of sexually
transmitted infections, including HIV.” From 1991 to 2000, the
average annual increase in cases of syphilis was 52 percent and
55 percent for genital herpes. Incidence was highest in the 20-to-29-year age group, and in affluent regions and cities,
especially where tourists flock, Liang said in the presentation.  Fewer than 40 percent of people in China ages 15 to 24
received sex education at school, according to a 2009 survey of
22,288 youths by the Peking University’s  Institute of Population
Research .  At its campus hospital in north Beijing,  Tsinghua
University  has installed a vending machine that dispenses free
condoms while doling out sexual advice via an integrated TV
screen. A cartoon plays in a continuous loop featuring an egg-shaped “Ms. Contraception” discussing how androgen-blocking
contraceptive pills for women can also counter pimples.  Authorities in Hefei, the provincial capital of Anhui, are
dispensing free condoms via nine machines scattered across the
city, including in the Anhui Agricultural University, the
People’s Daily reported on its  website  in April.  “It’s necessary that the school has something like this,”
said Guo, the Beijing freshman, as she lugged a gray haversack
packed with biology textbooks after class. “When you’re in
university, and you have a boyfriend or girlfriend, sex will
come naturally.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  