-- Slovenian Bonds Advance as Bad-Loan Transfer Deadline Expires
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-07-02T13:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/slovenian-bonds-advance-as-bad-loan-transfer-deadline-expires.html
Slovenian bonds climbed for a second
day as the government started moving toxic loans from the
nation’s biggest lender and investor appetite for the country’s
debt improved.  Dollar-denominated notes maturing October 2022 advanced,
cutting the yield 25 basis points to 6.42 percent by 2:55 p.m.
in Ljubljana, the lowest in almost two weeks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the bonds is up 51 basis points since the end
of May after concern the U.S. will curb stimulus triggered a
rout in emerging-market assets. The first bad loans of about 100
million euros ($130 million) from Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.
will be transferred to the bank asset management agency today at
the latest, Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek said June 28.  “As some confidence returns to the market, it’s pretty
clear that investors return to assets that were hit by the fall-out,” Gunter Deuber, head of research at Raiffeisen Bank
International in Vienna,  Austria , said by e-mail. “It makes
sense that there is some return of buying interest for Slovenian
bonds.”  Slovenia pledged to fix its deepening banking crisis with
the transfer of bad loans to the government agency and a direct
capital boost of about 900 million euros for its top three
banks, including NLB, to avoid seeking an international bailout.  The government of Prime Minister Bratusek wants to swap 3.3
billion euros of bad loans from its three main banks for about
1.1 billion euros of state-guaranteed bonds, it said in its May
overhaul program.  Market Distrust  Bratusek on June 28 called on the European Commission, the
EU’s executive arm, to accelerate the approval of state aid for
NLB bank and said the nation is late with the rebuilding of the
financial industry.  NLB is set to transfer a total of 2 billion euros worth of
toxic loans to the government agency, according to the bank
asset management company.  The yield on the dollar-notes surged to a record 7.52
percent June 24 on concern the  Federal Reserve  will trim its
stimulus program.  “The still fairly high yield levels on dollar bonds and
their negative trend over the last months mirror a negative
market risk assessment towards Slovenia and to some extent
distrust in the problem-solving ability of the Slovenian
politics,” Deuber from Raiffeisen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  