-- SoftBank Bid for Sprint Said to Win Majority FCC Support
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-07-03T20:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/softbank-bid-for-sprint-said-to-win-majority-fcc-support.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s $21.6 billion bid
for mobile carrier  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  won approval from the
last U.S. regulatory body reviewing the transaction, said people
familiar with the matter.  All three members of the Federal Communications Commission
have voted for the deal, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been made public. The
approval also covers Sprint’s offer to buy the half of wireless
operator  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  it doesn’t already own.  The approval sanctions a re-ordering in the U.S. market by
boosting No. 3 Sprint against larger rivals Verizon Wireless and
 AT&T Inc. (T)  as SoftBank billionaire founder Masayoshi Son seeks to
create the world’s largest carrier. The fourth- and fifth-largest U.S. carriers combined May 1 into T-Mobile US Inc. after
that company bought MetroPCS Communications Inc.  “This clears a hurdle, so it’s almost finalized,” said
Masamitsu Ohki, a  fund manager  at Stats Investment Management
Co., a hedge fund in  Tokyo . “The acquisition makes sense to
fulfill Son’s expansion strategy.”  Justin Cole, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment. Takeaki Nukii, a spokesman for Tokyo-based SoftBank, also declined to
comment on the FCC process, as did  John Taylor , a spokesman for
Sprint’s Washington office.  Market Data  SoftBank fell 1.7 percent to 5,800 yen as of the close of
trade in Tokyo, paring this year’s gain to 85 percent. Sprint
closed up 4 cents at $7.19 in  New York .  SoftBank won a bidding war for Sprint and trumped a run at
Clearwire by Englewood, Colorado-based Dish Network Corp. The
rebuffed satellite provider may turn its attention to T-Mobile
if it still intends to enter the wireless industry, according to
Stifel Financial Corp.  Sprint shareholders approved the deal June 25. SoftBank
will own 78 percent of Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas .
Clearwire investors are due to vote on Sprint’s offer at a July
8 meeting.  SoftBank has pledged innovative pricing and network
investments at Sprint to help it gain market share from Verizon
and AT&T. The combined company will be the sixth-largest
telecommunications company globally by revenue and the second-biggest among mobile Internet carriers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Public Interest  The FCC’s review of the SoftBank-Sprint deal was to
determine whether the transfer of control of Sprint’s airwaves
is in the public’s interest.  U.S. antitrust and security officials earlier cleared
SoftBank’s bid. The companies gave assurances they would limit
use of telecommunications gear made by Huawei Technologies Co.,
based in Shenzhen,  China .  A congressional committee last year said Huawei and ZTE
Corp. provide opportunities for Chinese intelligence services to
tamper with telecommunications networks for spying. Huawei has
said its exclusion is “misguided” and doesn’t resolve
vulnerabilities arising from common global equipment supply
chains.  The SoftBank takeover caps a turnaround effort for Sprint
Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse , who was hired in 2007 to fix
the money-losing company after a $36 billion acquisition of
Nextel -- a deal that mostly had to be written off. Sprint also
didn’t get to sell Apple Inc.’s iPhone until after AT&T and
Verizon, contributing to the loss of more than 8 million monthly
subscribers.  Increased Offer  Son, the 59th-richest person according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index , will serve as chairman of Sprint with
SoftBank Holdings Inc. President Ron Fisher becoming vice
chairman.  Sprint initially forged a deal with SoftBank in October,
agreeing to sell 70 percent of the company for $20.1 billion.
Dish offered $25.5 billion for Sprint in April, though its terms
were structured differently and not directly comparable to
SoftBank’s price. Dish also never submitted a firm enough bid to
be “actionable,” Sprint said.  To seal the deal, SoftBank raised its bid to $21.6 billion
for 78 percent of Sprint on June 10. The transaction also
shifted more cash away from investing in Sprint’s business, an
effort to sweeten the pot for shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  