-- Spaghetti Western Harmony Warms Lord Huron Dreams: July
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2013-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/spaghetti-western-harmony-warms-lord-huron-dreams-july.html
Thick fog, a backdrop of sprawling
canyons and the sound of birds chirping conjured a wilderness
feeling inside  Webster Hall  on June 21 as  Lord Huron  took the
stage.  Frontman Ben Schneider strummed his acoustic guitar and
gently sang the opening lines to “Ends of the Earth,” soon
joined by rolling drums and western-style electric guitar. The
five-piece harmonized, which they would do all evening.  The band then glided into “The Man Who Lives Forever.” A
deep bass line ebbed and flowed with tapping percussion for an
infectious samba feel.  Schneider, who now resides in  California , was vacationing
in the Lake Huron area of his home state of Michigan back in
2010 when he wrote the songs that would soon be found on the
band’s first EP. Since then, Lord Huron has toured extensively.
The 2012 debut full-length record, “Lonesome Dreams,” was a
consistent listen from front to back.  The title track came up next at last month’s concert. The
crowd cheered at the first notes. Schneider used chimes for the
start of “We Went Wild,” which soon acquired snappy drums and
jangly guitars. As the pace picked up, Schneider put down his
guitar and lost his cowboy hat as he joined in vigorously on
percussion. The song’s energy got the house dancing.  In the lull before the next tune, Schneider played
harmonica for the opening of “The Ghost on the Shore,” a
dreamy number. For “She Lit a Fire,” the guitars perked up,
the drums marched and the crowd sang along.  ‘The Stranger’  The band kept the pulse high as the celebratory track “The
Stranger” kicked in. Muscular drumming, guitar scales and slide
work had the audience jumping around. It was a fine first night
of summer with Lord Huron’s spaghetti-western flare as
soundtrack.  The band’s U.S. tour includes several music festivals such
as XPoNential in Camden,  New Jersey , and Newport Folk in  Rhode
Island . The group will be supporting Alt-J for a monthlong tour
that hits  Central Park ’s SummerStage on Sept. 15.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in July. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.       (Jaime Widder works in sales for  Bloomberg News . Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books ,  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 