-- Sprint Must Face $300 Million N.Y. Alleged Tax Fraud Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-07-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/sprint-must-face-300-million-n-y-alleged-tax-fraud-suit.html
Sprint-Nextel Corp. (S)  must face a
lawsuit for $300 million brought by the  New York  attorney
general claiming the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier
deliberately failed to pay sales taxes.  New York Supreme Court Judge O. Peter Sherwood denied
Sprint-Nextel’s bid to dismiss the case in a ruling dated June
27. He ordered lawyers for both sides to appear at a hearing
July 24.  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman last year took over the
whistle-blower lawsuit filed in New York in 2011, claiming
Sprint didn’t collect and pay some sales taxes on flat-rate
access charges for wireless calling plans, costing state and
local governments more than $100 million.  “Sprint is disappointed in the court’s decision, and we
intend to file an appeal shortly,”  John Taylor , a spokesman for
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint said in an e-mailed
statement. “With this lawsuit, the Attorney General’s office is
claiming New York consumers, who already pay some of the highest
wireless taxes in the country, should pay even more. As we have
in the past, we will continue to stand up for New York
consumers’ rights and fight this suit.”  The attorney general seeks three times Sprint’s alleged
underpayment of more than $100 million plus penalties under the
state’s false claims act.  ``As the very first case prosecuted under a new provision 
in state law allowing for tax fraud claims -- and with strong 
protections for whistleblowers -- this ruling sends a message 
that tax dodgers will be exposed and prosecuted to the fullest 
extent of the law,'' Schneiderman said in an e-mailed statement.  Judge's Finding  The complaint “satisfactorily alleges that Sprint
knowingly submitted false monthly tax statements,” Sherwood
wrote.  Wireless carriers selling a set number of minutes of
calling time for a fixed monthly charge must collect and pay
sales taxes on the entire charge, Schneiderman claimed. Sprint
treated a portion as nontaxable and withheld about 25 percent of
the taxes it was supposed to collect and remit to state and
local governments, according to the attorney general.  The move arose from a nationwide effort by Sprint to gain
an advantage over competitors including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Wireless , which correctly collect and pay the taxes,
Schneiderman said.  The case is New York v. Sprint Nextel, 103917-2011, New
York Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  