-- Steelmakers File U.S. Trade Case Seeking Duties on Oil Pipes
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-07-02T22:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/steelmakers-file-u-s-trade-case-seeking-duties-on-oil-pipes.html
A group of oil-pipe makers led by
 United States Steel Corp. (X)  filed a U.S. trade complaint against
competitors in nine nations, alleging goods from those countries
were sold in the U.S. market below cost and, in some cases,
benefited from government subsidies.  The U.S. coalition made the complaint with the
International Trade Commission today in Washington. Countries
named in the complaint are India,  Korea , the  Philippines , Saudi
Arabia,  Taiwan , Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine and Vietnam. U.S.
Steel and  Tenaris SA (TEN)  rose in  New York .  Producers including U.S. Steel won U.S. duties averaging 86
percent on Chinese pipes used in oil and gas wells, after
complaining in a similar case brought in 2009 that they were
being hurt by below-market prices for Chinese products. The
latest case, if successful, would be a “landmark record win for
the U.S. steel industry” because it would create a defense
against imported oil-pipe products, said  Michelle Applebaum ,
managing partner at consultant Steel Market Intelligence in
Chicago.  The case “should be bullish for everybody who makes sheet
steel,” Applebaum said by phone today. U.S. Steel, the second-largest U.S. steelmaker by sales, stands to gain the most and
all suppliers of oil country tubular goods, or OCTG pipes,
should benefit, she said.  The case would also help protect domestic producers from
below-market “transhipped” products originally produced in
China and imported to the U.S. via another country, she said.  Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the biggest U.S. steel producer by sales,
would also benefit if the case is successful, Applebaum said.  U.S. Steel, which got 43 percent of its 2012 operating
income from its tubular division, rose 8.3 percent, the most
since Jan. 2, to close at $19.25 a share in New York.
Luxembourg-based  Tenaris (TS) ’s American depositary receipts, each
worth two ordinary shares, gained 9.1 percent, to $44.79.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  