-- Sugar Futures Drop to Three-Week Low on Pakistan Outlook
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o
-- 2013-07-02T15:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/sugar-futures-drop-to-three-week-low-on-pakistan-outlook.html
Sugar futures fell to a three-week
low on forecasts for increasing output in  Pakistan  and
indications that the global surplus may expand. Cocoa, orange
juice and coffee prices climbed, while cotton dropped.  Shunaid Qureshi, the chairman of the Pakistan Sugar Mills
Association, said today in an interview that production may jump
as much as 20 percent to a record 6 million metric tons in the
12 months starting Nov. 1 from a year earlier, signaling export
prospects. Global output will exceed demand for the fourth
straight year, Rabobank International has forecast.  “The news in Pakistan is bringing the market down,”
Michael Smith, the president of T&K Futures & Options in Port
St. Lucie,  Florida , said in a telephone interview. “We have
these surpluses, and demand is decreasing, not increasing. It is
going to be really tough for the sugar market to work through
its long-term supply.”  Raw sugar for October delivery slumped 1 percent to 16.53
cents a pound at 11:12 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Earlier, the price touched 16.43 cents, the lowest for a most-active contract since June 10. Through yesterday, the commodity
dropped 14 percent this year, partly because of a bumper crop in
 Brazil , the world’s top exporter.  Sugar may plunge as low as 14 cents, Smith said. That would
mark the cheapest in three years.  India  is Asia’s top producer, followed by China, Thailand
and Pakistan.  Cocoa futures for September delivery rose 0.6 percent to
$2,172 a metric ton on ICE.  Orange-juice futures for September delivery advanced 1.1
percent to $1.316 a pound, heading for the fourth straight gain.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery jumped 2.4
percent to $1.2455 a pound.  Cotton for December delivery fell 0.3 percent to 85.3 cents
a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  