-- Suntory Climbs on Debut After $4 Billion Soft Drink IPO
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-07-03T08:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/suntory-ipo-seen-as-expensive-tests-thirst-for-4-billion-deal.html
Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. (2587)  gained
on its  Tokyo  trading debut after raising almost $4 billion in
 Asia ’s largest public offering this year.  The soft-drinks unit of Osaka-based Suntory Holdings Ltd.
closed 1.5 percent higher at 3,145 yen after rising as much as
3.1 percent to 3,195 yen. The benchmark  Topix (TPX)  index gained 0.2
percent.  The seller of Orangina soda and Boss coffee last week
priced its shares near the low end of a projected range after
volatile markets curbed demand. The company aims to double sales
to 2 trillion yen by 2020 as it expands overseas.  “There is always uncertainty in supply and demand when
there are big IPOs, but investors are paying more and more
attention to stocks with good business performance such as
Suntory Beverage,” said Yoshihiro Ito, chief strategist at
Okasan Online Securities Co.  Suntory Beverage expects net income to rise 50 percent to
35 billion yen this year.  Overseas Acquisitions  Suntory last week set the final price for the IPO near the
lower end of an earlier indicative range of 3,000-3,800 yen.  The listing on the first section of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange is the country’s biggest share sale since  Japan
Airlines Co. (9201) ’s IPO raised 663 billion yen in September last
year.  Recent market volatility has overshadowed the comparative
health of  Japan ’s drinks industry. The Topix index, a gauge of
the stocks listed on Tokyo’s first section, has fallen more than
8 percent from this year’s peak of 1,276.03 on May 22.  The index had risen more than 70 percent from mid-November
to May 22 on optimism about Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s measures
to revitalize the world’s third-biggest economy. The Topix
yesterday capped the biggest four-day rally since April as the
yen weakened.  Volatile Conditions  The IPO was more than three times oversubscribed by
domestic investors and almost two times oversubscribed by those
from overseas, Tetsuo Ichimoto, a spokesman for Suntory
Beverage, has said. Suntory Beverage PresidentNobuhiro Torii
plans to use proceeds from the share sale partly to continue to
expand through overseas acquisitions.  Of the 2 trillion yen in sales targeted by 2020, about 1.5
to 1.6 trillion yen will come from existing businesses with the
rest achieved through “strategic investment,” or deals, Torii
said at a press conference today.  The beverage group bought France-based  Orangina Schweppes 
Group for 300 billion yen in 2009 and paid 600 million euros in
the same year for New Zealand’s  Frucor Beverages  Group Ltd.  Suntory Beverage plans to acquire companies in  Southeast
Asia ,  Middle East ,  Africa , and  Latin America , it said in
December.  Suntory had a 20 percent market share in Japan’s non-alcoholic drink market in 2012, the second biggest after Coca-Cola Co.’s 28 percent, according to researcher Inryosoken.  The company is known for its motto ‘Yatteminahare’ or “go
for it,” the slogan created by its founder.  Actor  Bill Murray ’s character in the 2003 film ’Lost in
Translation’ introduced the name to international filmgoers with
the line, “For relaxing times, make it Suntory time.”  Parent Suntory Holdings, which sells whiskey and beer, will
remain unlisted. Nomura Holdings Inc., Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. were selected to manage Suntory Beverage’s
listing, the company has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  