-- U.K. Plans to Name Rothschild as Adviser on RBS Split, FT Says
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2013-07-02T01:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/u-k-plans-to-name-rothschild-as-adviser-on-rbs-split-ft-says.html
U.K. policy makers are planning to
appoint Rothschild to advise on a proposal to split  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest government-owned
lender, according to the Financial Times.  Rothschild’s role could be announced as soon as this week,
the newspaper reported yesterday, citing people close to the
situation whom it didn’t identify. Rothschild is expected to
begin the review immediately and hopes to complete it by
September, according to the FT.  The U.K. should consider breaking up Edinburgh-based RBS,
81 percent owned by the government, and hiving off its toxic
assets into a “bad bank,” the Parliamentary Commission on
Banking Standards said in a  report  published June 19. Chancellor
of the Exchequer George Osborne has said he opposes a breakup,
partly because a full nationalization costing billions of pounds
of public money would be required.  The Treasury is expected to choose an asset-valuation
specialist, possibly  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  or Pacific Investment
Management Co., to review RBS’s loan book, the FT reported,
citing bankers it didn’t identify.  Mark Semer , a spokesman for Rothschild at Kekst & Co.,
declined to comment. Phone messages left after office hours for
a Rothschild executive in New York and an RBS executive in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , weren’t immediately returned.  RBS was bailed out during the global financial crisis in
2008 and 2009 in a 45.5 billion-pound ($69.2 billion) rescue,
the costliest ever for the banking industry.  The timetable for privatizing RBS was thrown into question
when Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester, 52, said he planned
to quit before year-end at the request of the board. No
successor has been named.  RBS, which has begun to cut 2,000 investment-banking jobs,
will have completed most of its restructuring next year,
allowing the government to start reducing its stake by the end
of 2014, Chairman Philip Hampton said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  