-- U.K. Government Said to Hire Rothschild to Advise on RBS Split
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-02T16:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/u-k-government-said-to-hire-rothschild-to-advise-on-rbs-split.html
The U.K. government plans to hire
Rothschild to help review the case for breaking up  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , two people with knowledge of the talks said.  Rothschild will advise the government on the case for
separating the lender’s worst-performing assets to create a
healthier bank, said the people, who asked not to be identified
before a public announcement.  Britain should consider splitting Edinburgh-based  RBS (RBS)  to
spin off its toxic loans into a “bad bank,” the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards said in a report in June.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who subsequently
called for the review into the bank’s structure, ruled out
injecting more taxpayers’ money into the 81 percent  government-owned  lender or increasing the state’s stake.  RBS received 45.5 billion pounds ($69 billion), the
costliest bank bailout in history, during the global financial
crisis and the shares remain below the level at which taxpayers
would break even.  Officials at the Treasury, Rothschild and RBS declined to
comment on the appointment, which was first reported by the
Financial Times.  The timing of a possible RBS sale was thrown into confusion
last month after Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester 
announced he would quit by the end of the year, without
announcing a successor, instead of leading the bank out of state
control. Chairman  Philip Hampton  had suggested the bank would be
in shape for the government to start cutting its stake by the
end of 2014, months before the next general election.  In the review of RBS, the Treasury will particularly
examine its assets in  Ulster Bank  and U.K. commercial property,
the chancellor has said. RBS has channeled about a third, or 14
billion pounds, of its bailout to prop up its Irish division
since 2009. A decision on the future structure of RBS will be
taken later this year, Osborne said last month.  Meanwhile the U.K. government is “actively considering”
selling shares in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to reduce its 39
percent holding, Osborne said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  