-- U.S. and Russia to Hold Syria Peace Talks, Kerry Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-02T10:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/u-s-and-russia-to-hold-syria-peace-talks-kerry-says.html
The U.S. and Russia have agreed to
hold a peace conference on  Syria  some time after August to find
a “peaceful settlement” to the two-year-old civil war,
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said.  The top U.S. diplomat announced the framework of an
agreement for the talks after meeting Russian Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov today in  Brunei .  “We both agreed that our countries have the ability to be
able to make a difference if we can pull together in this
effort,” Kerry said at the U.S. embassy in Brunei, following a
two-day meeting of the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  While both countries agreed in principle to a conference,
“there are still things that have to be worked out over these
next days” and talks may not occur until after August, Kerry
said.  The U.S. and Russia have disagreed how the conflict might
be resolved throughout its two-year duration, a dispute that
worsened after the Obama administration announced plans to send
arms to the rebels seeking to topple Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Lavrov termed that decision “a disaster” for the
prospects of a peaceful resolution.  Russia  backs the Assad
regime and supplies it with weapons, while the U.S. has said
Assad must go.  Kerry said today the U.S. and Russia share a common goal of
ending the war peacefully.  ‘Transition Government’  “Whether the regime is doing better or the opposition is
doing better is frankly not determinative of that outcome,” he
said of the chance for a settlement. “The outcome requires a
transition government.”  A Syrian rebel group said today that it was behind the
bombing of a government security office in the capital,
Damascus, which targeted a group of senior officers loyal to
Assad. There was no word on casualties.  Sham Brigade group released two videos claiming
responsibility for what one member said was the start of a
string of attacks against “commanders of Assad’s militias.” He
said the group would release the names of the targeted officers
later.  One video on YouTube showed plumes of smoke rising in the
dark from what the group said was the scene of the attack.
Gunshots could be heard, followed by the sound of sirens.  After meeting Lavrov, Kerry said he was convinced that both
the U.S. and Russia have “the level of seriousness and the
capacity of being able to do this.” Lavrov declined to talk to
U.S. reporters after meeting Kerry.  ‘Both Serious’  “We agreed that we are both serious, more than serious,
committed to the Geneva process,” Kerry said of the peace
effort.  The agreement came a year after the June 2012 Geneva
conference that called on all parties to cease violence and
begin a “Syrian-led political process leading to a
transition.” The communique, from countries including the U.S.,
Russia and  China  as well as the  United Nations  and  Arab League ,
declared a “firm timetable” without any dates or deadlines.  At the time, the death toll in Syria was estimated by the
UN at more than 10,000. It has now reached more than 93,000, the
world body says.  Kerry said a conference may be months away, partly because
there’s already a U.S.-Russia meeting planned for July on other
matters and “August is very difficult for Europeans and others
so it may be somewhere thereafter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  