-- U.S. to Attempt First Missile Intercept Test Since 2008
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-02T20:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/u-s-to-attempt-first-missile-intercept-test-since-2008.html
The Pentagon plans on July 5 to
attempt the first successful interception in more than four
years of a surrogate missile incoming toward the U.S.  The test is scheduled to use interceptors tipped with
 Raytheon Co. (RTN) “hit-to-kill” warheads that last successfully hit
their target during a December 2008 exercise, according to the
Missile Defense Agency.  The $34 billion ground-based system of 30 interceptors in
Alaska and California, operated by  Boeing Co. (BA) , has been in a
testing hiatus after two failures in 2010 using a new, more
sophisticated interceptor warhead. This week’s attempt won’t use
the new warhead, which will be tested in a separate exercise
later this year.  The Missile Defense Agency, U.S. Air Force 30th Space Wing,
U.S. Strategic Command and U.S. Northern Command plan to conduct
the intercept flight with a target missile from Kwajalein Atoll
in the Marshall Islands, and an interceptor missile from
Vandenberg Air Force Base,  California , agency spokesman Richard Lehner said in an e-mailed statement.  This week’s scheduled test is to assure U.S. homeland-defense commanders that the current system remains reliable,
said Riki Ellison, chairman of the Alexandria, Virginia-based
Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance.  Because of the two 2010 failures “this test is the most
significant demonstration of the ground-based interceptors and
its fire-control system in the history of the program,” Ellison
said. U.S. commanders “responsible for the defense of the
United States will base their confidence and reliability on the
result of this test.”  Complex Target  Cristina Chaplain, a director with the U.S. Government
Accountability Office who oversees preparation of its annual
missile defense report, said the test “will provide insights
about the capability” of the existing CE-I warheads “against a
complex target.”  “It’s important that the CE-I continue testing in light of
the challenges being experienced with the second version of the
kill vehicle” that’s still under evaluation, Chaplain said.  The December 2008 interception over the Pacific Ocean
represented the eighth success in 15 tests since 1999 of the
ground-based system using the initial warhead model, according
to the agency.  An intercept test using the newer CE-II warhead is
scheduled for later this year and, if successful, would trigger
an expansion by 2017 of the current ground-based system to 44
from 30 interceptors.  The 14 added interceptors will be located in  Alaska  and
will cost $1 billion, James Miller, undersecretary of defense
for policy, told reporters in March.  After the 2010 failures, the agency discovered a flaw in
the guidance system of the newest warhead. Pentagon officials,
including the top tester Michael Gilmore, say that flaw has been
corrected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  