-- U.S. Banks Facing Interest-Rate Risks, Sheila Bair Says
-- B y   E r i k a   W a d d e l l
-- 2013-07-02T15:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/u-s-banks-facing-interest-rate-risks-sheila-bair-says.html
 U.S. banks face potential risks from
a jump in interest rates, said Sheila Bair, the former chairman
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  “I’m a little worried about  interest-rate swaps ,” Bair
said today in an interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Television. “They’ve never really been through this kind of a
volatile environment before. Everybody says they’re hedged,
let’s hope so.”  U.S. banks, which are set to report second-quarter results
in the next couple of weeks, have been adjusting to a jump in
the 10-year U.S. Treasury note’s  yield  to as high as 2.61
percent on June 25 from 1.63 percent on May 2. Higher rates may
allow banks to charge more for loans, which could improve their
net interest margins, Bair said.  “A lot of that will depend on how fast their deposits
reprice as interest rates go up,” she said. “If their funding
cost goes up faster, that could be a problem.”  Benchmark short-term borrowing rates, such as the Federal
Reserve’s Fed Funds rate, have remained near record lows.  A jump in rates could also mean banks will face losses on
their portfolios of debt securities, analysts including Paul
Miller at FBR Capital Markets have said.  “You need to look at what kind of securities, how many,
the duration and yield of their longer-dated securities,” Bair
said. “Who’s exposed here and who isn’t?”  The Fed today approved a new set of capital standards to
bring U.S. banks in line with Basel’s global requirements. U.S.
regulators are “very close” to proposing a new minimum
leverage ratio for the eight most systemically important banks
that would exceed the 3 percent requirement set by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo
said today.  “My guess is the regulators are going to move to propose a
much higher leverage ratio,” Bair said. “I have suggested we
need an 8 percent tangible common equity to total non-risk
weighted assets measure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erika Waddell in  New York  at 
 ewaddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  