-- Huawei Ready to Outspend Ericsson in R&D Race to Woo Clients
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-07-03T07:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/huawei-woos-carriers-with-research-boost-beyond-me-too-networks.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of networking equipment, is ready to outspend
Ericsson AB of  Sweden  in research and development in a race to
win over clients not only with cheaper products.  After investing some 30 billion  yuan  ($4.9 billion) in
2012, Huawei is boosting its research budget this year to
improve mobile and fixed network performance as well as audio
and video transmissions, Li Yingtao, its head of R&D, said in an
interview. The privately held company is seeking to work more
closely with carriers to jointly develop products from radio-access networks to miniaturized antennas.  “The bottom line when you talk to customers about building
a network is that they will ask: ‘can you do it or not?’” Li
said this week in Geneva through an interpreter. “That ability
depends mostly on innovation capacity. That’s why we will
continue to increase our investments.”  The comments underscore China’s latest efforts to move
upscale from low-cost manufacturing. While it still ranks low --
35th place -- on the list of the most innovative countries,
China is at the forefront of emerging economies measured by
growth in patent filings and is among the highest rated for
research and development spending, according to a  World
Intellectual Property Organization  report presented this week at
the United Nations in Geneva.  Nokia, Ericsson  The net R&D spending by European technology companies such
as Ericsson, the largest supplier of wireless networks, and
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the former leader in handset manufacturing, grew last
year at the slowest pace in three years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  With 21,400 employees in research, Ericsson’s R&D spending
last year was almost the same size as Huawei’s, at 32.8 billion
kronor ($4.9 billion), and accounted for 14.4 percent of the
Stockholm-based supplier’s sales.  The ratio for Huawei, where almost half of its 150,000
workforce is in R&D, was 13.7 percent. Huawei, which is
expanding its smartphone businesses -- which Ericsson has exited
-- reported 2012 revenue of about $35.4 billion.  At the start of this year, Ericsson said that its 2013 R&D
spending will decrease “somewhat.” Since then, the company has
agreed to take back some assets following a breakup of its
wireless chip venture with  STMicroelectronics NV. (STM)   “Ericsson has been the technology leader in the industry
for 137 years and remains committed to investing into this
leadership,” said Ola Rembe, a spokesman in  Stockholm .  Crosstown Rivals  Alcatel-Lucent SA, the smaller French supplier with a
market value of $4.1 billion, has a 2013 R&D  budget  of more than
2 billion euros ($2.6 billion).  Ericsson shares fell 0.3 percent to 75.85 kronor at 9:37
a.m. in Stockholm. Alcatel-Lucent dropped 1.1 percent to 1.35
euros in Paris.  As Shenzhen-based Huawei and crosstown rival  ZTE Corp. (000063) 
focus on higher-end products that take longer and more resources
to develop, they still enjoy cheaper costs.  Huawei’s employee costs are lower than those of European
and North American vendors, with a telecommunications technician
in China costing less than a third of one employed in the U.S or
western Europe, researcher Gartner Inc. said in October.  The manufacturer is looking for partners, industrial and
academic, to help achieve new findings, Li said. The company
yesterday said it’s discussing with the Imperial College  London 
about sharing a lab to study technologies that use mathematics
to crunch large amounts of data.  Nokia Siemens  Those efforts may pay off as European rivals focus on
reorganizing their businesses.  Earlier this week, Nokia agreed to buy  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s share
in their six-year venture for 1.7 billion euros. Nokia Siemens
Networks, which reported 2012 revenue of 13.8 billion euros, is
evaluating a sale of manufacturing plants in  Finland ,  India  and
China and to outsource production, said a person familiar with
the matter.  Alcatel-Lucent’s new chief executive officer, Michel Combes, said on June 19 his first move to turn around the
unprofitable company will be to refocus innovation budgets on
only its fastest-growing technologies of ultra-high-speed
Internet.  Li argues that innovation today in network equipment should
focus on making existing telecommunications services function
continuously and smoothly.  “Phone calls still drop, Internet browsing is slow as soon
as you hop on a train and you completely lose your connection
when you board a plane,” Li said. “Today carriers don’t need a
technological disruption, they need answers to their network
problems. There’s still a long way to go to meet just standard
needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  