-- UBS Rates Commodities ‘Underweight’ as Equities Seen Advancing
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-07-02T11:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/ubs-rates-commodities-underweight-as-equities-seen-advancing.html
The commodity supercycle has ended
and investors should reduce their holdings in raw materials,
especially gold, and buy equities, UBS AG said.  Slow economic growth in the U.S. will boost equities more
than commodities and reduced quantitative easing by the U.S.
Federal Reserve will be negative for gold, Stephane Deo, a
strategist at UBS in London, said in a report dated today.
Industrial metals are rated “underweight” on increased supply
and slower growth in top consumer  China .  Gold as much as doubled from 2008 to a record $1,921.15 an
ounce in September 2011 as the U.S. central bank led nations in
cutting  interest rates  and buying debt. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said last month the Fed may reduce its $85 billion of
monthly purchases this year and end the program in 2014.  “Gold will continue to suffer,” Deo said in the report.
“After a stellar performance during the past decade, industrial
metals have underperformed the stock market since the beginning
of the current decade.”  Gold plunged into a  bear market  in April and is down 25
percent since the start of the year as some investors lost faith
in bullion as a store of value. The metal for immediate delivery
traded at $1,259.70 an ounce at 12:31 p.m in London.  Allocation Mix  The UBS asset allocation was increased in equities and
corporate bonds, and lowered in real estate, cash, commodities
and  government bonds . U.S. economic growth is seen accelerating
the most in the euro zone next year, followed by  Russia  and the
U.S., according to the report. Equities will benefit to the
extent that Fed monetary tightening will be due to a “resilient
recovery,” UBS said.  While UBS cut its forecasts for gold prices through 2015 on
June 20 on expectations of Fed tapering, the bank says client
interest in gold persists and it started storing gold for
wealth-management clients at a facility in  Singapore . UBS
forecasts gold will be at $1,325 an ounce in 2014.  UBS joined banks from Citigroup Inc. to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. that have called an end to the commodities supercycle, or
longer-than-average period of rising prices. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials fell 4.5 percent this year
after almost quadrupling since 2001.  “Commodities are likely to generate positive returns if
the cycle improves, but at a much lower rate than before,” Deo
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  