-- Humane Society Sues to Block Horse-Slaughter Inspections
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-02T22:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/humane-society-sues-u-s-over-horse-slaughter-permits.html
The  Humane Society of the U.S.  sued
the government to block inspections that would allow horse
slaughtering to resume, saying officials haven’t examined the
environmental effects of making horse meat again available for
human consumption.  The U.S. Agriculture Department shouldn’t check horse-slaughter facilities that have received grants of inspection,
test residue for any slaughter facility, or inspect any facility
without conducting a detailed environmental review, attorneys
for the Human Society and other groups said today in a complaint
in federal court in  San Francisco .  “If the grant of inspection is set aside, then the horse
slaughter plants will be prohibited from operating, the current
status quo of no horse slaughter in the U.S. will continue, and
there will be no detrimental health, environmental, aesthetic,
or economic impacts” felt by those suing, according to the
complaint.  The government has authorized resumption of horse slaughter
for human consumption even with the Agriculture Department’s
“actual knowledge” that killing horses causes significant
environmental harms and horse meat endangers consumers,  Bruce
Wagman , an attorney for the plaintiffs, said in the complaint.  Blood Disposal  The disposal of blood and offal hurts the environment
because of drugs and substances horses are given throughout
their lives, and the byproducts of slaughter may contaminate
groundwater and enter the food chain when sludge is distributed
on crops, according to the complaint.  Nanda Chitre, a Justice Department spokeswoman, had no
immediate response to an e-mail message seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  USDA announced June 28 that horse-slaughter inspections had
been authorized, Wagman said. Six applications for the
inspections have been submitted by facilities in  New Mexico ,
 Missouri ,  Iowa ,  Tennessee  and  Oklahoma , according to the
complaint.  Wagman is seeking a hearing by July 8 on a request for a
temporary order to block the inspections “to ensure that
defendants do not move forward” as the court considers the
lawsuit, he said in a letter to the court.  The USDA said it was forced to act under the law when a
company, Responsible Transportation of Sigourney, Iowa, met all
the requirements to be inspected. A facility near Roswell, New
Mexico, on June 28 was granted approval to become the first to
slaughter horses for human consumption since 2007.  The last U.S. horse-meat plant closed six years ago after
Congress banned money for inspections. That ban lapsed in 2011,
and Congress appropriated money for the reviews.  Four other horse conservation groups and five people who
live near horse-slaughter facilities are also plaintiffs in the
lawsuit.  The case is Front Range Equine Rescue v. Vilsack, 13-cv-3034, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 