-- United’s 787 Cancellation Rate Outstrips Rest of Fleet
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-07-02T16:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/united-s-787-cancellation-rate-outstrips-rest-of-fleet.html
United Airlines (UAL) , the only U.S.
operator of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner, is canceling flights by
those planes almost four times as often as on the rest of its
fleet, signaling that the new jets remain prone to breakdowns.  Trips by United’s six Dreamliners were scrubbed 3.8 percent
of the time from May 20 through June 26, according to Houston-based data tracker FlightAware.com, which reviewed the flights
at the request of  Bloomberg News . The rate excluding the 787s
was 1 percent in the same period.  The data show the extent of disruptions at United since the
787s returned to service after a three-month global grounding to
fix overheating batteries. While United isn’t discussing details
of its cancellations, airlines in  Japan  scrapped flights with
787s last month for reasons that included a computer failure,
balky engine and trouble with an anti-icing system.  “When you go buy a new car, sometimes you’re back at the
dealer a week later for a minor thing,” said George Hamlin, a
former executive at planemaker Airbus SAS who now runs Hamlin
Transportation Consulting in Fairfax, Virginia. “But if you
have to keep going back week after week, it’s a problem.”  Dreamliners around the world were ordered parked in January
after two battery meltdowns, the first such grounding in the
U.S. for an entire model since 1979. Public interest in the jet
remains so high that FlightAware offers a Web application for
real-time monitoring of every 787 around the world.  ‘Teething Pains’  FlightAware compiled the flight figures from United’s data,
which includes results such as the cancellations and delays
displayed on airport monitors without detailing the causes.  United, a unit of United Continental Holdings Inc., is
“very pleased” with the 787 even as the jet suffers “teething
pains, like all new airplanes,” Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek  told analysts at a Deutsche Bank AG conference last
month. The 787 has the highest customer satisfaction scores of
any plane in United’s fleet, he said.  “The 787 is going through a fine-tuning process,” said
Mary Ryan, a United spokeswoman, likening the initial
operational bumps to those experienced after Boeing unveiled the
777, its last all-new wide-body jet, in 1995.  “The 777 has turned out to be a highly reliable
airplane,” she said by e-mail. “We see the 787 evolving into
one as well.”  Emergency Landings  A United 787 flying to  Tokyo  from Denver was forced to make
an emergency landing in  Seattle  last month after an oil-filter
warning, and another 787 flying to Denver from Houston had to
turn around for an emergency landing because of what the
Chicago-based airline said was a “brake-indicator issue.”  The Dreamliners also lagged behind the rest of United’s
fleet in on-time performance, running late 30 percent of the
time since May 20, with an average of 72 minutes, according to
FlightAware. Flights by the rest of United’s planes were tardy
24 percent of the time, and those delays averaged 63 minutes.  The airline’s 787s are part of the first wave of the
aircraft in service, as Boeing fills an order backlog for more
than 800 of the first two Dreamliner variants and prepares to
start work on a third.  Dreamliners are equipped with “advanced health monitoring
features” that allow Boeing and airlines to understand in-flight events as they occur and prepare for maintenance needs
before the plane lands, said Doug Alder, a Boeing spokesman.  “The 787 is a great airplane and we know it will continue
to receive heightened attention when reliability events occur in
service,” Alder said by e-mail. Chicago-based Boeing is focused
on improving the 787’s reliability, he said.  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  and  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  are the biggest
operators of the plane, which was promoted to carriers as having
a 20 percent increase in fuel economy over comparable twin-engine models.  Boeing’s use of composite-plastic construction helped focus
attention on the 787 long before its commercial debut in 2011,
and scrutiny from investors and customers grew even more intense
when the first delivery ran 3 1/2 years late. Cancellations that
are routine for other planes continue to draw notice because of
that history.  “A certain amount of this is to be expected,” Hamlin said
of the 787’s outsized rate for dropped flights. “New types have
higher cancellation rates and squawks than existing types.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 