-- Unrest Roils Egypt as Army Deadline Moves Markets: Arab Credit
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-07-02T08:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/unrest-polarizing-egypt-worsens-record-bond-slump-arab-credit.html
Egypt’s 2020 bonds are yielding more
than securities due 20 years later after a record slump in June
as protests add to the deepening polarization hindering the
country’s economic recovery.  The yield on the Arab nation’s $1 billion of 5.75 percent
bonds fell five basis points to 10.24 percent at 10:31 a.m. in
Cairo, compared with 10.03 percent for 2040 debt, after the army
gave President Mohamed Mursi 48 hours yesterday to respond
to protesters’ demands and end an impasse. Egypt’s  benchmark
EGX30 index  of stocks gained 1.2 percent to a three-week high.  The biggest demonstrations since the 2011 revolt that
ousted  Hosni Mubarak  amplified a crisis that led to two  credit-rating cuts this year to Caa1, the fifth-lowest junk score at
Moody’s Investors Service. Hundreds of thousands of protesters
called on President Mohamed Mursi to resign on the first
anniversary of his inauguration, while his supporters vowed to
protect Egypt’s first democraticallyl chosen civilian leader.  “If you’re on the outside at the moment, the optimistic
scenario is hard to paint convincingly,” Gabriel Sterne, a
fixed-income economist at Exotix Holdings Ltd. in  London , said
by phone yesterday. “Investors are looking for urgent economic
reforms and it doesn’t look like that’s going to get done amid
these political divisions.”  The 2020 yield jumped 14 basis points yesterday, extending
a 211 basis-point increase in June. That compares with an 84
basis point gain for Middle East sovereign debt on HSBC/Nasdaq
Dubai indexes.  Debt Pile  Financing pressures are pronounced as the country has about
1.4 trillion pounds ($199 billion) of domestic debt and another
$39 billion of external debt outstanding, according to Finance
Ministry data. Combined, the liabilities represent about 94
percent of economic output. The nation’s default risk soared 261
basis points last month, according to data provider CMA, before
trading at a record 901 today.  Last month’s advance was four times bigger than that on
Middle East contracts, which rose by an average 64 basis points
to 331 on June 28, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The surge took Egypt’s five-year credit
default swaps above those of similarly rated  Pakistan .  Crowds gathered outside the presidential palace and in
Tahrir Square last night to demand early presidential elections,
with some celebrating the military ultimatum by dancing,
flashing victory signs and cheering as helicopters buzzed
overhead. Mursi wasn’t consulted and didn’t approve the
military’s statement, his office said.  No Buyers  The government, which said this year it planned to sell its
first Islamic bonds as early as last month, “won’t find anyone
to buy them,” Souheir Asba, a frontier markets strategist at
Societe Generale SA, said by phone from London yesterday.  The ministers of foreign affairs, tourism, environment,
communications and state minister for parliamentary affairs have
submitted resignations, state-run Ahram Gate reported.  Some investors have taken the rout in Egyptian assets as an
opportunity to buy. The benchmark EGX 30 Index of stocks has
 rallied  in the past five trading days. The index’s 13 percent
retreat in June, the steepest since November, left stocks
trading at 1.2 times net assets compared with 1.4 times for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Political Stalemate  Even if protesters compel Mursi to step down, the
transition could “serve to make Islamists more militant,”
while his refusal to resign risks stoking confrontations, Raza Agha, chief Middle East and Africa economist at VTB Capital Plc
in London, said in an e-mailed report yesterday.  The government’s debt predicament is more precarious on the
local-currency side, with repayments this quarter set to jump 20
percent from a year earlier to a record 169 billion pounds, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Political unrest curbed demand for
notes in the past month, with bids for nine-month treasury bills
falling to a record low at the last  sale as the yield climbed
11 basis points to 14.99 percent.  Egypt ’s economy probably grew 2.1 percent in the fiscal
year ended June 30, near the slowest pace in two decades,
according to the median estimate of 17 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  On the external debt side, yields on 2020 securities are
likely to continue exceeding the 2040s, according to Exotix’s
Sterne, who said this is “typical of highly distressed bonds.”
Egypt’s economic situation worsened this year as political
wrangling impeded the nation’s talks with the International
Monetary Fund for a $4.8 billion loan.  “Once yields hit 10 it was almost inevitable that the
spread between the 2020 and 2040s would disappear,” Sterne
said. “You got a whole bunch of people thinking it’s probably
going to get worse before it gets better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  