-- Huntsman Said to Consider Bid for Rockwood Titanium Unit
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l ,   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-07-02T14:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/huntsman-said-to-consider-bid-for-rockwood-titanium-unit.html
Huntsman Corp. (HUN) , the U.S. chemicals
producer founded by  Jon Huntsman  Sr., is considering an offer
for  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) ’s titanium-dioxide pigments business,
three people with knowledge of the situation said.  Huntsman officials have traveled to  Germany  to conduct due
diligence on Rockwood’s Sachtleben unit and assess potential
savings from merging it with their company’s pigments operation,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because details
of the deliberations are private.  Such a deal would create a titanium-dioxide maker with
about 15 percent of global capacity, vying with Cristal Global
as the world’s second-largest, after market leader DuPont Co.
Salt Lake City-based Huntsman had $1.44 billion in pigment sales
last year while Rockwood had $889 million in revenue from
titanium dioxide. Also known by its chemical formula Ti02, the
chemical is used as a whitener in paint and toothpaste.  Nahla Azmy, a Rockwood spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the status of the company’s efforts to separate the TiO2 unit.
She reiterated that the company plans to sell or spin off the
unit tax-free to shareholders by year-end.  Gary Chapman , a
Huntsman spokesman, declined to comment.  Huntsman Chief Executive Officer Peter Huntsman said in
April that his company wants “to be part of any consolidations
in this industry.”  Huntsman may face competition from rival U.S. TiO2 producer
 Tronox Ltd. (TROX) , whose Chairman and CEO Tom Casey said in February
his company was considering buying assets from Rockwood.  Private Equity  A deal with Huntsman would ease the way for Rockwood
Chairman and CEO Seifi Ghasemi to sell his company’s
performance-additives business. Rockwood, which is being advised
by Lazard Ltd. on asset sales, previously offered its Ti02
business together with the additives unit in an auction that
attracted interest from  private-equity  firms Bain Capital
Partners LLC and Advent International, the people said.
Representatives for Bain and Advent declined to comment.  That process failed to garner bids that met with Rockwood’s
$2 billion valuation, the people said. Princeton, New Jersey-based Rockwood is now planning to pursue talks with the most
promising suitors for the additives division, the people said.  As a prelude to a sale of the TiO2 business, Rockwood
purchased the 39 percent of Sachtleben it didn’t already own
from Kemira Oyj for 97.5 million euros ($127 million) in
February.  Declining Prices  Huntsman has looked at Sachtleben in the past and the
current opportunity may allow it to buy the business at a
cheaper price than might previously have been the case, two of
the people said. TiO2 demand and prices have declined in the
past year and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 36 percent to $165 million at Rockwood’s Ti02
business in 2012, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  DuPont, which is based in Wilmington,  Delaware , has about
20 percent of global TiO2 capacity,  Saudi Arabia ’s Cristal has
15 percent, and Huntsman and Dallas-based Kronos Worldwide Inc.
have 10 percent apiece, according to a June presentation from
Huntsman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  