-- Turkey Yields Drop 2nd Day as Central Bank Adds Funds
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-07-02T09:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/turkey-yields-drop-2nd-day-as-central-bank-adds-funds.html
Turkish benchmark bond yields fell
for a second day as the central bank provided more funding at
its lowest lending rate and the lira gained against dollar.  Yields on two-year lira notes dropped 24 basis points to
7.46 percent at 11:28 a.m. in Istanbul, the lowest level since
June 19 on a closing basis, after rising 182 basis points last
month amid the biggest anti-government protests in more than a
decade. The lira traded 0.1 percent stronger at 1.9225 per
dollar.  The  central bank  provided 5 billion liras ($2.6 billion) to
lenders at 4.5 percent at its one-week repo auction today, 500
million liras more than last week. That lowered the weighted
average cost of funding for a sixth day to 4.98 percent. The
bank is reducing the amount it sells in auctions to a minimum
$50 million from $150 million starting from today after the lira
touched its strongest in almost two weeks this morning.  “The market had been squeezed in terms of liquidity for a
long time,” Sercan Kiliclar, a fixed-income trader at  Akbank
TAS (AKBNK)  in Istanbul, wrote in e-mailed comments. The change in the
quantity of the central bank funding and stabilization of the
lira exchange rates is helping short-term local debt “to
perform well,” he said.  The central bank resumed dollar sales last month for the
first time since January 2012 and sold a total of $1.85 billion
after anti-government protests and speculation about when the
U.S. will curb stimulus sent the lira tumbling to a record
1.9602 against the dollar on June 24.  Extreme Reaction  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in May policy
makers could begin reducing the $85 billion of mortgage and
Treasury bonds they buy each month should the U.S. economy
continue to show sustained improvement. He said on June 19
stimulus may be curbed this year and end in 2014 should risks to
the economy continue to abate.  “Fed’s statement caused an extreme reaction in asset
prices,” Bulent Topbas, a strategist at Strateji Menkul
Degerler AS, said in e-mailed comments. “If the central bank is
sending a signal for normalization, then they must have
witnessed less stress in the markets.”  Foreign investors sold $132 million of Turkish bonds in the
week ending June 21 in their fourth consecutive week of
outflows, data from the central bank on June 27 showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  