-- Murray, Djokovic Won’t Take It Easy Amid Wimbledon Exodus
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/murray-djokovic-won-t-take-it-easy-amid-wimbledon-exodus.html
Top men’s seeds Novak Djokovic and
Andy Murray said they know better than to take their run to the
final for granted in a Wimbledon tennis tournament that had half
the top players ousted in the first week.  Yesterday, Petra Kvitova became the latest former champion
to exit the grass-court major, losing 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 to Kirsten Flipkens in the women’s quarterfinals. Two-time winner Rafael Nadal lost his first match, defending men’s champion Roger Federer followed in the second round and five-time titlist
Serena Williams was ousted in the last 16.  Williams “hasn’t lost for a long time,” Murray said in a
news conference two days ago after he moved to the
quarterfinals. “When those sort of results can happen to a
player as good as her, there’s absolutely no reason why it can’t
happen to me. That’s why I’m not getting ahead of myself, and no
one else should.”  Murray faces his first left-hander in six months, Spain’s
Fernando Verdasco, in the men’s quarterfinals today. With Nadal
and Federer eliminated from the Scot’s side of the draw, he
could play a semifinal against either 24th-seeded Jerzy Janowicz
or 130th-ranked Lukasz Kubot, who play in an all-Polish
quarterfinal.  Murray, who lost to Federer in last year’s final, has
beaten Verdasco in eight of their nine matches. Still, he won’t
take it easy on the practice court.  Left-Hander Practice  “I’ll try to get a lefty in to serve at me,” said Murray,
who is attempting to become the first British man to win the
title since Fred Perry in 1936. “I don’t normally mind the way
the ball comes off the racket from the back of the court. I grew
up playing with my brother. So that almost feels a bit more
natural to me than a righty. But it’s just the serve is what’s
different and the way you move on the return that’s different.”  Top seed and 2011 champion Djokovic next faces Czech Tomas Berdych, who beat the Serb in straight sets in the semifinals of
2010 Wimbledon before losing to Spain’s Nadal in the finals.  “I didn’t play great in that match against Tomas, but
credit to him because he made the finals that year, and he beat
Roger and myself, played a good match against Rafa,” Djokovic
said in a news conference. “So he knows how to play on grass.
I’m expecting a difficult match -- it’s the quarterfinals of a
Grand Slam.”  A Djokovic victory would mean he’d face the winner of the
quarterfinal match between former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina and Spain’s David Ferrer, who made the
French Open championship match earlier this month.  First-Time Winner  Kvitova’s exit yesterday means there will be a first-time
women’s champion at the All England Club.  Belgium ’s Flipkens will play former finalist Marion Bartoli
of  France , who beat Sloane Stephens, the last remaining singles
player from the U.S., 6-4, 7-5 yesterday.  Sabine Lisicki followed up her win against Williams by
beating Kaia Kanepi of Estonia 6-3, 6-3. She’ll play Agnieszka Radwanska, who overcame former French Open champion Li Na of
China 7-6 (7-5), 4-6, 6-2.  “I think it’s a very weird Grand Slam over here,” said
Kvitova, who struggled with a stomach virus against Flipkens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  