-- Vatican Bank Directors Resign Amid Financial Scandal
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-07-02T09:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/vatican-bank-directors-resign-amid-financial-scandal.html
The director and deputy director of
the Vatican bank resigned yesterday as a series of
investigations lead to a renewal of the Church’s financial
structures.  Paolo Cipriani and his deputy Massimo Tulli stepped down
“in the best interest of the institute and the  Holy See ,” the
Vatican said in a statement late yesterday. Ernst von Freyberg,
the bank’s president appointed last February, will take over as
interim director general and a new position of chief risk
officer will be created. “It is clear today that we need new
leadership to increase the pace of this transformation
process,” von Freyberg said in the statement.  The resignations come three days after senior Vatican
cleric Monsignor Nunzio Scarano was arrested by Italian
authorities along with an Italian secret service agent and a
financial broker as part of a corruption investigation. The
three are accused of plotting to bring 20 million euros ($26
million) into  Italy  from  Switzerland  in a private jet, according
Rome prosecutor Nello Rossi. Scarano has denied the accusations.  The Vatican bank, known as the Institute for the Works of
Religion, or IOR, is increasingly in the spotlight of
investigations as Pope Francis works to bring it in line with
international standards. Last week, the pope named a commission
to oversee the operations of the Vatican bank after Moneyval,
the Council of Europe’s monitoring body for  money laundering  and
terrorism financing, called for independent supervision of the
bank.  Decades of Scandals  The Vatican is trying to overcome three decades of scandals
ranging from the Banco Ambrosiano failure in the 1980s to the
freezing of 23 million euros by Italian prosecutors in 2010.
Cipriani and the IOR’s former head, Ettore Gotti Tedeschi, were
placed under investigation as part of the 2010 probe for
allegedly omitting data in wire transfers from an Italian
account.  The IOR oversees about 7.1 billion euros in assets, mostly
in bonds and cash. In an interview last month von Freyberg said
he was committed to making the bank more transparent. A German
lawyer and founder of a financial advisory firm, von Freyberg
replaced Ettore Gotti Tedeschi, who was ousted from the IOR last
year for “failing to carry out various duties of primary
importance,” according to a May 2012 statement.  The Vatican said yesterday its oversight council will soon
appoint new directors. Rolando Marranci was named acting deputy
director and Antonio Montaresi the new acting chief risk
officer. Von Freyberg also asked senior advisers from Promontory
 Europe , which were hired in May to strengthen the Institute’s
anti-money laundering program, to support the management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  