-- First Manhattan Proposes AstraZeneca’s Zook for Vivus CEO
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-07-02T20:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/vivus-holder-first-manhattan-proposes-astrazeneca-s-zook-for-ceo.html
First  Manhattan  Co., the investor in
 Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  that’s aiming to replace the drugmaker’s board and
management, said Anthony Zook has agreed to serve as chief
executive officer if First Manhattan wins the proxy fight.  Zook was executive vice president for global commercial
operations at London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  until February, First
Manhattan said today in a statement. Zook helped market drugs
including Nexium, Crestor and Symbicort, which together drew
more than $13 billion in sales for AstraZeneca last year.  Vivus today called First Manhattan’s plans to replace the
board and management a “serious threat” to  shareholder value ,
urging investors to vote against First Manhattan at its annual
meeting on July 15. First Manhattan, which holds 9.9 percent of
Vivus shares outstanding, has criticized the  Mountain View ,
California-based company’s initial sales plan for the obesity
drug Qsymia and said the board hasn’t operated independently.  Zook “has an extraordinary track record of launching
blockbuster drugs in the U.S. primary care market, and we are
confident he will do the same with Qsymia,” Sam Colin, senior
managing partner at First Manhattan, said in the statement. Zook
will “allow us to further attract the best talent to
commercialize the best obesity drug ever developed.”  Leland F. Wilson has been CEO of Vivus since 1991.  Vivus rose 1.4 percent to $12.58 at 4 p.m. New York time.
The shares have lost 58 percent since reaching a 52-week closing
high July 3, 2012, two weeks before the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approved Qsymia.  Qsymia Sales  Qsymia was just the second obesity therapy to clear the FDA
since 1999. Initial sales of the drug have missed analysts’
estimates, coming in at $4.1 million in the first quarter.  Vivus has been working to expand access to Qsymia and help
more patients try the drug, and has added directors to its board
in response to First Manhattan’s challenges.  “The election of the FMC slate will result in FMC’s
nominees spending an unnecessary six months to a year studying
what to do, before concluding that Vivus is already on the right
path to maximize stockholder value,” Vivus said in a letter to
shareholders today. “By electing FMC’s slate, the Qsymia
opportunity likely will have been missed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  