-- Wallabies Captain Horwill Cleared to Play in Lions Decider
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-02T05:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/wallabies-captain-horwill-cleared-to-play-in-deciding-rugby-test.html
Australia captain  James Horwill  is
free to play in this week’s deciding rugby Test against the
British and Irish Lions after being cleared of stamping in the
series opener for the second time in 10 days.  Toronto-based independent arbitrator Graeme Mew rejected
the International Rugby Board’s appeal against the June 23
decision to clear Horwill of stamping or trampling on the head
of rival lock Alun Wyn Jones, the Australian Rugby Union said.  “I know what happened and I’m glad the right result was
made in the end,” Horwill said in a news conference at the
Wallabies’ Sydney hotel today. “I feel very vindicated.”  Following “extensive deliberation” after a 2 1/2 hour
hearing conducted last night via videoconference, Mew concluded
that the judicial officer overseeing the initial hearing had not
made any errors of law or principle in his ruling, the ARU said.  “There was sufficient evidence upon which a reasonable
judicial officer could have reached the decision that was
made,” Mew said in his findings, which were announced after
noon Sydney time today. “Accordingly, it could not be said that
the judicial officer was manifestly wrong or that the interests
of justice otherwise required his decision be overturned.”  Horwill, 28, had faced the possibility of joining Lions
captain Sam Warburton on the sidelines for the July 6 decider at
Sydney’s ANZ Stadium, a match he described as the biggest rugby
game in  Australia  since the 2003 World Cup final.  ‘Fair and Thorough’  Horwill was originally exonerated by IRB-appointed New
Zealand judicial officer Nigel Hampton after being cited for an
alleged stamp on Wyn Jones’s head in the third minute of
Australia’s 23-21 loss in the first Test in Brisbane. Hampton
ruled that on the balance of probabilities, he could not find an
intentional or deliberate action of stamping or trampling.  Second-rower Horwill said he didn’t get much sleep while
Mew deliberated from Toronto and found out he was free to play
at about 10 a.m. today during a training session.  “I’ve had to get on with it,” he added. “I probably
wouldn’t like to see another player go through that, but it was
incredibly fair and thorough in both hearings.”  The Dublin-based IRB said in a statement that it “fully
accepts the decision” by Mew. It was the first time the
governing body challenged a ruling to exonerate a player.  ‘Right Approach’  “While ultimately not proving successful in its appeal,
the IRB is satisfied that it took the right approach to further
examine the case and subsequently lodge an appeal in the
interests of player welfare as well as to uphold the
disciplinary rules,” the IRB said.  The Lions, seeking their first series victory in 16 years,
lost their captain for the decider yesterday when Welsh flanker
Warburton was ruled out because of a hamstring tear.  Warburton got injured during his team’s 16-15 loss to
Australia in Melbourne three days ago, which tied the best-of-three contest at 1-1. Just three points separated the teams in
the opening two matches.  “They’ve both been pretty epic struggles and there’s not a
lot separating both teams,” Horwill said. “I can’t see
Saturday night being too much different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  