-- Wells Fargo Among 4 Banks to Tell U.S. How to Unwind Them
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-03T00:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/wells-fargo-hsbc-among-banks-filing-fdic-living-wills-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  are among four banks that told U.S. regulators they could
seek to sell units and place others into bankruptcy in the event
of a crisis.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  also
filed the “living wills,” or road maps to help regulators
safely dismantle them if they fail, with the Federal Reserve and
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which disclosed summaries
yesterday on its  website .  The four represent a second tier of filers after banks with
bigger U.S. operations began submitting living wills last year.
Each document is meant to offer a step-by-step guide for
unwinding a company through a bankruptcy without threatening the
financial system. “Each plan must describe the company’s
strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of
material financial distress or failure of the company,” the
regulators said in a statement.  The FDIC and Fed can force banks to divest businesses or
make other changes to the plans, mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act, if regulators identify deficiencies. The FDIC also has the
power to oversee a wind-down outside of the courts if U.S.
officials believe that a failure would imperil the financial
system.  Too Big to Fail  “We do not believe any bank should be too big to fail, and
we believe the resolution plans are important pieces of post-crisis legislation,” Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said in an e-mailed statement.  HSBC said it would seek an “immediate sale” of its U.S.
banking subsidiary and its U.S. broker-dealer. If the deposit-taking unit couldn’t be sold, the London-based lender said it
could be resolved by having the FDIC transfer some assets to a
new entity, divest business lines separately or in smaller
chunks, or sell new stock. The bank didn’t explain how the
transactions would work, or what entities would provide fresh
capital.  “Along with others in the industry, HSBC is complying with
requirements of the Dodd Frank Act and other regulations and
submitted a U.S. resolution plan before July 1,” Neal McGarity,
a New York-based spokesman for HSBC, said in an e-mailed
statement.  BNP Paribas said its New York branch could be seized by
state banking regulators and liquidated, while another entity of
the firm may be placed into Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The company
filed a separate plan for San Francisco-based Bank of the West,
it’s U.S. deposit-taking unit.  Cesaltine Gregorio, a spokeswoman in New York for Paris-based BNP Paribas, had no immediate comment.  Customer Accounts  The four banks said some securities units could be
liquidated through a process overseen by the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., which seeks to protect customer accounts.  Aside from those steps, the plans released yesterday
provided little information beyond what’s already public.
Edinburgh-based RBS didn’t mention that the U.K. government,
which owns 81 percent of the firm after rescuing it during the
financial crisis, is considering whether to break it into
smaller parts. Britain plans to hire Rothschild to help review
the case for splitting the firm, two people with knowledge of
the talks said yesterday.  Ed Canaday , an RBS spokesman in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
declined to comment.  The living-will process started last year with an opening
round of filings from 11 banks with more than $250 billion in
U.S. non-bank assets, including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup
Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which must submit updated
living wills by Oct. 1.  Jim Wigand, an FDIC official responsible for overseeing the
plans, said last week that the initial living wills had
“varying levels of quality, although they all had a ways to
go.” Whether some of the biggest banks can convince regulators
that they can be put through bankruptcy safely is “an open
question,” said Wigand, who’s leaving the FDIC later this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  