-- William Gray III, Black Congressman Who Broke Ceiling, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-07-02T15:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/william-gray-black-congressman-who-broke-ceiling-dies-at-71.html
William H. Gray III, a Baptist
minister and Democrat from Philadelphia who in six terms in
Congress became the first black party whip, the No. 3 leadership
post, and first black chairman of the House Budget Committee,
has died. He was 71.  He died yesterday while in London with one of his sons to
attend the Wimbledon tennis tournament, the  Associated Press 
reported, citing William Epstein, a former aide.  A third-generation pastor of  Bright Hope Baptist Church  in
Philadelphia since 1972, he was elected in 1978 to represent
 Pennsylvania ’s second congressional district, located in and
around Philadelphia. During 12 years in the House, he pressed
for economic sanctions against South Africa’s apartheid regime
and, as budget chairman during President  Ronald Reagan ’s second
term, helped Democrats and Republicans reach consensus on
spending.  “He was a leader with huge impact for middle class and
under-served Americans,” Democrat Chaka Fattah, who now holds
the seat, said today in a statement. “His dedicated leadership
benefited the people of Philadelphia. He never lost sight of the
needs of those in the urban community.”  Fattah said Gray helped low- and middle-income residents
find places to live through the nonprofit Union Housing Corp.  Sudden Departure  Gray’s rise to Democratic whip brought talk of him becoming
the first black House speaker, and perhaps seeking the
presidency. Then, at the peak of his power, he resigned in 1991
to become president of the  United Negro College Fund .  “My concept of power is different from other people’s,”
he said in a 1991 interview with the  New York  Times. “I come
from a background of ministry and education in which power is
the ability to impact on people’s lives.”  James Clyburn  of South Carolina became the second black
Democratic House whip, from 2007 to 2011.  Gray was chairman emeritus of Gray Global Advisors LLC, a
Washington-based consulting firm. He was serving on the boards
of  Dell Inc. (DELL) , as chairman of its governance and nominating
committee;  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , as chairman of the corporate governance
committee; and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and Prudential
Insurance Company of America, as chairman of the corporate
governance and business ethics committees of both companies. He
served on the board of JPMorgan Chase & Co. from 2002 to 2012.  ‘Highly Respected’  “Bill was a highly respected member of our board and a
leader in all aspects of his life -- a preacher, a legislator, a
businessman and a board director,” John Strangfeld,
Prudential’s chairman and chief executive officer, said today in
a statement.  Michael Dell , chairman and CEO of Dell, said in a statement
that Gray “brought a unique and distinctive perspective on our
business and our industry.”  William Herbert Gray III was born on Aug. 20, 1941, in
Baton Rouge,  Louisiana , and attended high school in
Philadelphia.  He received a bachelor’s degree in 1963 from Franklin and
Marshall College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, a master’s in
divinity degree in 1966 from Drew Theological Seminary in
Madison,  New Jersey , and a master’s in theology in 1970 from
Princeton Theological Seminary in Princeton, New Jersey.  With his wife, the former Andrea Dash, he had three sons:
William IV, Justin and Andrew.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  