-- Wiretaps Stopped by Encryption Hindering Surveillance
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-07-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/wiretaps-stopped-by-encryption-hindering-surveillance.html
Police wielding wiretaps have for the
first time been stymied by encryption, pointing to a technical
capability gap as detectives and FBI agents try to penetrate
increasingly sophisticated networks and devices.  State and federal judges authorized 3,395 wiretaps in 2012
and encryption was encountered in 15 of those cases, according
to a  June 28 report  by the Administrative Office of the U.S.
Courts. In four instances, police couldn’t decipher the plain
text of messages, something they hadn’t previously encountered,
according to the report.  The report, which gave no information about the type of
wiretaps or targets, underscores the growing use of encryption,
or scrambling of messages so outsiders can’t read them. The
process is legal, and software is widely available. For
instance, a query on Google Inc.’s shopping search engine for
“encryption” returns 167,000 results.  “It’s a huge issue,” Peter Modafferi, chief of detectives
in Rockland County,  New York , who heads a police operations
committee for the International Association of Chiefs of Police,
 based  in Alexandria, Virginia. “It’s hindering our ability to
conduct wiretaps and surveillance.”  Law enforcement  groups have pushed for expanded
capabilities, including requiring companies to build intercept
tools that allow surveillance authorized by court orders.  Such back doors create vulnerabilities and weaken networks,
 Susan Landau , an engineer who studies privacy, said in an
interview.  “On balance the U.S. is better off with the use of strong
cryptography,” Landau said in an interview. “The FBI and law
enforcement in general is going to have to go to more clever
ways to wiretap.”  ‘Perfectly Legal’  Finding encrypted roadblocks “is not a major problem, it’s
a trend,”  Scott Burns , executive director of the National
District Attorneys Association, an Alexandria, Virginia-based
group that represents criminal prosecutors, said in an
interview. “It becomes a concern if the numbers grow.”  Law enforcement officials have been adapting to evolving
technology since mobile phones came into use, Burns said.  “It’s a continuation of what we’ve been dealing with for
decades,” Burns said. “It is perfectly legal to encrypt
communications, and that is then the challenge for those of us
in law enforcement.”  Law enforcement groups such as the police chiefs’
association have asked Congress to revise the Communications
Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or Calea, to compel more
companies providing communications services to build intercept
tools that let agencies conduct surveillance with court orders.  Calea II  In May, a Justice Department official said President  Barack
Obama ’s administration may seek fines for companies offering
Internet services that don’t build in ways for authorities to
conduct surveillance. No decisions have been made, and efforts
to fine companies that don’t comply with electronic-surveillance
requests from law enforcement agencies are opposed by industry
groups.  The Justice Department official, Jenny Durkan, U.S.
Attorney for the Western District of Washington, made those
comments before contractor Edward Snowden last month exposed
U.S. classified programs by the National Security Agency to
collect phone records of Americans and monitor Internet
communications of suspected foreign terrorists. Microsoft Corp.,
Yahoo Inc., Apple Inc. and Facebook Inc. subsequently said they
had received warrants for information from government entities.  The fallout may slow efforts for new requirements for
companies to design ways for authorities to have access to
networks, Ben Wizner, director of the speech, privacy and
technology project of the  American Civil Liberties Union , a
civil rights group, said in an interview.  “The furor over the Internet companies’ participation in
the NSA’s Prism program will dampen the momentum for Calea II,
as it should,” Wizner said.  No Guarantees  Law enforcement officials have a right to listen to
conversations if they obtain a warrant, he said.  “That’s quite a different thing from saying that society
and technology need to be re-engineered to make sure they can do
that,” Wizner said.  FBI proposals aim to preserve law enforcement officials’
longstanding ability to investigate suspected criminals, spies
and terrorists subject to a court order signed by a judge, J.
Jason Pack, an FBI spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Proposed changes aim to do nothing more than “update the
law to reflect the progress of the means of modern
communications,” Pack said.  The global market for security software grew to $20.6
billion last year, from $18.3 billion two years earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  “What you’re seeing now is this proliferation and
awareness of securing your phone call,” Mike Janke, chief
executive officer of closely held Silent Circle, an encryption-software supplier that lists  Washington  as a base, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  