-- World Bank Cuts Indonesia’s 2013 GDP Forecast on Demand Slowdown
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-07-02T07:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/world-bank-cuts-indonesia-s-2013-gdp-forecast-on-demand-slowdown.html
The  World Bank  cut its forecast for
 Indonesia ’s economic growth this year as it anticipates cooling
domestic demand and commodity exports.  Growth in Southeast Asia’s largest economy will probably
slow to 5.9 percent, from an earlier forecast of 6.2 percent,
according to a quarterly report released in Jakarta today. The
Washington-based lender also lifted its annual inflation
forecast to 7.2 percent, after the government raised fuel prices
last month.  The World Bank estimates adds to predictions that
Indonesia’s first price increase for subsidized fuel in five
years will damp expansion, with PT Bank Mandiri saying last week
profit and loan growth will be hurt by higher interest rates
energy costs. Easing investment growth and exports that have
declined for more than a year add to the challenge, with a
persistent trade deficit contributing to a 3 percent drop in the
rupiah this year.  “Indonesia’s policy settings likely need to adjust to
somewhat less buoyant economic conditions,” the World Bank said
today. “Negative  consumer confidence  effects from the
anticipation of the fuel-subsidy reform, consequent temporary
inflation and the recent correction in asset markets have added
to the headwinds to domestic demand.”  Indonesia’s foreign and domestic investment growth was 18.7
percent in the three months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier,
compared with the full-year pace of 24.6 percent. Gross domestic
product rose 6.02 percent in the January-March period from a
year earlier, the smallest gain in more than two years.  Bank Indonesia  unexpectedly raised its benchmark  interest
rate  last month to cool inflationary pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  