-- Alex Rodriguez Goes Hitless in Two At-Bats in First Rehab Game
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-03T04:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/yankees-rodriguez-grounds-into-double-play-in-first-2013-at-bat.html
Alex Rodriguez  failed to get a hit in
his first two at-bats since last year’s Major League Baseball
playoffs as the New York Yankees third baseman began a
rehabilitation stint with the minor-league Charleston RiverDogs.  Rodriguez, 37, a three-time American League Most Valuable
Player who had hip surgery in January, has 20 days to get into
shape for his return to the Yankees or be placed back on the
disabled list.  Rodriguez grounded into a double play and struck out
looking against 23-year-old Williams Perez in his first two
plate appearances last night for the Yankees’ Class-A affiliate.
He left the game after playing three innings at third base and
before the RiverDogs beat Rome 4-2.  “I’m just happy to be back playing,” Rodriguez told
reporters. “I feel like a kid again.”  Rodriguez barehanded a bunt by Rome leadoff hitter Kyle
Wren in the first inning at Joseph P. Riley Ballpark in
Charleston,  South Carolina . Rodriguez failed to throw Wren out
at first.  “That’s a ‘welcome back’ for me,” Rodriguez said. “That
was a heck of a bunt.”  Rodriguez said he probably will need the full three weeks
of rehabilitation before returning to the Yankees.  ‘Slow Progression’  “It’s a slow progression,” Rodriguez said. “Three
innings is not a heck of a lot. Two at-bats is not much. It
almost feels like March 1 in spring training and that’s
basically the approach.”  Rodriguez hit .272 last year with 18 home runs and 57 runs
batted in. He batted .120 with 12 strikeouts in 25 at-bats in
the postseason and had surgery in January to repair a torn
labrum in his left hip.  Baseball is investigating Rodriguez’s link to a now-shuttered anti-aging clinic in Florida that the Miami New Times
said provided players with performance-enhancing drugs.  The Yankees have been plagued by injuries this season.
Still on the disabled list are catcher  Francisco Cervelli ,
center fielder  Curtis Granderson , shortstops  Derek Jeter  and
 Eduardo Nunez , pitcher Michael Pineda, first baseman  Mark Teixeira  and third baseman Kevin Youkilis.  The Yankees (44-39) are in fourth place in the American
League East, six games behind the first-place Boston Red Sox
(51-34).  Robinson Cano  hit a three-run homer and Alberto Gonzalez
drove in three runs last night in the Yankees’ 7-3 victory at
the Minnesota Twins.  Phil Hughes  (4-7) gave up one run on six hits in seven
innings for the Yankees, who have won two in a row after
dropping five straight. Samuel Deduno (4-3) allowed three runs
on five hits in six innings for the Twins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  