-- Hypo Alpe CEO Resigns as Austria Readies Further Aid
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-07-02T11:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/hypo-alpe-ceo-resigns-as-austria-readies-further-aid.html
The chief executive officer of Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG resigned after the nationalized
lender warned of losses caused by concessions  Austria  proposed
to win European Union approval for state aid.  The constraints on new business and the accelerated asset
sales proposed in the concessions, as well as public debates
about the bank, caused losses that could have been avoided,
Gottwald Kranebitter, who headed Hypo Alpe since 2010, said in
an letter to employees published on Hypo Alpe’s website today.
The developments made it impossible for him to go on, he said.  “I’m leaving, but I’m not running away,” Kranebitter, who
is 49, wrote. He will continue to work for the lender until the
report for the first half year is finished, he said.  Kranebitter’s resignation comes three days after Austria
submitted a new restructuring proposal for Hypo Alpe to the
European Commission, triggering writedowns and new capital needs
at the lender. Chairman Johannes Ditz resigned last month over
disagreements on the plan, which foresees selling the bank’s
network in the former  Yugoslavia  until mid-2015.  Austria has set aside 700 million euros ($912 million) in
this year’s budget for Hypo Alpe and that will be enough to
cover capital needs for the first half-year, Finance Minister
Maria Fekter said before a government meeting in Vienna today.
How much more it needs depends on the final terms agreed with
the European Commission, economic growth in southeastern  Europe 
and the market environment, she said.  ‘Bad Bank’  Fekter had publicly disagreed with Kranebitter and Ditz
last year, when the minister turned down their proposal to
create a “bad bank” to warehouse the lender’s non-performing
assets. Austria is revisiting those plans now after the EU told
it to come up with a better restructuring plan to justify
retaining the 2.2 billion euros of aid the lender has received
since 2008.  Austria has not yet decided whether it will set up the bad
bank, according to former central bank governor Klaus Liebscher,
who succeeded Ditz as the lender’s chairman. Several options
will be evaluated in the coming weeks, with a bad bank being one
of them, he said in an  interview  with ORF radio today.  The bank may need as much as 2 billion euros in extra
capital this year due to Austria’s concessions, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be
identified because talks with the EU are confidential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  