-- Yuan Offshore Trade Race Picks Up With Frankfurt Bid: Currencies
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-07-03T14:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/yuan-offshore-trade-race-picks-up-with-frankfurt-bid-currencies.html
The race is on to corner the overseas
trade in  China ’s  yuan , with an organization that represents
 Frankfurt ’s financial industry predicting the  European Central
Bank  will get a swap deal valued at four times that obtained
last week by the U.K.  The ECB, based in the German finance capital, may obtain a
swap agreement with the People’s Bank of China valued as much as
800 billion yuan ($130 billion), according to lobby group
Frankfurt Main Finance. A deal would give euro-area central
banks access to yuan funds to backstop companies doing business
in the world’s second-largest economy, and would dwarf the 200
billion-yuan agreement signed June 24 by the  Bank of England .  Policy makers and bankers are meeting with companies from
carmaker  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to industrial-gas producer Messer Group
GmbH in Frankfurt today to discuss establishing the city as an
offshore yuan-trading center. It’s the latest chapter in China’s
push for greater use of its currency outside the mainland.  “This has been an issue for our clients for years,” Dirk Schmitz, co-head of the German investment-banking arm of
Deutsche Bank AG, the biggest currency trader, said in a phone
interview. “German companies have a good commercial
relationship with China. Companies often come to us to ask for
hedging.”  Yuan Loans  A swap agreement would see the ECB put up euros in exchange
for the Chinese currency, which it could then lend to companies.  An ECB official, who asked not to be identified, declined
to comment on the talks, saying this was in line with the
central bank’s policy.  Germany  is China’s biggest trading partner in  Europe . By
2015, a third of the Asian country’s cross-border business will
be settled in yuan, making the currency the third most-traded
after the U.S. dollar and euro, according to HSBC Holdings Plc,
Britain’s biggest lender, which has its origins in 19th-century
Hong Kong and China.  The three-year swap agreement that BOE Governor Mervyn King
signed with his Chinese counterpart  Zhou Xiaochuan  last month is
half the size of Hong Kong’s 400 billion-yuan deal. The accords
provide companies with a safety net that aims to give them more
confidence in doing business with their Chinese partners.  GEA Benefit  GEA Group AG (G1A) , the Dusseldorf-based supplier of technology
to food and energy companies in countries including China, is
among Germany’s small- and medium-sized companies that stand to
gain from Frankfurt’s push for a yuan-swap agreement.  “The free convertibility would speed up business and make
transactions more secure,” Chief Financial Officer Helmut Schmale said in an interview at the company’s plant in Oelde,
Germany, on June 27. “China has always been a growth market for
us and will remain such for the foreseeable future. In a few
years, the yuan will become the third global currency, with the
dollar and euro.”  Sales from GEA’s China business grew to 556 million euros
($720 million) last year, or 10 percent of its total, according
to Schmale. Its employees in the country increased 15 percent to
2,431 in December compared with a year earlier, he said.  China’s yuan climbed to a record 6.1210 per dollar on May
27 and closed at 6.1308 in  Hong Kong  today. The 12-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.1 percent to 6.302 per dollar at
2:51 p.m. in  London .  The yuan is the only major currency apart from Israel’s
shekel to strengthen against its U.S. counterpart this year,
gaining 1.6 percent.  Overseas Trade  Frankfurt is basing its push for the offshore yuan business
on Germany’s close ties with China, the nation’s third-biggest
trading partner. The two countries imported and exported goods
and services worth 144 billion euros between them last year,
according to the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden,
Germany.  “The high level of interaction between China’s and
Germany’s real economies highlights the necessity for a more
active renminbi trade, perhaps even using Germany as a hub,”
Joachim Nagel, a Bundesbank board member, said in a speech at
today’s conference. “Given China’s growing economic importance,
the internationalization of the  renminbi  seems long overdue.”  Transactions in yuan jumped to 8.2 percent of trade deals
between Germany and China in May, the biggest month-on-month
increase among 20 nations using the Chinese currency, according
to the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunication. The Belgium-based group, known as  Swift ,
provides messaging services to banks.  Swap ‘Crucial’  “A swap agreement is absolutely crucial,” Hubertus Vaeth,
the managing director of  Frankfurt Main Finance , which is
backing the German city’s push to be a yuan trading center, said
in a June 24 phone interview. “If we had Frankfurt as a trading
hub then” business between Germany and China “could double or
triple,” he said.  Vaeth said Frankfurt can corner the market for offshore
trading in the Chinese currency for the euro region.  “In the euro area, it’s going to be Paris or Frankfurt,”
he said. “Germany is China’s leading trade partner, the prime
investment destination for Chinese investors in Europe.”  Stephan Bredt of the  Hesse state government  doesn’t regard
Frankfurt, which is located in the region, as being in head-to-head competition with London for the offshore yuan trade, and
said that officials are working toward a swap agreement.  London’s Role  “London will play a central role -- we don’t see ourselves
in frontal competition,” Bredt, head of the economic sector,
financial services and exchanges division at the state of
Hesse’s economy ministry, said in a June 21 phone interview.
“Politicians get that this is an issue. We’re hearing from
companies that this is something they could benefit from.”  The PBOC’s Zhou pledged on June 28 to expand cross-border
use of the yuan and encourage multinational companies to include
the currency in their asset portfolios. China will allow direct
trading between the yuan and foreign currencies and push forward
on convertibility without giving up control of capital flows,
Zhou said.  Signed Accords  China has signed yuan-swap agreements with jurisdictions
including Australia, Turkey, Brazil and South Korea, according
to the PBOC. Switzerland is also seeking to be an offshore yuan-trading center, according to the  Swiss Bankers Association ,
while Banque de France Governor Christian Noyer said in October
that Paris has “all the conditions to become the renminbi
offshore center of the  euro zone .” He was referring to another
term for the Chinese currency.  Germany and China said they’ll support the sale of yuan-denominated bond sales in Germany after a visit by  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  in August, according to the chancellor’s website.  “We welcome competition from Frankfurt and other financial
centers as it will create more business for us all as the
renminbi gradually internationalizes,” Mark Boleat, policy
chairman at the City of London Corporation, which represents
banks in the U.K. capital’s main financial district, said by e-mail yesterday. “London has an increasingly strong position as
a global center for renminbi trade services.”  Small Morsels  Overseas companies from  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  to  Renault SA (RNO)  sold
$4.4 billion of yuan-denominated notes, known as dim sum bonds,
this year. That compares with $2.4 billion over the same period
last year and $5.4 billion for the whole of 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  While yuan transactions are increasing, they still account
for less than 1 percent of global trades, compared with about 84
percent combined for the dollar, euro, pound and yen, according
to Swift. China’s currency is the 13th most-used, trailing the
 Thai baht  and Norwegian krone, the organization said.  The main obstacle to establishing Frankfurt as a yuan
trading center is “to get the liquidity,” Vaeth of Frankfurt
Main Finance said. “Right now, the market needs a little bit of
help with that.”  Lobbying continues apace.  Florian Rentsch , the economy
minister for the state of Hesse, where Frankfurt is located, led
a delegation of about 60 government officials, bankers and
company representatives to China in October.  China Tour  The group visited Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin to help win
orders for German exporters and lobby for Frankfurt as a yuan
trading hub. Rentsch signed a cooperation agreement with
officials from Beijing’s financial district on the trip.  “London is the world’s biggest foreign-exchange market but
Frankfurt is the home of the euro and continental Europe,”
Horst Loechel, a professor of economics at the Frankfurt School
of Finance & Management who’s also a visiting economics
professor at the China Europe International Business School in
Shanghai, said in a June 28 phone interview.  “Paris would probably be very interested in becoming a
trading hub,” he said. “But they’ve missed the boat, as
Frankfurt already has the ECB, as well as a record of stable
development during recent crises. Frankfurt will emerge as the
winner in the euro area.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net  