-- Zhou Pulling China Punch Bowl Set to Shape PBOC Legacy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-03T03:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-02/zhou-pulling-china-punch-bowl-set-to-shape-legacy-as-pboc-chief.html
Zhou Xiaochuan  earned distinction as
the G-20’s longest-serving central bank chief helping keep  China 
out of a financial crisis the past decade. In the wake of June’s
record liquidity squeeze, his legacy hangs in the balance.  Zhou and his colleagues at the People’s Bank of China left
investors, bankers and market participants in the dark for four
days after the overnight lending  rate  between banks hit a record
11.7 percent June 20 before releasing a week-old statement as
the central bank’s first word on its objectives. Zhou himself
kept mum until he reiterated a pledge to maintain market
stability on June 28.  The communications gap fanned speculation over the central
bank’s intentions, denting confidence in an institution that
steered China through the Asian and global financial crises.
Zhou’s challenge now, three months into an unprecedented third
term as governor, is to implement the curbing of  speculative
credit  that Premier  Li Keqiang ’s government wants, without
further market disruptions that sow confusion.  “Zhou’s reputation is still intact at the moment but it
may suffer because of this if nothing fundamentally changes,”
said  Fraser Howie , Singapore-based co-author of “Red Capitalism:
The Fragile Financial Foundation of China’s Extraordinary
Rise.” “They must now follow through and dramatically reduce
the dependence on credit.”  China’s new leadership team, cemented in position at a
March conclave, kept Zhou, 65, as PBOC governor even as it
embarked on efforts to rein in lending that was outpacing
economic growth. The need to tighten credit to prevent excesses
was expressed as removing the punch bowl at a party in remarks
credited to former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman William
McChesney Martin.  ‘Baijiu Bowl’  “Central bankers that pull the punch bowl -- or the baijiu
bowl -- rarely win popularity contests in the moment,” said
 David Loevinger , former U.S. Treasury Department senior
coordinator for China affairs, referring to the liquor consumed
at Chinese banquets. “But history usually serves them well.”  Withholding cash and restricting its communication, the
PBOC saw the overnight interbank repurchase rate reach 11.7
percent, compared with 3 percent a month earlier. The fallout
ricocheted from  Brazil  to  South Korea , contributing to a 6.8
percent drop last month in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of
stocks.  The squeeze has since eased, with the one-day China
interbank rate falling for an eighth day yesterday, down 0.71
percentage point to 3.71 percent, the lowest since May. The
Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.3 percent as of the 11:30 a.m.
local-time break. The gauge tumbled 14 percent last month.  Services PMI  Zhou and the leadership face an economic slowdown that
could deepen. An official gauge today showed China service
industries expanding at the slowest pace in nine months in June.
The non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’  Index (SHCOMP)  dropped to 53.9
from May’s 54.3, according to the National Bureau of Statistics
and China Federation of Logistics & Purchasing. Readings above
50 indicate expansion.  A private services PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics rose to 51.3 in June from 51.2.  Premier Li said the conditions are in place for China to
achieve its economic targets for this year and for sustainable,
healthy development, state television reported yesterday, citing
remarks in a meeting with European leaders. The government in
March set an expansion goal of 7.5 percent for 2013.  Around the world today, a measure of Australia private new
home sales rose 1.6 percent in May from the previous month,
according to the Housing Industry Association. Services PMI
gauges are also due for the euro region and Germany, France,
Italy and the U.K. The U.S. will provide data on the  trade
balance  and initial jobless claims.  Soft Landing  Loevinger, now an emerging-markets analyst in  Los Angeles 
at TCW Group Inc., which oversees $131 billion, said Zhou would
“prefer a legacy as the one who navigated China to a soft
landing than the one who helped fuel a credit boom.”  The government’s broadest  measure  of new credit, which
includes bank and non-bank lending, rose 52 percent from a year
earlier to 9.1 trillion  yuan  ($1.5 trillion) in the first five
months of 2013.  The squeeze was prompted in part by policy makers’ concerns
that expansion in  money supply  and shadow banking could spark a
potential financial and economic crisis, said Feng Hui, co-author of “The Rise of the People’s Bank of China,” published
last month.  The cash crunch is a reminder to lenders that they need to
adjust their “asset businesses,” Zhou said in an interview
reported July 1 by China Business News. The central bank was
concerned about an unprecedented 1 trillion yuan of loans in the
first 10 days of June, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing a summary of a June 19 PBOC meeting.  Lacks Autonomy  The PBOC didn’t respond to faxed questions on its
communications and Zhou’s role in the cash squeeze. The central
bank lacks the autonomy of counterparts such as the Fed, meaning
senior officials above Zhou must approve major decisions.  “You do this now and create some hardships so that later
on you have a stronger basis to move forward,” said Yukon Huang,
a former World Bank China director. “Part of this whole grand
plan has to be a better reform effort down the line to follow
it.”  Zhou, who’s been at the helm longer than any counterpart in
the Group of 20 emerging and developed nations, was left off the
Communist Party Central Committee in November, making his
reappointment a surprise.  Currency Peg  The governor, who represents China at international
meetings of finance ministers and central bankers, ended a
decade-old currency peg to the dollar, expanded the  bond market 
and gave banks more freedom to set  lending  and deposit rates.  “He has established himself as being solid, reliable,
reasonable, accurate, I’d even say frank, in his approach to his
international counterparts,” said Nathan Sheets, former Fed
international-finance director and now global international-economics head at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  Some of that stature may be in danger. Actions during the
cash squeeze carried reputational risk because the “panic mode
was obviously beyond PBOC expectations,”  Zhu Haibin , JPMorgan
Chase & Co. chief China economist in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note
last week.  The real estate industry holds lessons. Government efforts
this year to control property prices have failed to stem gains.
Shopping-mall construction threatens to push retail vacancy
rates in some less-affluent cities to more than 30 percent by
next year from as low as 6.8 percent in the first quarter of
2013, broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc. estimates.  “Any attempt to bring the credit boom to heel is going to
slow investment growth,” with a “significant impact” on gross
domestic product, said Patrick Chovanec, New York-based chief
strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management Group LLC, which
manages $11 billion of assets. “It will lead to defaults. Are
they willing to accept businesses or investment vehicles or
banks failing? We are going to find out whether they are.”  -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from Zhou Xin in Beijing,  Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington and James Mayger in Tokyo. Editors: Scott Lanman, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  