-- Hamilton Boosts Title Chances With First Italian Grand Prix Win
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-09T23:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/hamilton-s-win-at-monza-gives-mclaren-3rd-straight-f-1-victory.html
Lewis Hamilton  won the Italian
Grand Prix at Monza for the first time to boost his Formula One
title chances, overcoming speculation in the race leadup about
his future at McLaren.  Hamilton, the 2008 world champion, finished ahead of Sergio
Perez and series leader  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari yesterday to
give McLaren its third straight victory this year. It was the
team’s first hat trick of wins since his title-winning season.  “Since I started in Formula One, Monza has been one of the
races I always wanted to win at,” Hamilton said in a McLaren
team statement. “It’s such an incredible, historic circuit and
all the great racing drivers have won here. To finally put my
name on that list makes me feel extremely proud.”  Hamilton’s victory lifted him into second in the drivers’
standings with 142 points, 37 behind Alonso and one ahead of
Lotus’s  Kimi Raikkonen . Red Bull’s Sebastian Vettel, seeking his
third straight title, has 140 points in fourth place.  Eddie Jordan, a former team owner who is now a television
analyst for the British Broadcasting Corp., said this week that
Hamilton, 27, is set to join Mercedes for next season when his
contract expires. Hamilton has said his management remains in
talks with McLaren.  “If Lewis is absolutely committed to winning, then he can
win in a McLaren,” Ron Dennis, McLaren Group chairman, told  Sky
Sports  after the race.  The team was on course for a one-two finish yesterday
before  Jenson Button , the winner in Belgium a week earlier,
pulled up on the 34th of 53 laps while in second place because
of a fuel system problem.  McLaren Front Row  Hamilton started the race on pole position, with Button
completing an all-McLaren front row.  Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  made a quick start from the second
row and passed Button before getting in the tow from Hamilton’s
car, though was unable to take another place.  Alonso, starting in 10th, managed to gain four spots over
the opening two laps at his team’s home circuit. Hamilton was
starting to build his lead at the front.  Williams driver  Bruno Senna  was forced off the track twice
within eight laps after incidents involving  Nico Rosberg  of
Mercedes and  Force India ’s Paul di Resta.  The first retirement came on lap nine when Jean-Eric
Vergne’s  Toro Rosso  spun and bumped across the curb after his
car appeared to suffer a mechanical failure.  Button managed to regain second spot on lap 19 and Massa
entered the pits on the next lap. A flurry of leading drivers
began to make their stops, with Button making his on lap 23 and
managing to stay ahead of the Brazilian.  Hamilton lost the lead for four laps to Perez after his
stop on the following lap, although his Mexican rival had yet to
pit. Perez finally made his stop on lap 31.  Perez Pursuit  Alonso moved ahead of his teammate Massa with 13 laps
remaining to take second, with Perez chasing down both Ferraris.
Perez, who started down in 12th position, got past them both and
began to cut into Hamilton’s lead.  Vettel’s race ended with four laps to go, while teammate
 Mark Webber  also failed to finish after damaging his tires when
he slid off the track.  Hamilton held on to beat Perez by 4.3 seconds, with Alonso
more than 16 seconds further back. Massa finished fourth, ahead
of Raikkonen, Mercedes drivers Michael Schumacher and Rosberg,
and Force  India ’s Di Resta. Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi and Senna
of Williams were the other drivers to score points.  Hamilton, Perez and Alonso had all retired on the first lap
in Belgium on Sept. 2 following a crash sparked by  Romain Grosjean , which had earned the Lotus driver a ban for
yesterday’s race. Grosjean’s replacement, Jerome d’Ambrosio of
Belgium, was 13th yesterday.  The series continues in two weeks on Sept. 23 in Singapore.  “This championship is proving to be so unpredictable,”
Hamilton said. “We’re in the fight. We’ve got seven more races
on the calendar. This victory is just one step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  