-- Asia-Pacific Leaders Focus on Trans-Atlantic Danger to Recovery
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2012-09-09T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/apec-leaders-pledge-move-toward-more-exchange-rate-flexibility.html
The annual meeting of 21 leaders in
the Asia-Pacific region spent much of the two-day event in
 Russia ’s Far East focused on the other side of the planet,
discussing threats to the world economy posed by the  European
debt crisis  and a looming U.S. budget showdown.  Heads of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in
Vladivostok, including Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and Chilean
President Sebastian Pinera, spoke of the dangers the European
debt crisis poses to their economies. International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  discussed the so-called
U.S. fiscal cliff of tax increases and spending cuts at a
lunchtime gathering of the leaders, who collectively oversee 56
percent of world economic output.  Asian leaders vowed to work together to counter the effects
of the debt crisis in  Europe  and the tepid recovery in the U.S.
The export-oriented countries of the Asia-Pacific region, where
economic expansion in countries such as Chile and  China  exceeds
global growth by several percentage points, are vulnerable to
slowdowns in their biggest markets.  “High public deficits and debts in some advanced economies
are creating strong headwinds to economic recovery globally,”
the  APEC leaders  said in a joint statement. “The events in
Europe are adversely affecting growth in the region. In such
circumstances, we are resolved to work collectively to support
growth and foster financial stability, and restore confidence.”  ‘Downward Pressure’  Hu said in a Sept. 8 speech to the APEC CEO Summit that
China’s economic growth faced “notable downward pressure” in
part because of slowing export growth and the sovereign debt
crisis. Pinera, who signed a free-trade agreement with Hu
yesterday, said in an interview that he is concerned about the
impact the European debt crisis and slow U.S. growth is having
on the Chilean economy.  “There is a certain worry about the development of the
global economy, especially given the big problems in the EU and
the U.S.,” Russian President  Vladimir Putin  told reporters at
the close of the summit, held at a new university campus on an
island near Vladivostok. “The Asia-Pacific region is the
locomotive of the global economy.”  During a lunch with APEC leaders, the IMF’s Lagarde said
U.S. tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect by the
beginning of next year pose one of the three main risks to the
global economy -- the other two being the euro crisis and
medium-term public financing.  Key Risks  “We discussed over lunch with the leaders of APEC, the
global economic situation, with the three key risks that we see
on the horizon,” Lagarde told reporters yesterday. She said
there are a “combination of factors that could also increase
the vulnerabilities of emerging economies.”  APEC’s 21 economies have a market of almost 3 billion
consumers, making up 44 percent of world trade and a combined
gross domestic product of $39 trillion in 2011, according to a
fact sheet provided by the U.S. government. The group pledged to
move toward greater  exchange-rate  flexibility and more market-
based currencies, according to the meeting’s final communique.  The move is meant to “reflect underlying fundamentals,
avoid persistent exchange rate misalignments, and refrain from
competitive devaluation of currencies,” the leaders said in the
communique, which was distributed on the final day of the annual
summit.  The leaders backed Europe’s move to safeguard the integrity
and stability of the euro area, pledged to refrain from imposing
new trade restrictions through 2015, and vowed to reduce tariffs
on certain environmental products to 5 percent or less,
according to the document.  Yuan Trade  APEC negotiators discussed the internationalization of
China’s yuan, which still doesn’t trade freely on global
markets. In the U.S., some lawmakers say the  yuan  is
undervalued, undercutting U.S. exports and making Chinese
imports too cheap.  Guo Jianwei, deputy director of the People’s Bank of
China’s second monetary policy department, told reporters
Sept. 8 at a forum in the eastern Chinese city of Xiamen that
the central bank will allow the trading band to play a bigger
role in the country’s exchange-rate mechanism.  “In the past when speculation was heavy, it was very hard
for China to widen the band too much,” Guo said. “But with the
current balanced level of the exchange rate and stable economic
growth, the room to allow the band to play a bigger role in the
reform of the exchange rate mechanism is growing.”  Pacific Shares  China’s yuan rose 0.09 percent last week to 6.3430 per
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System,
completing a sixth weekly gain. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of
shares is  up 4.7 percent  since the beginning of the year.  APEC leaders pledged a 10 percent improvement in supply-
chain performance by 2015 and recognized “growing challenges”
to  food security . They pledged to take action to raise
agricultural productivity, according to the communique.  They said they would refrain from imposing limits on food
exports because “bans and other restrictions on the export of
food may cause price volatility, especially for economies that
rely on imports of staple products.” The APEC members also
reaffirmed a commitment to so-called green growth.  The conference highlighted infrastructure projects as a way
to spur growth, with a new suspension bridge over the Eastern
Bosphorus strait linking the island to Vladivostok as the
centerpiece of Russia’s $20 billion spending in the area in the
run-up to the meeting.  “I have been terribly skeptical and downright negative on
the  Soviet Union  and Russia for the past 40 or 50 years, but in
the past few weeks and months I’ve started reassessing my view
on Russia,” investor  Jim Rogers , chairman of Singapore-based
Rogers Holdings, said in a Sept. 7 interview at the APEC CEO
Summit. “The Russians used to say, or still say, ‘Russia’s a
country with terrible roads run by fools. Now they say, ’Well
we’ve fixed the roads.’”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Vladivostok at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  