-- Bob Dylan’s ‘Tempest’ Has Scheming Bankers Meet Lusty Murderers
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-09-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/bob-dylan-s-tempest-has-scheming-bankers-meet-lusty-murderers.html
Bob Dylan  enjoys going on a murder
spree on his new album, “Tempest.” The killings simply mount up.  In keeping with his mortician-meets-mobster-meets-minister
garb, he comes on like some old-time manic street preacher.  Dylan has more to say than ever on the 35th studio LP of his
career, released 50 years after his debut.  “A man can’t live by bread alone,” he moans. “I pay with
blood but not my own.” The shattered voice sounds less like a
cow stuck in an electric fence this time. More like  Tom Waits 
gargling with crushed glass.  A song of lust ends in Shakespearean tragedy: “All three
lovers together in a heap, thrown into the grave forever to
sleep.” Dylan laments the death of his friend  John Lennon , only
after gleefully dispatching some of the 1,500 victims of the
Titanic in the disaster a century ago.  That’s in the title track, which sprawls over 14 minutes
and 45 verses. The skewed parable references  Leonardo DiCaprio 
(whose character quoted Dylan in the 1997 movie: “blowing in the
wind” and “when you’ve got nothing you’ve got nothing to lose.”)  It’s not a patch on 11-minute epics such as “Desolation
Row,” “Sad-Eyed Lady of the Lowlands” or even “Brownsville
Girl.” The content is more akin to “Highlands,” which rambled
over 16 minutes with sloppy rhymes and badly needed an editor.  Sluggers, Muggers  Elsewhere, Dylan joins in the chorus of disapproval at
anonymous bankers, politicians and businessman, whom he
describes as “lecherous and treacherous,” “sluggers and muggers”
and “meddlers and peddlers.” He says “They buy and they sell -
- they destroyed your city, they’ll destroy you as well.”  Most people come to Dylan for his lyrics. The closing “Roll
on John” just steals lines from the Beatle songs “A Day in the
Life,” “Come Together” and “The Ballad of John and Yoko.”  Dylan is back in his simple mechanical rhyming mode with
some snappy couplets. There’s little of the sustained dazzling
wordplay of his classics: “Highway 61 Revisited,” “Bringing It
All Back Home,” “ Blood on the Tracks ” and “Blonde on Blonde.”  The music, often secondary to the words, is nicely played
by Dylan’s regular supporters, much the same as his last few
albums: 1920s blues, 1930s folk, 1940s country and 1950s
rockabilly. “Early Roman Kings” is a rip-off of the repetitive
blues riff on “Mannish Boy”; the title track’s Irish-themed 16
bars go round in circles.  Still, it’s good that, at 71 years of age, Dylan still is
writing, touring, recording some fine music, growling away and
probably not caring what anyone else thinks.  “Tempest” has more bite than his recent releases such as
“ Modern Times ” and “Time Out of Mind.” This makes it the best
since “ Desire ” way back in 1975.  It’s a shame that it has another dreadful cover design --
so often a Dylan speciality.  Rating: ****.  The best of this week’s other CDs comes from the U.K. band
 the xx . “Coexist” is a refinement of the ambient bassy sounds on
the group’s Mercury Prize winning debut. It’s downbeat,
economical and starkly beautiful. Rating: ****.  Bob Dylan is on Columbia and the xx on Young Turks, with
both CDs priced about $10. Dylan’s CD is also available as a $17
limited-edition version with extra pictures, or a $25 box with
vinyl discs. Download fees vary across services. Both are out in
the U.S. tomorrow and available in the U.K. today. Information:
 http://www.bobdylan.com/us/home  or  http://www.thexx.info .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food and  Elin
McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 