-- Bombs Kill 34 in Iraq, Including 14 in Oil-Producing Region
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   K h a l i d   a l - A n s a r y
-- 2012-09-09T14:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/bombs-kill-34-in-iraq-including-14-in-oil-producing-region-2-.html
A series of bomb attacks killed 34
people in  Iraq , including more than a dozen in the northern oil
region of Kirkuk, Deputy Health Minister Khamees al-Saad said.  Another 327 people were wounded in the blasts, al-Saad said
in a phone interview from Baghdad. Seven recruits were slain in
a suicide car bombing and 17 injured while waiting outside the
police headquarters of state-run North Oil Co. in Kirkuk, Aywa
Salah, a North Oil police colonel, said by phone.  Iraq has struggled to prevent attacks against civilian and
government targets since U.S. forces withdrew at the end of last
year. The oil-export pipeline from Kirkuk has been a frequent
target of sabotage since the 2003 invasion that ousted  Saddam
Hussein .  In Kirkuk, production and exports weren’t affected because
today’s blasts took place outside the company’s headquarters,
Oil Police Colonel Ghanim al-Quraishi said in a telephone
interview from Kirkuk. No one claimed responsibility for the
attack, according to North Oil’s police.  Iraq, the largest producer after  Saudi Arabia  in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumps crude oil
from fields near Kirkuk for export through a pipeline to the
port of Ceyhan,  Turkey . Kirkuk lies adjacent to Iraq’s semi-
autonomous Kurdish region and is claimed by Kurdish authorities,
though the central government in Baghdad controls the city.  A separate attack in the Tuz Khormato district killed three
people, while two others died in a blast in the al-Haweeja
district, police in Kirkuk said in an e-mailed statement. Two
people were killed and an additional 70 injured by blasts near
the Ministry of Interior’s investigation department in the
province, according to Kirkuk police.  Fourteen people were killed and 60 wounded in the city of
Amara in the southeast, Farhan al-Musawi, head of the security
committee in the provincial council of Maisan, said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in  Baghdad  at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  