-- Carlyle-Focus Media Buyout Doubted as Puts Jump: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/carlyle-focus-media-buyout-doubted-as-puts-jump-china-overnight.html
Options traders are losing
confidence that private-equity firms from  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  to
FountainVest Partners will complete the $3.5 billion acquisition
of Shanghai-based  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)    Puts with an exercise price 10 percent below Focus Media
shares cost 1.62 times more than calls betting on a 10 percent
increase on Sept. 7, three-month data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The gauge known as skew rose to an all-time high of 1.85
on Aug. 30. Shares traded at $24.29 on Sept. 7, or 11 percent
below the $27 offer received on Aug. 12, while the Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index completed its first gain in four weeks.  Focus Media, targeted by short seller  Carson Block ’s Muddy
Waters LLC as recently as February, said on Aug. 13 it received
a bid from a group including Chief Executive Officer Jason Nanchun Jiang, Washington-based Carlyle and Hong Kong-based
FountainVest that would mark the country’s largest leveraged
buyout.  Options trading  shows investors have “real concerns”
that the deal may collapse as  Muddy Waters  says the firm
manipulates its accounting, Timber Hill LLC said.  “This name has had a cloud over it for some time,” Steve Sosnick, an equity risk manager at Timber Hill, the market-
making unit of Greenwich, Connecticut-based Interactive Brokers
Group Inc., said by e-mail on Sept. 6. “There is a significant
amount of opacity.”  Non-Binding Offer  Focus Media’s shares have  climbed  3.9 percent since Aug.
10, the last trading day before it announced receiving a non-
binding offer from a group of companies that also include CITIC
Capital Partners, CDH Investments and  China Everbright Ltd. (257) 
There can be no assurance that any definitive offer will be
finalized from the group or that any agreement will be executed,
Focus said in its Aug. 13 statement.  A phone call to the press office of  Focus Media  went
unanswered on Sept. 7. Spokesman Jing Lu didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Put options  of the target company in a takeover offer tend
to be more expensive than calls because investors demand for
protection in case the deal falls apart while the upside gain is
capped by the offering prices, according to Ralph Edwards,
director of derivatives strategy at Investment Technology Group
in  New York . There’s no “extraordinary dynamics at work” in
Focus Media’s options, Edwards said in an e-mail reply.  The 11 percent difference between the offering price for
Focus Media and its Sept. 7 close compares with the average 20
percent premium of four pending cash buyout deals targeting
U.S.-listed Chinese companies tracked by Bloomberg.  Exit From U.S.  A growing number of overseas listed Chinese companies are
seeking to withdraw from the U.S. market as their valuation
shrinks after Block and other short sellers alleged financial
irregularities at companies including Sino-Forest Corp. and
 China  MediaExpress Holdings Inc.  Since 2011, 33 Chinese companies have announced buyout and
privatization deals, and 15 completed the transaction, according
to  Roth Capital . Three deals were terminated, including  CNinsure
Inc. (CISG) , a Chinese insurance company. CNinsure’s shares have
dropped 43 percent since September 2011 when a group of
investors including TPG Asia V MU Inc. withdrew a non-binding
bid four months after offering the privatization proposal.  “This discount on Focus is all about investor distaste for
U.S.-listed Chinese names,” David Riedel, president of Riedel
Research Group Inc., said in a phone interview. “It’s a big
deal, it involves a lot of money, and it may languish and fall
apart or take so long to close that it’s not worth tying up your
money for a year or more.”  Weekly Gain  The Bloomberg China-US Index of the biggest Chinese stocks
traded in New York gained 1 percent to 88.84 last week, its
first five-day advance in a month.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171) , China’s fourth-largest producer,
rallied 7.8 percent on Sept. 7 as  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  climbed 6.6
percent, the most since the two operators of video-sharing
websites merged on Aug. 24.  New Oriental Education & Technology
Group (EDU)  Inc. jumped after Morgan Stanley said the shares will
rise.  Focus Media, which sells ads on screens and posters in
office buildings and theaters, plunged as much as 66 percent on
Nov. 21 after Block’s firm said it exaggerated its ad network
and may have overpaid for takeovers to mask losses.  Focus Media has said market surveys conducted by Ipsos SA,
a Paris-based polling company, and its unit Synovate in more
than 100 cities showed that the number of LCD screens and poster
frames reported by the Chinese company was more than 99 percent
accurate.  Block declined to comment for the story in an e-mailed
statement. Carlyle doesn’t comment on “market speculation,”
spokesman Christopher Ullman said in an e-mailed reply.  Price Drop  The  offering price  equals 10 times its estimated 12-month
earnings, compared with an average ratio of 14 among the 55
biggest Chinese companies listed in the U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company had $650 million in cash and
equivalents at the end of the second quarter and had a gross
profit margin of 64 percent.  The offer is too low for shareholders who may vote down the
deal, causing share prices to drop in the “short term,”
according to Qiu Lin, an analyst at GuoSen Securities in  Hong
Kong , who recommends buying the shares.  “It is not easy for this plan to go through,” Lin wrote
in an e-mail. “There is chance that Focus Media either stops
the privatization or raise the offering price.”  Fosun International Ltd. (656) , which owns a 17.2 percent stake
in Focus Media and is the largest shareholder, said in a
statement on Aug. 14 that the offer is an “attractive option,”
while it hasn’t made a commitment on the deal.  Short sales involve borrowing a security such as a stock or
bond, then selling it in anticipation of a price decline. Short
interest for Focus Media has declined to 1.2 percent of shares
outstanding, from 11.2 percent on Nov. 22, according to data
compiled by Markit, a London-based research firm.  ‘Overhang’  Implied volatility  on three-month 10 percent put options
has increased to 47.4 percent from 33.3 percent on Aug. 13,
while 10 percent calls rose to 29.2 percent from 24.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  put-to-call  ratio
of open interests rose to 0.97 as of Sept. 5, the highest since
June.  “I’m not sure this deal is actually going to happen,”
 Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at New York-based
Solaris Group, who sold his holdings of Focus Media in August
2011, said in a phone interview. “We like the Focus Media story
if it wasn’t for the overhang of accounting question on Chinese
stocks generally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  