-- Carry Trade Loss 2.8% as Dollar Fails to Weaken on Fed
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2012-09-10T18:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/carry-trade-loses-2-8-as-dollar-fails-to-weaken-in-fed-stimulus.html
Central bankers will get a lot less
bang for their buck, pound, euro and yen as they struggle to
stimulate flagging economies, trading strategies in the $4
trillion a day foreign-exchange market suggest.  The UBS AG V24 Carry Index, which measures returns from
borrowing in lower-rate currencies to buy higher-yielding ones
for so-called carry trades, has fallen 2.8 percent from a four-
month high on Aug. 9. Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
show the worst-performing major currency in the past month was
the Australian dollar, typically a beneficiary when investors
are bullish on the economy because the nation has the highest
 interest rates  among developed economies.  From the $2.3 trillion pumped into the U.S. by the Fed
since 2008 to record-low interest rates in the euro zone, U.K.
and  Japan , nothing has prevented the world’s economy from
slowing this year. Foreign-exchange traders are signaling they
expect little improvement any time soon, and that’s a change
from the past. After Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  flagged $600
billion of quantitative easing, or QE, in August 2010, the carry
trade gained 3.1 percent in 30 days.  “I can’t be optimistic that investor sentiment will
improve rapidly and the world’s economy will pick up,”
Yoshisada Ishide, who oversees $14 billion as the manager of the
biggest mutual fund focused on Australian dollar-denominated
debt at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in  Tokyo , said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 7.  ‘Excessive Fat’  That outlook echoes Yale University professor  Stephen Roach 
and  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. They say central bank money
printing is losing its effectiveness in spurring growth.  “I’ve been negative about the U.S. ever since the Fed went
to their unconventional monetary policy,” Roach, the former
non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in Asia, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Sept. 6.  “Our credit-based financial system is burdened by
excessive fat and interest rates that are too low,” Gross, who
oversees Pimco’s $270 billion Total Return Fund, wrote in the
monthly  commentary  posted on Pimco’s website Sept. 5.  Falling demand for commodity imports in  China  sent the
Australian dollar down 3.8 percent over the past month, the
biggest drop among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg indexes. That contributed to a 9 percent decline
since August 2011 for carry trades funded by the dollar and
invested in the so-called Aussie, South African rand, Brazilian
real and Mexican peso.  Strategy Reversal  Carry trades had returned almost 80 percent from March 2009
through July last year as investors took advantage of lower
borrowing costs in developed markets to buy assets in emerging
and resource-producing nations. Benchmark interest rates in the
Group of 10 will average about 0.53 percent this year, compared
with 6.39 percent for Brazil, Russia, India and China, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The dollar dropped 1 percent last week according to the
Bloomberg index, as the U.S. Labor Department said the economy
added 96,000 jobs in August, below the 130,000 median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The gauge climbed 0.3
percent today as the dollar rose 0.3 percent to $1.2782 per euro
at 2:05 p.m. in New York.  Fed Purchases  Concerns that growth will continue to deteriorate gives the
Fed room to signal a third round of bond purchases as early as
this week. A gauge of indicators used to measure expectations
for Fed stimulus rose to 99 percent in August, the highest ever,
according to Citigroup Inc.  Policy makers began injecting money into their economies
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. four years
ago this week sparked the biggest financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  After the Fed’s first round of quantitative easing, the
 Bank of England  announced 75 billion pounds ($120 billion) of
asset purchases in March 2009, and the  European Central Bank 
provided 442 billion euros ($565 billion) in one-year loans to
the region’s lenders in its Long Term Refinancing Operation, or
LTRO, three months later. The  Bank of Japan  said in October 2010
it would buy 5 trillion yen ($63.9 billion) of government and
corporate debt.  Record Lows  The unprecedented actions came with interest rates already
at or about record lows. The Fed cut its overnight bank lending
rate to between zero and 0.25 percent in December 2008 and has
indicated it may keep it there through 2014. The ECB has reduced
borrowing costs to 0.75 percent and the BOE to 0.5 percent. The
BOJ lowered its target rate to about zero from 0.5 percent.  Fed stimulus has typically debased the currency.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY)  tracking the
greenback against six U.S. trading partners, dropped 13 percent
between the Fed’s announcement of $2.3 trillion in easing in
November 2008 through the end of the bond buying in June 2011.  That might not happen this time. While the index fell 2.73
percent in the last month to 80.304, it’s still within 5 percent
of a two-year high of 84.10 reached on July 24. Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes show New Zealand’s currency
weakened 1.9 percent in the past month, the biggest decline
after the so-called Aussie.  QE created a political backlash. Republicans called for an
audit of the Fed in their 2012 platform adopted in Tampa,
Florida, on Aug. 28. Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee said in a
press release Sept. 6 that an “unhealthy obsession” with
monetary policy is distracting the public from the need for
fiscal reform. The Fed’s  balance sheet  has swelled by almost
threefold since the collapse of Lehman to $2.81 trillion.  ‘Clearer Signs’  “We’re seeing clearer signs of diminishing returns from
success of quantitative-easing programs,”  Robert Rennie , chief
currency strategist at Sydney-based Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest lender, said in a telephone interview
on Sept. 5.  Carry trades may benefit from a resolution for Europe’s
debt turmoil. Prospects for a cure rose when ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced on Sept. 6 an unlimited bond-buying program to
cap yields in the euro area and fight speculation that Greece
may leave the 17-nation currency union. Purchases will be
sterilized, meaning the  money supply  won’t grow.  Stocks and higher-yielding currencies rallied. The 17-
nation euro strengthened 1.9 percent last week to $1.2816, the
highest closing level since May 21, while the Australian dollar
appreciated 0.6 percent to $1.0385. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  jumped
2.6 percent in the five days through Sept. 7 to the highest in
five months.  ‘Pretty Bearish’  “We’re pretty bearish on the dollar,”  Mary Nicola , a New
York-based currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, France’s
largest bank, said Sept. 5 in a telephone interview. “We see
weakness against the commodity currencies.”  BNP estimates the Dollar Index will fall to 76.4 by the end
of June, the lowest projection among 10 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey. The median of the forecasts signal the gauge will
advance to 82.4.  Signs that China is losing steam may hurt nations such as
Australia that depend on the world’s second-largest economy to
buy their commodities.  Manufacturing contracted in China at the fastest pace in
August since March 2009, according to the purchasing managers’
index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on
Sept. 3.  Carry Trade  Even a calming of currency price swings that normally would
benefit the carry trade is having little effect. The JPMorgan G7
Volatility Index fell to 8.03 percent on Sept. 7, the lowest
level since October 2007, and down from its record 26.55 percent
in October 2008. A smaller number means the potential profit
from carry trades is more predictable, increasing the allure of
the strategy.  “Volatility is low simply because people are staying on
the sidelines, awaiting the next storm,” Masashi Murata, a
currency strategist in Tokyo at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.,
said in a telephone interview on Sept. 6. “Conditions for carry
trades aren’t being met.”  The U.S. may tip into recession next year if lawmakers
can’t break an impasse over the  federal budget , according to
report from the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .
Economic output would shrink next year by 0.5 percent, and
joblessness would climb to about 9 percent, unless $600 billion
in scheduled tax increases and spending cuts are halted, the
Office said Aug. 22.  ‘Weakest Recovery’  “What the record shows is we’ve had the weakest recovery
on record, we have an  unemployment rate  above 8 percent, and the
U.S. consumer is basically dead in the water,” Yale’s Roach
said on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” with Susan Li.  The rest of the developed world isn’t much better off. The
 euro-zone  and U.K. economies contracted 0.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier. Japan is struggling to
overcome more than a decade of deflation and the effects of last
year’s record earthquake.  New regulations requiring banks to hold more capital and
increased saving by households has prevented record low interest
rates from sparking the recovery central bankers anticipated,
Gross wrote in the monthly  commentary  posted on Pimco’s website
Sept. 5.  “Returns from both stocks and bonds will be stunted,”
Gross said. “Central banks are agog in disbelief that the
endless stream of QEs and LTROs have not produced the desired
result.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  