-- Champagne’s Sparkling Pairing With Hot Dogs, James Bond
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-09-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/champagne-s-sparkling-pairing-with-hot-dogs-james-bond.html
As I sip the latest release of Krug
 Grande Cuvee (MC)  and chew some salty nuts at Eleven Madison Park,
company director Olivier Krug compares making the Champagne to
his grandmother’s ratatouille.  “Champagne is more complex when you blend many
ingredients,” he says.  Entering the new label ID code on the Krug  website , I find
out what those are. This accesses more backstory, like the fact
that this particular release of Grande Cuvee ($150) contains
wine from 121 vineyard plots and 12 vintages from 1990 to 2004,
and information on when it was disgorged.  Revealing numbers like these is a big change. Until
recently, most of the region’s grandes marques kept information
about their non-vintage-dated blends secret.  Major Champagne house  Roederer  is touting its 10-year
relationship with biodynamics, a risky uber-organic form of
viticulture increasingly popular among small grower producers.  “When you don’t take risks, wine becomes standardized,”
cellar master  Jean-Baptiste Lecaillon  says. That’s tiny grower-
producer talk. We are at a July tasting of seven vintages of
Roederer’s prestige cuvees Cristal and Cristal Rose.  Biodynamics, Lecaillon says, give the wines more finesse
and fruit, even in difficult vintages like 2005. I guess so.  That just-released vintage of Cristal ($200) is rich and
full, with plenty of chalky tang and none of the earthy taint
I’ve found in some producers’ 2005 bottlings. Lecaillon calls
his 2005 fizz “a blue sky without any clouds.”  Perfect Rose  The 1996 Cristal Rose is just about perfect, creamy and
silky and supremely complex. It should be, at $700 per.  Of course, no big Champagne house is abandoning image
consciousness. Based on this summer’s launches, pairing your
bubbly with an avant-garde designer or celeb is definitely de
rigueur.  Dom Perignon  tapped film director David Lynch, creator of
the weird, addictive TV series “Twin Peaks” and 2001 thriller
“Mulholland Drive,” to package 2003 D.P. ($169) and 2000 D.P.
Rose ($309) “The Power of Creation” limited editions. (They go
on sale next month, though the regular bottlings of the same
wines are already on retail shelves for less.)  Lynch’s surrealistic D.P. bottle and box have a glowing,
almost creepy, hallucinatory look. The exotic 2003  Dom Perignon ,
from a vintage so hot that 15,000 people died in  France , is rich
and powerful, but I much prefer the creamy, glamorous 2002
($140).  Bond’s Bollinger  James Bond  and Bollinger are still a classic pairing --
he’s been ordering the brand on screen since the 1973 film
“Live and Let Die.” I’m not a fan of the specially designed of
the special 2002 “James Bond 007” La Grande Annee bottling
($200) being released next month for the opening of the new Bond
movie “Skyfall.”  The box is intended to evoke the silencer on Bond’s Walther
PPK handgun. Unless you’re a Bond collector, go for the sexy,
rich, elegant wine in the regular bottle ($100).  A huge global survey released in August by research company
 TNS  revealed a worldwide appetite for indulging in Champagne and
sparkling wine more regularly. What’s holding people back, said
chief researcher Jan Hofmeyr, is cost.  Champagne has always been pitched and priced as an elitist
drink, which is why sales slipped during the recession and
sparklers like prosecco and Spanish cava are booming.  Yet this summer, Liv-Ex reported global demand for
Champagne is thriving, at least for investment-grade names like
Cristal, Krug, D.P. and hot seller 2002 Taittinger Comtes de
Champagne ($185).  Rosania’s Collection  For the 1 percent, Acker Merrall & Condit offers a Hong
Kong sale of U.S.real estate entrepreneur Robert Rosania’s
extraordinary Champagne collection on Sept 21 and 22.  It includes plenty of top bottles, like the super rare 1966
Krug Blanc de Blancs (estimate $12,000 to $18,000). The auction
house forecasts that the sale will pull in HK$50 million.  Master sommelier Laura Maniec, owner of one of my favorite
 New York  wine bars, Corkbuzz, is trying to give the 99 percent a
shot at top bubbles. This summer she began selling every bottle
of Champagne on her list at 50 percent off every night from 10
p.m. until the bar closes.  The offer is still on, with a fascinating grower fizz like
the classy 2002 Delamotte Blanc de Blancs Brut for $98 instead
of $195, or a delicious standard like non-vintage Ruinart Rose
Brut for $75 rather than $150.  Kooky Matches      Maniec advocated pairing all these champagnes with everyday
food, like French fries (try one with Corkbuzz’s spicy potatas
bravas). The bubbles cut through the salt and oil and inspire
you to eat more fries, which then requires drinking more
Champagne, and so on.  That same taste principle is at work in the latest non-
elitist kooky wine match: Champagne and  hot dogs .  London ’s Bubbledogs wine bar, which opened Aug. 29, offers
13 savory, spicy hot dogs (cost: 6 to 8 pounds each) with
refreshing grower Champagnes (from 6 pounds a glass; bottles 32
pounds and up).  I’m not surprised. I’ve always known top French bubbly goes
with just about everything.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy in New York at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 