-- Rory McIlroy Collects Third PGA Tour Win in His Past Four Starts
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-10T04:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/mcilroy-wins-bmw-championship-for-third-pga-title-in-four-starts.html
After his third win in four starts,
Rory McIlroy said he’s starting to comprehend the golfing zone
 Tiger Woods  would get into during his peak.  McIlroy solidified his standing as the world’s top-ranked
player with a two-stroke victory yesterday at the BMW
Championship. It was his second straight victory in golf’s
FedExCup playoffs and fourth U.S.  PGA Tour  title of the season.  “The more you put yourself in this position and the more
you win and the more you pick up trophies, it becomes normal,
and it feels like this is what you’re supposed to do,” McIlroy,
23, told reporters. “I’m sure that’s how (Woods) felt when he
was on that run and how he still feels. I’m getting to that
stage where I’m thinking, ‘This is what I should be doing. I
should be lifting a trophy at the end of the week.’”  McIlroy shot a 5-under-par 67 during yesterday’s final
round at Crooked Stick Golf Club in Carmel,  Indiana , to finish
with a four-round total of 20-under 268.  Phil Mickelson  and  Lee Westwood  tied for second at 18
under, one shot better than Woods and  Robert Garrigus .  McIlroy received $1.44 million for the victory, which
bolsters his chance to claim the FedExCup’s $10 million bonus at
the Tour Championship. The Northern Irishman also captured the
Deutsche Bank Championship last week and won the  PGA
Championship  by a record eight shots last month for his second
career major tournament title.  “The last four weeks, five weeks have been incredible,
some of the best golf that I’ve ever played,” he said. “I’m
going to try and keep the run going for as long as possible.”  McIlroy joins Woods (2007),  Vijay Singh  (2008) and Camilo Villegas (2008) as the only golfers to win back-to-back FedExCup
playoff events.  The McIlroy Show  McIlroy now has six career PGA Tour wins, with only Woods
(15) and  Jack Nicklaus  (8) recording more before the age of 24.
Woods ranks second all-time with 74 career PGA Tour wins,
including 65 in an 11-year span from 1999 to 2009.  “Rory is putting on a show out there,” Woods, who shot a
final-round 68, said in a televised interview.  The BMW Championship was the third of four playoff events
and included the top 70 players in the  FedExCup standings .
Following a one-week break, the top 30 now advance to the Sept.
20-23 Tour Championship at Atlanta’s East Lake Golf Club.  If a player in the top five of the FedExCup standings wins
the Tour Championship, they’ll collect the $10 million bonus.
McIlroy leads Woods atop the standings followed by  Nick Watney ,
Mickelson and  Brandt Snedeker .  Final Round  McIlroy entered the final round tied for third place, one
shot behind 54-hole co-leaders Mickelson and Singh.  After making birdies on two of his first five holes,
McIlroy had a two-putt birdie at the par-5 ninth to take the
lead alone at 18-under par, one better than Mickelson,  Dustin Johnson  and Westwood. McIlroy added a birdie at the 10th to stay
one ahead of Mickelson and Westwood, who each birdied the ninth.  Westwood moved into a share of the lead with a birdie at
the par-3 13th, while Mickelson slipped two shots back after he
flew the green with his second shot at the par-4 12th hole and
made bogey. Westwood dropped a shot with a bogey at the 14th
hole and McIlroy increased his lead to two strokes with a tap-in
birdie at the par-5 15th hole.  McIlroy birdied three of the course’s four par-5 holes
yesterday and played them in 11-under par for the week.  McIlroy, whose first win this season came at the Honda
Classic in March, drained another birdie putt of almost 14 feet
at the 16th hole to extend his advantage to three strokes. He
made his first bogey in 27 holes at the closing hole.  Defending FedExCup champion  Bill Haas  was among those who
failed to qualify for the Tour Championship after a tie for 45th
place yesterday dropped him to 32nd in the standings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  