-- Clinton Tells U.S. Allies to Cool Tempers Over Island Disputes
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-09T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/clinton-tells-japan-south-korea-to-cool-tempers-in-island-spat.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
urged Japan and South Korea to cool tempers in their showdown
over contested islands, as part of a wider U.S. effort to defuse
rising regional tensions stoked by maritime disputes.  “I raised these issues with both of them,” Clinton said
yesterday after meeting Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
and South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok,  Russia . She said she
told the countries’ leaders “that their interests really lie in
making sure that they lower the temperature and work together in
a concerted way to have a calm and restrained approach.”  Noda didn’t have bilateral meetings with the leaders of
South Korea or  China  at the summit, only holding brief
discussions with Lee and President  Hu Jintao  of China, with
which Japan also has a dispute. A spokesman for the Chinese
foreign ministry, Qin Gang, said Sept. 8 that Japan should “pay
attention” to his country’s resolve to safeguard its
sovereignty.  Clinton, who yesterday wrapped up a six-nation, 11-day
tour, has tried to douse a diplomatic showdown between U.S.
allies Japan and  South Korea , as well as conflicts in the  South
China Sea , through which half of the world’s commercial cargo
flows. The escalating tensions, which come ahead of leadership
changes in Japan, South Korea and China, have hurt Japanese
companies such as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  doing business in China.  Easing Tensions  Noda tried to dial back tensions at the summit in
Vladivostok, saying he had told Hu and Lee in their informal
meetings that it was important to preserve and deepen ties. Noda
said he also told Lee that ties between their countries were
important because of the threat posed by  North Korea .  “I said let’s build ties based on the big picture,” Noda
told reporters.  The dispute with South Korea reignited after Lee made a
surprise Aug. 10 visit to the islets, known as Dokdo in Korean
and Takeshima in Japanese, which Noda called “unacceptable.”  China has condemned Japan’s plan to buy islands, known as
Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese, lying in the  East
China Sea  near oil and gas reserves. Noda’s government is in
talks to buy the islands from a private Japanese owner, a plan
that was set off by an attempted purchase by Tokyo Governor and
China critic Shintaro Ishihara.  The spat sparked anti-Japanese protests last month in
China, which have affected deliveries for Nissan, Japan’s
biggest automaker by sales in China. Nissan Chief Operating
Officer Toshiyuki Shiga said Sept. 6 that the company had
reduced the number of promotional activities on the advice of
Chinese authorities in the wake of the demonstrations.  Common Ground  “Extending the hand of friendship and seeking to find
common ground on these issues is a positive development,”  Glenn Maguire , chief economist at consultant Asia Sentry Advisory Pty
Ltd. in Sydney, said yesterday in e-mail. “With three separate
territorial disputes, the risk for the Japan Prime Minister is
that any concessions on these territorial disputes would
reinforce perceptions of Japan’s declining influence in the
region.”  Russian President  Vladimir Putin , host of the APEC summit
this year, said his country wants to resolve a territorial
dispute with Japan over islands claimed by both nations. He and
Noda agreed to have officials meet later this year to discuss
rights to the islands.  Sovereignty Conflict  Tensions with Russia rose after then-President Dmitry
Medvedev in November 2010 became the first Russian leader to
visit the islands, which are called the Southern Kurils in
Russia and the Northern Territories in  Japan . The Soviet Union
seized the chain at the end of world war two and conflict over
sovereignty has prevented the two countries from signing a
formal peace treaty.  APEC’s 21 economies have a market of almost 3 billion
consumers, making up 44 percent of world trade and 56 percent of
world economic output totaling $39 trillion in 2011, according
to a fact sheet provided by the U.S. government. Leaders said
yesterday in the summit communique that they were committed to
take steps against protectionist trade policies.  “The territorial disputes will distract from APEC’s
resolve to quickly usher in a free trade agreement for all of
Asia,” Maguire said. “Such an outcome could leave the
impression that  Asia  cannot work together when further strong
multilateral gains on a range of issues need to still be made.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  