-- Clinton at APEC Urges End to Trade Limits, Maritime Disputes
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-09T02:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/clinton-at-apec-urges-end-to-trade-limits-maritime-disputes-1-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
urged Asia-Pacific business leaders to help dismantle trade
barriers as part of a visit to Russia also aimed at promoting
cooperation on resolving regional maritime skirmishes.  Speaking to executives yesterday at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok, Clinton called for
“concrete steps” to reduce “protectionist policies that
distort markets.” Her itinerary includes meetings with Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  and the leaders of Japan and  South
Korea , all of whom have competing territorial claims with China
or each other.  The top U.S. diplomat is wrapping up a six-nation, 11-day
tour that garnered mixed results in pressing China and Southeast
Asia countries to adopt a framework for negotiations on rival
territorial claims in a region rich in oil and gas. The U.S. is
seeking to defuse conflict in the  South China Sea , through which
half of the world’s commercial cargo moves.  The U.S. is trying to “lend some weight to the other
parties in this conflict,” said Walter Lohman, director of the
Asian Studies Center at the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington.
“The Chinese are so big that left alone, the other small
countries will be deprived of any role in the conversation.”  Clinton and Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  met in
Beijing on Sept. 5 and pledged to build closer ties while
disagreeing over the best way to solve the maritime disputes.
China has competing territorial claims with several countries,
including the  Philippines  and  Vietnam .  Dialogue, Negotiation  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  met yesterday with his
Vietnamese and Indonesian counterparts and said the South China
Sea sovereignty issue should be resolved through dialogue and
negotiation, Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters.  Speaking at the APEC CEO Summit, Clinton advocated reducing
barriers, ensuring a level playing field for expanding trade and
investment, and bolstering cooperation on issues including
intellectual property protection and food security.  She urged business leaders to push their governments to
support “high-standard trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific
Partnership and to drop harmful protectionist policies.”  To ensure that U.S. companies are able to do business in
Russia, Clinton said the Obama administration is “working
closely” with Congress to lift restrictions on trade with
Russia and grant it permanent normal trade relations. She
expressed hope that U.S. lawmakers will take action this month
to repeal the 1974 Jackson-Vanik amendment, which restricted
trade with the Soviet Union over its  human rights  record.  Global Output  Clinton met Putin for 15 minutes yesterday and talked about
the need for stability in the U.S.-Russia relationship, boosting
trade, Syria,  Iran  and missile defense. In a 90-minute dinner
following that meeting, the two discussed wildlife conservation
and the 2014 Winter Olympics in the Russian city of Sochi, among
other topics.  In a fact sheet released at the summit, the U.S. said
APEC’s 21 member economies represent 56 percent of global
economic output -- $39 trillion in 2011 -- and six of the top 10
U.S. trading partners are in the group. It said that through
APEC, the U.S. is working to improve regulatory transparency and
promote innovation policies.  Clinton also met Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
yesterday to press for tougher international pressure against
Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad. Russia is resisting Western
efforts to oust Assad as a means to ending a civil war that has
killed more than 23,000 people in 18 months, according to the
U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  Increase Pressure  Lavrov told reporters afterward that Russia disagrees with
the U.S. approach “to threaten, to increase pressure against
both Syria and Iran.”  In her meetings, Clinton sought to discuss economic
opportunities and trade following Russia’s accession to the
 World Trade Organization . She will also discuss efforts to
prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, U.S. officials
told reporters traveling with her.  Clinton and Lavrov signed agreements on scientific and
environmental cooperation in the Antarctic region, promoting
commercial and governmental ties at local and regional levels,
and linking national parks in Alaska and Eastern Siberia. They
also announced an agreement to ease visa access to facilitate
business travel, tourism and bilateral investment.  Clinton praised the initiatives as signs of “deepened
cooperation” between the U.S. and Russia over the last three
and a half years, since the Obama administration announced a so-
called reset in relations.  The agreement to boost commercial cooperation at the
regional level is intended to help U.S. agricultural exports and
promote job growth in the U.S. Pacific Northwest and the Russian
 Far East , where  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  has invested on Sakhalin
Island, the State Department said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Vladivostok at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  