-- Clinton Doesn’t Say If Taliban Should Be on Terror List
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-09T23:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/clinton-doesn-t-say-if-taliban-should-be-on-terror-list.html
Days after deciding to blacklist an
insurgent group linked to the Taliban and responsible for some
of the deadliest attacks in Afghanistan, Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  declined to say whether she also would brand
the Taliban a foreign terrorist organization.  Asked in an interview yesterday with  Bloomberg Radio  if the
Taliban -- whose government gave sanctuary to  Osama bin Laden 
and his al-Qaeda terror network before the 2001 U.S. military
actions -- should be blacklisted, Clinton didn’t directly
answer.  “You know, we do a very intensive analysis before we
designate someone as a foreign terrorist organization,” she
said. “We have reached that conclusion about the Haqqani
Network, and we think it’s the right decision.”  Clinton’s  decision  on Sept. 7 to designate as a terrorist
organization the Haqqani Network -- a militant group with
operations in Afghanistan and  Pakistan  that is closely
affiliated with the Afghan branch of the Taliban -- came after
months of inter-agency debate.  One issue was the potential impact on already difficult
relations with Pakistan. The Haqqanis operate from havens in
Pakistan’s North Waziristan tribal region with what U.S.
officials have said are ties to Pakistan’s intelligence agency.  ‘Squeezing’ Haqqanis  Clinton said in the interview that blacklisting the
Haqqanis wasn’t a message aimed at Pakistan.  “No, it is about squeezing” the Haqqanis, she said.  “It’s part of the continuing effort to try to send a
message to them -- not to anyone else, but to them -- because of
the really incredibly damaging attacks they have waged against
us, against other targets inside  Afghanistan , and it’s important
that we use every tool at our disposal to go after them,” she
said in the interview in Vladivostok, Russia, at the end of an
11-day trip through the Asia-Pacific.  The U.S. had already slapped the Haqqani group’s leaders
with individual sanctions, and has long targeted them in
military operations and clandestine drone strikes.  Adding the Haqqanis to the group blacklist “gives us much
greater reach into any financial assets or fundraising that they
may engage in, it gives us better traction against assets that
they might own,” Clinton said. “It’s important that we use
every tool at our disposal to go after them.”  Though the Haqqanis were behind some of the highest-profile
attacks on American and NATO interests in Afghanistan, including
a day-long assault last year on the U.S. embassy in Kabul and an
attack on NATO headquarters there, the debate on whether to
blacklist them involved arguments that doing so might hinder
U.S. policy goals.  Congressional Deadline  Last year, Clinton told Congress she was in the final
stages of reviewing whether to designate the Haqqanis. Though a
dossier analyzing the evidence was delivered to her months ago,
according to a U.S. official who wasn’t authorized to speak for
attribution, the paperwork to designate them wasn’t signed until
lawmakers imposed a 30-day deadline to explain if the group met
the blacklist criteria.  The decision followed months of discussion within the White
House, State Department, Pentagon, Treasury Department,  Justice
Department  and the intelligence community over the merits and
the timing of blacklisting the Haqqanis, according to officials
from different agencies who spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss internal deliberations.  Peace Talks  Opponents of blacklisting the Haqqanis had argued that
slapping them with a label might hinder prospects for engaging
them in reconciliation talks to take them off the battlefield.
The same may be said of the Taliban.  The U.S. is seeking to engage the Taliban in negotiations
to renounce violence and accept the Afghan constitution to
better the chances of peace following the planned withdrawal of
U.S. combat troops in 2014.  Another concern about blacklisting the Haqqanis -- which
can also be said of the Taliban -- is that affixing a terror
label to the group may affect U.S. relations with Pakistan. Some
U.S. officials, including former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff Admiral Mike Mullen, have said Pakistani intelligence and
security forces have aided the Haqqanis in order to wield
influence in Afghanistan. Clinton and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta have said Pakistan needs to do more to crack down on the
group.  Pakistan also has ties with the Afghan Taliban, whose
leadership is based in the Pakistani city of Quetta, according
to U.S. intelligence officials.  The U.S. wants Pakistan to use its influence with the
Taliban to engage them in serious peace talks with the Afghan
government to help bring an end to the 11-year conflict.  Relations between Pakistan and the U.S., which soured
sharply last year with the killing of bin Laden on Pakistani
soil and an accidental U.S. air attack that killed 24 Pakistani
soldiers, have improved in the last two months. Pakistan
reopened routes used to supply NATO troops in Afghanistan that
were closed after the deadly helicopter raid on Pakistani border
posts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Vladivostok,  Russia  at   ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  