-- Davis Stands to Get $13 Million Payout in Glencore Bid
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-09-09T16:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/davis-stands-to-get-13-million-payout-in-glencore-bid.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  Chief Executive Officer
 Mick Davis  stands to receive a payout of about $13 million if
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s revised takeover offer is accepted
by shareholders.  Glencore, owner of 34 percent of Xstrata, last week
increased its offer to 3.05 of its shares for each one in the
target from 2.8 in February. Under the new proposal, Glencore
Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg would be CEO in the
merged group, reversing a plan for Xstrata’s Davis to hold the
position.  That would entitle Davis, 54, to 5.3 million pounds ($8.5
million) in salary and bonuses and $4.3 million in retirement
benefits, according to the mining company’s annual report. This
compares with a retention bonus of 28.8 million pounds in shares
over three years that he had originally been offered to lead the
combined company and achieve cost-saving targets.  Davis would receive the $13 million payment because his
contract entitles him to the benefits in case of termination of
employment without notice or if he resigns in circumstances
including a change of control, according to the report. He also
has more than 2.5 million shares, worth about 25 million pounds,
to vest in case of job termination. Chief Financial Officer
Trevor Reid, who has the same contract, stands to get about 5
million pounds, according to the report. An Xstrata spokeswoman
declined to comment.  Revised Bid  Glencore made its one-page proposal of changes a couple of
hours before Xstrata’s shareholders were due to vote its
original bid on Sept. 7. Glencore’s revised bid came after Qatar
Holding LLC, which holds 12 percent in Xstrata, had sought a
higher price for its stake and said it would vote against the
year’s biggest takeover. Glencore is due to make its detailed
offer tomorrow, according to a person familiar with the
situation.  The new proposal includes the option of changing the offer
to a takeover from a so-called scheme of arrangement. That would
reduce the level of acceptances needed to complete a deal to
more than 50 percent, compared with 75 percent using a scheme of
arrangement. Glencore is barred from voting its stake in the
scheme of arrangement under U.K. takeover rules.  The revised bid, a premium of 17.6 percent, is
“significantly lower than would be expected in a takeover,”
Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata said in a statement on Sept. 7.  The dramatic developments included an evening negotiating
session in a London hotel mediated by former U.K. Prime Minister
 Tony Blair  between Glasenberg and Qatar’s premier, said a person
with knowledge of the deal.  ‘Significant Risk’  “The intention to replace Mick Davis as CEO and to amend
the management incentive arrangements represents significant
risk around the retention of the Xstrata senior and operational
management,” Xstrata said. The company will decide whether to
reconvene shareholder meetings once it gets a “detailed
proposal,” it said.  Glasenberg, 55, is Glencore’s largest shareholder with
about 15.7 percent. The accountant turned coal trader had
repeatedly rebuffed calls to raise his original offer, which was
agreed on with Xstrata’s board even as Qatar continued to build
its stake. As recently as Aug. 21, Glasenberg said he was ready
to scrap the deal rather than overpay.  A combination would reunite two groups that separated a
decade ago when Xstrata bought Glencore’s Australian and South
African coal mines for $2.5 billion and went public in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  