-- Deutsche Bank Tackles Ackermann Legacy in Strategy Revamp
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-09-10T08:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/deutsche-bank-ceos-tackle-ackermann-legacy-in-strategy-overhaul.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen, less than four months
after taking over from  Josef Ackermann , may be preparing the
largest revamp at Europe’s biggest bank in eight years.  The  leaders , scheduled to present their strategy for the
Frankfurt-based lender on Sept. 11, are poised to explain how
Deutsche Bank plans to increase capital without tapping
shareholders, overcome interbank lending probes and cut costs by
3 billion euros ($3.8 billion) as revenues slump.  The co-CEOs join peers from  UBS AG (UBSN)  to Nomura Holdings Inc.
in revamping their business as stricter capital rules make some
operations unprofitable and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis drags
on. Their task is complicated by legal probes and a compensation
system that’s losing credibility amid bank bailouts and
diminished profits.  “This will be the biggest overhaul since 2004,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  analyst in London with the
equivalent of a sell rating on the shares. “The risks are many
and varied.”  Margin pressure and higher  capital requirements  have become
“the new normal” for Europe’s banks as the crisis curbs client
activity and competition increases, Fitschen, 64, said at a
Frankfurt conference last week.  ‘Tougher Times’  Fitschen distanced himself from the 25 percent return-on-
equity target that helped define Ackermann’s tenure as CEO by
saying “banking industry experts think that returns of 14
percent to 15 percent would be realistic.” Ackermann had
already backed away from the goal in February.  Ackermann, in the reorganization announced in 2004, changed
the management team and announced the profitability target,
which earned him praise from investors and criticism from some
German politicians for excessive risk-taking. Fitschen said
banks do need ROE goals to remain attractive for investors and
attract funds.  “They need to put the comments about lower ROE
expectations in context,” said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage
about 1.1 billion euros, including Deutsche Bank shares, at
Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg. “This may have been an
opportunistic move to close off a flank from critics of banks or
it may be based on the assumption that the sector will face
tougher times amid the sovereign-debt crisis.”  Deutsche Bank officials declined to comment on strategy
before tomorrow’s press conference.  Deutsche Bank’s pretax return on average active equity, the
figure it uses to measure profitability, fell to 6.8 percent in
the second quarter from 13.8 percent a year before.  Eliminating Jobs  To help reverse that slide, Deutsche Bank will eliminate as
many as 1,900 jobs and reduce costs by 3 billion euros from the
level in the first half of this year, the bank said on July 31.
The job cuts, mostly outside  Germany , will include 1,500 at the
investment bank and support areas. The company forecast
“substantial costs” to achieve the savings.  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG analysts led by Amit Goel in London
estimate that the charges may be 1.5 billion euros and that the
plan will be executed by 2014. The “risks are that this is
materially higher and that the reduction takes longer than we
model,” they wrote in a note today. The analysts have a
“neutral” recommendation on Deutsche Bank shares.  This round of firings, which amounts to almost 2 percent of
the bank’s staff, is the largest since February 2005, when the
company announced plans to eliminate 3,280 positions to boost
profitability after Ackermann set his target.  Reviewing Compensation  “There’s a lot at stake,”  Konrad Becker , a bank analyst
with Merck Finck & Co. in Munich, said by phone. “We’re talking
about the whole strategy of the bank and not only about profit
targets or new products.”  The bank has begun eliminating positions in Asia, cutting
about 15 equities posts in Tokyo and preparing for the dismissal
of 30 more people in equity research, sales and trading there
this week, according to people with knowledge of the matter. In
total, 85 Deutsche Bank employees are set to lose their jobs at
the Japan and Hong Kong equities units, the people said.  “They might announce even more on Sept. 11,” Mediobanca’s
Wheeler said.  The bank is also preparing to revamp pay, Jain, 49, said in
July. He and Fitschen are reviewing the “absolute level of
compensation” and the “relative balance between rewards for
shareholders and those for employees,” Jain said. The bank
introduced bonus rules at the start of the year allowing it to
claw back stock awarded to workers by former employers.  Capital Needs  Jain and Fitschen began putting their imprint on senior
management earlier this year, elevating Stuart Lewis, 46,
Stephan Leithner 46, and Henry Ritchotte, 48, to the management
board. Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger, 56, a rival candidate
to replace Ackermann, and Chief Operating Officer Hermann-Josef Lamberti, 56, left at the end of May.  Jain also pledged on a July 31 call with analysts to use
“all the capital levers at our disposal” before tapping
investors for equity. The bank is reducing risk-weighted assets
to meet capital goals and said it can adjust compensation or the
dividend and sell assets if necessary.  Global regulators are forcing banks to increase capital
buffers to prevent a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bailouts that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Deutsche
Bank, which weathered the crisis without direct government aid,
may say how it plans to meet the requirements tomorrow.  Catching Peers  “What the market’s really interested in is how they will
catch up with their peer group” on capital, said  Kinner Lakhani , an analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in London with a neutral
rating on the company’s shares.  Deutsche Bank is the least capitalized of Europe’s four
biggest investment banks, trailing  Barclays Plc (BARC)  of London and
Zurich-based Credit Suisse and UBS, data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries show. Its core Tier 1 capital ratio stood at 10.2
percent at the end of June. Tougher rules, known as Basel III,
begin taking effect at the start of 2013, calling for lenders to
hold more reserves against riskier assets.  Boehm at Aramea said he would oppose a share sale to boost
Deutsche Bank’s capital. “Every protection against dilution is
positive for shareholders,” he said.  Deutsche Bank  rose  1.1 percent in Frankfurt trading as of
10:03 a.m. local time, extending the stock’s gain this year to
7.7 percent as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
plan to support bond markets in Spain and Italy buoyed financial
shares across the region. The increase compares with a 6.4
percent advance in the 28-company  Euro Stoxx Bank Index. (SX7E)   Libor Probe  The effort by Jain and Fitschen to move the bank forward
following the departure of Ackermann, 64, may be complicated by
legal matters dating to his tenure.  Deutsche Bank said in March it had become the target of
probes into its role in alleged manipulation of the London
interbank offered rate. The firm is among four European banks
being investigated by U.S. authorities for alleged violations
involving oil trading and  Iran , an attorney with knowledge of
the matter said last month on condition of anonymity.  These come atop legal disputes tied to its expansion into
mortgage-backed securities during the U.S. housing boom as well
as decade-long court cases with the now deceased  Leo Kirch ’s
media group. Deutsche Bank raised its estimate of potential
risks that it had not provisioned for to 2.5 billion euros from
2.1 billion euros at the end of June from three months earlier.
In its second-quarter report, Deutsche Bank said it faces
“significant litigation risk.”  Barclays’s record 290 million-pound fine in June for
manipulating Libor, which triggered the resignation of three top
executives, including CEO  Robert Diamond , reverberated across
the financial industry. The U.K. lender admitted to attempting
to rig rates to benefit its own derivatives trades and to appear
healthier during the crisis.  Potential Costs  Deutsche Bank, among at least a dozen firms under
international investigation in the matter, reiterated in July
that it’s co-operating with regulators and said an internal
investigation has so far cleared current and former management
board members of wrongdoing. It has “taken action” against “a
limited number” of employees, who “engaged in conduct that
falls short of the bank’s standards,” it said in July.  Legal expenses stemming from probes into manipulation of
Libor could be as high as $1.04 billion for Deutsche Bank,
according to estimates published by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts
 Betsy Graseck  and Huw van Steenis in a July note.  Libor, determined by 18 banks’ daily estimates of how much
it would cost them to borrow from one another for different time
frames and in different currencies, is the benchmark for more
than $360 trillion of securities worldwide.  Lost Trust  As scrutiny of banks’ behavior intensifies, Fitschen said
Deutsche Bank must take the lead in restoring public trust in
the industry.  “All bankers have to ask themselves how they can develop a
business model that’s sustainable in the long term and at the
same time accepted by the public,” he said last week.
“People’s confidence in banks has been lost. We have to accept
that and we have to regain the trust by showing that we have
drawn the appropriate consequences and that we will continue to
do more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  