-- Djokovic Tops Ferrer, Reaches U.S. Open Final Against Murray
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-09T18:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/djokovic-tops-ferrer-reaches-u-s-open-final-against-murray-1-.html
Defending champion Novak Djokovic
advanced to the  U.S. Open  men’s final against third-seeded  Andy Murray  by defeating  David Ferrer  in a semifinal that began
yesterday and was halted by the threat of severe weather.  Djokovic, 25, from Serbia, who was trailing 5-2 in the
first set yesterday when play was stopped, won 2-6, 6-1, 6-4,
6-2 against the fourth-seeded Spaniard at the National Tennis
Center in  New York .  The match resumed today under a partly cloudy sky with a
temperature of 71 degrees (22 Celsius) and a light wind, a
contrast to the heavy rain and gusting wind that wiped out
matches yesterday.  “We were all praying for less wind today,” Djokovic said
in an on-court interview. “I think he handled the wind much
better than I did, and I came in today as a different player.”  Ferrer, 30, said weather interruptions are a part of the
sport and that Djokovic clearly was the superior player today.  “Every day is different, and today Djokovic play better
than me,” he told reporters. “On some games in the third and
fourth set, I lost my focus. But I think he deserved to win the
match.”  Murray, 25, swept into the men’s final yesterday with a
blustery four-set victory against No. 6 Tomas Berdych of the
 Czech Republic  that was delayed by rain and bedeviled by wind.
Berdych had eliminated five-time champion  Roger Federer  of
Switzerland in the quarterfinals.  Men’s Final  The men’s final is set to start about 4:30 p.m. tomorrow,
the fifth consecutive year that the tournament has been pushed
into a third week by bad weather.  Three-time champion  Serena Williams , 30, of the U.S. will
play top-seeded  Victoria Azarenka , 23, of Belarus in the women’s
final later this afternoon. The match was postponed from last
night because of the severe weather.  Murray will play in his second U.S. Open final after
defeating Berdych 5-7, 6-2, 6-1, 7-6 (9-7) in a match that
lasted almost four hours. Murray was runner-up to Federer in
2008.  Tornado Warning  That match started more than an hour late because of rain
and a tornado warning. Wind gusts of up to 35 miles per hour (56
kilometers per hour) forced the men to play tentatively and take
much of the pace off their shots.  It seemed to have more of an impact on Berdych, who has one
of the highest ball tosses on his serve. After hitting a serve
at 137 mph earlier in the tournament, he hit first serves as
slow as 77 mph and had six double faults while losing seven of
his 20 service games.  The swirling wind sent napkins and plastic bags from the
stands floating above the players, and a point had to be stopped
when Murray’s chair and gym bag blew onto the court.  “It was brutal,” Murray said in a televised interview.
“Some of the hardest conditions I’ve ever played in, for sure,
and I come from  Scotland , so that’s saying something.”  Murray is trying to become the first British man to capture
a Grand Slam singles title since  Fred Perry  won Wimbledon and
the U.S. Open in 1936.  “Winning a major is the last thing that I really want to
do,” Murray, who won gold at the London Olympics, said in a
news conference. “Yeah, it means a lot to me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  