-- Djokovic Seeks to Avoid Ferrer Upset After U.S. Open Washout
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-09T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/djokovic-seeks-to-avoid-ferrer-upset-after-u-s-open-washout.html
Novak Djokovic will seek to avoid
his first  U.S. Open  loss against a lower-seeded opponent as he
returns to the court less than 24 hours after his men’s
semifinal against  David Ferrer  was halted by severe storms.  Ferrer had a 5-2 lead and was serving for the first set
yesterday when tournament officials halted play, evacuating
Arthur Ashe Stadium before torrential rain and heavy wind swept
through the National Tennis Center in  New York .  Bad weather also pushed the women’s singles final between
 Serena Williams  and  Victoria Azarenka  back until today and means
the U.S. Open men’s championship will be played on a Monday for
the fifth straight year.  “We’re getting very tired of having Monday finals,”
tournament director David Brewer told reporters.  Djokovic, the defending champion and No. 2 seed from
 Serbia , and Ferrer, the fourth seed from  Spain , take the court
at 11 a.m. New York time today seeking a spot in the men’s final
against  Andy Murray  of Britain.  Murray, the third seed, reached his second U.S. Open final
yesterday with a 5-7, 6-2, 6-1, 7-6 (9-7) victory against No. 6
Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic . Their match was delayed
more than an hour by rain and then bedeviled by wind so strong
it blew a chair onto the court at one point.  While the women’s final originally scheduled for last night
was postponed, organizers sought to play the men’s semifinals
back-to-back in Arthur Ashe Stadium rather than move the
Djokovic-Ferrer match to the smaller Louis Armstrong Stadium.  Semifinal Stopped  Murray, 25, needed almost four hours to beat Berdych, who
had ousted five-time U.S. Open champion  Roger Federer  in the
quarterfinals. Ferrer and Djokovic then played only 33 minutes
before their match was stopped at just after 5 p.m. -- Brewer
said it was essential that fans were given time to leave the
stadium and grounds before the severe weather struck.  Brewer said U.S. Tennis Association officials had spoken
with player representatives, broadcast partners, ticket holders
and security officials throughout the previous 24 hours before
making a decision about the scheduling of the men’s semifinal
matches.  While Djokovic and Ferrer are back in action today, Murray
gets an extra day of rest as he seeks to become the first
British man to win a Grand Slam title since  Fred Perry  in 1936.  “In fairness to the ticket holders and our broadcast
audience worldwide who tune in to see two men’s semifinals, we
felt that it was really the only way to go to keep them back-to-
back in Arthur Ashe Stadium,” Brewer said.  Following the completion of the Djokovic-Ferrer semifinal
today, Williams will seek her fourth U.S. Open title against the
top-seeded Azarenka in the women’s final at 4:30 p.m.  The men’s final is scheduled to start at 4 p.m. tomorrow.  Brutal Conditions  Murray, the U.S. Open runnerup to Federer in 2008,
withstood “brutal” conditions yesterday that he said were some
of the hardest he’s ever played in.  “And I come from  Scotland , so that’s saying something,”
Murray said after a match in which Berdych had 64 unforced
errors after averaging 24.8 through his first five matches.  Wind gusts of up to 35 miles per hour (56 kilometers per
hour) forced the men to play tentatively and take much of the
pace off their shots. The swirling wind sent napkins and plastic
bags from the stands floating above and around the players, and
a point had to be stopped when Murray’s chair and gym bag were
blown over onto the court.  The gusty conditions seemed to have more of an impact on
Berdych, who has one of the highest ball tosses on his serve.
After hitting a serve at 137 mph earlier in the tournament, he
hit first serves as slow as 77 mph yesterday and had six double
faults while losing seven of his 20 service games.  Lost Hat  Up a service break at 2-1 in the first set and facing break
point while serving, Murray’s hat was blown off as he hit a drop
shot that Berdych was unable to reach.  Chair umpire Pascal Maria at first awarded Murray the
point. Berdych then complained that the fallen hat distracted
him, hindering his attempt to play the drop shot, and that the
point should be replayed.  During an exchange at the net, Murray asked Berdych several
times if he was “100 percent sure” that he was hindered. When
Berdych said he was, Murray agreed to replay the point and had
his serve broken. He went on to lose the set, and played the
rest of the match without the hat.  Murray, who in August won the Olympic gold medal in  London ,
is now in the final of a second straight Grand Slam, having been
beaten by Federer in the Wimbledon final in July. After his
victory yesterday, he received congratulations from Scottish
actor  Sean Connery , who interrupted a post-match news conference
with Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson .  Scotland Connection  Murray’s mother, Judy, was with Connery and Ferguson.  “You smell of wine,” Murray joked to his mother before
joining her for pictures alongside Connery and Ferguson.  “Been coming here the last three years to New York, and I
explained how Scotland invented the world,” Ferguson said.
“Today we invented the wind.”  “Today they conquered the world,” added Connery.  Murray will get extra time to recover as Djokovic and
Ferrer return to the court today, when the forecast calls for
clear, sunny conditions and a high temperature of 79 degrees
(26 Celsius), according to the  National Weather Service . The
forecast for the men’s final tomorrow is similar, though the
latest Monday finish has only raised more questions about
whether the U.S. Open should have a roofed facility.  The U.S. Open remains the only one of tennis’s four major
events without at least plans for a stadium with a roof. The
Australian Open and Wimbledon venue have courts with retractable
roofs, while the  French Open  will get a center court stadium
with a retractable top in 2017.  “We talk about a roof all the time,” Brewer said. “The
engineering and the technology is not quite there yet. It’s safe
to say that when the technology and engineering are there we
will be one of the most eager to listen and hear what the
engineers have to say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  