-- Euro Weakens From 3-Month High as Crisis Optimism Wanes
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-10T21:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/dollar-stays-lower-before-trade-data-amid-fed-easing-speculation.html
The euro fell for the first time in
four days versus the dollar as investors expressed skepticism
that the region’s debt crisis is being contained.  The shared currency slid versus most of its 16 most-traded
peers as  Greece ’s coalition failed to reach a deal on 11.5
billion euros ($14.7 billion) of spending cuts. A German court
will rule on the nation’s participation in  Europe ’s permanent
bailout fund in two days, when the Netherlands is due to hold
elections. Implied volatility of three-month options for Group
of Seven currencies fell to an almost five-year low.  “We had a fairly sizable rally in the euro late last
week,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s still significant event risk this week, and markets
are understandably in a more cautious mode.”  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.2758 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after reaching the highest level last week since May 22.
It was 0.4 percent weaker at 99.88 yen. The dollar rose 0.1
percent to 78.29 yen.  The 17-nation currency’s 14-day relative strength index
dropped below 70 after exceeding it on Sept. 7 for the first
time since May 2011. A reading above 70 signals an asset may
have rallied too far, too quickly and is due for a correction.  Next Level  The euro may rise toward its 200-day moving average,
currently at $1.2838, during the next week, according to Michael Derks, chief strategist at FxPro Group Ltd. in  London . The
shared currency has only traded above the key average on three
days during the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  If the shared currency rises above 100.73 yen, the 38.2
percent Fibonacci retracement level from the 2012 high reached
in March, it may gain to 101.40 yen, followed by 101.83, the
200-day moving average and the highest level since May 22, Niall O’Connor, a New York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in an interview.  The euro has fallen 3.4 percent this year, the second-worst
performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has dropped 3.6
percent, while the dollar has declined 1.7 percent.  The Norwegian krone weakened against all of its 16 major
peers after a report showed  underlying  consumer prices slid 0.7
percent in August.  The currency dropped 1.3 percent to 5.7930 per dollar.  Price Swings  Implied volatility of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies touched 7.87 percent, the lowest level since
Oct. 18, 2007, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . A
decrease makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
rates more attractive because it shows the risk is smaller that
market moves will erase profits on such trades.  Even so, the UBS AG V24 Carry Index, which measures returns
from borrowing in lower-rate currencies to buy higher-yielding
ones in so-called carry trades, has fallen 2.8 percent from a
four-month high on Aug. 9.  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show that the worst-
performing major currency in the past month was the Australian
dollar, typically a beneficiary when investors are bullish on
the economy because the nation has the highest  interest rates 
among developed economies.  The euro may appreciate to $1.30 if the  Federal Reserve 
announces another round of quantitative easing, Athanasios Vamvakidis, head of G-10 currency strategy at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move” with  Mark Barton .  “The increase of demand for the risk has supported the
euro,” he said. “If we get QE, or to some extent it’s priced
in, we may see some further strengthening.”  Quantitative Easing  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of securities from 2008 to
2011 in two rounds of its quantitative-easing strategy. In an
Aug. 31 speech, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended his
unprecedented policies and laid out arguments for further action
to combat unemployment, which he called a “grave concern.”  The central bank’s policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  will start a two-day policy meeting on Sept. 12 amid
speculation it will introduce a third round of asset purchases.  Barclays Plc forecast the FOMC will announce this week
open-ended asset buying or purchases of as much as $500 billion
through mid-2013 to cut the jobless rate while holding inflation
at 2 percent. Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BNP
Paribas SA, responding to last week’s report of slowing job
growth, said an open-ended purchase plan may be announced on
Sept. 13.  Australia ’s dollar weakened as separate reports indicated
the pace of global growth may be slowing.  Japanese GDP  Japan ’s gross domestic product grew an annualized 0.7
percent in the three months through June, the Cabinet Office
said in  Tokyo  today, less than a preliminary calculation of 1.4
percent. A government report also showed that  China’s imports 
dropped 2.6 percent in August from a year earlier, marking the
first decline since January.  The Aussie depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.0335 and retreated
0.4 percent to 80.91 yen.  China  is Australia’s biggest export
market.  The Australian currency could experience “additional
upside follow-through” after increasing 0.6 percent versus the
greenback last week, according to JPMorgan, citing technical
indicators. If the Aussie climbs past a resistance level at
$1.04, it could appreciate to $1.0550 and then $1.0615,  Niall O’Connor , a New York-based technical analyst at the firm, wrote
today in a note to clients.  Greek Measures  Greek Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis, whose party is
one of the three in the coalition government, said no decision
had been made on spending cuts and that poorer citizens must be
protected from austerity measures. The three leaders agreed to
meet again on Sept. 12, two days before euro-area finance
ministers gather in Cyprus for a briefing on Greek progress.  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court is due to rule Sept.
12 on the country’s participation in the European Stability
Mechanism, a permanent 500 billion-euro fund that offers loans
to  member states  and may buy their bonds to lower borrowing
costs. Germany will be the biggest contributor to the fund with
a 27 percent share, a  statement  from the European Commission
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  