-- Hedge Funds Lifted Wagers to 16-Month High Before Rally
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-09-10T20:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/hedge-funds-lift-bets-to-16-month-high-before-rally-commodities.html
Hedge funds  raised bullish
commodity bets to the highest in 16 months before speculation
that policy makers in the U.S.,  China  and Europe will revive
global growth pushed prices higher for a sixth week.  Money managers increased their net-long  positions  across 18
U.S. futures and options by 2.3 percent to 1.33 million
contracts in the week ended Sept. 4, the highest since May 3,
2011, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
Wagers on a silver rally climbed for a sixth week and to the
highest since Feb. 28, while those for cocoa jumped 57 percent
to the most since May 2010.  U.S. unemployment stayed above 8 percent for a 43rd month
in August, and the stagnating labor market means the  Federal
Reserve  will move closer to adding fresh stimulus measures,
according to  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund
at Pacific Investment Management Co. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  announced a bond-buying program Sept. 6
and China’s government approved plans for 1,254 miles of roads,
subway projects in 18 cities and other infrastructure projects.  “The European fears have calmed to an extent, and China
may see a bottoming over the next two quarters,” said  James Paulsen , the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at
Wells Capital Management, which oversees about $325 billion.
“Commodities have probably turned a corner, and optimism about
easing in the U.S. is putting a bid under prices.”  Silver Jumps  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
rose 0.2 percent last week, led by silver, which surged 7.1
percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities advanced
2.5 percent, and the dollar declined 1.2 percent against a
measure of six major trading partners. Treasuries lost 0.5
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index showed.  The  U.S. economy  added 96,000 workers last month, trailing
forecasts for a gain of 130,000, Labor Department data show. The
report came a week after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
job market was a “grave concern.” The central bank probably
will give “strong hints” or provide “positive action” at
this week’s  Federal Open Market Committee  meeting, Pimco’s Gross
said in a Bloomberg radio interview Sept. 7.  ECB policy makers agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase
program to reduce  interest rates  for struggling nations and
fight speculation about a breakup of the 17-nation euro.  Andrew Garthwaite , a strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in London,
called the program a “game-changer” in a note Sept. 7.  Global Economy  Actions from central bankers and governments won’t be
enough to revive the slowing global economy, according to
Jeffrey Sica, the Morristown, New Jersey-based president of SICA
Wealth Management who helps oversee more than $1 billion.  China’s manufacturing contracted at the fastest pace since
March 2009, an index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed on Sept. 3, adding to signs of a deepening slowdown in
the world’s second-largest economy. A separate manufacturing
purchasing managers index released Sept. 1 by the government
showed the first contraction since November.  Industrial output  in China grew in August at the slowest
pace in three years, according to data from the National Bureau
of Statistics yesterday. President  Hu Jintao  said the economy
faces “notable downward pressure,” signaling that more
stimulus may follow the approvals for road projects and subways.  The euro area’s  economy  contracted in the second quarter as
consumers cut spending and corporate investment slumped, the
European Union’s statistics office said Sept. 6. It will keep
contracting until the end of the first quarter next year,
according to the median of as many as 22 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Dramatic Slowdown’  “We are witnessing a dramatic slowdown in economies like
China and Europe, and that is bad news for commodities,” Sica
said. “The anticipation and expectations about stimulus is very
high, which may or may not materialize. The inability of central
banks’ activity to stimulate growth is becoming more and more
pronounced.”  The U.S. is the world’s biggest oil and corn consumer, and
China is the top user of metals, soybeans and cotton. Europe
consumes 18 percent of the world’s copper and accounts for 22
percent of oil demand, data from Barclays Plc and  BP Plc (BP/)  show.  Investors added $1.13 billion to raw-material funds in the
week ended Sept. 5, according to EPFR Global. Precious metals
accounted for $685 million of the inflows, the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based company said.  Bull Market  The S&P GSCI surged 92 percent from the end of December
2008 through June 2011 as the Fed kept interest rates near zero
and bought $2.3 trillion in government and housing debt. The
index has jumped 22 percent since this year’s low on June 22,
driving it into a  bull market .  Raw materials  will gain an additional 10 percent because
supplies remain constrained,  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s head of commodities research, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview Sept. 6. Production of natural gas and
copper will fall short of demand this year, Morgan Stanley said
in a report Sept. 4. Inventories of corn and wheat will drop as
the worst U.S. drought since 1956 hurts crops, the bank said.  Funds increased their  bets  on higher crude-oil prices for a
third straight week to 193,624 contracts, the highest since May
1, the CFTC data show. Crude was little changed at $96.42 a
barrel last week, and settled at $96.54 on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  today.  Gold holdings climbed 9.9 percent to 144,775, a six-month
high. Futures jumped 3.1 percent to $1,740.50 an ounce last week
in  New York .  Mine Disruptions  Bullish platinum wagers gained 9 percent to 21,885
contracts, the highest in a year, the CFTC said. Prices rallied
3.8 percent to $1,596.30 an ounce last week, and were at $1,594
an ounce today. Disruptions at mines in South Africa, the
largest producer, caused the biggest loss of supply in at least
seven years, Deutsche Bank AG estimates.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators
increased bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 1.6
percent to 879,228 contracts.  Chinese corn imports may climb 40 percent to 7 million
metric tons in the 12 months starting Oct. 1, Daron Hoffman,
Rabobank International’s Shanghai-based director of research,
said in an interview last week. The record shipments may
continue to lift prices, which touched an all-time high in
 Chicago  on Aug. 10, he said.  “Whatever China is doing should help the economy,” said
 Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee $3 billion of assets as co-
chief investment officer at Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook
Investments LLC. “If all this takes root and growth begins to
build, it will be very, very bullish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  