-- Qandil Calls for Egypt Economic Changes Amid Less Opposition
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-09-10T14:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/egypt-s-premier-calls-for-economic-changes-amid-less-opposition.html
Egyptian Prime Minister Hisham Qandil wants to boost private investment, cut subsidies and sell
debt to revive the economy, policies that he may find easier to
implement than his predecessors.  Qandil, who was sworn in last month, said in an interview
in Cairo yesterday that his government wants to attract private
companies to invest in energy exploration and power
distribution. It also wants to sell sukuk, or Islamic bonds,
after legislation for the debt instrument is prepared within the
next three months, to lower near-record borrowing costs.  Qandil stands a better chance of implementing such policies
than governments under ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  because he
was appointed by a democratically elected president, Cairo-based
investment banks  EFG-Hermes Holding (HRHO)  and CI Capital Holding said.
 Egypt  is struggling to rebuild its economy after more than 19
months of political unrest that saw borrowing costs jump by
about 50 percent and  foreign reserves  drop by more than half.  “This government may have more credibility to implement
difficult reforms,”  Wael Ziada , head of research at EFG-Hermes,
said by phone. “Mubarak-era governments, from an economic
standpoint, implemented solid structural reforms, but they
failed to address critical socio-economic issues and make sure
wealth trickled down. This government has to avoid making those
mistakes to make sure Egypt is put on the path of sustainable
economic development.”  IMF Loan  Egypt restarted talks for a loan of up to $4.8 billion from
the  International Monetary Fund , negotiations Qandil said he
expects to be completed by the end of November. The government’s
plan calls for reducing the  budget deficit  to 7.6 percent of
economic output in the year that ends in June. The IMF, which
says it requires broad political consensus for a deal, estimates
the figure reached 10 percent last fiscal year, making it the
highest in the Middle East.  The deficit has been widening as economic growth slows.
Egypt is targeting 4 percent to 4.5 percent growth in the fiscal
year that ends in June, Qandil said. The economy grew 2.2
percent in the past fiscal year, Finance Minister Momtaz el-
Saieed said in an interview late yesterday.  “They have no options but to make changes, cut the deficit
and open the economy in order to obtain vital IMF funding,”
 Alia Mamdouh , Cairo-based economist at CI Capital, said by
phone. “People have more awareness now of the change that needs
to be made. Also the perception is that the government is
fighting corruption, but it will not be an easy task.”  Islamic Bonds  A sukuk issuance would mark Egypt’s first use of Islamic
bonds. Global sales of bonds that comply with Islam’s ban on
interest have soared 86 percent so far this year to $35 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average yield on global sukuk dropped 99 basis points
this year to a record 3 percent on Sept. 7, according to the
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  “This is something we want to do to enlarge the
engagement” of investors who “want to use this tool but are
currently unable to,” Qandil said yesterday. After the
legislation is prepared, “I hope they will be ready with one or
two issuances,” he said, referring to the  Finance Ministry .  The premium investors demand to hold Egypt’s dollar-
denominated debt has plunged 208 basis points, or 2.08
percentage points, to 418 basis points since Mohamed Mursi was
declared the country’s first freely elected president on June
24, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG Egypt Sovereign
Spread Index. That compares with an eight-basis point increase
for the Middle East average.  Economic Plan  The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  has been the world’s second-best
performer this year, having gained 55 percent. Still, the
government has to make more progress on laying out an economic
plan, said Angus Blair, chairman of Cairo-based Signet
Institute, a group that studies business and politics in the
 Middle East  and North Africa.  “The government has to move quickly as the clock is
ticking,” Blair said by phone.  Egypt, which relies on selling domestic debt to fund the
budget deficit, saw its nine-month treasury-bill yield fall the
most yesterday in almost two years after Qandil said the
government will continue “proper management of the pound.”  Currency Devalue  Foreign investors including Silk Invest Ltd. and Union
Investment Privatfonds have refrained from buying Egyptian
local-currency debt, partly on concern the country may devalue
the pound as foreign reserves were depleted amid unrest.  “For those businessmen that are waiting for the pound to
devalue before getting into the market, they can get into the
market now,” Qandil said.  The pound, subject to a managed float, has lost less than 5
percent since January 2011, outperforming the currencies of
other  emerging markets  such as  India  and  South Africa . The
currency strengthened for a fourth day, gaining less than 0.1
percent to 6.0883 per dollar at 3:56 p.m. in Cairo. Its four-day
gain of 0.3 percent is the best in almost a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  