-- Greece Shells Out for Germany, Lends Olympic Treasures
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-09-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/greece-shells-out-for-germany-lends-olympic-treasures.html
The idea of Greece making whopping
loans to  Germany  might sound far-fetched as the debt-laden home
of the Olympic Games staggers from one bailout to the next.  Yet the borrowed booty now on show in Berlin, evidence of
Greek largesse, is impressive. The country’s museums lent the
 Martin Gropius Bau  more than 500 treasures for the biggest
exhibition about ancient Olympia. Many of the items have never
been shown before. Some were only recently excavated.  Rapacious centaurs, a weighty discus, some sculpted six-
packs and cultish offerings are among the exhibits in this
celebration of the human body, the Olympic spirit and Greek-
German cooperation. German archaeologists have worked at the
site in the western Peleponnese for 135 years and the show also
documents the history of the excavations.  So those for whom life has lost meaning since the end of
the Olympic and Paralympic Games in  London  need not despair. The
games are on again in Berlin.  Running, wrestling, javelin, long-jump, bare-fisted boxing,
chariot-racing and torch relays are among the disciplines
illustrated in ancient statues depicting the Usain Bolts of
their day, as well as on pottery and on coins.  Pankration was a crowd-pleasing martial art where anything
went, bar biting and scratching. Health and safety regulations
were lax, and javelin and discus events were perilous for those
sitting in the front rows of the stadium.  Bull Barbecue  Conceived to honor Zeus, the games were accompanied by many
processions, religious ceremonies, oracles and the sacrificial
offering of 100 bulls that were then served to the public. (I
guess we’d call that a barbecue today.)  Prizes included huge amphorae of oil and precious metals,
gold laurels and -- no surprise -- medals, or small coins
depicting sporting disciplines, many of which are on display.
The Olympic Village was basic and crowded. Athletes used
strigils to wash; metal tools to scrape dirt, sweat and perfumed
oil from the body in the days before soap hit the shops.  One of the most beautiful exhibits comes not from  Greece ,
but from the Vatican -- the sculpture of a female runner poised
to race, in a short tunic tied over a shoulder with one breast
bared. Women were banned from watching the games and were barred
from taking part, too. Yet they did have their own games in
honor of the goddess Hera, where unmarried girls took part.  Many bronze objects have been preserved, among them pots
and little sacrificial figures, a wonderful figurine of a horse
and the tips of spears.  Oath to Zeus  Before the games, temporary wells were dug to provide
drinking water in Olympia. It was not permitted to remove any
sacrificial objects from the site after the event. So they were
disposed of in the obsolete wells, which offered them
protection.  The games were held in Olympia for more than 1,000 years,
petering out in the fifth century, when Christianity replaced
cult practices. They took place every four years in the late
summer and athletes had to swear at Zeus’s altar that they would
train for at least 10 months beforehand.  A reconstruction of Olympia’s Zeus temple is the
centerpiece of the exhibition. It reveals that centaurs cannot
hold their drink at a party. The western gable of the temple
shows the wedding of Pirithous, who made the mistake of inviting
the creatures -- part man, part horse -- to the festivities.  The sculptures from right to left show the frisky beasts
losing control as the wine flows, attempting to carry off women
and boys until the humans fight back and regain control of the
situation.  With the presidents of Greece and Germany as patrons, the
message of the exhibition is clear: culture binds, even in times
of economic and political strife.  And German-Greek cooperation on the excavations has been a
success story worthy of celebration. In 19th-century contracts
that were well in advance of their time, there was no agreement
to divide the spoils, so there is no antagonism of the kind that
haunts Greek-U.K. relations over sculptures taken from the 
Parthenon, known as the Elgin Marbles.  “Mythos Olympia; Kult und Spiele” (The Myth of Olympia;
Cult and Games) is showing at the Martin Gropius Bau through
Jan. 7, 2013. Information:  http://www.gropiusbau.de   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Richard Vines 
on food and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 