-- India, Pakistan Relax Visa Requirements as Part of Peace Process
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-09-09T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/india-pakistan-relax-visa-requirements-as-part-of-peace-process.html
Pakistan and  India  will ease visa
restrictions for their citizens to boost business travel and
trade across their border as part of their push for peace.  India’s Foreign Minister S.M. Krishna signed the visa
agreement in Islamabad Sept. 8 during a three-day visit. The
change will let businessmen from both countries obtain multiple
entry visas, exempting them from a police reporting requirement.
Tourist visas will also be issued for the first time, according
to the state-run Pakistan Television.  The agreement was signed after Krishna held talks with his
Pakistani counterpart Hina Rabbani Khar for the second time
since peace talks resumed last year. Five years of talks that
strengthened trade, transport and cultural links were halted
following the attacks on Mumbai in 2008 by Pakistani gunmen, in
which 166 people died.  Since the resumption, the nuclear-armed neighbors who have
fought three wars have made progress normalizing their economic
links. Any resolution to long-standing territorial disputes such
as Kashmir remains hobbled by distrust.  “We should move forward without being held hostage to the
past,” Khar said during a joint press conference with Krishna
in Islamabad on Sept. 8. “We do need simultaneous progress on
all tracks to sustain the momentum.”  Pakistan  is on schedule to normalize trade with India,
removing all restrictions by December this year, she said.  In July, India’s then Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
said the arrest and interrogation of a man suspected of helping
organize the Mumbai attacks showed he had received some kind of
state support from Pakistan.  False Rumors  India accused Pakistan last month of fueling false rumors
that people from India’s northeast were being attacked after
deadly ethnic clashes between indigenous tribes and Muslim
migrants in the state of Assam.  “Terrorism poses a continuing threat to peace and
security,” Krishna said in his prepared remarks without giving
a firm date for the Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
expected visit to Pakistan. “I think the visit will take place
at an appropriate time when the atmosphere is ripe and when he
feels that something worthwhile will come out of his visit.”  Singh’s trip would be the first by an Indian premier since
January 2004 when former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee
visited Islamabad for talks with then Pakistani President  Pervez Musharraf .  While there has been little progress in addressing core
issues between the nations, “diminishing malice is becoming the
defining characteristic” of relations,  Bahukutumbi Raman , a
retired Indian intelligence officer and security analyst, wrote
in an  analysis  Sept. 7.  In their joint communique, the foreign ministers said the
countries were committed to fighting terrorism and would carry
on the process of peace talks “with a view to resolving all
outstanding issues” and establishing good neighborly relations.  They agreed to hold further talks on Kashmir, a partitioned
state claimed in full by both India and Pakistan and the cause
of two of their three wars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  