-- Insurance That Would Serve Seniors Better Than Medicaid
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-09T22:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/insurance-that-would-serve-seniors-better-than-medicaid.html
As the dust settles from the
political conventions in  Florida  and  North Carolina , one issue
important to the health care of older Americans is rising into
the sunlight and finally getting some of the attention it needs.  We don’t mean Medicare; for months, the campaigns have
taken regular shots at each other on that.  We mean Medicaid, the program generally thought of as
health insurance for poor families. Yet  one-third  of Medicaid’s
budget -- about $120 billion -- goes to fund long-term care for
the disabled and frail elderly, most of it in nursing
facilities.  People who need custodial care often fall back on Medicaid
after they’ve used up their own resources and can qualify for
the program’s very low  income  and wealth limits.  Even though President  Barack Obama  and his Republican
challenger, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , have said
little specifically about long-term care, it’s clear from their
general views on Medicaid that they differ on how much to
continue this support. Obama intends to preserve Medicaid as an
entitlement program -- which means it promises to pay all
acceptable expenses that arise for qualified beneficiaries. He
even plans to expand the program, starting in 2014, to cover 11
million more Americans, including people with income as much as
 138 percent  of the federal poverty level.  Presumably, then, if Obama is re-elected, support for
nursing-home care would continue -- though it could be squeezed
a bit by  budget  constraints, especially after 2020 when the
federal government stops financing 100 percent of Medicaid’s
expansion.  Romney has endorsed his running mate  Paul Ryan’s proposal 
to change Medicaid’s structure entirely, so that it would no
longer be an entitlement program at all. Instead, the federal
government would give the states block grants to spend on health
care as they please. (The idea is to make the program work
better by giving states more control.)  These grants would increase every year at a rate of 1
percentage point more than inflation, but this would be
significantly less than Medicaid’s budget is expected to expand
under the current structure along with the changes set in motion
by the 2010 health-care law. By 2022, the difference would add
up to a budget cut of about $1.26 trillion, a  new analysis  by
Bloomberg Government shows. That would mean considerably less
money for long-term care -- and everything else Medicaid pays
for.  This policy disagreement illustrates the great divide
between Obama and Romney over government aid: Obama believes in
setting a floor to support Americans in need;  Romney  wants a
ceiling on the government’s responsibility. The ceiling is a
simpler way to manage the budget, but it doesn’t address what
happens to people who urgently need medical or nursing care when
neither they nor the federal government can afford it. Will the
states really be able to come to their rescue?  Obama’s strategy is preferable to Romney’s in that it would
at least preserve the Medicaid safety net for millions who need
long-term care.  Yet there is another question to consider: Is a welfare
program really the best way to provide medical services that so
many Americans will someday require? It would be better for
people to be insured for this care. Ideally, we would have a
program analogous to the Medicare Part D drug benefit or the
Medicare Advantage managed-care plan that would help people to
buy affordable  insurance  from private carriers.  The 2010 health-care law did include a long-term-care
insurance program, known as the Community Living Assistance
Services and Supports (CLASS) Act. But this was abandoned when
it became clear, almost immediately, that too few healthy people
would enroll to allow the program to be financially sustainable.
However, the CLASS Act was not well constructed, and, as Howard Gleckman, a resident fellow at the  Urban Institute , has  pointed
out , Congress could design a new program that would have a
greater chance of success. Gleckman suggests that such a program
should, for example, be limited to people who work at least 20
hours a week and offer a greater menu of insurance options --
including some with very high deductibles.  Tackling long-term care outside of Medicaid would have the
added advantage of enabling the elderly to afford it without
first liquidating their assets.  It’s safe to assume that Congress and whoever is president
next year won’t be in a mood to immediately create a new  health-
care program . But lawmakers should at least begin waking up to
America’s growing need for a sensible strategy on long-term
care.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on improving and expanding
 charter schools ;  Mark Buchanan  on  hacking the human brain ;
William D. Cohan on  bankers getting fired ;  Noah Feldman  on  Amish
beard-cutting ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s slight campaign edge ;
Amar Bhide on why government should get out of the
 securitization business .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 