-- Is Cutting Off a Beard a Hate Crime?
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-09-09T22:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/is-cutting-off-a-beard-a-hate-crime-.html
Does the cutting of a religious
man’s beard remind you of  Nazi  persecution?  If so, you may be pleased that the U.S. government is
 trying 16 men and women  for the  “hate crime”  of forcibly
shearing the beards and hair of Amish believers.  But there’s a twist: Those on trial are not haters of the
Amish. They are Amish themselves -- members of a dissident group
that has broken away from the larger Amish community near
Bergholz,  Ohio .  These nasty assaults, which occurred over several weeks
last fall, deserve to be punished. (Traditionally, Amish men
stop shaving their beards after they marry as a symbol of
religious devotion.) But charging the defendants with a federal
hate crime is misconceived, a potentially harmful extension of
the original hate-crimes law that was already drastically
expanded in 2009. If the Amish beard cutters are convicted and
their convictions are upheld, it will mark a defeat for
religious and civil liberty, not a victory for equality.  When the federal hate-crimes law was first passed as part
of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, it had a very specific purpose.
It protected blacks from racist violence that was aimed at
preventing them from voting, going to school or taking advantage
of other state-provided activities to which they had gained
equal access through the civil rights movement. The statute did
not simply prohibit violence based on hate. It punished violence
based on race, religion or national origin that was intended to
interfere with federally sponsored activities.  Purer Law  In 2009, Congress passed the  Matthew Shepard and James Byrd
Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act . The law extended protection to
violent hate crimes motivated by a victim’s actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender or gender identity. Including anti-
gay crimes was logical enough, but Congress did not stop there.
It also dropped the requirement that the violence be aimed at
interfering with a federally sponsored act. It became a purer
hate-crimes law, aimed simply at violence motivated by bias.  This change, though little noticed, was a significant
philosophical shift in the law’s purpose. It’s one thing to
believe that racists shouldn’t be able to intimidate people
trying to vote. It’s another to believe that two identical acts
of violence should be punished differently because of the racist
beliefs of one perpetrator. This view goes beyond practical
enforcement of equality -- it amounts to a moral condemnation of
bias-hatred as especially heinous.  To some critics, this moral view smacks of mind control.
Surely, they say, we should punish the act and not the thought.  Yet in truth we constantly judge a defendant’s state of
mind, not to mention what the common law so poetically called
his “depraved heart.” The whole theory of criminal law as we
know it depends on condemning the same physical act with the
same consequences differently, based on our belief that, say,
malice aforethought is much worse than a spontaneous outburst.  So is an attack based on racist hate worse than the same
attack based on greed or individual contempt? Under some
circumstances, the answer is yes. The physical harm may be the
same, but there is an extra harm in being attacked for who you
are (or who you are imagined to be). Our collective commitment
to equality and dignity needs to be vindicated when someone is
singled out for violence on such a basis. As a society, we ought
to condemn hatred-based violence -- and a hate-crimes law is one
effective way to do so.  Shared Religion  The catch is that, having expanded hate-crimes laws, we
need to be careful not to extend them to heinous conduct that
isn’t a hate crime in the classic sense of the term. The killing
of six Sikhs in their Wisconsin temple on Aug. 5 seems to be an
archetypal hate crime in that the gunman targeted the victims
because of what he believed to be their religion (even if he
mistakenly believed the Sikhs were Muslims).  Amish believers attacking others to make a point about the
nature of their shared religion is trickier to classify. In
literal terms, this may be an act committed “because of” the
victims’ religion. And it should in principle be just as bad for
an Amish person to demean violently one of his co-religionists
as for a non-Amish person to do so.  But the real-world consequences of punishing intrareligious
disputes as hate crimes are troubling. The core of the problem
is that a person who holds a comprehensive religious world view
is especially likely to interact with others “because of” their
religion.  As a result, if a deeply religious person commits an even
slightly violent crime, the odds are good that it could be
defined as a hate crime. If, for example, two gangs of ultra-
Orthodox Hasidic teenagers from competing sects rough each other
up, that could count as a federal hate crime because the groups
are defined largely by their religious commitments. Any dispute
that takes place in the context of a church, mosque or synagogue
would be ripe for federal intervention. Over time, a hate-crimes
law designed as a shield to protect religious groups against
bias could easily become a sword with which to prosecute them.  Beard-cutting is repugnant and wrong. But it’s a mistake to
make everything immoral into a federal case.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the politics of  long-term
health care  and on improving and expanding  charter schools ;  Mark
Buchanan  on  hacking the human brain ; William D. Cohan on  bankers
getting fired ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s slight campaign edge ;
Amar Bhide on why government should get out of the
 securitization business .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 