-- Manning Wins Broncos’ NFL Debut as Jets Romp, 49ers Beat Packers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-10T05:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/jets-beat-bills-48-28-patriots-down-titans-34-13-in-nfl-openers.html
Peyton Manning  had a winning debut
with the Denver Broncos in his first National Football League
game in 19 months.  Manning, 36, threw two touchdown passes, including the go-
ahead score to Jacob Tamme with 9 minutes, 23 seconds remaining,
as the Broncos beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 31-19 last night in
Denver. A four-time NFL Most Valuable Player who missed the 2011
season after neck surgery, Manning completed 19 of 26 passes for
253 yards before Tracy Porter sealed the win with a 43-yard
interception return for a touchdown with 1:58 left.  “It feels good,” said Manning, who signed a $96 million,
five-year contract with the Broncos in March. “It’s just one
game and you try to keep it in perspective, but I know how hard
I’ve worked to get to this point. It’s special.”  Manning’s Denver debut capped a day in which the New York
Jets scored the most points by any team in an opening-week game
since 2003 by beating the Buffalo Bills 48-28, the San Francisco
49ers defeated the Green Bay Packers 30-22 in a matchup of two
of this year’s top three  Super Bowl  favorites, and only one of
the league’s record five rookie starting quarterbacks won.  Manning’s first touchdown pass with the Broncos was a 71-
yarder to  Demaryius Thomas  in the third quarter. It gave Denver
a 14-13 lead and made Manning the third quarterback in NFL
history with 400 career touchdown passes, joining  Brett Favre 
(508) and  Dan Marino  (420).  Tebow Overshadowed  Mark Sanchez  threw three touchdown passes to overshadow
backup quarterback  Tim Tebow ’s first game with the Jets. Rookie
 Stephen Hill  caught two touchdown passes, while Jeremy Kerley
caught one touchdown pass and returned a punt 68 yards for
another score for the Jets, whose first-team offense had failed
to score a touchdown during an 0-4 preseason.  “Looks like we were making up for lost time there, but it
was nice,” Sanchez told reporters at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey. “It was a great feeling, a great start,
but we still have a lot of improvements to make.”  The  New England Patriots  beat the Tennessee Titans 34-13 to
win their ninth straight season-opener -- the NFL’s longest
current streak.  Tom Brady  threw touchdown passes to tight ends
 Aaron Hernandez  and  Rob Gronkowski  for the Patriots, who reached
the Super Bowl last season and have won the American Football
Conference East title in eight of the past nine years.  With the NFL and its officials’ union unable to reach an
agreement on a new labor contract, the first week of games is
being called by officials from below the top level of college
football. Shannon Eastin became the first female official to
work a regular-season NFL game, as the line judge in the Detroit
Lions’ 27-23 win against the St. Louis Rams.  Luck’s Loss  The Andrew Luck era in Indianapolis started with a 41-21
loss to the Chicago Bears. Luck, taken with the first overall
pick in this year’s draft after the Colts released Manning, was
intercepted three times while throwing for 309 yards.  Heisman Trophy winner Robert Griffin III passed for 320
yards and two touchdowns as the Washington Redskins hung on for
a 40-32 win in New Orleans, where the Saints had a 9-0 record
last season. Griffin, who went second in the draft behind Luck,
completed 19 of 26 pass attempts, including an 88-yard touchdown
pass to Pierre Garcon in the first quarter.  Luck and Griffin became the third and fourth rookie
quarterbacks to pass for more than 300 on a kickoff weekend,
joining Manning (302 yards in 1998) and Cam Newton, who had 422
passing yards in his debut for Carolina last year.  Rookie quarterbacks  Brandon Weeden  of the Cleveland Browns,
Russell Wilson of the Seattle Seahawks and Ryan Tannehill of the
 Miami Dolphins  also lost yesterday.  Winning Pass  The Philadelphia Eagles beat the Browns 17-16 as  Michael Vick  recovered from four interceptions to throw a winning 4-yard
touchdown pass 1:23 remaining. Weeden threw four interceptions
and no touchdown passes while completing 12 of 35 passes for 118
yards. Cleveland’s first-year running back Trent Richardson, the
third pick in this year’s draft, was held to 39 yards on 19
carries.  Miami lost to the Houston Texans 30-10 as Tannehill was
intercepted three times, while Seattle lost 20-16 in Arizona as
the Cardinals scored the winning touchdown with 4:59 left.
Wilson threw three straight incompletions from the Cardinals’ 4-
yard line in the closing seconds.  It was one of several opening-week games decided in the
closing seconds.  Stafford Rebounds  The Lions beat the Rams as Matt Stafford bounced back from
three interceptions to throw the winning touchdown pass with 10
seconds left, and the Minnesota Vikings beat the Jacksonville
Jaguars 26-23 on Blair Walsh’s 38-yard field goal in overtime.  The Atlanta Falcons defeated Kansas City Chiefs 40-24 and
the Tampa Bay Buccaneers beat the Carolina Panthers 16-10 in the
NFL debut of former Rutgers University coach  Greg Schiano .  The regular season began Sept. 5 with the  Dallas Cowboys 
beating the defending Super Bowl champion New York Giants 24-17.
The opening-week schedule concludes with two games tonight, as
the Baltimore Ravens host the Cincinnati Bengals and the San
Diego Chargers visit the  Oakland Raiders .  The Jets, after being limited to one touchdown in the
preseason, opened a 21-0 lead on the Bills behind two Sanchez
touchdown passes and pushed their advantage to 41-7 in the third
quarter. After three second-half touchdown passes by Buffalo’s
Ryan Fitzpatrick, running back  Shonn Greene ’s 1-yard run with
1:17 left sealed the win for New York.  Tebow rushed for 11 yards on five carries and didn’t throw
a pass for New York.  The 49ers opened a 23-7 lead at Lambeau Field as  Alex Smith 
threw two touchdown passes and held on for their first regular-
season win in Green Bay, Wisconsin, since 1990.  Patriots Favored  The Patriots begin the season as the 5-1 favorites to win
the Super Bowl, scheduled for Feb. 3 in New Orleans. The Packers
were the 6-1 second choice at the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book,
followed by the 49ers, Texans and Broncos at 10-1.  Green Bay is the only of those teams to open the season
with a defeat, as the Packers have already matched their loss
total from last year’s 15-1 campaign. Green Bay will now have a
short turnaround before hosting Chicago on Sept. 13.  “As a team, when you lose, you want to get right back on
the field,” Packers linebacker A.J. Hawk said. “We’re ready
for Thursday. I think everyone on this team feels the same way.
We need to get back on the field and show what we are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  