-- Joyce Sees Qantas International Unit Breaking Even by 2015
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-09T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/joyce-sees-qantas-international-unit-breaking-even-by-2015.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s 10-year
alliance with Emirates will help the Australian carrier’s
international unit break even by 2015, Chief Executive Officer
Alan Joyce said.  “This is a big step in the right direction for Qantas
international,” Joyce said yesterday in an interview with the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business program. “We
see a path through to this business breaking even by financial
year 2015. We do want to make sure Qantas international goes
back to profits.”  Sydney-based Qantas announced Sept. 6 a revenue and cost-
sharing agreement with Emirates, the world’s largest airline by
passenger traffic, in an attempt to reverse its first full-year
loss in at least 17 years. The carrier lost A$450 million ($467
million) on international routes in the year to June 30.  Competition from Etihad, Emirates Airlines and  Qatar
Airways  Ltd. has contributed to losses at Qantas International
as the Middle East-based airlines are able to offer a wider
range of one-stop flights to  Europe . Virgin has also expanded
its international reach by cooperating with Etihad,  Singapore 
Airlines Ltd., Delta Air Lines Inc., and part-owner Air New
Zealand Ltd.  The two airlines will coordinate pricing, sales and
scheduling under the new accord, which still requires approval
from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, the
country’s regulator. The pact sees Qantas drop its revenue-
sharing agreement with British Airways.  Persian Gulf  Qantas has struggled to compete with Mideast airlines that
have built hubs in the  Persian Gulf  to offer a wider range of
connections to Europe. Under the Emirates accord, Qantas will
shift its European transfer hub from Singapore to Dubai, which
will be served by 98 flights a week from  Australia  by the two
airlines.  “This enhances competition,” Joyce told the ABC. “We’re
already seeing the competition react to this. We don’t take it
for granted, we know the regulators have to review it, but we
think there is a very strong case for the approval of this
alliance.”  Revenue-sharing accords, like those London-based British
Airways has had with Qantas and began with  American Airlines  in
2010, are the deepest form of airline cooperation short of full
mergers, allowing carriers to split sales receipts and expenses,
coordinate prices and operate integrated timetables.  Long-Haul Traffic  Emirates, Qatar Airways and  Etihad Airways  are exploiting
the Gulf’s position at the heart of inter-continental flight
paths to build hubs served by waves of departures using the
world’s biggest wide-body planes. That’s won them a higher share
of lucrative long-haul traffic and is pressuring earnings at
network operators including British Airways and Qantas.  “Qantas to Europe and to  Asia  would have had problems
without this deal with Emirates,” Joyce said on ABC yesterday.
“We’ve made it very clear that we had to fix those two
problems.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut the airline’s credit rating to the
lowest investment grade. Its debt grade was lowered by one level
to BBB- with a stable outlook, according to an e-mailed
statement Sept. 7 from the ratings company. Joyce’s interview
with ABC was prerecorded before S&P’s statement.  “Qantas’s business risk profile has weakened because of
the structural pressures affecting the airline’s international
business,” Melbourne-based analyst May Zhong said in the S&P
statement. “Persistent pressures have eroded Qantas’s market
share and inflicted losses on the airline’s international
operations in the past few years.”  Qantas has “significant underlying strengths,” the
airline said in a Sept. 7 statement responding to the downgrade,
pointing to its free  cash flow  and dominant share of the
Australian market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  