-- Korea to Triple RMBS Sales in Boost to Market: Mortgages
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-09-10T07:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/korea-to-triple-rmbs-sales-in-boost-to-market-mortgages.html
Korea  Housing Finance Corp. plans
to more than triple sales of residential mortgage-backed
securities to investors, allowing banks to expand home lending
without adding to the  consumer debt  they carry on their books.  The state-run residential loan provider, the sole issuer of
RMBS in Korea, expects to sell as much as 30 trillion won ($27
billion) next year, from 8.5 trillion won in 2011, Chief
Executive Officer Seo Jongdae said.  “These MBS sales by Korea Housing will help local banks to
build indirect experience of securitization with limited
costs,” said Ku Yong Uk, a Seoul-based analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. “We need some action to grow this securitization
market and this will be a good start.”  A lack of demand for longer term, fixed-rate loans has
prevented a  securities market  from developing in  Asia ’s fourth-
biggest economy. The government is urging lenders to cut
reliance on floating-rate, shorter term loans as record
 household debt  hampers them from lending more, while the
prospect of rising interest rates adds to the cost of funds.  “Sales of MBS will continue to rise as more local lenders
are providing mortgages better fit for securitization,” Seo
said in an interview in  Seoul .  The market’s development is a necessity for local banks, Ku
said. Loan growth at Korean lenders was 7.7 percent in 2011,
about half the 15 percent pace in 2007, according to data from
 Bank of Korea , the central bank.  Standard Chartered Korea Bank Ltd. was the last non-
government lender to sell RMBS in Korea, in 2007 and 2008.  Developing Securitization  The Financial Services Commission asked banks in June last
year to lift the ratio of fixed-rate loans to 30 percent from
the current 5 percent by 2016 to curtail risks to the economy
from  household debt  and escalating interest charges. Bank
lending to households rose to a record 457.8 trillion won at the
end of August, the Bank of Korea said on Aug. 8.  “We need to develop the securitization market here to
bolster the fixed-rate, long-term loan structure over the next
five to 10 years,” said Kim Young Do, research fellow at Seoul-
based Korea Institute of Finance, which provides policy advice
to financial regulators. “As time goes by, banks will find out
what’s the best instrument for the Korean market: RMBS like in
the U.S. or covered bonds like in  Europe .”  Floating Rates  Korean home buyers have typically favored shorter,
variable-rate loans. That meant banks had no need to hedge
longer-term lending, and historically, floating rates have been
cheaper.  Floating-rate mortgages account for 95 percent of home
loans in  South Korea , compared with 10 percent in the U.S. and
62 percent in the U.K., the FSC said last month, citing figures
for 2010. Mortgages paid at once rather than in installments
accounted for 41.3 percent of total home loans as of 2010, the
regulator said at the time.  The proportion of fixed-rate mortgages rose to 12.5 percent
as of May and the rate of one-time payment mortgages, where
interest is paid in installments throughout the duration of a
loan and the principal repaid at the end, slid to 37.6 percent
of total mortgage lending, FSC data showed.  Korea Housing, established in 2004 to provide residential
funding, including long-term mortgages for lower-income and
middle class people, has issued 10.6 trillion won of RMBS so far
this year, according to the company. The issuance accounts for
about 3 percent of South Korea’s bond market, according to the
company. The value of outstanding bonds denominated in the local
currency was $1.3 trillion as of June 2012, according to data
from the  Asian Development Bank .  Asia MBS  Australia  and  Japan  have the two most-developed MBS markets
in the Asia-Pacific region. In Australia, mortgage bond sales
reached a four-year high of A$22 billion ($22 billion) in 2011
as the market recovered from the U.S. subprime collapse,
according to Standard & Poor’s data.  In Japan, the market for residential mortgage-backed
securities expanded to 2.7 trillion yen ($34 billion) as of
March 31, from 32 billion yen when it first started in 1997,
according to Junichi Shimizu, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  Similar to South Korea, the Japan Housing Finance Agency,
which has 33.6 trillion yen in assets, is the biggest seller of
bonds backed by mortgages, according Shimizu. The organization
buys housing loans from financial institutions and sells them as
RMBS to investors.  Seo said Seoul-based Korea Housing will sell about 20
trillion won of RMBS by the year-end, 9 trillion won of which
would be from securitizing its own pool of mortgages, the rest
from loans made by local banks.  Loan Standard  In March, the agency introduced criteria for a standard
loan to encourage local lenders to shift to long-term fixed-rate
mortgages from short-term variable ones, which are often cited
as risky for debtors in times of rate increases. The Bank of
Korea raised the key policy rate five times, by a total of 1.25
percentage points, since July 2010, before it cut the rate by a
quarter percentage point in July.  Banks can elect to sell  mortgage loans  that meet the
criteria if they opt to transfer the loan to Korea Housing for
MBS issuance.  “Sooner or later, I expect more than 80 percent of
domestic mortgage loans will have a long-term, fixed rate
structure,” Seo, 52, said.  Mortgage loans by banks climbed by 387 billion won to 311
trillion won, the lowest monthly increase in six months,
according to a central bank report on Aug. 8.  Margins at Korean banks have been squeezed, with lenders
having limited room to raise lending rates as retail borrowers
tapped less loans from banks due to a sluggish home market.
Companies are preferring direct financing such as selling bonds.  Credit Rating  Moody’s Investors Service raised South Korea’s sovereign
debt rating by one level to Aa3 from A1 on Aug. 27, citing the
economy’s resilience to shocks. The ratings company said it
expects the government to support Korea Housing and five other
South Korean state-run financial entities, given their links
with the government, Moody’s said.  “Our credit rating is on par with South Korea’s sovereign
rating and our securities are guaranteed by the government,”
said Seo, who took office in November. “With limited supply in
long-term Treasury bonds, I’m sure our MBS can be a good
alternative for overseas investors such as pension funds and
insurers.”  Seo said he is planning to meet potential overseas
investors.  Covered Bonds  Korea Housing in 2010 sold Asia’s second covered bonds
following a sale by Kookmin Bank, the nation’s biggest lender,
in 2009. The $500 million of covered notes were priced to yield
3.5 percent, or 218 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries at the time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The bond now yields 2.109 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Covered bonds, mostly sold by European banks, attract
higher ratings than regular notes because they’re backed by
assets that stay on the lender’s balance sheet and that can be
sold in the event of a default.  While there’s limited need for foreign-currency funding for
Korea Housing, the company may consider selling another foreign-
currency denominated covered bond after next year to keep its
presence in the international financial market once South Korea
finalizes rules governing the sale of such debt, the CEO said.
The financial regulator drafted regulation on covered notes for
submission to lawmakers in November, the FSC said in June.  Banks will need a strategy to hedge risks because of the
regulatory pressure to shift toward fixed-rate long-term lending
and the securitization market will grow because of that, said
Kim Pil Kyu, senior research fellow at Seoul-based Korea Capital
Market Institute.  “Banks will first rely on the RMBS market cultivated by
Korea Housing, but some day they’ll definitely grow the market
that can help them liquidate their assets,” said Kim. “The
time for competition over asset scale is gone. They will have to
find a new paradigm for better risk management and embrace the
asset liquidation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  