-- No ‘Back-Room’ Deficit-Reduction Deals Under Romney, Ryan Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-09-09T14:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/no-back-room-deficit-reduction-deals-under-romney-ryan-says.html
Republican vice presidential
candidate  Paul Ryan  said a  Mitt Romney  administration would
insist on a public debate over deficit reduction and would never
“cut some back-room deal” to overhaul the  tax code  and reduce
spending.  Ryan, in an interview that aired today on ABC’s “This
Week,” wouldn’t say which deductions and exemptions for high-
income earners he and Republican presidential candidate Romney
would seek to eliminate to generate new revenue.  “We want to have this debate with Congress, and we want to
do this with the consent of the elected representatives of the
people and figure out what loopholes should stay or go and who
should or should not get them,” Ryan said. “What we don’t want
is a secret plan. What we don’t want to do is cut some back-room
deal.”  In an interview that aired today on CBS’s “Face the
Nation,” Ryan cited the most recent jobs report as evidence of
why voters shouldn’t elect President  Barack Obama  to a second
term on Nov. 6.  The Labor Department reported Sept. 7 that the economy
added 96,000 jobs in August, down from a revised gain of 141,000
in July. While the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.1 percent from
8.3 percent in July, it was because more people have given up
looking for employment.  “This isn’t working,” Ryan said. “And that’s why we’re
offering the country a better choice.”  Cutting Medicaid  On ABC, Ryan defended his proposal to cut Medicaid, the
health-care program for the poor, by about $800 billion over the
next decade.  “We don’t want to put more money and force more people on
a program that’s failing, that’s not working,” he said. “We
want to reform Medicaid. And so what we’re saying is  -- don’t
expand this program as dramatically as ObamaCare does. Keep it
like it is, increase its funding and send it to the states, the
states can fix this problem. I think government closest to the
people, especially in providing health care for the poor, works
the best.”  Ryan said his plan would give states “more flexibility on
how to serve this population instead of all these rules and
strings from  Washington  that make it really hard for them to
make sure that they can meet the mandate and provide the best
possible quality care to low-income populations.”  Foreign Policy   The Wisconsin congressman criticized Obama for saying in
his speech at the Democratic National Convention in  Charlotte 
last week that Romney didn’t have adequate foreign policy
experience. Obama said Romney’s gaffe during a July trip to
 London , in which he suggested London might not be prepared to
host the Olympic games, suggested Romney “might not be ready
for diplomacy with Beijing.”  “Those kinds of comments are things that are said when you
don’t really have a good record to run on,” Ryan said.  Ryan said on CBS that he would have more  foreign policy 
experience coming into the vice president’s job than Obama had
when he was first elected president.  “I’ve been in Congress for 14 years,” Ryan said. “He was
in the Senate for far, far less time than that.”  While Ryan said he and Romney agreed with a 2014 time frame
for withdrawing U.S. troops from  Afghanistan , they thought
political calculations had wrongly come into play in determining
troop strengths.  “Where we’ve taken issue is making sure that the generals
on the ground get the resources they need throughout the entire
fighting season so that they can keep our soldiers safe and
operating counterinsurgency strategy,” Ryan said on ABC. “And
I fear that this is not what’s happening. I fear that there have
been more political decisions made in troop strengths.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  