-- Nomura CEO Sees Overseas Units Posting Profit by June 2014
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   B r i a n   F o w l e r
-- 2012-09-10T04:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/nomura-s-nagai-sees-overseas-units-posting-profit-by-june-2014.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s Koji Nagai,
who took over as chief executive officer last month, said he
plans to make overseas operations profitable by June 2014 at
Japan’s largest brokerage.  “We are not going to lower the flag as a global bank,”
Nagai, 53, said in an interview in  Tokyo  on Sept. 7. “We want
be an Asia-based global investment bank.”  The forecast may be a relief to investors, who have seen
the  stock  drop to near a 37-year low as the 2008 purchase of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian units swelled
costs that led to nine straight quarters of losses  abroad . Nagai
aims to arrest the slide by paring $1 billion in  expenses  and
improving wholesale banking operations. He is considering
acquiring an investment bank in  Asia  to increase revenue there.  “Nomura was trying to do too much in too many places and
wasn’t profitable outside Japan,” said  David Marshall , an
analyst at Creditsights Singapore LLC. “Adopting a more focused
strategy should help to improve operational efficiencies.”  Shares of Nomura rose 1.8 percent to 283 yen as of 1:02
p.m. in Tokyo and have climbed almost 10 percent since Nagai
unveiled the cost-saving plan on Aug. 31, outpacing the  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY) ’s 0.1 percent gain. The stock in November
tumbled to 224 yen, the lowest since at least 1974.  The company said last week it will reduce costs by $450
million in Europe and the  Middle East , $210 million in the
Americas and $340 million in Asia including Japan. About 45
percent of the cuts worldwide will be from trimming staff, with
the rest coming from other operational expenses. The bulk of the
job losses will be in investment banking and equities, it said.  Juggling Act  Reducing costs by $1 billion will also probably curtail
revenue, said Alastair Macdonald, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Macquarie Capital Securities  Japan  Ltd.  “The trick is to try and juggle it so that you gain more
than you’re giving back,” he said. “These cost cuts are
targeted at the right areas because they’re targeted at
businesses which have been suffering the sharpest declines in
revenues over the last couple of years or so.”  The initiative contrasts with a $1.2 billion expense-
reduction program implemented last year that focused more on job
cuts. About 63 percent of that money was saved by shrinking
payrolls, the bank said.  ‘Credit Positive’  Moody’s Investors Service said today that the latest plan
is a “credit-positive first step.” Combined with the previous
program, it will reduce the cost base by 25 percent to $6
billion by April 2014 from $8 billion in April 2011, analysts
led by Elisabeth Rudman wrote in Moody’s Credit Outlook today.  Focusing on Asia and cross-border strengths “could enhance
profitability as Asia’s GDP and  capital markets  grow, but Nomura
will be challenged by a number of strong global players also
looking to Asia for profit growth amid difficulties in Europe,”
Moody’s said.  As part of efforts to make Asia a “mother market,” Nagai
said the company may buy an investment bank or brokerage in the
region to tap its economic growth and increasing number of
affluent people. The firm is reviewing “a couple” of potential
acquisition targets in Asia, he said in the interview.  Countries including  China ,  India ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand  and
 Vietnam  are of interest, he said, without elaborating on how
much Nomura would be willing to spend or which companies are
being considered. The brokerage may buy assets or set up joint
ventures with local firms to get access to facilities and
operations, Nagai said.  Fully Licensed  “We want to operate fully licensed brokerage operations in
Asia, including retail,” he said. “It’s not realistic to do
this from scratch.”  Nagai, who became CEO after his predecessor Kenichi Watanabe resigned amid an insider-trading scandal, said it will
take time to make a profit abroad as the company will first have
to implement the cost savings program by March 2014. Eliminating
jobs “will generate restructuring costs after that,” he said.  The bank will begin communicating the job cuts to staff on
Sept. 17 in  Europe , Asia and the Americas, the CEO said.  Nomura’s retrenchment isn’t across the board. The Japanese
firm will expand its fixed-income business globally and reassign
people from other divisions to join the unit, two people with
direct knowledge of the matter said last week.  ‘Right Track’  Pretax loss from businesses abroad totaled 12.1 billion yen
($155 million) in the three months ended June, the ninth in a
row. Europe lost 16.4 billion yen, Asia lost 1.9 billion yen and
the Americas earned a pretax profit of 6.3 billion yen.  Nagai said he wants to achieve a target of 50 yen earnings
per share by March 2015, a year ahead of schedule. The company’s
earnings per share totaled 3.2 yen in the year ended March.  “This initial plan is on the right track,” Macquarie’s
Macdonald said of Nagai’s strategy. “Only time will tell on the
execution.”  Since buying bankrupt Lehman’s assets, Nomura has increased
its share of the global mergers advisory market and risen in the
rankings for equity underwriting. The pie has shrunk as deal-
making slumps in the wake of the financial crisis and Europe’s
sovereign debt turmoil.  Nomura is ranked 10th among global managers of share sales
including rights offers this year, up from 13th in all of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has soared to ninth
in world rankings of mergers advisers from 38th five years ago,
the data show.  “Like its global peers, Nomura should be patient and
weather this severe winter season for the world’s financial
industry,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “Nomura will still be a global
investment bank in the years ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler in Tokyo at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  