-- Obama Vies for Key Votes With Romney Over Medicare, Defense Cuts
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-09-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/obama-vies-for-key-votes-with-romney-over-medicare-defense-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  stoked
seniors’ fears about Medicare, wooed the Puerto Rican vote and
cracked a birth-certificate joke, as challenger  Mitt Romney 
focused on white working class voters with appeals to religion
and the military.  The president’s first day of a two-day bus tour through
 Florida  ended at a family-friendly sports bar in Florida, where
he drank beer and jokingly asked a boy born in  Hawaii  like him
whether he had the birth certificate to prove it -- a jab at the
“birther” movement that questions Obama’s citizenship.  Romney closed a day of campaigning in  Virginia  last night
with a visit to a Nascar race in Richmond, after a rally in
 Virginia Beach  and a meeting with televangelist  Pat Robertson . A
storm forced Romney to cancel plans to kick off the race by
shouting: “Drivers, start your engines.”  Today, they will appear in Sunday morning show interviews.
Portions of an Obama interview with CBS will be shown on “Face
the Nation.”  In an interview to be aired today on NBC’s “Meet the
Press,” Romney said Republicans in Congress made “a mistake”
by going along with an agreement with Democrats to trigger
automatic defense spending cuts in January if a budget deal
isn’t reached. Romney has vowed to “get rid of” such cuts if
elected.  Running Mate  Romney’s running mate, Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , voted for the deal that included the cuts and praised
them as “an important step in the right direction,” in a July
26, 2011, editorial for the National Review Online. Almost 14
percent of Virginia’s gross domestic product stems from defense
spending, according to a November report by Bloomberg
Government.  “I thought it was a mistake on the part of the White House
to propose it,” Romney said in an excerpt of the interview
provided by NBC. “I think it was a mistake for the Republicans
to go along with it.”  On the trail yesterday, the presidential rivals took jabs
at one another in two major battleground states.  “I will never turn Medicare into a voucher system,” Obama
said in Seminole, Florida. Republicans’ idea of reform is “just
dumping the cost on seniors.”  Social Security  Speaking to 11,000 supporters at St. Petersburg College’s
Seminole campus, Obama pledged to “keep the promise of  Social
Security ” and “not by turning it over to  Wall Street .” Obama
also said Romney’s call to repeal the health-care expansion
known as “Obamacare” earns its own nickname:
“Romneydon’tcare.”  Obama stopped for takeout Cuban sandwiches and photos with
voters at a shop in West Tampa.  At the Kissimmee Civic Center, in Kissimmee, Florida, a
city with a concentration of Puerto Ricans, Obama was introduced
by a Puerto Rican-born woman, Vivian Janer, who said the
president is committed to programs that help Hispanic Americans
and women. Kissimmee’s population is 58.9 percent Hispanic,
according to the  U.S. Census .  The heavily Hispanic crowd of 3,000 responded so
enthusiastically when Obama appeared that he joked, “I just
want to say ‘thank you’ and leave the stage.”  Obama defended his economic stimulus, saying, “We’re
expanding ports and infrastructure in Florida precisely because
we can export more.” The crowd responded with a chant of “U-S-
A.”  The two counties he visited are Pinellas and Osceola, which
backed Obama in 2008 and Republican President  George W. Bush  in
2004.  Virginia Beach  Speaking to supporters in Virginia Beach, Romney attacked
Democrats for cutting the word God from their party platform at
their convention. Delegates later voted to restore a statement
about the “God-given potential” of Americans.  “I will not take the word God out of the name of our
platform,” he said in Virginia Beach. “I will not take God off
our coins and I will not take God out of my heart.”  Romney’s trip through the state is designed to expand his
advantage among white working class voters. Romney aides see
support from this demographic, particularly working class men,
as offsetting Obama’s advantage among black and Latino voters in
swing states such as Ohio and Virginia.  While Romney, the Harvard-educated son of a former Michigan
governor, leads in polls of working class voters, former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  consistently performed better
with white working class Republicans during his unsuccessful bid
for the Republican nomination last spring.  Defense Spending  At a rally at the Military Aviation Museum, Romney
described the possible defense cuts as “unthinkable to
Virginia’s employment needs.”  Almost 14 percent of Virginia’s gross domestic product
stems from defense spending, according to a November report by
Bloomberg Government.  “If I’m president of the  United States  we’ll get rid of
those sequestration cuts and rebuild America’s might,” he said.  The automatic spending cuts totaling about $1.2 trillion
through 2021 were part of a deal between the White House and
Congress after talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to
curb the nation’s increasing debt.  Nascar Race  During a visit to the Daytona 500 earlier this year, Romney
put himself more in the league of Nascar owners than fans,
telling a reporter that he had “some great friends” who own
teams. Democrats used the remark to paint him as wealthy and out
of touch with average Americans. Romney amassed a $250 million
fortune from his work as a private equity executive at Bain
Capital LLC.  Romney got another chance to court the largely white
audience of the sport yesterday when he attended the Sprint Cup
Series Nascar race at the Richmond International Raceway.  As rain pounded down on the track, Romney shook hands,
signed helmets, and handed out hot dogs in a tent sponsored by
his campaign. Supporters wearing ponchos emblazoned with the
slogan “race car drivers 4 freedom” handed tee-shirts for
Romney to sign. And he posed for photos with drivers Jeff Burton
and Paul Menard in front of a race car covered with a Romney
campaign logo.  “There’s a lot of drivers I like,” he told reporters.  John Stanley, a Romney supporter attending his fifth race
of the year, said Romney seemed at ease at the raceway.  “He seems like that kind of down to earth guy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  