-- Obama’s Shaky Lead in Post-Convention Home Stretch
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-09-09T15:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/obama-s-shaky-lead-in-post-convention-home-stretch.html
U.S. presidential elections, like
basketball or football games, are played in quarters; the
Democrats just won the third, the summer, giving President
 Barack Obama  a small, not decisive, advantage going into the
final stretch.  Chalk this up mainly to Republican miscues.  Mitt Romney ’s
flawed trip to  Europe ; the offensive comments about women by the
Missouri Republican Senate candidate Todd Akin and a missed
opportunity to better define the election at the party’s
convention in Tampa,  Florida . With a little more than eight
weeks left, and the Democrats riding a little momentum from
their convention, Obama is where he wanted to be at this stage.  Almost certainly, however, this will be one of those close
U.S. elections, like 1960, 1968, 1976 and 2000, that may not be
settled until the closing days.  Over the last 40 years, the shape of most presidential
races was evident in the September soundings after the
convention. Two anomalies, as measured by the Gallup poll: Four
years ago, when Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  got a bump that
even most Republicans knew wouldn’t last. And in 2000, when the
Democratic nominee,  Al Gore , again with a convention bump, had a
lead (actually, Gore ended up winning the popular vote that
year). The real outlier was 1980, when  Ronald Reagan  trailed
 Jimmy Carter  by seven points in early September and ended up
winning by almost 10 points; campaigns can matter.  Debates’ Role  Much of the calculations from the campaigns and the pundits
centers on the four national debates, slated between Oct. 3 and
Oct. 22. Yet, since Reagan, these debates have made a difference
only when a candidate made a careless mistake --  Michael Dukakis 
fumbling over what he would do if his wife were raped,  George H.W. Bush  looking at his watch, Gore sighing.  John Kerry , most
experts said, had the upper hand in the 2004 debates; his margin
of defeat in November was identical to the September survey.  Obama and Romney, both very smart and very cautious, aren’t
apt to make unforced errors. More important, may be which camp
sets the agenda over the next three and a half weeks.  Romney wants the conversation to be dominated by the
nation’s persistent  economic struggles  -- underscored by the
weak  jobs report  last week -- the fading American dream and the
prospect of four more years of the same. The Republican
candidate’s campaign seems intent on accentuating, not playing
down, vice-presidential candidate  Paul Ryan  and his economic
prescriptions.  Obama wants to focus on the choice between whether to favor
the middle class or the rich, whether to move forward with Bill
Clinton-type policies or return to the George W. Bush years. The
reliance on Clinton, at the convention, in the Obama video and
commercials and on the stump, is striking.  The influence of money in this presidential campaign is
exaggerated. The Obama campaign won’t enjoy the huge resource
advantage it had four years ago; it will have plenty of funds to
be competitive anywhere it chooses. The Republican advantage
with outside money, perhaps decisive in congressional races,
will have less impact on the presidential contest.  In a close election there are critical constituency groups.
There is much chatter about the Republicans’ “gender gap” with
women. Conversely, Obama has a gender gap with white males. He
lost that vote 57 percent to 41 percent in 2008; this time, he
probably needs to get three out of every eight of these voters.  Married women with children went 51 percent to 47 percent
for the Democratic nominee last time. Both candidates need to
carry that swing group, about 15 percent of the electorate.
Suburban independents narrowly went for the Democrat last time
and are an obvious battleground group.  Latino Vote  If the fast-growing Latino vote turns out like it did in
2008, it’s bad news for Romney who, as San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro said while attending the Democratic National Convention,
“just rubbed the Hispanic community the wrong way” with his
immigration-bashing during the primaries.  Geographically, the most pitched battleground will be the
Midwest.  Rich Beeson , Romney’s political director, says the two
states that have most come into play in the past few months are
Iowa and  Wisconsin , which had been considered reliably
Democratic. Ohio, as usual, is prime real estate.  It is uncertain, too, which side will best turn out its
voters. Team Obama points out that in 2008 more than half of new
voter registration occurred after Labor Day and predicts a
repeat performance this year.  The much discussed electoral map, which only matters if
it’s one of those close elections decided by a point or less,
favors the president. It’s almost impossible to see Romney
winning this election without carrying both Ohio and Florida.  One leading indicator over the next week, says the
Democratic poll taker Peter Hart, is the content of the
television commercials. “If you see the Obama acceptance speech
up, you know all that you need to know about the success of the
speech” at the convention, he says. “If not, the speech didn’t
sell.”  He notes that the Romney campaign, since Tampa, has gone
back to running strictly attack ads.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 