-- Oil Trades Near One-Week High on Outlook for Stimulus
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-10T06:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-amid-economic-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil traded in  New York  near the
highest price in a week amid speculation that countries
including the U.S. and China will add economic stimulus,
countering signs of a slowdown threatening fuel demand.  Futures were little changed after three days of gains, the
longest rising streak in three weeks. The  Federal Reserve  meets
this week to discuss monetary policy in the U.S., the world’s
biggest oil consumer, after the  European Central Bank  agreed
last week on bond purchases to ease the euro area’s debt crisis.
Net crude imports last month by China, the second-largest user,
slid to the lowest level in almost two years amid slowing demand
for the country’s goods, customs data showed today.  “The economy is weak,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter
in Sydney. “The stimulus plans are designed to placate the
market rather than improve the economies. You are putting in
fire-power just to stop things falling.”  Crude for October delivery was at $96.16 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 26
cents, at 2:48 p.m. Singapore time. The contract climbed 89
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $96.42 on Sept. 7, the highest close
since Aug. 31. Prices are 2.7 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $114.24 a barrel, down 1 cent.
The European benchmark was at a premium of $18.09 to  New York- 
traded West Texas Intermediate grade, up from $17.83 on Sept. 7.  China Slowdown  Oil in New York has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, around $94.08 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures rebounded from
this indicator in July and August. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  China imported a net 18.2 million metric tons of crude in
August, or about 4.3 million barrels a day, according to data
published today on the website of the General Administration of
Customs. That’s down 13 percent from a year earlier and the
lowest rate since October 2010. Exports of goods rose 2.7
percent, missing the 2.9 percent  forecast  by economists in a
 Bloomberg News  survey, the data showed. Industrial output
increased at the slowest pace in three years last month, the
government said yesterday.  Measures to support and stabilize foreign trade will be
announced soon, according to an interview with Commerce Minister
 Chen Deming  broadcast yesterday by  China Central Television .
China’s economic expansion faces “notable downward pressure,”
President  Hu Jintao  said Sept. 8 at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation CEO Summit in Vladivostok, Russia.  Fund Bets  Japan’s gross domestic product rose an annualized 0.7
percent in the three months through June, the Cabinet Office
said in Tokyo today, less than a preliminary calculation of 1.4
percent. The median forecast of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a revised 1 percent gain.  “The economy is the key thing that people are watching,”
Robin Mills, the head of consulting at Dubai-based Manaar Energy
Consulting and Project Management, said by telephone yesterday.
“There’s some optimism about developments in the  euro zone  last
week, though markets are more concerned about what looks like
could be a slowdown in the economy in China.”  Money managers raised net-long positions in New York crude
by 1,153, or 0.6 percent, to 193,624 futures and options
combined in the seven days ended Sept. 4, according to a U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission report on Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at   manderson34@bloomberg.net  