-- Hollande Challenges Unions on Labor Law as Stagnation Sets In
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-09-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/hollande-challenges-unions-on-labor-law-as-stagnation-sets-in.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
challenged unions to allow companies greater labor flexibility,
taking on his traditional allies to promote economic expansion
as he cut growth forecasts to below 1 percent.  Hollande gave himself a two-year window to fix the economy
as he announced a freeze in  government spending  and 30 billion
euros ($38 billion) in deficit-reduction measures to be included
in next year’s budget to reach his fiscal targets.  Speaking in a nationally televised interview on TF1 late
yesterday,  France ’s first Socialist president since 1995 said
his labor proposals, which he didn’t outline, would make
companies more competitive. He gave unions and business leaders
until the end of the year to conclude a deal in expanding
corporate flexibility while beefing up worker protections
against firing.  “If this historic compromise is reached by year end, this
reform will be given the force of law,” Hollande said. “But if
the partners can’t agree, then I’m sorry, but then the state
will assume its responsibilities.”  Hollande’s policy pronouncements were overhadowed by
headlines in yesterday’s newspapers that showed his standing in
polls declining and that France’s richest man,  Bernard Arnault ,
was seeking dual nationality in  Belgium .  Arnault, whose wealth is valued at $25.7 billion, issued a
statement yesterday saying his bid was a “personal action” and
“must not be interpreted politically,” as a protest against
Hollande’s planned 75 percent tax on incomes above 1 million
euros.  Hollande said yesterday Arnault will pay his fair share and
that there will be no exceptions to the levy on wealthy people.  Economic Slowdown  Cutting the 2013 growth forecast to 0.8 percent from 1.2
percent, Hollande also outlined the measures needed to reach his
deficit goal of 3 percent of gross domestic product, down from a
projected 4.5 in 2012.  The budget measures outlined by Hollande include 10 billion
euros in spending curbs; 10 billion euros in corporate taxes and
10 billion euros in levies on individuals.  With unemployment at a 13-year high of 10.2 percent and
companies such as  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  announcing sweeping job
cuts, Hollande is being squeezed between his campaign promises
and the inexorable economic slowdown as  Europe  fights the debt
crisis.  A BVA survey published in Le Parisien yesterday put his
approval rating at 40 percent. On May 31, two weeks after he
took office, the number was 62 percent.  “The weaker the economy, the less credible the
government’s budget-deficit plans become and the more likely it
is that tax increases will be favoured over more politically
contentious spending cuts,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director
of London-based Spiro Sovereign Strategy, said in an e-mail.
“The politics of fiscal austerity in France are becoming more
and more difficult because of the bleaker prospects for
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  