-- Hollande Tells Billionaire to Be Patriot in Paying Taxes
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-09-09T20:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/hollande-tells-billionaire-to-be-patriot-in-paying-taxes.html
(Corrects currency conversion in sixth paragraph)  French billionaire  Bernard Arnault 
should show patriotism and do his share to contribute to the
country’s economic recovery, President  Francois Hollande  said
today in a televised interview.  Arnault, 63,  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  chief
executive officer, last week filed an application to become a
Belgian national. The billionaire promised he would continue to
pay taxes in  France , countering reports he wants to avoid taxes.  “He should have reflected on what it means to ask for
another nationality, because we are proud to be French,”
Hollande said  on TF1  today. “We have to call on patriotism at
this time,” he said.  “Everyone must take part, and I note Arnault said himself
he will contribute,” the president added, saying the
billionaire made “the right correction.”  Arnault told  Agence France-Presse  he is “and will remain”
a fiscal resident in France. “Our country must be able to count
on everyone’s contribution to face the deep economic crisis,”
he told AFP today.  Hollande, speaking in a 30-minute television interview,
reiterated his campaign promise to create a new, temporary tax
for anyone earning more than 1 million euros ($1.28 million) a
year. After mounting criticism and several reports last week
that he was planning to dilute the measure, Hollande said today
he would go ahead with the tax in the 2013 budget law and that
there would be “no exception” for those earning over a million
euros.  The Belgian citizenship is a “personal action” that he
initiated several months ago, Arnault told the Paris-based  news
agency  in an interview. “It must not be interpreted
politically,” he added, suggesting his decision was not a
political statement against France’s planned tax on very high
earners.  The LVMH press office confirmed a report by La Libre
Belgique yesterday that Arnault filed for Belgian citizenship,
citing Georges Dallemagne, president of the country’s
parliamentary committee for granting citizenship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  