-- London Restaurants Emerging From Slowdown, Zagat Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-09-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/london-restaurants-emerging-from-slowdown-zagat-says.html
London restaurants  are showing
signs of recovering from the impact of the economic slowdown,
with 40 percent of respondents saying the dining scene has
improved from a year ago, Zagat Survey said.  People are spending more on eating out and there has been a
dramatic increase in openings as chefs and restaurateurs from
the U.K. and overseas invest in new establishments, the New
York-based guide said, citing reports from 9,583 diners.  Yet Londoners are still only eating out an average 2.2
times a week, well below the rates in  New York , Paris and  Tokyo ,
which range between three and four times, Zagat said today in an
e-mailed release to mark the publication of its 2013 survey.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  spent $151 million last September to acquire
Zagat Survey LLC.  Mountain View , California-based Google, the
world’s largest Internet-search provider, is using acquisitions
to add services and find new sources of advertising.  Zagat’s  London  survey found Italian is the most popular
cuisine, with 25 percent of votes, followed by French (17
percent) and Japanese (14 percent). Only one in 10 diners said
British food was their favorite.  Here’s how Zagat respondents rate London restaurants, with
last year’s placing in parentheses:  Zagat’s “2013 London Restaurant Survey” costs 10.99
pounds. Zagat’s ratings and reviews are available free on
 http://www.zagat.com/ .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music and  Elin McCoy 
on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 