-- Italian CEOs Seek ‘Monti Encore’ as His Popularity Gains
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-09-10T11:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/monti-plays-down-chance-of-second-term-as-calls-for-encore-grow.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
may have disappointed a gathering of the country’s business and
financial leaders by saying his time was limited as the only
unelected head of a euro-area government.  “The experience of a caretaker government is definitely
episodic, transitory and limited in time,” Monti said yesterday
at the Ambrosetti Forum, a meeting of bankers, corporate leaders
and policy makers on the shores of Lake Como in northern  Italy .
Voters need to restore their faith in Italy’s politicians, said
the 69-year-old former university president.  That wasn’t necessarily what the assembled entrepreneurs
and more than 40 chief executive officers wanted to hear. About
four-fifths of those surveyed by Sole 24 Ore Radiocor before the
conference said they hoped Monti would be reappointed following
parliamentary elections to take place by April. The so-called
Monti bis, or “Monti encore,” was backed publicly by Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA CEO Enrico Cucchiani.  “I not only see a new Monti government as fundamental, but
also extremely likely,” Cucchiani said to reporters on
Ambrosetti’s opening day, Sept. 7. “Alternative solutions may
damage the country.”  Monti declined to comment yesterday when asked by reporters
if he would accept a second mandate. The premier remains Italy’s
most popular politician with a 55.2 percent approval rating,
according to a Demos poll published today in newspaper la
Repubblica.  Debt Crisis  Monti burnished his credentials with bankers and business
leaders since his November appointment by reversing a slide in
Italian bonds and curbing speculation the government would need
rescue funds from  Europe . He imposed austerity to reduce the
 budget deficit  at home and strengthened ties with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in a push for collective action to
fight contagion from the sovereign debt crisis.  Italy has no current plans to apply for European aid,
Monti’s finance minister,  Vittorio Grilli , told reporters on the
sidelines of the conference on Sept. 8. The day before in a
Bloomberg Television interview, Grilli said it is not Monti’s
priority to position himself for a second mandate.  “I think he is not thinking about it because we are so
fully committed to working hard on what we are doing,” Grilli
said. “That is what our brains are totally focused on.”  Eighty-one percent of respondents said they hoped for a
second Monti government, according to the Sole 24 Ore Radiocor
survey of 137 Ambrosetti attendees that included the CEOs of
Italy’s biggest oil company, bank and telephone operator.  Euro Skeptics  Monti’s popularity is high among Italian executives even as
the broader public penalizes the coalition of political parties
supporting the government in parliament. The center-left
Democratic Party and former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
center-right People of Liberty Party have seen their support
eroded in opinion polls by euro-skeptic comedian-turned-
politician Beppe Grillo.  Both parties will struggle to win outright in the next
election and may need to resort to a second broad coalition to
form a government, according to a Sept. 3  poll  by IPR Marketing.  “If there is a stalemate, some sort of even result,
probably Mario will be asked again to be at the service of the
country,”  Romano Prodi , who was prime minister from 2006 to
2008, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Cernobbio on
Sept. 7. Pier Luigi Bersani, who served as industry minister of
the Prodi government, is leading the  Democratic Party .  Austerity Plans  Monti’s austerity budget has helped ease pressure in bond
markets, allowing Italy to shun bailouts of the sort put in
place in  Greece  by the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund . Still, the tax increases and spending cuts have
helped push Italy deeper into recession, sent unemployment to a
13-year high and stoked anti-euro sentiment among voters.  Monti, who previously served as a EU competition
commissioner, is trying to diffuse anti-euro tensions and close
divisions between the countries in the north of the currency
zone and the nations in the south that are most susceptible to
fallout from the debt crisis.  He warned last week of hostility in the public toward
European integration, and he proposed a code of conduct to
prevent leaders from exacerbating divisiveness. On Sept. 8, with
EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  at his side, Monti called for a
euro summit in  Rome  to address the tensions.  ‘Dangerous Sentiment’  “One can’t help note a growing and dangerous sentiment of
antagonism in member states,” Monti said. “It’s paradoxical
and sad.”  Roberto Maroni, who opposes the government in parliament as
secretary of the Northern League party, said Monti is erring in
his response to anti-euro sentiment and welcomed a conversation
with voters on the benefits and costs of European integration.
Bersani, who had an approval rating of 31.8 percent in the Demos
poll, reiterated his support for Monti’s government and said he
hopes for a clear result from voters in the next election.  “It will be decided by Italians, not bankers,” Bersani
said in a la Repubblica interview today. “It’s up to Italians,
only Italians and all Italians to choose who must govern.”  President Giorgio Napolitano shunned snap elections in
November, instead turning to Monti when a surge in borrowing
costs helped push Berlusconi to resign. Monti’s diplomatic push
for more collective crisis fighting was given a boost last week
with the announcement of European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi ’s unveiled a program to aid governments in distress.  Grilli praised the ECB plan to try to lower borrowing costs
by buying sovereign bonds and said it would be “a positive
element” if the IMF had a role in monitoring the countries that
sign up for aid.  “Conditionality is an intrinsic part of how Europe works
right now,” Grilli said in the interview. “We are all de facto
under a conditionality program, which is further integration in
Europe, working toward fiscal union.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  