-- Top Indian Bourse Fights Rivals With Retail, Volatility
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-09-10T12:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/top-indian-bourse-fights-rivals-with-retail-volatility.html
National Stock Exchange of India
Ltd. will offer products to lure individual investors and trade
volatility futures to prevent MCX Stock Exchange Ltd. from
ending its dominance of  Asia ’s fifth-biggest equity market.  The NSE plans to widen its range of fixed-income products,
which include government and company debt, to attract so-called
retail investors, Ravi Varanasi, the bourse’s head of business
development, said in an interview on Sept. 6 in Mumbai. The NSE
is awaiting regulatory approval to offer futures on India VIX,
which gauges investor expectation for near term market swings.  “Retail services for both equity and fixed income, and
high-end derivative products are areas of future growth,”
Varanasi said. “We have multiple products at various stages of
development in the pipeline.”  The NSE controls more than 90 percent of the nation’s $28
billion equity derivatives market and handles 75 percent of the
stock trades. Competition is poised to intensify from November
when MCX-SX, as the bourse is known, begins trading equities.
MCX-SX had a 44 percent share of the currency-futures market in
the year ended March, compared with the NSE’s 39 percent. One of
its founders, the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd (MCX) ., was
the world’s third-largest commodity-futures platform by volume
last year, according to an MCX factsheet.  “The NSE is facing a serious and credible challenge for
the first time in its existence,” U.R. Bhat, managing director
of Dalton Capital Advisors  India  in Mumbai, said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 6. “It should act now instead of resting on
its leadership position, which can fade away very fast.”  Membership Fees  MCX-SX was awarded its stock-trading permit in July, almost
four years after it began operations. The Mumbai-based bourse
said Sept. 5 it will charge members a total 2.5 million rupees
($45,130) to trade shares and equity derivatives, with the cost
doubling after the introductory offer ends Oct. 18.  The NSE has a new membership fee of 500,000 rupees, while
the BSE charges 250,000 rupees, according their websites. The
NSE and BSE also seek deposits of up to 15 million rupees and 3
million rupees respectively, their websites show.  MCX-SX wants to sign up people located beyond the 2,000
cities and towns where stock-market access is available, the
bourse said Sept. 5. The exchange will start  trading (NIFTY)  equities
around Diwali, the festival of lights, which falls in November,
Vice Chairman Jignesh Shah told reporters in Mumbai today. The
bourse will have its own equity index, he said.  “India needs to focus on spreading the equity cult and not
just on trading,” Shah said. “We will focus on expanding the
retail-investor base to deepen market penetration.”  Transaction Costs  The NSE has not stated whether it would revise its fees.
The bourse’s share of the total transaction cost per trade is
about 1 percent, which is “one of the lowest” levels in the
world, Varanasi said.  “MCX’s transaction costs are 50 percent lower than our
rivals,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph Massey told reporters
today, without providing details.  The NSE plans to offer more  fixed-income  products in a move
to appeal to a relatively untapped market of risk-averse
individual investors, Varanasi said. Indian households had
financial savings of 9.7 trillion rupees in 2011-2012, about
half of which were invested as deposits with commercial banks,
 central bank  data show.  “Fixed income is an area of significant possibility,”
Varanasi said. “India doesn’t have a properly developed fixed-
income market for retail investors.”  Government Bonds  The government-bond market is a “big area of focus” for
MCX-SX, Shah said. “It is a big market.” India’s  outstanding 
public debt was 37.5 trillion rupees ($676 billion) at the end
of June, up from 35.8 trillion rupees at end-March, data from
the Finance Ministry show.  About 25 million Indians, or 2 percent of the nation’s 1.2
billion people, invest directly or indirectly in the  capital
markets , according to a survey in July last year by the  National
Council of Applied Economic Research . That compares with 9.4
percent in  China , 41 percent in  Australia  and 18 percent in the
U.K., Thomas Mathew, a former joint secretary in the Ministry of
Finance’s capital markets, said in an interview on Sept. 5.  Poor participation by individual investors has held back
 volumes  on Indian bourses, Dalton’s Bhat said.  Trading this year in NSE’s 50-stock S&P CNX Nifty Index, at
28 billion shares, is poised to be the lowest annual level since
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Some 3.8 billion shares
in the 30-stock BSE India Sensitive Index changed hands last
year, the lowest level in more than a decade.  An average of 672 million shares  traded  daily on the NSE
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s about three
times the 229 million shares on the 137-year-old BSE Ltd.  Fund Flows  Increased activity by retail investors will help “counter
inflows and outflows” from overseas funds and lower volatility,
said the finance ministry’s Mathew. Inflows from abroad climbed
to a record in 2010, making the Sensex the best performer among
the world’s 10 biggest markets that year. The gauge had its
second-worst annual loss in 2011 after funds withdrew $512
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the India VIX will allow investors to bet on or
guard against swings in the Nifty index, Manoj Murlidharan Vayalar, a derivatives analyst at IIFL PReMIA in Mumbai, said in
a phone interview.  “It will be an additional hedging tool to manage risk in
their portfolio,” he said.  The India VIX added 3.5 percent to 15.3 at the 3:30 p.m.
close, after sinking to a record intraday low on Sept. 7. The
Nifty added 0.1 percent to 5,363.45, climbing for a fourth day.  MCX Commodity Exchange, which owns 5 percent of MCX-SX, in
March became the first Indian exchange to sell  shares . The sale
was oversubscribed 54 times as investors bet the bourse will
benefit from growing trade in gold, metals and farm contracts.  MCX accounted for 82 percent of the 44 trillion rupees of
commodity futures traded in the March quarter, according to data
from the industry regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  