-- Orioles Top Yankees 5-4 to Again Share Tie for AL East Lead
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-09T04:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/orioles-defeat-yankees-5-4-to-regain-tie-for-al-east-lead.html
The  Baltimore Orioles  topped the  New
York  Yankees 5-4 last night to move back into a tie with New
York for the American League East lead with 23 games left in the
season.  Jim Johnson got his 42nd save as he stopped a Yankees rally
in the ninth by getting  Mark Teixeira , who was playing in his
first game since Aug. 27, to hit into a double play with one out.  “There was a lot of emotion,” Johnson said in a televised
interview. “You have to battle all 27 and the guys did that. I
was just trying to get it down in the zone so [Teixeira] would
swing over the top or hit into a double play.”  Mark Reynolds , Lew Ford and J.J. Hardy hit solo home runs
for the Orioles (78-61), who have a 2-1 lead in the four-game
series at Oriole Park at Camden Yards.  Derek Jeter  scored on  Alex Rodriguez ’s sacrifice fly in the
first inning and  Russell Martin  reached home on Ichiro Suzuki’s
double in the second as the Yankees (78-61) took a 2-0 lead.  Reynolds and Ford hit back-to-back home runs in the second
inning, and Hardy hit a run-scoring double in the third and
homered in the sixth before Ford sent Adam Jones home on a
single.  Rodriguez hit a home run in the eighth and Suzuki scored on
 Nick Swisher ’s grounder in the ninth to come within one run of
the Orioles before Teixeira hit into the game-ending double play.
Teixeira had missed 10 games with a strained calf.  Joe Saunders (2-1) allowed two runs on five hits and struck
out two in 5 1/3 innings for the Orioles, who won their 25th
one-run ballgame this season. Johnson gave up one run on three
hits in the ninth.  CC Sabathia (13-5) surrendered five runs on eight hits and
struck out five in 6 1/3 innings.  Markakis Out  Orioles rightfielder Nick Markakis left the game with a
broken left thumb after he was hit by a pitch in the fifth
inning. He will be out for at least six weeks, the team said.  “When it happened I knew it was broken,” said Markakis,
who had a cast on his hand. “I couldn’t bend my thumb. The
season is going to go on. This is just a tough blow. Now it’s
just a matter of healing.”  The  Oakland Athletics  (78-60), who beat the Seattle
Mariners 6-1, Orioles and Yankees are atop the race for the AL
wild card spots.  Oriole manager Buck Showalter said Markakis should be back
“when we’re deep in the playoffs.”  In the National League, the NL East-leading Washington
Nationals defeated the Miami Marlins 7-6 to improve their record
to 86-53, the best in the majors. The Atlanta Braves (80-60) and
St. Louis Cardinals (74-65) have the top two spots in the NL
wild-card race with the  Los Angeles Dodgers  a half-game back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  