-- How Hacking the Human Brain Can Save Civilization
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2012-09-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/how-hacking-the-human-brain-can-save-civilization.html
Humans’ power to determine the
future of planet Earth is increasing exponentially. The result
could be disastrous unless we change the way we think.  Climate scientist  Will Steffen  of the  Australian National
University   makes a powerful case  about the uniqueness of our
time: A few hundred years ago, more or less in sync with the
Industrial Revolution, various indicators such as global
population, water use, number of rivers dammed,  global economic
output , number of species extinctions and  atmospheric carbon
dioxide  started following a steepening path upward.  The sudden explosion in human activity was a sharp break
from the preceding tens of thousands of years, when things
changed much more gradually. The shift is so pronounced that
scientists now talk about a new geological era -- the
“Anthropocene,” in which all Earth processes come to be
powerfully shaped by human activity. Of all the usable energy
reaching the Earth from the sun, we humans already gather and
exploit as much as 5 percent. Nearly half of the planet’s land
surface has been altered by human action and practice.  This is all the result of the singular skill that sets us
apart from all other species -- our unparalleled capacity for
innovation, especially through technology. New techniques for
everything from farming to computation interact and combine to
drive the creation of more innovations in an ever-accelerating
spiral. Paradoxically, technological innovation has also created
our biggest problems, including  climate change , environmental
destruction and the threat of nuclear annihilation.  Finite Planet  What comes next? Exponential growth on a finite planet
simply cannot continue. If innovation is both the key to our
success and the primary threat to our existence, what can we do?
Can we innovate differently? More intelligently?  Some valuable thinking on the subject comes from  Sander van
der Leeuw , dean of the School of Sustainability at  Arizona  State
University, who takes an optimistic view. We may indeed be able
to use technology to find a path to a sustainable future, he
suggests, if we use our technology in a fundamentally different
way.  The gist of his argument: Humans suffer from a mismatch
between our thinking about what we do and the truth of what we
do. Our brains make sense of a multifaceted world by ignoring
much of its complexity -- a trait Van der Leeuw calls “low
dimensional” thinking. In engineering a dam, assessing how
agricultural runoff influences an estuary or figuring out how
automobile emissions might alter the atmosphere, our conceptual
models (or those of our scientists and engineers) at best
consider only a few of the true pathways of cause and effect. As
Van der Leeuw puts it, “every human action upon the environment
modifies the latter in many more ways that its human actors
perceive, simply because the dimensionality of the environment
is much higher than can be captured by the human mind.”  This is a profound insight. It helps explain why our
innovations, even as they help us in ways that we see clearly
and understand, also end up affecting our environment in ways
that we mostly fail to recognize. Effects build up in the
environment -- and this includes the social environment, as well
as biological or physical -- over the long term. We’re unaware,
until eventually we have the famous “unintended consequences” so
familiar from technological history. We may, for example, not
yet know what lies behind the obesity epidemic in Western
nations, but it is surely a consequence of one or more
technologies -- in food manufacturing and distribution, in human
transportation, in entertainment and advertising.  Reckless Innovation  If Van der Leeuw’s analysis is right, then we should be
worried about the future. We’re currently locked into a strategy
of almost reckless innovation. If we seek further economic
growth only through faster innovation, the unintended impact on
our environment promises to grow even faster.  Van der Leeuw’s solution: Learn to innovate differently, by
using technology to reduce the mismatch between our brains and
reality. Computing and communications technology can improve our
ability to handle large quantities of information. They make it
possible, in principle, to help our brains build more accurate
models of reality. Indeed, this is already happening in some
areas, in large-scale models of climate, which include thousands
or millions of atmospheric variables, or in new models of
economies that try to include every last business or household.  In the end, Van der Leeuw’s perspective is both sobering
and inspiring. We have an unprecedented opportunity as the first
humans to be able to address our cognitive limitations
consciously and directly, by using technology to increase our
brain capacity and understand our interactions with the world in
far more detail. All we require is the wisdom to make this our
goal.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the politics of  long-term
health care  and on improving and expanding  charter schools ;
William D. Cohan on  bankers getting fired ;  Noah Feldman  on  Amish
beard-cutting ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s slight campaign edge ;
Amar Bhide on why government should get out of the
 securitization business .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  