-- Toyota Failing to Recover Value on Sales With Competition: Cars
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-09-10T20:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/toyota-failing-to-recover-value-on-sales-with-competition-cars.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) , roaring back
after three years of recession, recalls and natural disasters,
will struggle to regain its former dominance as it grapples with
improved competition worldwide.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Akio Toyoda , the company’s
profits are rising, it’s on pace to regain the global sales lead
this year, and its $140.8 billion stock-market value is more
than the next two biggest,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Honda Motor Co.,
combined. Still its shares aren’t as highly valued as they were
before the crises and the resurgence of once-feeble U.S. rivals.  Investors are less enthusiastic about owning Toyota,
relative to its size and peers, than they were from 2003 to
2007. The price-to-sales ratio, which shows the value investors
place on each dollar of revenue, reflect concerns about the
Japanese automaker’s ability to increase profits now that its
quality lead is less pronounced against U.S. and Korean peers
such as  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   “Hyundai is now a tough rival to tackle in that they’re
better recognized by the world now,” Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-
based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., said in a
phone interview. “The market sees Hyundai as being a
competitive company against Toyota.”  U.S. automakers are also gaining ground on Toyota. General
Motors Co., restructured in a 2009 bankruptcy, this year earned
its best scores in J.D. Power & Associates annual study of new-
car quality, the bellwether analysis that helped establish
Toyota and Honda’s reputations in the U.S. for reliability. Two
years ago  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Ford brand ranked fifth; this year
Chrysler Group LLC improved more than most.  Recall’s Aftermath  Toyota executives seared by the recall of millions of
vehicles two years ago on reports of unintended acceleration
have made at least one willing tradeoff that suppresses its
value relative to peers. To keep tighter control on quality,
Toyota is keeping more manufacturing in  Japan  even as a
strengthened yen reduces profit on sales made in  North America .  “Toyota’s yen-based manufacturing is obviously the biggest
concern weighing on Toyota’s shares,” Aoki said.  Investors are willing to pay more than twice as much for
shares of Seoul-based Hyundai compared with Toyota’s based on
price-to-sales ratios, and 12 percent more relative to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Steve Curtis , a New York-based spokesman for Toyota’s North
American unit, declined to comment on the change in the relative
value of the carmaker’s shares.  “Our view is that the best way to build  shareholder value 
is to focus on satisfying our customers,” Curtis said.  The company’s American depositary receipts rose 2 cents to
$81.69 at the close in  New York . They’ve gained 24 percent this
year.  Lost Advantage  Quality ratings show Toyota again ranking at or near the
top among mass-market brands after its stumble two years ago,
based on assessments by J.D. Power & Associates and Consumer
Reports magazine. At the same time, the industry has improved
across the board, minimizing a defining advantage that had
allowed Toyota to charge higher prices and earn greater profits.  Demand for Camry sedans in the U.S. and Prius hybrids in
Japan have pulled Toyota out of a slump stretching from late
2008 through last year. Through the first half, Toyota’s global
sales grew 34 percent to 4.87 million cars and trucks, topping
 General Motors Co. (GM) , which took back the title last year. The
Japanese automaker plans to sell a record 9.76 million in 2012.  The company’s net income jumped to  290.3 billion yen  ($3.7
billion) for the quarter that ended June 30, higher than
analysts anticipated and almost double the $1.85 billion GM
reported in the period.  Those gains are being curbed by persistent strength in the
yen relative to the  U.S. dollar , undermining Toyota’s 30 percent
sales growth in the U.S., previously its most profitable market.  Yen Burden  “We went through an economy that tanked; an industry that
dropped 40 percent; a recall crisis; and all the natural
disasters, one after another,”  Mark Templin , global marketing
chief for Toyota’s luxury Lexus brand, said in an interview in
Palo Alto,  California , last month. “But the biggest challenge
we face, that we’ve ever faced, is the currency.”  The stronger yen makes it harder for companies to make
vehicles in Japan and sell them profitably in the U.S., which
encourages more North American manufacturing.  The Japanese currency strengthened 45 percent over five
years, as of Sept. 7, the most of any major currency tracked by
Bloomberg. Over the same period, the South Korean won weakened
by 17 percent, the second-most among major currencies.  That’s particularly beneficial for Hyundai, said Yuuki Sakurai, chief executive officer at Tokyo-based Fukoku Capital
Management Inc.  “With the currency, Toyota is in a disadvantaged position
compared to Hyundai,” said Sakurai, whose company manages 1.5
trillion yen of assets.  ‘Highly Valued’  Hyundai’s improved styling and features also make the
company attractive, he said.  “Hyundai is rapidly gaining ground in various markets of
the world, and the gap between people’s impression of Hyundai
and Toyota is narrowing,” Sakurai said. “Hyundai’s cars are
now highly valued for their design and quality, not just
competitive pricing.”  Toyota this year has announced plans to boost vehicle and
engine output at plants in the U.S. and  Canada  and to increase
purchases of North American parts and materials.  CEO Toyoda also pledged the company founded by his
grandfather would keep 3 million units of plant capacity in
Japan, a higher portion of its global production than Nissan
Motor Co. and Honda. This decision reflects Toyota’s efforts to
re-establish its quality reputation, said  Kevin Tynan , an
automotive analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  ‘Conscious Decision’  “Toyota isn’t chasing short-term profitability,” he said.
“They’ve made a conscious decision not to move quickly to set
up factories in low-cost production countries like  Mexico . It’s
more important to them to keep tight control of quality over the
long term.”  Toyota’s biggest domestic competitors have moved more
quickly to expand capacity in North America, with Honda in
particular preparing to build almost all of its models sold in
the U.S. at plants in the U.S., Canada or Mexico.  “Japanese automakers’ share prices, including Toyota’s,
have not risen as much as what their growth and recovery figures
show for this year,” said Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst at NH
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, who rates Hyundai a buy.
“The strong yen is one reason, and it’s also because the profit
margins haven’t really recovered with the production rate.”  Shrinking Premiums  Investors are paying twice as much for Toyota shares as for
Ford and 54 percent more than for VW, based on price-to-sales
ratios. Toyota commanded a relative premium of at least five
times Ford’s share price and three times that of VW until 2006,
based on price-to-sales ratios.  Such comparisons don’t fully account for regional
differences, said Stephen Usher, a San Diego-based analyst for
JI Asia, who has ratings of buy for Toyota and neutral for
Hyundai.  “It’s very difficult to make straight comparisons across
borders,” Usher said. “What drives individual stock markets
and the stocks in those markets is very different. The investor
base is very different.”  Other comparative ratios indicate Toyota’s value has
improved compared with Hyundai’s in the past five years. There’s
a 96 percent premium for Toyota relative to Hyundai based on the
company’s enterprise value to trailing 12-month Ebitda, up from
a 64 percent premium five years ago.  Hyundai’s Constraints  Toyota remains among the world’s best-funded automakers,
with cash and short-term investments worth more than $38.3
billion at the end of June.  That compares with $16.2 billion for Hyundai, while Ford
held $35.6 billion, and Volkswagen, which acquired Porsche AG’s
auto business last month, reported $34.1 billion in cash and
short-term investments.  Toyota also retains the best  credit profile  among global
automakers, with long-term debt ratings of Aa3 from Moody’s
Investors Service and AA- from Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Service.  Hyundai this year is capacity constrained after three years
of rapid growth, Usher said.  “Hyundai is in a period of consolidation and Toyota is in
a period of recovery,” Usher said. “Hyundai is not full speed
ahead in any market other than  Europe  right now.”  Not until next year will Seoul-based Hyundai be ready to
resume its previous pace of expansion, he said.  “From late 2013 and into 2014, I think the development of
the companies is going to be more similar,” Usher said.
“That’s when the true battle will be engaged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  