-- Philippines Oversight Aims to Avert Asset Bubble: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o ,   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-09-10T08:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/philippines-oversight-aims-to-avert-asset-bubble-southeast-asia.html
The  Philippines ’s move to enhance
oversight of real-estate lending this year will help curb
speculation and improve its ability to prevent a property bubble
from forming, the central bank said.  The regulator ordered banks to provide more details on
their real-estate exposure in August, including reporting
investments in stocks and bonds that fund property ventures and
loans to developers of low-cost homes. Closer monitoring will
encourage banks “to exercise more self-restraint,” Deputy
Governor Nestor Espenilla said in a phone interview Sept. 7.  “It’s a preemptive move,” Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in an interview the same
day in his office. “We don’t see at this point signs of strains
in the market but we don’t want to wait for that. That’s the
trick with asset bubble; when you see it, that means it has
formed and you’re too late.”  The country joins Asian nations including China and
 Singapore  seeking to temper soaring property prices and avoid
the economic fallout created by the bursting of the U.S.
subprime bubble and real-estate crashes from  Spain  to Ireland.
Philippine bank loans and investments in the  property sector 
surged to a record in March, central bank data show, and rising
prices have spurred  Ayala Land  Inc. and other developers to
build more homes.  Property Stocks  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , the nation’s biggest developer, led the
decline among Philippine property companies in Manila trading.
Ayala Land dropped 2.8 percent,  Megaworld Corp. (MEG)  lost 1.8 percent,
and  Vista Land & Lifescapes Inc. (VLL)  fell 1.5 percent. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Property Index slid 1.1 percent,
compared with a 0.2 percent decline in the benchmark Philippine
Stock Exchange Index.  Century Properties Group Inc. (CPG)  said today its rising
condominium sales in the past two years point to a  property
market  fueled largely by legitimate end-user demand.  “The demand is driven by our 11-million strong Filipino
expatriates, coupled by a growing local market with increased
purchasing power because of favorable economic conditions,”
Marco Antonio, Century Properties’ co-chief operating officer
and managing director, said in an e-mailed statement.  Central bank monitoring of lenders’ real-estate exposure
will protect the property industry from a bubble, the company
said.  “It makes the market even stronger as it ensures that
real-estate loans are given to worthwhile projects and weeds out
speculators,” Antonio said.  Regulators Cautious  “Regulators are being cautious because they don’t want the
recklessness that happened in the U.S. or  China  or even  Europe 
to happen here,” said David Leechiu, country head of Jones Lang
Lasalle Leechiu. Still, “there won’t be a property bubble in
the Philippines in the next three years because household debt
levels are very low.”  Bangko Sentral currently caps banks’ real-estate exposure
 at 20 percent  of total lending, with some exclusions. With the
additional information now required from lenders, the central
bank will decide if its policy needs to be reviewed, Espenilla
said.  The central bank said Aug. 23 it will expand reporting of
real-estate exposure to include real-estate projects and
“ancillary services like buying and selling, rental and
management of real estate properties.” The scope is broader
than the previous ruling, which limited real-estate activities
to the acquisition, construction and improvement of property, it
said.  Makati Prices  East West Banking Corp. (EW)  President Antonio Moncupa and
Moody’s Investors Service welcomed the central bank’s August
directive. Leechiu said it could slow lending for some projects
and make it harder for small Philippine developers to meet
demand.  Prices in the Makati business district rose 2.3 percent to
an average of 284,130 pesos ($6,819.39) a square meter in the
first quarter from the previous quarter and may climb to a
record 300,000 pesos by the end of March, 2013, according to a
 quarterly report  by Colliers International UK Plc. In Fort
Bonifacio, which is adjacent to Makati, values rose 28 percent
as of March from a year earlier, it said.  “Prices are going up and before you know it, everybody
thinks they could be a developer,” Moncupa said in a Sept. 6
interview. The central bank is “trying to manage the exposure
of the banking system to real estate. That should also correct
any speculative activity.”  Cheap Credit  Cheap credit at the end of the last decade inflated
property prices, leading to housing bubbles in countries from
the U.S. to Ireland and Spain. The collapse of those markets
contributed to the global economic downturn, prompting the
world’s biggest central banks to stimulate their economies and
flood markets with liquidity. That money has found its way into
 emerging markets , pushing down borrowing costs and driving up
housing prices.  The number of condominium units built in the Philippines
rose 48 percent to 33,000 last year as construction of 50,000
units started, Colliers said in its report. The PSE Property
 Index (PPROP) , which tracks developers including Ayala Land and  SM
Development Corp. (SMDC) , has risen 35 percent this year, surpassing
the 19 percent increase in the  Hang Seng Property Index. (HSP)   Philippine banks’ loans and investments in the  property
sector  rose to a record at the end of March to 538.1 billion
pesos, 21 percent higher than a year earlier and 3.8 percent
more than the previous quarter, central bank data show. Real
estate made up 15.2 percent of lenders’ total loans in the first
quarter, rising from 14.5 percent a quarter earlier, according
to the central bank.  25,000 Homes  Ayala Land plans to start construction of a record 25,000
homes this year, 20 percent more than last year, Chief Executive
Officer Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala said in an interview in
March. It boosted 2012 spending to 47 billion pesos from an
earlier budget of 37 billion pesos, Ayala Land said in a report
posted on its website last month.  The central bank’s latest moves “are credit positive for
Philippine banks with substantial real estate lending because
they will prompt the banks to tighten credit controls,” Moody’s
said on Aug. 30.  Growth in construction accelerated to 10 percent in the
second quarter from 3.6 percent in the first three months of
2012, according to government data. Cement demand rose 25.5
percent during the period, data show.  “More bullish activities have been noted with respect to
the high-rise condominium market,” Guinigundo said. “When you
are now into your second or third or fourth house which is
investment-related and you’re having some problems amortizing,
then you can forgo the fourth or the third. And the banks would
end up with bad assets. That’s what we want to prevent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  