-- Romney Health Plan to Keep Pre-Existing Condition Coverage
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-09-09T22:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/pre-existing-conditions-coverage-to-stay-in-romney-s-health-plan.html
Mitt Romney , the Republican
presidential nominee, said he would keep health insurance
coverage for people with pre-existing conditions even as he vows
to replace President  Barack Obama ’s signature health-care law on
the first day of his presidency.  “I’m not getting rid of all of health-care reform. Of
course there are a number of things that I like in health-care
reform that I’m going to put in place,” Romney said on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” today. “One is to make sure that those with
pre-existing conditions can get coverage.”  The Obama administration contends that requiring insurers
to cover those people, without also requiring almost everyone to
have insurance, would cause prices to soar.  Nobel prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman , a professor at
 Princeton University  and columnist for the  New York  Times, wrote
today that such a requirement, without an insurance mandate,
would lead healthy people to opt out of insurance, leaving
behind “a high risk, high cost pool.”  “It’s not as easy as keeping some of the pieces” without
a mandate that individuals obtain insurance, Obama campaign
spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  told reporters. Romney has a “credibility
issue” and needs to explain his proposal with details and math,
she said.  Massachusetts Plan  Romney, who as Massachusetts governor enacted his own fix
to the state’s health-care system, said that he would also allow
for “individuals to have policies that cover their family up to
whatever age they might like,” and also be able to buy
insurance on their own instead of “only being able to get it on
a tax-advantage basis through their company.”  Romney once again defended a Medicare overhaul that would
give future retirees a subsidy to buy private insurance rather
than have all their health needs covered by the government.  Romney’s vision is close to the one his running mate,
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  pushed through the U.S.
House. Romney said his plan is similar to the current “Medicare
Advantage” and dismissed criticism that the plan didn’t drive
down costs.  “Look, competition works,” Romney said.  Romney’s wife, Ann, joined part of the program and said
that she wants to dispel the notion that she and her husband
don’t know what it is like “to struggle.”  Multiple Sclerosis  “The thing that I want to communicate to people, and that
it’s so important that people understand, is that Mitt and I do
recognize that we have not had a financial struggle in our
lives,” Ann said. “But I want people to believe in their
hearts that we know what it is like to struggle.”  She said that her diagnosis of multiple sclerosis has been
her “teacher.”  “It has been at times a cruel teacher,” she said on the
NBC program. “But it has also been a great gift in my life
because what it has done, it has taught me to be more
compassionate and caring for others that are suffering. It’s
ridiculous to think that you can’t have empathy for somebody
that’s struggling.”  On a lighter note, Romney said that he laughed at actor
 Clint Eastwood ’s surprise speech during the Republican
convention in Tampa Florida. Eastwood delivered an
improvisational and imaginary conversation with President Obama,
represented by an empty chair.  “I was laughing at Clint Eastwood. Look, to have him get
up and speak on my behalf was a great thrill,” Romney said.
“You don’t expect to have a guy like Clint Eastwood get up and,
you know, read some speech of a teleprompter like a politician.
You expect him to speak from the heart and that’s exactly what
he did.”  Romney also said that former president  Bill Clinton ’s
address to the Democratic convention in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , elevated it in “a lot of ways.” He also jokingly
said that if “the constitution weren’t this way,” Clinton
could “perhaps” be elected president today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  