-- Protesters Seek Openness at Pacific-Region Trade Pact Talks
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-09T23:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/protesters-seek-openness-at-pacific-region-trade-pact-talks-1-.html
Dozens of groups including the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and International Brotherhood of Teamsters
met with negotiators during Pacific-region trade talks in
Leesburg, Virginia, as protesters called for more openness in
the discussions.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office conducted a
“stakeholders’ forum” yesterday for interested groups at the
latest round of negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership,
an accord that would create the biggest trade zone in U.S.
history.  About 150 representatives from some of those groups,
including the  Sierra Club ,  Public Citizen  and the  Communications
Workers of America  gathered on a grassy hillside after the
event, where they called for proposals to be made public and
chanted “Flush the TPP!”  “We want negotiators to release the text, to tell people
what they’re proposing in our names,” Arthur Stamoulis,
executive director of the Washington-based Citizens Trade
Campaign and an organizer of the protest, said in an interview.  Transparency has become an issue of the Pacific-region
talks, with consumer, labor and environmental groups siding with
some U.S. lawmakers who want participants to make their
positions public. U.S. officials have said they will hold a
public comment period and congressional review after talks are
complete, in line with their policy for recent trade deals
including those with Colombia, Panama and South Korea.  Virginia Round  Representatives from Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,
 New Zealand , Peru, Singapore, Vietnam and the U.S. are meeting
through Sept. 15 in Leesburg, about 40 miles (64 kilometers)
from Washington. The group next month will be expanded to
include Mexico and Canada.  The Trans-Pacific agreement is being drafted as a model for
future pacts as President  Barack Obama ’s administration seeks to
double U.S. exports by the end of 2014.  “The United States can generate even more exports and
support good jobs by aggressively employing trade rules to pry
open key Asia-Pacific markets,” according to a  report  to be
released this week by Third-Way, a Washington-based think tank
that participated in today’s event. The U.S. health-care and
automotive industries are among those suited to sell to  Asia ’s
growing market, it said.  The stakeholder gathering in Leesburg was the largest of
its kind during the 14 rounds of the Trans-Pacific Partnership
talks, which the U.S. has participated in since 2010,  Carol Guthrie , a USTR spokeswoman, said. The event allows participants
to have “substantive, two-way discussions,” she said.  Group Presentations  Sixty groups, including the environmental organization
Friends of the Earth and the American Automotive Policy Council,
representing  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC, made presentations at the event.  The auto industry group wants Japan to open its market to
more international competition before being considered for
participation in the trade pact. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce
and the  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America ,
both Washington-based industry groups, want to ensure that the
accord contains strong copyright and patent protections.  Other organizations participating in today’s event included
the  National Association of Manufacturers  and the Cattle Council
of Australia, which is seeking greater access to markets in
Mexico and Canada when those nations join the talks.  Clinton Comments  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking yesterday at
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum in Vladivostok,
Russia, noted the “intense diplomacy” under way at the TPP
talks.  “This free-trade agreement is central to America’s
economic vision in Asia,” she said, according to a transcript
provided by the State Department. “By reducing market
distortions and leveling the playing field, the TPP will raise
the bar for competition in a way that benefits every economy in
the region, whether it is an active partner in the TPP or not.”  In a report to APEC leaders yesterday, trade ministers from
the countries participating in the TPP talks said “We have made
encouraging headway toward completion of the agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  