-- Putin Warns EU That Gazprom Antitrust Probe May Cause Losses
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-09-09T08:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/putin-warns-eu-that-gazprom-antitrust-probe-may-cause-losses-1-.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
warned the European Union it should resolve an antitrust probe
into  Russia ’s gas-export monopoly,  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , to avoid
“losses on both sides.”  The 27-member EU is trying to shift the responsibility for
subsidizing former Soviet bloc EU members onto Russia because of
economic weakness, Putin said today at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok. The EU on Sept. 4 announced
that it’s investigating Gazprom’s long-term gas supply contracts
in central and eastern Europe.  “This is not a constructive approach,” Putin told
reporters. “We are counting on getting out of this situation
through a businesslike and friendly dialogue between our
economic entities and the European Commission without losses for
both sides.”  Gazprom, the world’s largest natural-gas exporter, supplies
about a quarter of European gas. It faces a potential fine of
$14.5 billion as companies found to violate EU competition rules
can be fined as much as 10 percent of annual revenue. Gazprom
fell 1.8 percent on Sept. 5, the day after the announcement,
which was made after trading hours in Moscow. It was the biggest
decline since July 31.  The European Commission is investigating whether Gazprom
imposed unfair prices by linking natural gas and oil prices,
preventing gas from being traded between countries and hindering
the diversification of supply.  EU Raids  Gazprom and customers including  RWE AG (RWE) ,  E.ON AG (EOAN) ’s Ruhrgas
and Hungary units,  OMV AG (OMV)  and  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe I
Gazownictwo SA (PGN)  in Poland were raided by EU officials last year
to uncover information on prices and supplies.  While the  Soviet Union  provided subsidized gas to its
Communist satellites in central and eastern Europe, Russia now
delivers the fuel under market-based, long-term contracts, Putin
said.  “At a time of crisis there is a desire to shift the burden
onto other countries, this kind of temptation arises,” the
Russian leader said. “United Europe wants to keep its political
influence and for us to pay a little for that.”  Gazprom said its pricing policies were “in full
conformity” with legal standards applied by other natural gas
producers and exporters and that it  “scrupulously abides” by
international and national laws in the regions where it
operates.  While Gazprom has yielded to pricing demands from German
and French customers, it has conceded little to countries
further east, which are largely dependent on Russian gas,
according to Patrick Heren, a London-based consultant.  Gazprom estimates export revenue from sales to Europe will
rise this year to $61 billion from $57 billion last year,
approaching the record $64 billion in 2008, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer  Alexander Medvedev  said on June 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Vladivostok at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  