-- Qandil Says Egypt to Sell Sukuk After New Law Is Approved
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-09-09T12:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/qandil-says-egypt-to-sell-sukuk-after-new-law-is-approved-1-.html
Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said
 Egypt  plans to sell sukuk, or Islamic bonds, after new
legislation on the debt instrument is passed within three
months, a step aimed at meeting the  budget deficit .  “This is something we want to do to enlarge the
engagement” of investors who “want to use this tool but are
currently unable to,” Qandil said. After the legislation is
prepared, “I hope they will be ready with one or two
issuances,” he said, referring to the  Finance Ministry .  Qandil, speaking in an interview in Cairo, said he had no
further details on the possible issuance, which would be used
along with sales of traditional domestic debt and international
aid to meet the fiscal year’s budget deficit of 135 billion
Egyptian pounds ($22 billion), or 7.6 percent of economic
output. A loan agreement of as much as $4.8 billion with the
 International Monetary Fund  is expected to be completed by the
end of November, he said.  The deficit has been widening as economic growth slows.
Egypt is targeting 4 percent to 4.5 percent growth in the fiscal
year that ends in June, Qandil said. The economy probably grew
between 2 percent and 2.5 percent in the past fiscal year,
Planning Minister Ashraf Al Arabi said Sept. 3.  Economic Downturn  The government is looking to revive an economy that has
been hurt by political unrest since former president  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted in February 2011. Since then, borrowing costs
have surged by about 50 percent and reserves plunged by more
than half.  Still, the country has started to show signs of recovery
after IMF loan talks were restarted last month and  Qatar  pledged
$2 billion in the form of a central bank deposit. The finance
ministry sold  three-month treasury-bills  today at an average
yield of 13.75 percent, the lowest level since November.  The premium investors demand to hold Egypt’s dollar-
denominated debt has plunged 208 basis points, or 2.08
percentage points, to 418 basis points since Mohamed Mursi was
declared the country’s first freely elected president on June
24, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG Egypt Sovereign
Spread Index. That compares with an eight-basis point increase
for the Middle East average.  The government plans to liberalize the power distribution
industry, Qandil said, by allowing the private sector to buy
 natural gas  either locally or from abroad, build and operate
 power plants , and use state grids to sell electricity.  Natural Gas  BP Plc is due to start preliminary work this week on a
project to produce natural gas from a deep-water deposit in
Egypt’s Mediterranean basin, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said Sept. 3. The company, which estimates Egypt’s gas
reserves to be  Africa ’s third-largest, is committed to investing
$10 billion in gas exploration in the country over the next five
years, he said.  Qandil said the company’s investment is an example of his
government’s intent on encouraging the participation of the
private sector in the energy sector.  Egypt also plans to honor a Mubarak-era agreement for
Qualified Industrial Zones, allowing Egyptian textiles producers
to export to the U.S. duty-free under the condition they contain
Israeli components, he said.  “A lot of people are making good business out of that,”
Qandil said. “We want to make sure we do the right thing for
them to flourish.”  Egypt doesn’t intend to devalue the local currency and will
continue “proper management of the pound,” Qandil said. “For
those businessmen that are waiting for the pound to devalue
before getting into the market, they can get into the market
now.”  The pound, subject to a managed float, has lost less than 5
percent since January 2011, outperforming the currencies of
other  emerging markets  such as  India  and  South Africa . The
currency was little changed at 6.0919 a dollar on Sept. 7 after
reaching 6.1084 on Sept. 4, the lowest level since December
2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  