-- Ratio, Delek Jump on Leviathan Investment Offers: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-09-09T14:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/ratio-delek-jump-on-leviathan-investment-offers-tel-aviv-mover.html
  Ratio Oil Exploration 1992 LP (RATIL) ,
 Delek Drilling-LP (DEDRL)  and  Avner Oil Exploration LLP (AVNRL) , partners in
Israel’s largest natural gas field, rallied after the gas
explorers said they got offers from “leading” international
energy companies to invest in the Leviathan project.  Ratio, a partner in the Leviathan gas field, rose 7.9
percent to 0.288 shekel, the highest close since July 2. Delek
Drilling and Avner, also partners, advanced 7  percent  and 6.1 
percent , respectively. The TA-Oil & Gas Index rose 4.9 percent,
the most since Oct. 10, while the benchmark TA-25 Index advanced
1.5 percent.  The companies said they’re studying offers from
international energy companies for an investment of as much as
30 percent of the rights to the licenses and may enter
negotiations, according to a filing with the Tel-Aviv Stock
Exchange today.  Israel  should allow as much as 500 billion cubic
meters (18 trillion cubic feet) of natural gas to be exported, a
government panel said Aug. 29.  “The panel’s recommendation has opened the doors to
foreign investors as it has lifted uncertainty about exports,”
Eran Yunger, an analyst at Migdal Capital Markets, said today by
phone. “The investment will allow the companies to capitalize
on their investment and to further develop the field.”  Significant Supply  At least 760 billion cubic meters of gas has been
discovered off Israel’s Mediterranean coast, giving the country
the opportunity to become a gas exporter. The Tamar and Dalit
fields are due to start production next year and are big enough
to supply the country with gas for two decades. The larger
Leviathan field is estimated to hold as much as much as 480
billion cubic meters of gas, more than the U.K.’s remaining
reserves.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s biggest natural-gas producer, said
on Aug. 20 it’s continuing to study opportunities to participate
in energy projects in Israel.  “The news of a foreign investor is injecting optimism to
the whole sector,” Yunger said.  Isramco Negev 2 LP (ISRAL) , a partner in the Tamar gas field,
gained 2.8 percent to 0.472 shekel.  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , which has
stakes in Delek Drilling and Avner, rose 5.9 percent, the most
since Nov. 13, to 586.5 shekels.  Delek Drilling and Avner each hold a 22.67 percent stake in
the Leviathan project, and Ratio has a 15 percent stake. Nobel
Energy Mediterranean Ltd. owns a 39.66 percent stake, today’s
filing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  