-- Reinsurance Executives Say M&A Appetite Subdued Amid Crisis
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-09-10T09:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/reinsurance-executives-say-m-a-appetite-is-subdued-amid-crisis.html
Executives from reinsurers
including  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  and Allianz Re said the industry’s
appetite for mergers and acquisitions will be subdued this year
because of the financial crisis.  “Today’s buyers are very pragmatic and analytical about
deals and aren’t prepared to offer unreasonably high prices,
disappointing the seller, which ends in very long discussions,”
Thierry Leger, a member of the group management board at Zurich-
based Swiss Re, said at a roundtable of reinsurance executives
organized by  Bloomberg News  in Zurich. “Otherwise some of the
assets would already now have been sold.”  Reinsurers sit on record capital buffers, reluctant to
spend the money on underwriting where they’re not getting the
price they need for it to be profitable. That’s paving the way
for possible share buybacks or higher dividends. Global capital
reached $480 billion at the end of June, according to a  report 
by Aon Benfield, the reinsurance broker of  Aon Plc. (AON)   “Generally, share buybacks or dividends would be better
than exposing capital to underpriced risk,” said Amer Ahmed,
chief executive officer of Allianz Re, the reinsurance arm of
Munich-based Allianz SE,  Europe ’s biggest insurer.  Munich Re , Swiss Re and Hannover Re, Europe’s biggest
reinsurers, are using last year’s record catastrophes including
the earthquake and tsunami that hit  Japan  and the flooding in
 Thailand  to push through higher prices for their coverage. At
the same time, capital increased and has returned to the peak
levels seen in 2010.  Divestment Pressure  “Companies under pressure make divestments, as it is a
source of getting capital,” Swiss Re’s Leger said. The
reinsurer would prefer deploying capital in its business rather
than spending it on M&A and buybacks, he said.  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR) , based in  Bermuda , agreed last month
to acquire Luxembourg-based  Flagstone Reinsurance Holdings SA. (FSR) 
Mid-size reinsurers have been combining to diversify their
business mix and enable the companies to take on larger risks
from primary insurers. Validus last year was among bidders for
Transatlantic Holdings Inc., which was purchased by Alleghany
Corp. In 2009, Validus bought IPC Holdings Ltd.  Organic Growth  “Flagstone Re was extremely tempting as you could buy them
book below value,”  Ulrich Wallin , chief executive officer of
Hannover Re, the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, said at a
press conference in  Monte Carlo  today. “We also looked at it,
and while it was financially attractive, for us strategically it
wasn’t attractive at all. We are not pursuing major acquisitions
in non-life reinsurance as we already have a good organic growth
in the business.”  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  plans to seek a buyer for its
U.S. life-reinsurance business as CEO  Mario Greco  works to
restore the profitability of Italy’s biggest insurer, people
familiar with the process said last month. Generali has hired
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  to advise on a sale of Generali USA Life
Reassurance Co. and the unit may be worth $800 million to $1
billion, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the process is private.  In another deal focusing on life reinsurance, Paris-based
 Scor SE (SCR)  agreed last year to buy the mortality risk reinsurance
business of Aegon NV’s Transamerica unit for $912.5 million.
 Hannover Re ,  Germany ’s second-biggest reinsurer, agreed in 2009
to take over Scottish Re Group’s business of reinsuring U.S.
life-reinsurance policies written by  ING Groep NV. (INGA)   ‘Opportunities’  “There is healthy pressure from shareholders to think
about what to do with the capital if companies cannot deploy
it,” Swiss Re’s Leger said. “We believe strongly that we can
deploy it. We see opportunities.”  Swiss Re reported last month that profit fell 91 percent to
$83 million in the second quarter as the Zurich-based reinsurer
booked a $1 billion loss in the quarter after agreeing to sell
its U.S. Admin Re holding company to  Prudential Plc. (PRU)  The company
has said it plans to double the size of its corporate solutions
business, which sells direct insurance to companies, by 2015.  “With less-than-attractive valuations for many reinsurers,
we expect a very active capital-management strategy with a
number of share buybacks,” David Priebe, vice chairman of  Guy
Carpenter , the reinsurance broker of  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC) , said
in Monte Carlo. “If you’re not trading above book value, it’s
difficult to make an acquisition accretive.”  The  Stoxx 600 Insurance Index (SXIP)  is currently valued at 0.86
times its companies’  book value , or firms’ assets minus
liabilities. That compares with an average book value of 1.20
for members of the comparable  utilities  index and 1.48 for the
 telecoms  benchmark.  At the same time, investors may prefer to put their money
in other industries, said Hans-Joachim Guenther, chief
underwriting officer and head of reinsurance for Europe and Asia
at Bermuda-based Endurance Specialty Holdings, Ltd.  “We run a pretty volatile business model and our aim is to
remain capitalized at a level sufficient to sustain the next
foreseeable big hit,” he said. “At the moment, our industry is
not overly sexy to investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  