-- Retail Sales Probably Rose in August: Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-09-10T15:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/retail-sales-probably-increased-in-july-u-s-economy-preview.html
(Corrects month in headline of story published Sept. 9.)  Retail sales probably improved for a
second month in August as consumers overcame a lack of jobs and
stagnant wages, economists said before reports this week.  A 0.7 percent increase in purchases would follow a 0.8
percent July advance, according to the median forecast of 66
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  ahead of Commerce
Department figures on Sept. 14. Other reports may show inflation
accelerated and manufacturing stagnated.  Rising food and fuel prices and disappointing gains in
payrolls may further damage household finances, making it a
challenge for retailers such as  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to keep
luring customers in the second half of 2012. Widespread labor-
market weakness bolsters the case for Federal Reserve policy
makers to take additional action to spur growth when they gather
this week.  “It’s going to be difficult,” said  Gus Faucher , a senior
economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh,
whose retail sales forecast matched the median estimate.
“Income is basically flat, and at the same time people are
spending more for food and energy. If job growth remains flat
like this, we are going to see weak growth in  consumer
spending .”  The economy added 96,000 workers last month, less than the
130,000 projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, figures from the Labor Department showed last
week. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.1 percent after 368,000
Americans left the workforce. More than 12.5 million Americans
remain unemployed.  ‘Grave Concern’  The jobs report underscored the “grave concern” about the
labor market expressed by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  during a
speech at a symposium at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , late last month.
It also bolsters the case for more monetary easing when policy
makers announce their next move on Sept. 13.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had its biggest weekly gain
since June as the slowdown in hiring fueled bets the Fed will
add more stimulus. The  S&P 500  climbed 2.2 percent over the four
days ended Sept. 7 to close at a four-year high of 1,437.92.  Back-to-school promotions and cooler temperatures in the
Northeast drew shoppers into stores in the second half of
August, pushing sales higher, according to Retail Metrics, based
in Swampscott,  Massachusetts .  Same-store sales rose 2.7 percent, beating the average
estimate for a 1.8 percent gain, the research company reported
last week. Excluding drugstores, sales in August rose 5.9
percent, beating estimates for a 4.2 percent increase. Purchases
increased 4.4 percent in July.  Rising Sales  Sales at Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer,
climbed 10 percent last month from the same period in 2011.
Macy’s, owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s department
stores, posted a 4.1 percent gain.  “Consumption and employment and income are making
relatively moderate kinds of progress,” said Steven Wieting,
managing director at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in  New York .
“But we’re coming back off a very deep trough and the recovery
is only partial.”  The cost of living is projected to rise by 0.6 percent in
August, the biggest jump since June 2009, after being little
changed the prior month, according to the median in a Bloomberg
survey. The Labor Department will release the consumer price
gauge on Friday.  Prices excluding food and fuel rose 0.2 percent after a 0.1
percent gain in July, the survey showed.  “We have a very fragile consumer environment right now in
the U.S.,”  Brian Cornell , chief executive officer of  PepsiCo
Inc. (PEP) ’s Americas foods business, said at a Sept. 5 conference.
“Unemployment remains very, very high. Food-stamp usage
continues to grow. And we’ve seen quite a bit of volatility in
fuel.”  Manufacturing Cools  Manufacturing, a pillar of the recovery from the recession,
is now showing signs of stress as global growth slows. Factory
jobs had their biggest decline in two years, last week’s payroll
report showed. Factories also reduced the employee workweek.  The drop in employment and hours means output probably
cooled. Industrial production was little changed in August after
four months of gains, another report a Fed report on Sept. 14
may show according to economists surveyed.  A jump in crude  oil prices  that began in July probably
contributed to a widening of the trade deficit, economists
forecast a Commerce Department will show Sept. 11. The  gap 
climbed to $44.4 billion from $42.9 billion in June, according
to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  