-- Samaras’s Coalition Partners Balk at Cuts as Troika Disagrees
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-09-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/samaras-s-coalition-partners-balk-at-cuts-as-troika-disagrees.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras  failed to secure agreement from his coalition partners
on 11.5 billion euros ($14.7 billion) of spending cuts required
by the country’s lenders to release funds needed to keep the
country in the euro.  Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis, whose party is one
of the three in Samaras’s coalition government, said no decision
had been taken on the package and that poorer Greeks must be
protected from more austerity. The three leaders agreed to meet
again on Sept. 12, two days before euro area finance ministers
meet to be briefed on Greek progress.  “The recession is deep and if these measures aren’t
accompanied by growth measures, they will be ineffective,”
Kouvelis said after the meeting with Samaras and Pasok leader
 Evangelos Venizelos  in Athens yesterday. “Our European partners
need to know that Greeks can’t take anymore. Nothing can be
taken for granted.”  Samaras has said his two-year package of spending cuts
contains unfair and painful decisions that are necessary to
restore credibility and keep the country in the euro area. With
his New Democracy party holding just 129 seats in the 300-seat
chamber, he relies on Pasok’s 33 seats and Democratic Left’s 17
to secure parliamentary approval.  Agreement on the cuts, which must be approved by the so-
called troika of inspectors from the euro area,  European Central
Bank  and  International Monetary Fund , may allow the release of a
31 billion-euro payment that will mainly go to recapitalize the
nation’s banks and boost liquidity in a cash-starved economy
undergoing a fifth year of recession.  Final Phase  Venizelos told reporters that work on securing agreement
was in its final phase and that the troika, who met with Finance
Minister Yannis Stournaras yesterday, hadn’t accepted all the
proposed measures. A Pasok party official who asked not to be
identified said the troika disputed about 2 billion euros of the
proposed measures.  Samaras is due to meet the troika representatives at 11:45
a.m. today. They will also meet with Venizelos today.  Lenders to  Greece  held back funds pledged under two rescue
packages totaling 240 billion euros in the wake of inconclusive
elections in May and June, which derailed reforms, halted state-
asset sales, and stoked concerns about the nation’s future in
the 17-nation euro.  European leaders and officials including EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  have
underlined to Samaras that the country must show it is
implementing commitments made earlier this year to secure a
second rescue package before any discussion can be held on
lightening the terms of the program. Greece has said it wants to
spread the austerity measures over four years rather than two.  “The issue we have is for the troika to accept the
measures,” Simos Kedikoglou, a government spokesman, told
reporters. “We have to succeed. We have to agree on measures
with the troika that are acceptable and effective and produce
the desired financial results.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  