-- Sanchez’s Touchdowns Eclipse Tebow’s Wildcat as Jets Crush Bills
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-09-10T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/sanchez-s-touchdowns-eclipse-tebow-s-wildcat-as-jets-beat-bills.html
Mark Sanchez ’s three-touchdown game
overshadowed Tim Tebow’s New York debut as the Jets beat the
 Buffalo Bills  48-28 in the National Football League team’s
season opener.  Tebow, the Jets’ backup quarterback, lined up as a tight
end on the team’s first offensive play, a prelude to a game in
which he attempted no passes, ran five times for 11 yards and
operated primarily in the wildcat formation.  Sanchez completed 19 of 27 passes yesterday for 266 yards,
including a career-high 184 in the first half as the Jets opened
a 27-7 lead at MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey .
Coach Rex Ryan said the offensive line gave Sanchez great
protection and that only a first-series interception on a shovel
pass marred the starting quarterback’s day.  “We wish he had that one back, because he had one heck of
a day,” Ryan said. “It was a tremendous day for Mark.”  It was a record-setting start to the season for the Jets,
who broke the franchise-record of 41 points for an opening game
as their defense intercepted Bills quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick
three times, returning one for a touchdown, and Jeremy Kerley
returned a Buffalo punt for another score.  Sanchez bounced back after his early interception as
Darrelle Revis intercepted a throw by Bills quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick to Stevie Johnson. The turnover set up a 12-yard
touchdown pass from Sanchez to Kerley. Kyle Wilson then
intercepted Fitzpatrick’s throw to  David Nelson , resulting in a
33-yard touchdown pass from Sanchez to  Stephen Hill , one of the
rookie’s two touchdown catches.  After the Jets’ defense forced a Bills punt on the next
series, Kerley returned it 68 yards for a touchdown, the second-
longest punt return score in team history. It was the first time
a Jets player had a touchdown catch and a punt return touchdown
in the same game.  Antonio Cromartie  returned a third Fitzpatrick
interception for a touchdown to start the second half and the
game was never close again.  Offensive Line  Sanchez joined Ryan in crediting the offensive line for
holding off Buffalo’s pass rush, along with his receivers and
the defense.  “That’s just a great day of execution,” he told
reporters. “We’ve still got a lot of work to do, but I’m proud
of our effort.”  Bills’ defensive end Mario Williams, who joined Buffalo as
a free agent from Houston during the offseason, said Sanchez
didn’t waste time in the pocket. The Bills were unable to sack
Sanchez.  “He was getting back and getting the ball out,” said
Williams, who was the first overall draft pick in 2006. “He had
good timing with his receivers. Hats off to him, he had a good
performance.”  Tebow vs Sanchez  Sanchez’s three-touchdown game came after an offseason
spent competing for attention with his backup. The Jets acquired
Tebow in a March trade with Denver, a day after  Peyton Manning 
joined the Broncos, ending a two-week frenzy by several teams to
sign the four-time NFL most valuable player. Sanchez signed a
five-year, $58 million contract extension in March with more
than $20 million guaranteed in the first two years, according to
the New York Post.  The Broncos, 1-4 last season before Tebow became the
starter, had reached the playoffs at 8-8 and won their first
postseason game in six years on an 80-yard touchdown pass from
Tebow to  Demaryius Thomas .  Tebow’s late-game heroics helped him increase an already
large fan base that followed him from his days at the University
of  Florida , where he won two national titles and a Heisman
Trophy as college football’s top player in 2007. He entered the
NFL two seasons ago as the 25th overall draft pick.  Favorite Athlete  Tebow was named America’s favorite pro athlete in an ESPN
poll this year and his jersey was the second-best seller from
April 2011 to March behind Green Bay Packers quarterback  Aaron Rodgers . It was the fifth-most popular jersey the previous year,
in which Tebow started three games.  Ryan said after the trade that Tebow would operate the
Jets’ wildcat package, a formation that uses run-or-pass options
to try to confuse defenses.  Tebow lined up as a tight end on the game’s first play,
when Sanchez threw incomplete to Hill. Tebow handed the ball off
to Joe McKnight for a 3-yard gain three plays later and ran the
wildcat several times throughout the contest. He also recovered
an onside kick attempt in the fourth quarter, which he said was
his first since his freshman year at Florida.  Diversionary Tactic  Ryan said the team’s use of the wildcat formation in this
game was mostly diversionary, forcing the Bills to practice
defending it instead of concentrating on other things.  “They did a nice job about the wildcat, but it’s something
they had to prepare for,” Ryan said. “As much time as that
team spent on the wildcat, maybe it took away from something
else.”  Tebow said he felt comfortable while in the game and looked
forward to playing more and better as the season progressed.  “I feel like I was able to go in there and do some good
things,” he told reporters in the locker room. “I know it’s
something they probably had to plan for.”  Bills coach Chan Gailey said the Jets’ use of Tebow wasn’t
a surprise because the team spent time preparing for it.  “We had seen it all and I thought we contained that
package pretty well,” he said.  Sanchez called Tebow “an explosive guy,” and said fans
will see his role on offense increase as the season continues.  “That’s just the tip of the iceberg,” he said. “We’ve
barely seen anything yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  