-- Santorini Volcano Fills With Most Magma Since Last Eruption
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-09-10T08:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/santorini-volcano-fills-up-with-magma-most-since-last-eruption.html
Santorini volcano, whose eruption
3,600 years ago wiped out Minoan settlements on the Greek island
and in Crete, has begun to fill with molten rock and expand the
most since its last eruption from 1939 to 1941.  The chamber of liquid rock, or magma, beneath the volcano
expanded by 10 million to 20 million cubic meters from January
2011 to this April, a University of Oxford-led team wrote in the
journal  Nature Geoscience . That’s as much as 15 times the size
of  London ’s Olympic Stadium, the university said separately.  Santorini, a popular destination for  cruise ships  including
 Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  and  Carnival Corp. (CCL) , was devastated
by the Minoan eruption and now forms a steep-walled arc in the
Aegean Sea. While no imminent eruption is suggested by the data,
it can’t be ruled out, the authors said.  Studies at the volcano “strongly suggest that the present
episode of volcanic inflation is the only significant one since
the eruption of 1939-1941, or shortly thereafter,” the
researchers wrote. “It would be unwise to assume that the
present state of unrest will not end in an eruption.”  The expansion of liquid rock has pushed Santorini up by 8
to 14 centimeters (3 to 5.5 inches), according to the
university. The scientists used satellite radar images and
Global Positioning System data to calculate the shift.  Volcanic Cycle  Santorini alternates between explosive eruptions that occur
every 10,000 to 30,000 years and smaller, more frequent dome-
forming eruptions separated by as little as 14 years, according
to the paper. The volcano had its last “significant” eruption
about 70 years ago, the authors said.  “If the present rate of inflation were to continue for a
small number of years, the intruded volume would be equivalent
to the volumes of previous eruptions,” the researchers said.  The volume of molten rock that’s accumulated since the
start of 2011 amounts to as much as 50 percent of the amount
expelled during Santorini’s smaller eruptions, they wrote. The
increased activity began with three small earthquakes in January
2011 and has subsided since April, they said in the statement.  Others say that’s a sign an eruption may not be imminent.  All anomalous tremors, deformation of land, chemical
releases and heat measurements have subsided this year, Georges
Vougioukalakis, a volcanologist with the Institute of Geology
and Mineral Exploration in  Athens , said today in an e-mail.  “Now all registered activity is that of the ‘normal’
dormant state of the volcano,” Vougioukalakis said. He wasn’t
an author on the paper today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  