-- Scrap-Steel Futures Debut on CME as Global Demand Gains
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-09-10T12:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/scrap-steel-futures-debut-on-cme-as-demand-gains-24-since-09.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the owner of the
world’s biggest futures exchange, is betting that a surge in
demand for recycled steel and price swings will drive trading in
its new scrap futures.  The contract will be the first ferrous-scrap futures
available to the U.S. steel industry, according to Chicago-based
 CME Group . The market opened yesterday on the company’s Globex
electronic platform. It will complement hot-rolled coil steel
derivatives that the exchange already offers, said Youngjin
Chang, the director of metals research and product development
at CME Group.  The CME and the London Metal Exchange started steel futures
in 2008 amid concern from producers including U.S. Steel Corp.
and ArcelorMittal that it would fuel speculation. World demand
for scrap steel this year will be 530 million metric tons, 24
percent more than in 2009, according to Ken Hoffman, an analyst
at Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey . The size of the
global crude-steel market is about 1.5 billion tons, he said.  “Historically, there has been skepticism from  steel mills 
and others in the industry about using derivatives,” said Joe
Pickard, the chief economist at the Institute of Scrap Recycling
Industries Inc., a Washington-based trade group. “There might
be more interest today than in years past though, because with
the volatility we’ve seen, people may be more willing to use
them for hedging.”  The contract will be settled against American Metal
Market’s U.S. Midwest Ferrous Scrap Index. No bids, offers or
trades were reported after trading started at 5 p.m. Chicago
time yesterday. The  price  of shredded-steel scrap surged 20
percent last month after slumping 6.7 percent in July, according
to Steel Business Briefing data. The commodity declined 11
percent to $407.50 a long ton (1.02 metric tons) this year.  Interest Rates  CME offers contracts in currencies, equity indexes,
 interest rates , energy, agriculture and precious metals. The LME
handles about 80 percent of trade in industrial-metal futures,
setting global prices for metals from copper to aluminum to
nickel.  Nucor Corp., the largest U.S. steelmaker by market value,
said in June that lower scrap-steel prices were hurting its
recycling business. Katherine Miller, a spokeswoman at the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company, declined to comment on
the new futures contract.  Schnitzer Steel Industries Inc., a recycler of used steel,
forecast last month quarterly profit that was lower than
analysts’ estimates and said it will cut 300 jobs. Chip Terhune,
a spokesman for the Portland, Oregon-based company, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Scrap Traders  Ferrous-scrap traders accustomed to spot markets may be
reluctant to use futures, said Mark Lewon, the president of Utah
Metal Works, a Salt Lake City-based company recycling scrap.  Steel-billet trading on the LME totaled 5,811 contracts in
June, the lowest since February 2010, bourse data show. Volume
in the exchange’s aluminum contract exceeded 5 million
contracts. Billet is “under scrutiny” and may need “fine-
tuning,” LME Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  said in
June. LME shareholders agreed to a $2.2 billion takeover offer
from Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. in July.  Daily volume in the CME’s domestic hot-rolled coil steel
index futures peaked at 536 contracts in August, compared with
as much as 90,793 for the copper contract traded on the Comex
unit in  New York , bourse data show. Steel derivatives are still
relatively new and there’s a “long-term learning curve,” CME’s
Chang said.  Scrap-steel demand in  China  will increase to 59.2 million
tons this year, almost 50 percent more than in 2008, Bloomberg
Industries data show.  Futures Contracts  “Scrap metal is one of the last few major commodities
without a futures contract, so there’s a big market there that
could be traded,” said Jason Schenker, the president of
Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based consultant. “The
question is whether the players in the market will use the
contract.”  Trading in ferrous derivatives has surged in China. More
than 5.9 million contracts changed hands in the Shanghai Futures
Exchange’s January contract for reinforcement bars, or rebars,
on Sept. 7, bourse data show. The SFE is considering contracts
for  iron ore  and hot-rolled coil.  Trading in iron-ore swaps and options rose to a record 17.8
million tons in August as prices dropped to a two-year low, The
Steel Index, a publisher, said Sept. 4.  The National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd. in  India 
said in July it plans to start trading scrap-steel futures this
year to meet demand for a hedging tool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  