-- Securitization Shouldn’t Be the Government’s Business
-- B y   A m a r   B h i d e
-- 2012-09-09T22:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/securitization-shouldn-t-be-the-government-s-business.html
As we should have learned from the
2008 financial crisis, the mass production of securitized credit
enables reckless borrowing, shortchanges productive businesses
and destabilizes banks. It has been nourished by regulation, not
its inherent economic advantages. Yet officials in  Washington 
continue to favor this top-down misdirection of credit.  To end this bias before it does any more damage, the
federal government needs to get out of the securitization
business altogether.  The infatuation with securitization goes back 25 years. In
1987, Lowell Bryan, a McKinsey & Co. director, argued that
securitized credit would transform banking fundamentals that
hadn’t changed since medieval times. Since then, many
cheerleaders in academia and the financial industry have
extolled the virtues of securitization, arguing that by
combining advances in financial and computing know-how, it
slashes the costs of lending, improves the evaluation and
distribution of risks, makes credit decisions more transparent,
increases liquidity, and so on.  Securitized Everything  Securitization has certainly transformed banking, as Bryan
predicted, and fueled an explosive growth in private borrowing.
Besides mortgages, securitized assets now include  car loans ,
credit-card balances, computer leases, franchise loans, health-
care receivables, intellectual-property cash flows, insurance
receivables, motorcycle loans, mutual-fund receivables,  student
loans , time-share loans, tax liens, taxi-medallion loans and
 David Bowie ’s music royalties. Securitized assets have also
helped build a gigantic over-the-counter  derivatives market  that
was practically nonexistent in 1980.  Yet this transformation has also had serious downsides.
Yes, computer models reduced costs and increased volumes. But in
lending, as opposed to selling widgets, more isn’t at all
better. Bankers have to discriminate between borrowers who can
repay and those who can’t. Securitization models devised by
remote wizards fail for the same reason that  Friedrich Hayek 
argued central planning doesn’t work: They rely on a few
abstract variables, ignoring specifics of time and place. As
with central planning, erroneous models can also lead to
systemic failures.  Securitization discourages lending that can’t be easily
mechanized: Banks lose interest in making loans to small
businesses. Troubled loans end up in needlessly destructive
 foreclosures  or lawsuits because a one-on-one negotiation
between a lender and a borrower is impossible.  It’s one thing to securitize credit that can’t be extended
by a bank. Without railroad bonds there would have been no
railroads. But the issuance of railroad bonds wasn’t
mechanistic: Investors expected underwriters to perform due
diligence on each borrower.  Mechanistic securitization came to predominate largely
because a government hand tilted the scales. A pro-securities
bias -- rooted in a long-standing fear of large banks -- dates
back at least to Civil War-era legislation that limited
nationally chartered banks to a single branch. Since small banks
couldn’t satisfy the credit needs of big businesses, bond
markets expanded to fill the gap as large enterprise became
ubiquitous after World War I.  Fannie and Freddie  But the securitization revolution that really stifled
traditional banking was led by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac . The
government-sponsored agencies paid banks a fee for originating
mortgages that conformed to certain criteria, sparing banks the
expense of in-depth analysis and losses from bad loans. Fannie
and Freddie sold securitized bundles of the mortgages by
suggesting they were as safe as Treasury bonds. Regulators then
encouraged banks to buy the securities.  Capital requirements  for
the residential mortgages that a bank kept on its books were
more than twice those for mortgage-backed securities that had AA
or AAA ratings. So banks were feeding the securitization machine
with loans on one side and scooping up what it produced on the
other.  The Securities and Exchange Commission also played its
part: It formulated rules to protect investors, policed the
trading of the securities and certified the companies that rated
them.  Even so, securitization was felled by the crisis it helped
cause in 2008. And it shows few signs of recovery: The roughly
$128 billion of total asset-backed securities  issued  last year
was about a 10th of the $1.25 trillion issued in 2006, and more
securities are now being retired than issued.  Unfortunately, officials in Washington seem bent on pumping
securitization back up. The  Federal Reserve  has bought hundreds
of billions of dollars of mortgage securities under its “credit
easing” policy, and its staff economists have proposed a
permanent insurance program to cover every form of securitized
credit. Mortgages securitized by Fannie and Freddie account for
a higher proportion of home lending than ever before. The risk-
retention rules in the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul aim to
reassure buyers of mortgage-backed securities.  To fundamentally reform the financial system, we need to
end state sponsorship of securitization.  First, the federal government must stop guaranteeing
mortgage securities. If lawmakers feel impelled to divert credit
to homebuyers, the  Small Business Administration ’s approach of
offering partial guarantees for housing loans would do less
harm. Let the private sector securitize the loans if it can.  Second, banks should be required to evaluate the
creditworthiness of every individual or business they directly
or indirectly lend to, rather than outsourcing credit analysis
to ratings companies or relying on reductionist statistical
models. Allowing banks to buy securitized assets with only
superficial knowledge of the ultimate borrowers is folly.  Finally, the SEC should focus on its original mission of
policing stock markets, and not on every security that financial
engineers dream up or ratings companies get paid to certify. The
expansive application of securities laws has worked only too
well, stifling judgment and relationship-based lending in favor
of mechanized and anonymous transactions.  We needn’t debate whether a securities-based financial
system is better than a bank-based one. A healthy economy needs
both loans and securities -- but no one can know the right, oft-
changing mix. For that, we need unrigged competition.  (Amar Bhide is a professor at Tufts University’s Fletcher
School of Law and Diplomacy and the author of “A Call for
Judgment: Sensible Finance for a Dynamic Economy.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the politics of  long-term
health care  and on improving and expanding  charter schools ;  Mark
Buchanan  on  hacking the human brain ; William D. Cohan on  bankers
getting fired ;  Noah Feldman  on  Amish beard-cutting ;  Albert R.
Hunt  on  Obama’s slight campaign edge .  To contact the writers of this article: Amar Bhide at
 amar@bhide.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 