-- Williams Secures Summer Sweep With U.S. Open Defeat of Azarenka
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/serena-williams-wins-4th-u-s-open-title-defeating-azarenka-1-.html
Serena Williams  has an advantage
over every other woman who has played tennis: She never has had
to face her own serve.  Williams, 30, had 13 aces as she won her fourth U.S. Open
championship yesterday with a 6-2, 2-6, 7-5 defeat of top-seeded
 Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus. She finished the tournament with
63 aces -- 26 more than any other woman.  Asked to describe what her serve does and why it creates
such havoc for opponents, Williams said she doesn’t have a clue.  “I don’t know what it does because I have never faced
it,” she said after serving eight aces in her 6-0, 6-0 defeat
of the  Czech Republic ’s Andrea Hlavackova in the fourth round.
“And I don’t want to.”  Williams, who entered the tournament at the National Tennis
Center in New York as the even-money favorite, earned $1.9
million with yesterday’s victory to push her career winnings to
more than $40 million.  The fourth-seeded American won her 15th Grand Slam singles
title, putting her fourth on the women’s list since
professionals were admitted to tennis in 1968.  Steffi Graf  leads
with 22, while  Chris Evert  and  Martina Navratilova  each won 18
singles titles.  Margaret Court  won 24, claiming 13 before the
professional era.  The victory completed a dominating summer that also
included a Wimbledon title and a gold medal at last month’s
London Olympics. The only other women to accomplish that triple
since tennis returned to the Olympics 24 years ago are Graf in
1988 and  Venus Williams , Serena’s older sister, in 2000.  “I knew that I could just be a good player and a champion
this summer,” Williams told reporters following her defeat of
Azarenka. “I never expected to win all these titles.”  Service Breaks  Williams, who had not lost a set in the tournament and had
won 44 of her 46 service games until getting her serve broken
four times by Azarenka, twice came back after falling down by a
break in the final set. It was the first three-set U.S. Open
women’s final since 1995, when Graf defeated  Monica Seles .  Williams, who lost the U.S. Open final last year to
 Australia ’s Samantha Stosur, knelt on the court after winning
and said “Oh my God!” seven times to herself before going over
to the players’ box for a kiss from her mother. Azarenka, 23,
sat in her chair on court with a towel over her head.  “I honestly can’t believe I won,” Williams said during
the trophy presentation. “I really was preparing my runner-up
speech because I thought, ‘Man, she’s playing so great.’”  The men’s final between defending champion Novak Djokovic
of  Serbia  and third-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain is set for
today at about 4:30 p.m. It is the fifth straight year the
tournament has been extended to a Monday due to bad weather.  The women’s final also was delayed a day. It originally was
set for two nights ago, only to be postponed by the threat of
severe weather.  ‘Serena Tennis’  Williams followed up her blanking of unseeded Hlavackova
with a 6-1, 6-3 quarterfinal win against 12th-seeded Ana Ivanovic of Serbia that took 58 minutes. She said after that
match that she planned to “get more focused and serious and
start playing Serena tennis in the next couple of rounds.”  In the semifinals, Williams won 32 of 40 points on her
serve and never faced a break point against 10th-seeded Sara Errani of  Italy .  “She is incredible,” Errani told reporters. “When she
plays like this, I think she’s best player in the world.”  Williams, who improved her career record against Azarenka
to 10-1, won her first title in New York as a 17-year-old in
1999 -- giving her a record 13 years between her first and last
 U.S. Open  crowns.  Only Loss  “I feel like even though I’m 30, I feel so young and I’ve
never felt as fit and more excited and more hungry,” she said
last night.  Williams, who turns 31 in 16 days, is the oldest U.S. Open
winner since Court won as a 31-year-old in 1973. Since losing in
the opening round of the French Open to Virginie Razzano in May,
she has gone 26-1 -- with her only loss coming against Angelique
Kerber in the quarterfinals in Cincinnati last month.  Williams won 72 of 89 games and never dropped more than
three in any set during her run to the gold medal at the London
Games. In early July, she captured her fifth Wimbledon title
while serving a tournament-record 102 aces.  Williams led all women with her  63 aces  in the U.S. Open --
compared with six for Azarenka -- and had a serve of 125 miles
per hour (201 kilometers per hour) in the final that was the
fastest of the tournament. She tops all women this year in aces
(445) as well as winning percentage on serves.  “The serve is definitely her biggest asset, if you look at
both of our games it’s the biggest difference,” Azarenka, who
will retain her No. 1 world ranking even after the loss, said in
a news conference. “For me, she’s the greatest player of all
time. She took the game to the next level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at the National Tennis Center,  New York  at
   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  