-- Sharp Faces Crisis as Mechanical Pencil Inventor Turns 100: Tech
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-10T10:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/sharp-faces-crisis-as-mechanical-pencil-inventor-turns-100-tech.html
The 100-year-old inventor of
mechanical pencils needs to pen a new plan to make it to 101.  Sharp Corp. (6753) , Japan’s biggest liquid-crystal display maker,
put up its  Osaka  headquarters and some plants as collateral last
week to win bank loans after its credit ratings were cut to
junk. The supplier to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is also renegotiating a stock
sale to  Taiwan ’s Foxconn Technology Group as it tries to recover
from record losses and a 70 percent slump in shares this year.  Within six months of assuming office, President Takashi Okuda, 59, is firing employees for the first time in six decades
after widening Sharp’s full-year loss forecast eightfold on
plunging demand for TVs. Sharp’s troubles are symptomatic of
what’s ailing Japanese consumer electronics companies  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  as they compete with TVs and phones made by
South Korea’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   “Sharp isn’t in a situation to think about the next
century,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer at Myojo
Asset Management  Japan  Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund advisory
firm. “It’s a matter of whether the company can survive in the
next 12 months.”  Okuda must raise funds for a company that’s burning through
cash.  Total liabilities  reached 2 trillion yen ($26 billion) at
the end of June, the highest since at least 2003 -- or more than
four times sales in that quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Terry Gou  Ratings companies aren’t making it any easier -- Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s both downgraded Sharp’s
 credit ratings  to speculative grade, or junk. Okuda’s efforts to
raise funds by selling equity to Taiwan billionaire Terry Gou’s
Foxconn group and its flagship  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) 
stalled after  Sharp’s shares  plunged to a 37-year low.  Foxconn wants a stake in Sharp to secure access to the
latest technology for parts used by its biggest customer, Apple.
In offering a lifeline, Gou is betting that Sharp, which
 invented  the mechanical Ever-Ready Sharp Pencil in 1915, will
continue providing it with key components for the  iPads and
iPhones  that Foxconn assembles, while ensuring one of Apple’s
important suppliers survives.  “If Hon Hai can’t come soon to help Sharp speed up
development of products, lower manufacturing cost, improve
 supply-chain  management, it’s probably hard to make an
achievement,” Gou said in Tokyo last month. Meetings between
the two companies during Gou’s visit didn’t produce a final
agreement.  Sony, Panasonic  Gou has invested 66 billion yen of his own money into the
display venture with Sharp.  Widening losses and weakening demand amid a strengthening
yen is the story of Japan’s electronics companies. Sony last had
 a profit  in the year ended March 2008, and Panasonic has been
unprofitable in three of the past  four years . Like Sharp, both
companies changed their CEOs this year.  Investors are getting less optimistic: the  $32 billion 
combined current market value of Sony, Panasonic and Sharp --
Japan’s three biggest TV makers -- is dwarfed by Samsung’s $163
billion and Apple’s $638 billion. Sharp’s value has fallen 92
percent from its December 1999 peak.  “The Japanese electronics industry is in a crisis as South
Koreans and Chinese are catching up,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama ,
chief economist at  Dai-Ichi Life Insurance (8750)  Research Institute in
Tokyo. “Japan is good at making products with better
performance, and that’s the easiest for newcomers to copy.”  Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Sharp, declined to
comment. The company fell 1.9 percent to 202 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Tokyo.  LCD Factories  Sharp’s troubles began when the company relied on debt
funding for its LCD factories in Kameyama and Sakai, which
opened in 2004 and 2009, respectively. The investment for the
two factories, totaling 1 trillion yen, weighed on Sharp as LCD
prices started falling and a stronger yen ruined its
competitiveness against Taiwanese and South Korean companies.  The average price of a 40-inch LCD panel used in TVs fell
to $250 in the first quarter of 2012, less than a 10th of the
$2,772 price in the fourth quarter of 2003, according to
researcher DisplaySearch.  The factory in Sakai, near Osaka, is an example of Sharp’s
poor investment decisions, said Jeff Loff, a senior analyst with
Macquarie Capital Securities in Tokyo. The world’s only
operational 10th-generation facility, suitable for 60-inch TV
panels, has been underutilized and adding to a glut since
operations began in 2009.  IPad Displays  Another mistake was converting a  production line  at the
Kameyama plant into facilities for displays featuring the IGZO
technology meant for iPads, Loff said. The transition was too
aggressive, he said.  “It probably would have been wiser to wait to convert the
factory until it could prove consistent supply capability at
high volume,” Loff said. “The company looks to have placed too
much emphasis on trying to serve Apple with IGZO tablet
displays.”  Sharp, which  started  Sept. 15, 1912, with the invention of
the snap belt buckle, is in talks with potential lenders
including life insurance companies for a syndicated loan, a
person with knowledge of the matter said last week.  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
Sharp’s two main banks, provided it with a short-term facility
to help refinance its commercial papers, another person with
knowledge of the matter has said.  Sharp’s Debt  The company had 706 billion yen of short-term debt maturing
within 12 months and 314 billion yen in long-term  debts  at the
end of June, according to its financial statement. Sharp’s cash
and near cash stood at 218 billion yen at the time.  The plunge in share price hasn’t helped Sharp’s cause of
raising equity from Gou’s Foxconn, which wants to renegotiate an
initial plan unveiled in March. Gou’s group companies agreed in
March to buy 9.9 percent of the Japanese manufacturer at 550 yen
per share, a total bill of 67 billion yen. Separately, Sharp
also sold a stake in the Sakai LCD plant to Gou for 66 billion
yen to jointly run the factory.  Without Gou’s helping hand, Sharp may fail to secure
financial support from banks, Kikuchi said.  “Banks may consider walking away if there is no sign of
improvement in the next year,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  