-- Singh, Mickelson Share Lead in Final Round of BMW Championship
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/singh-mickelson-share-lead-in-bmw-championship-mcilroy-1-back.html
Vijay Singh  and  Phil Mickelson  share
the lead at 16-under 200 as they start the final round of the
BMW Championship, the third of four PGA Tour Playoffs events.  Singh, the second-round leader, shot a 3-under 69 yesterday,
while Mickelson carded an 8-under 64 to catch up at Crooked
Stick Golf Club in Carmel,  Indiana .  “I’ve one more to do,” said Singh, who won the FedExCup
in 2008. “I’ve got to play a little better than what I did
today. I’ve got to make less mistakes than I did today. I think
I can do that.”  Mickelson made four straight birdies on the front nine and
caught Singh with a 10-foot birdie putt on the 13th before
adding three birdies in his last four holes.  “It’s taken me a little while to piece it back together,
but I could tell last week that my game was back and I was ready
to play at the highest level again,” Mickelson told reporters.
“I came out Thursday and forced it a little too much the front
nine. But after that, I’ve been able to settle down and play
some good golf. I’m looking forward to tomorrow’s shootout. It
should be fun.”  Rory McIlroy, the No. 1 golfer in the world and leader of
the FedExCup points race, is tied with  Lee Westwood  for third at
15-under 201.  Tiger Woods is three off the lead at 13-under 203 after
shooting a 1-under 71 to hold eighth place.  “I didn’t have much, and on top of that I made two really
bad bogeys on seven and eight from the middle of the fairway,
but at least I fought back where I have a chance going into
tomorrow,” Woods said. “It’s probably going to take 63 or 64
tomorrow, but it can be done out here.”  Dustin Johnson ,  Adam Scott  and  Robert Garrigus  are grouped
one ahead of Woods at 14-under.  “The cream has risen to the top, hasn’t it?” Westwood
said.  The top 30 golfers on the FedExCup points list advance to
the Tour Championship in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  