-- U.S. Fiscal Cliff Endangers World Economy, Lagarde Tells APEC
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-09T08:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/u-s-fiscal-cliff-endangers-world-economy-lagarde-tells-apec.html
U.S. tax increases and spending cuts
set to take effect by the beginning of next year pose one of the
biggest risks to the global economy, International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said today.  While Lagarde has warned about the U.S. fiscal situation
before, this time she took her case directly to leaders
attending the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in
Vladivostok, Russia. She said the fiscal cliff was one of
“three key risks” -- the other two being the euro crisis and
medium-term public financing.  “We discussed over lunch with the leaders of APEC, the
global economic situation, with the three key risks that we see
on the horizon,” Lagarde told reporters today. She said there
are a “combination of factors that could also increase the
vulnerabilities of emerging economies.”  Lagarde made the comments to an organization whose
membership oversees 56 percent of global economic output. The
more than $480 billion so-called fiscal cliff of automatic
spending cuts and revenue changes would probably cause a
recession if left unchanged, the nonpartisan Congressional
Budget Office said in a report last month.  Among the leaders attending the summit were Russian
President  Vladimir Putin , Chinese President  Hu Jintao , Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  and Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda .  Lagarde also restated the IMF’s support for the  European
Central Bank ’s plan to buy the bonds of member nations such as
Italy and Spain. Lagarde said the IMF, if it were involved,
would want to help in both the design and the monitoring of any
program.  “Clearly when we get involved we want to be involved both
in the design and monitoring of programs,” Lagarde said. “We
don’t particularly like to do monitoring without having
participated actively in the design.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Vladivostok at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  