-- U.S. Needs More Charter Schools -- With Better Rules
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-09T22:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/u-s-needs-more-charter-schools-with-better-rules.html
Of the 50 million U.S. students who
returned to public elementary and secondary schools in recent
days, more than 2 million did so at charter schools.  Just two decades after  Minnesota  passed the  first charter
law , about 5,600 of the schools have been established in 41
states and the  District of Columbia . Contrary to claims of some
teachers unions and education bureaucrats, this is good news.  Yet rising enrollments also point out the need for better
oversight, particularly when it comes to charters’
“authorizers” -- the bodies that get state permission to
create the schools, draw up their founding contracts (the
“charter”) and oversee their boards.  Although charters come in every shape and size, they are
all free public schools that have a large degree of autonomy
over hiring, finances, curriculums and instruction methods. In
general, they accept all interested students or, if demand
exceeds capacity, use lotteries. Do they work? Education
statistics are as slippery as eels -- most studies are limited
in geographical scope and duration, and advocates from all sides
tend to poach data selectively to support their claims. That
said, there is no doubt that  charter schools  have improved the
test scores of many students, particularly the most vulnerable.  One of the best studies, a  2010 survey  by the consulting
company Mathematica Policy Research that compared students
enrolled at charter schools with those who applied but lost out
on admission in a lottery, found that overall performance was
roughly similar but that low-income and low-achieving students
at charters showed significant gains over peers at traditional
public schools. (It found that outside of urban centers,
charters have an overall detrimental effect on achievement.) A
 Rand Corp. study  in 2009 noted that students attending charter
high schools in Chicago and Florida had higher ACT scores,
graduation rates and college entrance rates than their peers.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that competition from charters has
led to innovation and improvement at traditional schools.  Another pattern emerges from the data: Some states
outperform others.  Arkansas ,  Colorado ,  Illinois ,  Louisiana  and
 Missouri  have shown  consistent educational improvement . Charters
in  Arizona , Florida,  New Mexico  and particularly  Ohio  have
struggled.  What do the higher-performing states have in common? One
factor is well-conceived rules concerning school authorizers,
which can be municipal school boards, state education
departments, universities, city governments, nonprofit groups
and so forth. (There are about  1,000 authorizers nationwide .)  These variations have given us a wealth of data on what
works and what doesn’t. Several charter advocacy groups,
including the  National Alliance for Public Charter Schools  and
 StudentsFirst , headed by former Washington schools chief
 Michelle Rhee , have created model legislation that state
lawmakers should heed as they enact and refine their laws.
Several best practices involving the role of authorizers stand
out:  -- Accountability. Each authorizer should be required to
provide the state with regular reports on the academic and
financial performance of all schools it supervises, as well as
the results of audits on its own operating expenses. Arizona,
which has been a locus of charter-school scandals, is a
cautionary lesson: State law does not require authorizers to
submit annual performance reports or mandate any formal review
process by an authorizer oversight body. Illinois, where
 charters have done well , has a strict law: Among other
requirements, every other year authorizers send the state board
of education a report with details on the schools’ academic and
financial performance, progress made toward reaching the
authorizer’s strategic vision, and audited operating costs.  -- Performance-based contracts. In charter applications,
authorizers should be required to set minimum standards for
student and teacher performance, which can serve as the
baselines for renewal.  Florida  does well here: It mandates that
each charter explain how the school will measure progress, based
on incoming students’ previous academic achievement.  -- Transparency. Too often, groups wanting to start schools
(and their communities) are left in dark all through the charter
application process. States should establish timelines for
charter approval, insist that all authorizers meet in person
with members of the applicant group, hold a forum for residents
to give input, and make public a detailed explanation when an
application is denied. Arkansas is a leader here: Charter
applicants use a standard form created by the state education
department, and denials must include a list of specific reasons.  -- Caps. Many states put limits on the number of new
charters that can be opened each year. This arbitrary limit is
foolish: Demand is high, and states should give themselves
maximum flexibility to add the schools they need.  -- Multiple schools.  Many states  limit charter-school
boards to oversight of a single school, another pointless cap.
Those that demonstrate success should be able to oversee
several, so long as each school maintains fiscal and academic
autonomy.  -- Government funding. A  2010 analysis  from Ball State
University found that charter schools receive 19 percent less
funding per student than regular public schools get. Schools
need government guarantees that their students will receive the
same state and federal aid that they would get at traditional
public schools in the district.  -- Collective bargaining. In at least seven states, charter
schools are generally  required  to give educators the same
collective bargaining rights as other public schools have. Yet
freedom from traditional practices is the basis of a charter’s
creativity, so long as this doesn’t interfere with other
protections, for example against discrimination.  Charter schools are no panacea. But like most reform
efforts of the past two decades, including the much-maligned No
Child Left Behind law, they have benefited millions of students
and provided guidance for future innovation. With more
consistent state oversight, charters can be left to plot their
own course.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the politics of  long-term
health care ;  Mark Buchanan  on  hacking the human brain ; William
D. Cohan on  bankers getting fired ;  Noah Feldman  on  Amish beard-
cutting ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s slight campaign edge ; Amar
Bhide on why government should get out of the  securitization
business .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 