-- U.S. ‘Not Setting Deadlines’ for Iran, Clinton Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-10T14:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/u-s-not-setting-deadlines-for-iran-clinton-says.html
The U.S. is “not setting
deadlines” for Iran and still considers negotiations as “by
far the best approach” to prevent the Islamic Republic from
developing nuclear weapons, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said.  While Clinton said in an interview yesterday that economic
sanctions are building pressure on Iran, Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said last week the sanctions aren’t slowing
Iran’s nuclear advances “because it doesn’t see a clear red
line from the international community.”  Asked if the Obama administration will lay out sharper
“red lines” for Iran or state explicitly the consequences of
failing to negotiate a deal with world powers by a certain date,
Clinton said, “We’re not setting deadlines.”  “We’re watching very carefully about what they do, because
it’s always been more about their actions than their words,”
Clinton said in the interview with  Bloomberg Radio  after
meetings at an Asia-Pacific forum in Vladivostok, Russia.  Netanyahu and Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  have
indicated that as Iran proceeds with its nuclear work and
negotiations stall,  Israel  may have no choice but to launch a
preemptive strike in self-defense. Iran’s leaders have denied
Israel’s right to exist.  ‘More Powerful’  Amos Yadlin, the former commander of Israeli military
intelligence, said his country had the capability to strike
Iranian nuclear facilities. “We are much more powerful than it
seems,” Yadlin said in remarks broadcast today on  Army Radio .  While the U.S. and Israel share the goal that Iran not
acquire a nuclear weapon, Clinton said there is a difference in
perspective over the time horizon for talks.  “They’re more anxious about a quick response because they
feel that they’re right in the bull’s-eye, so to speak,”
Clinton said. “But we’re convinced that we have more time to
focus on these sanctions, to do everything we can to bring Iran
to a good-faith negotiation.”  A meeting of the  United Nations ’ atomic agency convened
today in Vienna which U.S. officials say will provide an
important assessment of Iran’s nuclear progress and the pressure
the international community should exert to halt it.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  reported last month
that Iran raised the uranium-enrichment capacity at its
underground Fordo facility and increased stockpiles of medium-
enriched uranium, a step short of nuclear-bomb material.  Restore Confidence  “We need to stop going around in circles,” IAEA Director
General Yukiya Amano said today about trying to reach an deal to
visit more suspected Iranian sites. While the Vienna-based
agency is “committed” to more talks, “it is Iran that should
proactively cooperate with us to restore international
confidence,” he said.  “I think what is important to realize is that Iran will
not stop unless it sees clear determination by the democratic
countries of the world and a clear red line,” Netanyahu said
yesterday in an interview with  Canada ’s CBC television. “We’re
discussing it right now with the U.S.”  In the past week, Clinton has been to both  China  and
 Russia , speaking with leaders of both nations to seek unity in
their Iran stance. Afterward, she said China and Russia share
the U.S.’s firm view that Iran must be stopped from acquiring a
nuclear weapon.  The Obama administration still believes the best way to do
that is to continue to offer a negotiated settlement, while
increasing the pain for Iran of refusing to accept the deal by
squeezing it with financial and oil sanctions, she said.  Iran’s Claim  In June, negotiators for six world powers proposed that
Iran ship out its stockpiles of 20 percent enriched uranium --
to remove the potential that it will further be processed to 90
percent to fuel a nuclear bomb -- and to stop enrichment at
Fordo in exchange for energy and aviation incentives. Israel
wants all Iranian  uranium enrichment  halted and enriched uranium
removed.  Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful electric
power and medical purposes and has rebuffed any deal that it
sees as giving up its right to enrich uranium.  Efforts by international negotiators “to pin Iran down on
what exactly they are willing to do are still under way, and we
will be having some meetings in the next month in  New York  and
elsewhere to take stock of where we are,” Clinton said.  Leaders from the six powers involved in negotiations with
Iran are expected to attend the annual UN General Assembly in
New York this month.  ‘Very Challenging’  “It’s a very challenging effort to get them to move in a
way that complies with their international obligations,”
Clinton said of the Iranians. “But we believe that is still by
far the best approach to take at this time.”  Asked about pressure from Israel to give  Iran  an ultimatum
to dismantle disputed aspects of its nuclear program within
months, Clinton said the U.S. has “always said every option was
on the table.”  Since April, the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council -- the U.S., the U.K.,  France , China and Russia -- plus
 Germany , have engaged in three rounds of diplomacy with Iran.
Even with pressure from an array of new U.S. and European Union
sanctions on energy, trade, banking and shipping, the talks have
failed so far to persuade Iran to suspend aspects of its nuclear
program.  Clinton has said that Iran, which depends on oil for more
than half of its government revenue, is losing billions of
dollars from lost oil sales due to sanctions.  Oil Exports  Iranian oil exports dropped 66 percent in July from a year
earlier, to less than 1 million barrels a day, as the U.S. and
the European Union tightened sanctions, according to a report by
Rhodium Group, citing customs data. Rhodium estimates exports at
about 940,000 barrels a day, compared with 1.7 million barrels a
day in June and 2.8 million in July 2011, the New York-based
economic research group said Sept. 5 in an e-mailed report.  The U.S., European allies and Israel accuse Iran of seeking
an atomic bomb capability. In its report last month, the IAEA
said it “is unable to provide credible assurance about the
absence of undeclared nuclear material and activities in Iran,
and therefore to conclude that all nuclear material in Iran is
in peaceful activities.” The IAEA said it hadn’t detected any
material being diverted from Iran’s 16 declared nuclear
facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  