-- U.S. to Become Minority AIG Shareholder With $18 Bln Sale
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-10T13:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/u-s-to-become-minority-aig-shareholder-with-18-bln-sale.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
the insurer rescued by the U.S. after bets tied to housing
soured in 2008, declined as the Treasury Department said it will
sell at least $18 billion of shares acquired in the bailout.  AIG slid 62 cents or 1.8 percent, to $33.37 at 9:32 a.m. in
New York. The shares have gained about 44 percent this year,
after falling 98 percent in the five years through Dec. 31.
Today’s decline is the largest in the 22-company Standard and
Poor’s 500 Insurance Index.  “This is a very large amount of shares to send to the
public at once,” said Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP. “Whenever you see a lot of shares come
on the market, you typically expect shares to trade down.”  About $13 billion of shares will be sold to private
investors, an allocation larger than in any of the past four
offerings. In the first offering, in May 2011, AIG and Treasury
sold a combined $8.7 billion of shares at $29 apiece.  AIG will repurchase as much as $5 billion of shares in the
current offering, which will cut the U.S. stake in the firm to
below 50 percent for the first time since the bailout that
swelled to as much as $182.3 billion. The U.S. would own about
23 percent of New York-based AIG if it sells stock at the Sept.
7 closing price of $33.99, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Treasury cut its stake to 53 percent in the past four  share
sales  and raised about $23.3 billion. The fourth offering,
announced Aug. 3, came the same week that AIG reported a 27
percent increase in second-quarter net income to $2.33 billion,
driven by improving results at its property-casualty operation.  After the U.S. stake falls below 50 percent, AIG will be
regulated by the  Federal Reserve  as a savings and loan holding
company because it owns a bank, the firm said in a preliminary
prospectus supplement.  Fed Oversight  AIG may face  capital requirements  and limits on its ability
to repurchase stock or pay a dividend, under Fed oversight,
according to the prospectus. The insurer is considering whether
to close its bank unit to prepare for more  government regulation 
including the Volcker rule, which limits proprietary trading and
investing in private equity or hedge funds, Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche  said last month.  The U.S. needs to average about $28.73 on the sales to
break even on the stake it acquired as part of the bailout,
excluding unpaid dividends and fees,  according  to the Government
Accountability Office. The first two offerings were priced at
$29 a share, and the second two at $30.50 apiece.  Benmosche, 68, is buying back stock to help AIG regain
independence and increase the value of remaining shares. He’s
raised funds for repurchases by divesting assets including part
of its stake in Hong Kong-based insurer  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  AIG
trades for about 56 percent of  book value , a measure of assets
minus liabilities.  Bailed Out  The Treasury’s shares are the final piece of AIG’s bailout
that began in 2008 and swelled to as much as $182.3 billion,
including support from the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  AIG is the last U.S. insurer that hasn’t yet ended its
bailout. The government has already divested its holdings in
most of the largest U.S. banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank
of America Corp. while retaining a majority stake in Ally
Financial Inc.  “As we think about our primary goal, which is to make sure
we pay back America for all the support they gave us, and with a
profit, we can see that happening,” Benmosche said in an  online
video  posted last month.  Citigroup,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the sale, the Treasury said
yesterday in a statement. Underwriters have a 30-day option to
buy as much as $2.7 billion more in AIG stock from the Treasury,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  