-- Lung Cancer Genomic Mapping Yields New Targets, Researche
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-09-10T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/lung-cancer-genomic-mapping-yields-new-targets-researchers-say.html
A form of  lung cancer  that kills
400,000 people annually worldwide could be attacked by targeting
newly discovered genetic mutations, according to a study that
mapped the tumors’ DNA.  Researchers found mutations in 11 genes from 178 squamous
cell lung tumors they sequenced, including alterations
previously linked to cancer growth, according to the study
published yesterday in the journal  Nature . The findings also
included variations in a gene, called HLA-A, that helps the
immune system fight off irregular tissue in the body.  “To our knowledge, this is the first example of a tumor
that has a genomic mechanism for evading an immune response,”
Matthew Meyerson, co-leader of the team that made the discovery,
and pathology professor at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and
 Harvard Medical School  in Boston, said in a  statement . “This
provides many new therapeutic opportunities for squamous cell
carcinoma that would be suitable for clinical trials.”  The findings are encouraging for patients with squamous
cell lung cancer because, unlike a form known as adenocarcinoma,
there are no drugs available that target the DNA mutations that
drive this malignancy’s growth. Patients with the adenocarcinoma
form can be given  Roche Holding AG’s (ROG)  Tarceva or  AstraZeneca (AZN) 
Plc’s Iressa, which target a mutation in the EGFR gene.  The study of squamous cell lung tumors found 90 percent had
an altered TP53 gene and 72 percent had an inactive CDKN2A gene,
both previously identified mutations, the study said. When these
genes are switched off, cancer can grow uncontrollably.  The data are part of a broader project by the National
Institutes of Health called the Cancer Genome Atlas, which is
analyzing tumors and blood samples from 20 types of cancer.  One of the project’s earlier studies of ovarian cancer
patients with a genetic mutation best known for its ties to
 breast cancer  have found they have a higher survival rate than
those without the mutation. Another finding identified new
targets in  colon cancer .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  