-- Munich Re Sees Stable Reinsurance Rates in January Renewals
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-09-09T13:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/munich-re-expects-stable-reinsurance-rates-in-january-renewals.html
Munich Re, the world’s biggest
reinsurer, said it expects stable rates for property and
casualty reinsurance during January price negotiations.  “The uncertain economic environment poses major challenges
for insurers and reinsurers,”  Torsten Jeworrek , who heads
Munich Re’s reinsurance business, said at a press conference in
 Monte Carlo  today. “Against this background, the renewal of
reinsurance treaties on January 1, 2013 takes on special
significance.”  Reinsurers such as Munich Re,  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  and  Hannover Re 
are gathering for their annual meeting with brokers and their
clients, primary insurers, in  Monte Carlo  to begin negotiating
terms and conditions of next year’s property and casualty
policies. Discussions will continue at an October meeting in
 Baden-Baden ,  Germany .  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Axa SA (CS)  and other primary insurers buy
reinsurance to help them shoulder claims from costly events such
as natural disasters. The record $105 billion of natural-
disaster claims in 2011, which were also covered by government
funded-insurance programs, gave reinsurers leeway to push
through price increases this year. Negotiating further rate
increases may prove more difficult as 2012 didn’t see a
comparable number of costly disasters.  Reinsurers’ capital has also recovered from the losses. The
industry has accumulated a record $480 billion of capital,
according to a  report  by Aon Benfield, the world’s biggest
reinsurance broker and a unit of  Aon Plc. (AON) , which mediates
contracts for primary insurers.  Capital Levels  “With industry capital at a record, we are in a very
tranquil period in our industry at the moment,” said Michael O’Halleran, executive chairman of Aon Benfield.  “We think the asset base of our industry is artificially
inflated, and a sudden increase in  interest rates  would weigh
heavily on balance sheets,” Munich Re’s Jeworrek said, adding
that capital buffers have benefited from higher government bond
prices that came along with falling interest rates.  Munich Re expects prices as well as terms and conditions to
“largely remain stable” in the January round of renewals as
reinsurers “still have sufficient capacity,” Jeworrek said. At
the company, about two thirds of annual property and casualty
reinsurance contracts are typically up for renewal in January,
with the remainder extended in April and June or July.  “With a quiet year so far, we expect further pricing
pressure for 2013,” said Nick Frankland, European head of  Guy
Carpenter , the reinsurance brokerage unit of  Marsh & McLennan
Cos. (MMC)  “At the same time, the  European debt crisis  remains a
major problem for both reinsurers and primary insurers.”  Higher Profits  The Munich-based reinsurer, led by Chief Executive Officer
Nikolaus von Bomhard, said on Aug. 7 it expects to exceed its
full-year profit target of about 2.5 billion euros after higher
investment income helped second-quarter profit beat analysts’
estimates. Operating profit at the reinsurance unit rose 43
percent to 796 million euros, helped by higher prices for
natural catastrophe cover and lower-than-average damages.  The “general improvement” in primary insurance prices in
the U.S. and in some European motor liability businesses
“should have a positive impact on reinsurance rates,”  Munich
Re  said, adding that it also expects “further rate
adjustments” for windstorm policies in  Europe . This year,
Munich Re improved profitability of its own business by 2.4
percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  