-- UniCredit Expects to Meet Business Plan’s Goals, CEO Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-09-10T14:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/unicredit-expects-to-meet-business-plan-s-goals-ceo-says.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive
Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  said he is “confident”  Italy ’s
biggest bank will reach targets for 2015 as it implements its
five-year strategic guidelines approved last year.  “We are not derogating from the indications that we have
given through the plan, so I expect that the targets in 2015
will be reached, despite that the world is different,” Ghizzoni
said in a Sept. 8 interview in Cernobbio, Italy. “We are ahead
of them in terms of capital generation, liquidity, funding
position and we will be soon ahead in terms of cost control.”  Ghizzoni is reviewing the bank’s strategy to reduce risks
and boost profit as part of the five-year plan approved Nov. 14.
The Milan-based lender targeted 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion)
in savings by 2015, focused on western  Europe , as it aims to
restore profit to 6.5 billion euros by 2015.  “I’m pretty confident that the strategy outlined will be
put in place, we need to accelerate in some areas to compensate
what we are missing in others” Ghizzoni said. “We have some
issues in Italy about costs coming from the pension reform, but
this is not impacting the banking costs because we have found
other savings to cover this issue,” he said.  UniCredit rose as much as 1.6 percent, and was up 0.7
percent to 3.69 euros at 4:40 p.m. in Milan, giving the company
a market value of 21.3 billion euros.  The Bloomberg Banks and
Financial Services Index , which was up 0.3 percent today, has
risen 13 percent this year, compared with UniCredit’s 13 percent
decline.  Job Cuts  UniCredit, which in November announced plans to cut 6,150
job, about 4 percent of the worldwide total, through 2015, has
 reduced its workforce  by 2,719 jobs in the first half. The
lender, which operates in 22 countries, including  Germany ,
 Austria  and Poland, is shrinking its assets as part of a review
process involving businesses in Europe.  “We confirm what we outlined in the plan, and we are on
track in deleveraging our portfolio,” said Ghizzoni. “Talking
about asset disposals, meaning M&A, I can say we are actively
working on that, and as soon as we have something to present to
the market, we will do it.”  The bank plans to wind down  48 billion euros  of non-
strategic assets over the next three years, after it spent more
than $60 billion on European takeovers from 2005 to 2008.
Purchases included Munich-based HVB AG, Germany’s third-biggest
bank, and the largest lenders in  Poland  and Austria.  ‘Strong Focus’  UniCredit is not planning to list HVB or Bank Austria, the
CEO said in response to a question on whether a listing of these
units may make the group more profitable. “We are not
discussing these topics, but there is a strong focus in boosting
capital and profitability.”  UniCredit’s  second-quarter profit  fell 67 percent to 169
million euros as provisions for bad loans increased and the
company earned less from lending and fees. Loan-loss provisions
increased to 1.91 billion euros in the quarter from 1.18 billion
euros a year ago.  Ghizzoni is focusing investments on countries with the
biggest and most profitable units in the emerging economies of
Europe, where UniCredit is the largest lender. He has identified
 Russia , Poland,  Turkey  and the  Czech Republic  as “growth
engines.”  “This group has to look to the assets it owns to make a
decision,” he said. “We have a number of discussions ongoing,
it is not easy in this time to finalize deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Cernobbio, Italy at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  