-- Why Some CEOs Survive Wall Street Scandals
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-09-09T22:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/why-some-ceos-survive-wall-street-scandals.html
Why do some Wall Street executives
get to keep their jobs as scandals shake their firms, while
others get the ax?  Bob Diamond, the chief executive officer of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
was fired a few days after his bank paid $453 million to settle
charges with U.S. and U.K. regulators about its role in the
Libor scandal. Yet  Jamie Dimon , the chairman and CEO of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , seems to have plenty of  job security  after traders
at his bank unexpectedly lost $6 billion (and counting)?  Why did no one come looking for  Lloyd Blankfein ’s head
after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  paid $550 million to settle civil
charges brought against the firm by the Securities and Exchange
Commission in April 2010? At the time, it was the  largest
settlement ever paid  by a Wall Street firm to the SEC. Goldman
had also been the subject of a  lengthy investigation  by Senator
 Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations. At a daylong hearing, in April
2010, Levin lambasted Blankfein and his partners on the firm’s
transactions in mortgage-backed securities. It was not
Blankfein’s finest hour, yet his job remains secure.  Why was Diamond fired but not Dimon or Blankfein? All faced
internal and governmental inquiries into what went wrong at
their firms. In January 2011, a Goldman internal committee
published a report on the firm’s business standards and what it
could do better. This summer, Dimon appeared before panels in
both the House and Senate and was treated with kid gloves by
most of the members. (Diamond, on the other hand, was grilled
ruthlessly by the U.K. Parliament the day after he resigned.)  Congress Investigates  Now,  Bloomberg News  is reporting that Levin’s subcommittee
has targeted JPMorgan Chase and its “London Whale” trading
loss for another one of its thorough investigations. The
JPMorgan Chase management team has also completed one
investigation -- concluding that there was an atypically lax
level of supervision in the firm’s chief investment office as
well as potential illegal mismarking of the trades -- and the
bank’s board, led by former  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  CEO Lee Raymond,
has begun another investigation into what went wrong.  Barclays, JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs all suffered
severe damage to their reputations in the scandals, and all
three leaders were mostly forthright in admitting that something
was very wrong inside their firms (although Levin accused
Blankfein of misleading Congress). JPMorgan Chase and Barclays
shareholders lost billions of dollars after the scandals: Some
$25 billion was wiped off of JPMorgan Chase’s market value,
while Barclays lost about 30 percent of its market value between
the time just before the settlement was announced and the
stock’s low point on July 25.  Most of the Barclays’ shareholder losses have been
recovered; its  stock  now trades about where it did in the days
before the investigation into the manipulation of the London
interbank offered rate broke into the public. Yet Diamond is the
only CEO whose head rolled.  In any event, an Aug. 9  preliminary report  from the House
of Commons about the Libor scandal makes clear that shareholders
were not the ones who pushed for Diamond’s departure.  “The one outcome that the shareholders did not want to see
was the removal of  Bob Diamond ,” Barclays Chairman Marcus Agius
told Parliament. “That was the outcome they did not want to
see, as they believed in him as a very effective Chief
Executive.”  Who then is responsible for Diamond’s forced resignation?
The answer, according to the parliamentary report, is that the
 leaders of Barclays’ two chief regulators  -- the Financial
Services Authority and the  Bank of England  -- wanted him gone.
At 6 p.m. on July 2, Agius was summoned to the office of  Mervyn King , the governor of the Bank of England. King told Agius that
his own resignation was not sufficient. Diamond had to resign,
too.  “It was made very plain to us that Bob Diamond no longer
enjoyed the support of his regulators,” Agius told Parliament.
“The Governor was very careful to say that he had no power to
direct us, but he felt that this was sufficiently important, as
indeed it was, for us to be told in absolute terms what the
situation was.” ( Adair Turner , chairman of the FSA, had told
Agius the same thing on June 29.)  Harder Line  Throughout the financial crisis and its aftermath,
regulators in the U.K. have taken a much harder line than their
U.S. counterparts on accountability, overcompensation,
incentives and  capital requirements . Why? It isn’t entirely
clear. But it is very hard for me to imagine either Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  or  Mary Schapiro , the chairman
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, demanding the
resignations of Dimon or Blankfein in the same way that Turner
and King insisted on Diamond’s.  It’s also worth noting that before President  Barack Obama 
appointed her to the SEC, Schapiro was the head of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street’s self-regulatory
organization. Before she left Finra, the group’s board -- made
up of Wall Street executives -- gave her a present to remember
them by: a $9 million exit bonus. Is it any coincidence that
Dimon and Blankfein still have their jobs while Diamond does
not?  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. His sister-in-law, Ellen Futter, is on JPMorgan Chase’s board of directors. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the politics of  long-term
health care  and on improving and expanding  charter schools ;  Mark
Buchanan  on  hacking the human brain ; William D. Cohan on  bankers
getting fired ;  Noah Feldman  on  Amish beard-cutting ;  Albert R.
Hunt  on  Obama’s slight campaign edge ; Amar Bhide on why
government should get out of the  securitization business .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 