-- Yankees Split Series With Orioles to Regain Lead Atop AL East
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-09/yankees-retake-al-east-lead-from-orioles-ahead-of-red-sox-series.html
The New York Yankees head to  Boston 
after retaking a one-game division lead over Baltimore with a
13-3 rout of the Orioles.  Curtis Granderson  had a home run and drove in five runs
yesterday at Camden Yards in Baltimore as the Yankees earned a
split of the four-game Major League Baseball series. New York is
back atop the American League East division with a 79-61 record,
while the Orioles fell to 78-62.  “We lost a couple tough games, but we did battle back, we
never gave up,” said Yankees captain  Derek Jeter , who had a
home run and three runs batted in. “We’ve come to expect
that.”  The Yankees now face the Red Sox (63-78) at Fenway Park in
a three-game series starting tomorrow before heading back to New
York for three games against the Tampa Bay Rays (77-63). Boston
lost 4-3 to the  Toronto Blue Jays  yesterday, while the Rays beat
the AL-leading Texas Rangers 6-0.  “The bottom line is we’re still in first place,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters. “The one thing that you
want to be able to do is just rely on your club. You don’t want
to have to rely on other people.”  Baltimore and the  Oakland Athletics , who beat the Seattle
Mariners 4-2 yesterday, hold the top two places in the AL wild-
card standings. Each league sends its three division winners and
top two teams in the  wild-card standings  to the playoffs. The
Rays and the  Los Angeles Angels , who beat the Detroit Tigers 3-2
yesterday, are a game back.  The Yankees will face the  Red Sox  without  Mark Teixeira ,
who aggravated a calf injury two days ago after sitting out 10
games because of the strain. He’ll have a scan today and won’t
play until at least Sept. 15, Girardi said.  Teixeira’s Injury  Teixeira was injured during the Yankees’ 5-4 loss to the
Orioles two nights ago when he slid headfirst into first base
trying to prevent a game-ending double play. Teixeira was called
out, although replays showed he was safe.  “I think that’s when he really felt it,” Girardi said.
“He busted his rear end to get down there. It’s unfortunate.”  Teixeira is second on the team to Granderson with 81 runs
batted in, while his 23 home runs are third behind Granderson
and  Robinson Cano .  Cano opened the scoring yesterday with a single that
brought Jeter home in the first inning.  The Yankees then used a four-run fourth-inning to open a
5-0 lead. After the Orioles scored twice in their half of the
inning, Granderson hit a solo home run in the sixth and had a
two-run single in the seventh.  The Yankees then added five runs in the eighth, when Jeter
hit a two-run homer and Granderson had a two-run double.  Joba Chamberlain, who relieved New York starting pitcher
 Freddy Garcia  in the fourth, got his first win since May 2,
2011, after 1 2/3 hitless innings. The right-hander was
activated off the disabled list Aug. 1 following elbow ligament
replacement surgery in June 2011.  “Joba’s last three outings have really taken a step in the
right direction,” Girardi said. “We felt that was important.
We need him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  