-- Macau’s ‘Broken Tooth’ Released From Jail Into Changed City
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-12-01T06:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/macau-s-broken-tooth-released-from-jail-into-city-transformed.html
The  Macau  gangster known as “Broken
Tooth,” once accused of planning to kill the local police chief,
said his release from prison today would not threaten law and
order in the world’s biggest casino hub.  Wan Kuok-koi was freed after more than 14 years of
imprisonment at around 7 a.m. today, Stephen Fok, Macau Prison’s
media relations officer, said in a telephone interview. Wan was
convicted of loan sharking and triad membership in 1999, a year
after he was  arrested  during an investigation into a car bomb
attack on then police chief Antonio Marques Baptista.  “It definitely won’t happen,” Wan said from the passenger
seat of a car when asked whether his release would affect
Macau’s law and order, according to footage broadcast by Hong
Kong’s Now TV. “Nobody is causing trouble so why would there be
any trouble?”  During Wan’s time in jail, Macau’s annual  casino revenue 
surged to 268 billion patacas ($34 billion), more than five
times that of the  Las Vegas Strip , boosted by the entry of
foreign players including  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Wynn Resorts
Ltd. (WYNN)  The U.S. operators will probably stay away from Wan should
he return to running a junket operator, which brings high-stakes
gamblers to casinos, said Gabriel Chan, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group.  Triad Wars  “They will be under greater scrutiny and closely watched
given his high profile,” said Chan, who expects Macau casino
revenue to grow to as much as $38 billion this year, before
Wan’s release. “There’s too much money at stake. If I were
another junket, I’d do my best to stop him messing things up.”  A week before Wan’s release, one of his former lieutenants
was arrested, the Macau Daily Times  reported .  “The arrest of Broken Tooth’s former right-hand man can be
seen as one of the pre-emptive measures taken by the police,”
said Grant Govertsen, a Macau-based analyst at Union Gaming
Group. “They want to send a clear message.”  Wan, who was 43 when jailed, walked out of Coloane Prison,
on an island with the same name, into a transformed city.  In the late 1990s, Macau, still administered by  Portugal ,
was the scene of “triad wars,” with Wan claiming in 1998 that
his gang had 10,000 members, according to the book “ The
Politics of Cross-Border Crime in Greater China ” by Sonny Shiu-
Hing Lo.  Casino Investments  According to an  Economist report  in May 1998, the violence
was so widespread that Macau’s then security chief Manuel Monge
told tourists that “the hitmen never missed their mark” and
they wouldn’t hit innocent bystanders.  A month after Wan’s conviction, the territory returned to
Chinese rule. Since then, Macau’s per-capita  gross domestic
product  more than quadrupled to about $66,000 last year. The
number of  crimes  related to organized criminal gangs fell to 15
last year from 81 in 2000.  Billionaire  Stanley Ho ’s casino monopoly used to lure
bettors into smoke-filled gambling halls with fading paint and
worn carpets, with prostitutes and loan sharks patrolling the
entrances. Now, U.S., Australian and Hong Kong players compete
with Ho to draw gamblers into lavish casinos that combine malls
with conference venues.  Adelson, Wynn  Casino moguls  Sheldon Adelson ’s Sands and  Steve Wynn ’s
namesake company, together with  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ,
 Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  and  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , have
invested more than $15 billion in the city since the government
ended the 40-year gaming monopoly held by Ho in 2002. All of
these five casino operators and Ho’s  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  plan to
expand in Macau.  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  contributed more than half of the $9.4
billion revenue last year of Adelson’s Las Vegas-based company.
The Hong Kong-listed unit has gained 51 percent this year,
closing at HK$33.05 yesterday, more than triple its 2009 initial
public offering price.  Wynn Macau  Ltd. accounted for more than 70 percent of Wynn
Resorts’ $5.3 billion revenue in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. All six Hong Kong-listed Macau casino
companies have gained this year, with Galaxy more than doubling
in value.  Police Raids  Trouble flared in Macau in August with raids at casino and
hotels. Almost 1,300 people were questioned and about 150
detained after a series of attacks and murders, including the
beating of Ng Man-sun, the biggest shareholder of junket
operator  Amax Holdings Ltd. (959)   Ng, also known as “Street Market Wai,” was attacked by
six men who beat him with hammers and sticks while avoiding
hitting him in the head, the  New York  Times reported in June.
Porda Havas, a public relations company hired by Amax, said the
company wouldn’t comment before Wan’s release.  Wan may try to go back to providing services and loans to
VIP gamblers, who bet as much as the legal limit of 250,000
patacas a hand, said Victor Yip, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
UOB Kay Hian Ltd.  “There are concerns within the gaming industry because he
used to be so influential,” said Yip. Still, the industry “is
big enough for an additional player,” he said.  Gambling Debts  Junket operators provide “crucial intermediary services”
as they identify potential high-rollers, offer them credit and
collect gambling debts, said Steve Vickers, a former Commander
of the Royal  Hong Kong  Police’s Criminal Intelligence Bureau.  High-stakes gamblers from  China  turn to junket operators
because currency controls limit the amount of cash they can take
out of China to 20,000  yuan  a day. High rollers provide Macau
with more than two-thirds of its casino revenue.  Triads were involved in loansharking, kidnapping, extortion
and illegal gambling, according to the biography of Vasco Rocha
Vieira, Macau’s last governor. Gang members had infiltrated the
police force and on Baptista’s first day as chief on Nov. 30,
1995, two bombs exploded at the entrance of the police
headquarters, it said.  “During the period of violence in the run-up to Macau’s
handover, the triads chose their targets so as to get maximum
media exposure,” Joao Severino, director of newspaper Macau
Hoje from 1995 to 2002, said by phone from Lisbon, Portugal.  Sometimes they would set dozens of cars or motorcycles on
fire, Severino said.  Chinese Stability  “I don’t anticipate a return of Macau’s violent past, as
Macau casinos are growing and the pie is getting bigger,” said
Au Kam-san, a lawmaker who grew up in the city. “The Chinese
government has made it clear that it wants stability in Macau.
It can take away everything it granted if these guys don’t
behave.”  Katharine Liu, spokeswoman of Wynn Macau, Melina Leong,
spokeswoman of Sands China, Sidney Luk, the director of  investor
relations  at MGM China, and Yoko Ku a spokeswoman for Galaxy,
all declined to comment ahead of Wan’s release.  Maggie Ma, a spokeswoman for Melco Crown and Janet Wong, a
spokeswoman for SJM, didn’t return phone calls or e-mails to
comment ahead of today’s release.  “Wan Kuok-Koi is yesterday’s man,” said Vickers, who runs
Steve Vickers and Associates, a Hong Kong-based risk consultant.
“Whilst he remains connected with his previous gang members,
there is just no room for the ‘wild bunch’ in Macau anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  