-- Harbinger’s Falcone Ask Court to Throw Out SEC Lawsuits
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/harbinger-falcone-ask-court-to-throw-out-sec-lawsuits.html
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC
founder  Philip Falcone  asked a federal judge to dismiss two
lawsuits filed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
June.  Falcone’s alleged fraudulent $113 million loan from a
Harbinger fund in 2009 to pay an unanticipated personal tax
liability was taken out on the suggestion of Harbinger’s outside
counsel and repaid in full at above-market interest, Falcone and
Harbinger said yesterday in one of their requests to throw out
the SEC claims filed in federal court in  Manhattan .  Another allegedly fraudulent scheme to allow large
investors to withdraw funds in exchange for their vote to
restrict redemptions in a different fund harmed no one and was
permitted under the relevant fund’s documents, Falcone and
Harbinger said.  The SEC “seeks to stretch the prohibitions in the federal
securities laws to cover conduct that, to our knowledge, has
never been the subject of any previous enforcement action,”
Falcone and Harbinger said.  The SEC sued Falcone on June 27, accusing him of
misappropriating client assets, favoring select investors and
manipulating bond prices. The lawsuits were a second blow this
year for Falcone, a former Harvard hockey center, after
LightSquared Inc., Harbinger’s biggest investment, filed for
bankruptcy in May.  Ill-Gotten Gains  The SEC is seeking disgorgement of ill-gotten gains,
unspecified financial penalties and a prohibition on Falcone
serving as an officer or director of a public company, according
to a statement by the agency.  The SEC, in a separate complaint, alleged that Falcone and
two of his funds engaged in a short-squeeze of MAAX Holdings
Inc. bonds, a transaction in which a buyer limits the supply of
a security to drive up prices and cause losses for investors
betting against the security.  “Although ‘short squeezes’ have existed for centuries, no
court ever has held that the conduct alleged here constitutes
market manipulation,” Falcone and Harbinger said in their
request to dismiss the SEC’s claims.  Harbinger had no obligation to disclose its holdings of the
distressed high-yield bonds to short sellers, and the SEC, in
its complaint, hasn’t alleged that buying the bonds and refusing
to sell them to short sellers was aimed to deceive anyone,
Falcone and Harbinger said.  The cases are SEC v. Harbinger, 12-05027 and 12-05028, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  