-- Canadian Currency in Tightest Range Since 1996 as Growth Slows
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-12-01T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/canadian-currency-in-tightest-range-since-1996-as-growth-slows.html
Canada ’s dollar traded in the
tightest weekly range in 16 years as economic growth slowed more
than forecast and U.S. lawmakers struggled in a budget showdown
that may push the nation’s biggest trade partner into recession.  The currency fell versus its U.S. peer this week as  Bank of
Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  was named to head the  Bank of
England , spurring speculation over who will replace him in
Ottawa. The BOC meets next week on interest rates. Canadian 10-
year government  bond yields  slid the most in two months as
investors sought safety amid data that included the nation’s
second-largest current-account deficit on record.  “Investors are looking at local data as a source of
potential transient volatility, and looking at the American
fiscal cliff to figure out the long-term trajectory of the
Canadian dollar,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a telephone interview. “Given that
there is no consensus, we’ve seen the Canadian dollar huddle to
very tight ranges.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.2 percent to
99.44 cents per  U.S. dollar  this week in Toronto. It traded
between 99.62 and 99.06 cents, the narrowest range since
September 1996, after strengthening for the previous two weeks.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0056.  Canada’s currency still gained for the month, strengthening
0.5 percent and rising against most major counterparts.  Volatility Drops  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian currency fell to its lowest level in
more than 11 years. It reached 5.55 percent on Nov. 29, the
least since May 2001. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings. The 10-year average is 9.97 percent.  Carney, 47, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managing
director, was named BOC governor in 2008. He was unexpectedly
appointed to run the British central bank, effective in July,
after previously signaling he wasn’t a candidate for the job.  “It creates tremendous uncertainty for Canada in the sense
that we don’t know who the next head of the Bank of Canada will
be,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist in Toronto at
Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotiabank, said Nov. 26 in a telephone
interview. “Uncertainty typically isn’t very good for  currency
markets .”  Bank Meeting  The Canadian central bank meets Dec. 4 after reports this
week on gross domestic product and the current-account deficit
signaled the nation’s economic outlook is not as robust as it
was considered earlier this year. It has kept the benchmark
 interest rate  at 1 percent since September 2010.  Carney has said since April that tighter monetary policy
might “become appropriate” as the nation’s economy moved
toward full output. He said last month his inclination to raise
interest rates had become “less imminent” given risk to
economic growth.  Canada’s gross domestic product  expanded  at an annualized
0.6 percent from July through September, the slowest in more
than a year, the nation’s statistics agency reported yesterday.
A Bloomberg News survey of economists forecast 0.8 percent
growth. The agency also revised its second-quarter GDP figure to
1.7 percent, from 1.9 percent.  “It is a miss, unquestionably,”  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in
Toronto, said of the economic data in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The trend of slower growth in Canada is going to
have an impact from a broad perspective.”  Current Account  Canada’s current-account deficit  grew  to C$18.9 billion
($19.1 billion) in the third quarter, from C$18.4 billion in the
previous three months, the government said Nov. 29. The current
account is the broadest measure of international trade.  Government bonds  climbed, sending yields to two-month lows.
Benchmark  10-year yields  slid nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, the most since the week ended Sept. 28, to 1.7
percent. The price of the 2.75 percent securities due in June
2022 gained 78 cents to C$109.19.  Five-year yields lost eight basis points, also the most
since Sept. 28.  The loonie fell versus 10 of its 16 most-traded peers this
week as U.S. officials tried to reach a budget-deficit accord.
If they fail, America faces a $607 billion fiscal cliff of
automatic spending cuts and tax increases starting Jan. 1. The
shock would cause the world’s biggest economy to contract 0.5
percent next year, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Net Longs  Futures traders increased their bets the Canadian dollar
will gain against the greenback, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an  advance  in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
62,379 on Nov. 27. That was 1.5 percent more than the net longs
of 61,446 a week earlier, the lowest level since August.  Canada’s currency has gained 0.8 percent this year versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 2.1 percent, and the
yen has been the biggest loser, tumbling 9.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  