-- Chelsea Winless Under Benitez After 3-1 Loss at West Ham
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-01T19:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/chelsea-stay-winless-under-benitez-after-3-1-defeat-at-west-ham.html
West Ham rallied to beat Chelsea 3-1
in English soccer’s Premier League and extend  Rafael Benitez ’s
winless start as Blues manager.  Carlton Cole, Mohamed Diame and Modibo Maiga scored in the
second half at Upton Park as West Ham ended a 13-match winless
run against Chelsea.  Juan Mata  scored for the Blues, who have
two draws and a loss since Benitez was named manager on Nov. 21.  “To win, it’s simple,” Benitez told Sky Sports when asked
what his team needs. “We know that football has two halves. In
the first half we had two or three chances. We just need to
score more goals.”  Manchester United beat Reading 4-3 to open a three-point
lead at the top of the standings over Manchester City, which
drew 1-1 with Everton. Last-place QPR, which appointed  Harry Redknapp  as manager on Nov. 24 after firing  Mark Hughes , remains
the league’s only winless team after a 1-1 draw with Aston
Villa.  Swansea beat Arsenal 2-0, Tottenham routed Fulham 3-0,
Liverpool beat Southampton 1-0 and Stoke won 1-0 at West Brom in
today’s other matches.  Chelsea’s second-half collapse will increase pressure on
Benitez. The Spaniard was jeered in his first two homes games as
fans showed support for Roberto Di Matteo, who was fired Nov. 21
even though he won the Champions League and F.A. Cup last
season.  Mata opened the scoring as he tapped in a pass from
 Fernando Torres  in the 13th minute. It was the Blues’ first
score under Benitez after two goalless draws.  Stoppage Time  Cole tied the game in the 63rd minute when he headed in
 Matt Jarvis ’s deflected cross. Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech then
made a save against Jarvis and Ashley Cole cleared Winston
Reid’s header off the line.  The Hammers took the lead with four minutes left as Diame,
who came on to start the second half, took a pass from Cole and
drilled a shot by Cech. Maiga, who replaced Cole in the 87th
minute, then clinched the victory with a goal in stoppage time.  The win moves the Hammers up to eighth place with 22
points, four fewer than Chelsea, which is tied with Tottenham
and West Brom for third place.  “After this game, we are going to get confidence and keep
going,” Diame told Sky Sports. “It’s a great result for us.”  Wayne Rooney  scored twice as Manchester United beat Reading
in a game in which all the goals came in the opening 34 minutes.
 Carlos Tevez ’s penalty kick just before halftime gave defending
champion Manchester City the tie with Everton. City hosts United
in the next league match for both on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 