-- China’s Manufacturing PMI Expands for a Second Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/china-s-manufacturing-pmi-expands-for-a-second-month.html
China ’s official manufacturing index
rose to the highest level in seven months as new orders and
export demand climbed, underscoring optimism the economy is
recovering after a seven-quarter slowdown.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 50.6 in November, the
 National Bureau of Statistics  and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said yesterday in Beijing. That compares with the
50.8 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 analysts
and 50.2 the previous month. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  The report reduces pressure on China’s new leadership to
roll out more policies to support a growth rebound as they push
ahead with overhauling state-owned enterprises and boosting
consumption. Confidence in  China’s economy  is at the highest in
more than a year amid faith that  Xi Jinping ’s administration
will improve the investment climate, a Bloomberg investor poll
last week showed.  “It’s especially encouraging that the rise in the PMI was
mainly driven by new orders, which suggests output will be
further boosted in coming months,” said Lu Ting, chief  Greater
China  economist at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong Kong . “Beijing
will maintain the current policy stance, which is featured as
marginally pro-growth without big-bang stimulus.”  First Expansion  Lu said he expects no cut in interest rates and at most one
reduction in banks’ reserve requirement ratio before the end of
the year. He estimates economic growth will accelerate to 7.8
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier after a 7.4
percent pace in the previous three months, which was the slowest
in three years.  The preliminary November reading of a separate
manufacturing survey from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics,
which focuses more on smaller businesses, showed the first
expansion in 13 months. The final figure is due tomorrow.  The  yuan  had its fourth monthly gain, its longest winning
streak in more than a year, on signs economic growth is
recovering. The currency climbed 0.2 percent in November to
6.2267 per dollar in  Shanghai  and on Nov. 27 reached the highest
level since China unified official and market exchange rates in
1993.  The federation’s PMI is based on responses from purchasing
managers at 820 companies in 31 industries. Yesterday’s report
showed a gauge of new orders expanded for a second month to its
highest level since April after contracting for the previous
five months, while the output sub-index was the highest in six
months at 52.5.  ‘Moderate Rebound’  A measure of export orders rose above 50 for the first time
since May, with gains boosted by Christmas demand, the
federation said in a separate statement.  “Economic growth will continue to maintain a moderate
rebound,”  Zhang Liqun , a senior researcher at the Development
Research Center of the State Council, said in the federation’s
release. The data “indicate that destocking is now shifting to
restocking, which means industrial production will continue to
ramp up.”  Among respondents to the Nov. 27 quarterly global poll of
862 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers, 72 percent see the Chinese economy improving or
remaining stable, up from 38 percent in September’s survey.
Fifty-three percent said they’re more optimistic about the
effect of Xi’s policies on investors, up from 42 percent who
were asked in September about President  Hu Jintao .  Monetary Easing  China’s gross domestic product may expand 7.7 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier, the first acceleration
in eight quarters, according to the median estimate of 29
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Economists have scrapped projections for any easing of
monetary policy in the rest of 2012. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News Nov. 14-19 see China holding the  reserve-
requirement ratio  for the biggest banks at 20 percent through
the end of the year, based on the median estimate. That compares
with the median forecast for a 0.5 percentage-point cut in
October’s survey.  While China’s central bank has refrained from monetary
easing since a cut in  interest rates  in July, the government is
making efforts to sustain investment momentum. The top economic-
planning agency on Nov. 26 posted approvals on its website for
three transport projects with a total value of 75.2 billion yuan
($12.1 billion), expanding potential sales for companies
including  China CNR (601299)  Corp. and CSR Corp., the country’s two
biggest train makers.  Market Confidence  “Supportive policies on the domestic level have led to a
gradual rebound of the manufacturing sector,” said Hu Yifan,
chief economist at Haitong International Securities Co. in Hong
Kong, who previously worked at the  World Bank . She estimates
fourth-quarter growth will accelerate to 7.9 percent.  At the same time, Zhang from the Development Research
Center said the decline in a gauge of input prices in the PMI
“shows the market’s confidence is not solid enough and the
strength of the economic recovery is still weak.” The reading
dropped to 50.1 from 54.3 the previous month.  A measure of employment fell to 48.7, the steepest drop in
the gauge’s six-month stretch of contraction and the PMI index
for smaller companies remained below the 50 line that divides
expansion from contraction, the report showed.  “We remain cautious about the sustainability of the recent
improvement, worrying that much fragility persists,” Alistair Thornton and  Ren Xianfang , Beijing-based analysts with IHS
Global Insight, wrote in a report after the data release.
“Whilst activity is resuming, economic efficiency is
declining,” they said, pointing out that in many parts of the
economy, local state-owned enterprises are “riding to the
rescue of debt-laden firms which, in a pure market economy,
would be going bust.”  --Zhou Xin, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Sandi Liu in Hong
Kong, Regina Tan and Penny Peng in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery,
Paul Tighe  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  