-- Clinton Says Israel, Palestinians Must Resume Talks Soon
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-12-01T03:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/clinton-says-israel-palestinians-must-resume-talks-soon.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Israel and the Palestinians must resume
negotiations soon that can lead to creation of a Palestinian
state and ensure Israel’s future as a peaceful democracy.  Without peace, extremists will grow stronger and Israel
will be forced to militarize even further, Clinton said. “And
without peace, the inexorable math of demographics will one day
force Israelis to choose between preserving their democracy and
remaining a Jewish homeland.”  Addressing a forum tonight of Israeli and U.S. leaders
organized by the  Brookings Institution , a Washington policy
group, Clinton said “the dynamics of ideology, technology and
demography conspire” to make it impossible to delay
negotiations for too long.  She delivered her remarks during a turbulent week.
Palestinians won elevated status at the  United Nations  over
objections by Israel and the U.S. yesterday, while Israel
announced plans to pursue settlement construction that would
divide the cities of Ramallah and Bethlehem, making a contiguous
Palestinian state impossible.  Peace talks between Israel and the  Palestinian Authority 
broke down in September 2010 after Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  refused to extend a 10-month building freeze
in West Bank Jewish settlements. Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  said he wouldn’t negotiate unless Israel stops its
construction in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, areas Israel
captured in the 1967  Middle East  war.  Brief Meetings  Before speaking, Clinton held brief meetings with Israeli
Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman, Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak , Jordanian Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh and Palestinian
Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad.  Clinton said the U.S. remains committed to Israel’s
security amid major transitions in the region and the threat of
Iran’s alleged nuclear ambitions.  “The world knows that whenever Israel is threatened,
America will be there,” she said. “That is a good thing,
because we are in the midst of a transformative moment in the
Middle East, one that offers as many questions as answers about
Israel’s place in the emerging regional order.”  Iran must be prevented from gaining a nuclear weapon,
Clinton said, warning that the U.S. wouldn’t “talk
indefinitely.”  President  Barack Obama  “has made clear that all options
are on the table,” she said. “And by now it should be clear,
this is a president who does not bluff.”  ‘Work Together’  After the recent conflict between Israel and Hamas, which
controls the  Gaza Strip  and is considered a terrorist group by
the U.S., Israel and the European Union, “America and Israel
have to work together with partners in the region to turn the
ceasefire into a lasting calm,” Clinton said.  She closed by saying that Israel and the U.S. had to work
to ensure the transitions sweeping some of Israel’s neighbors in
the Middle East bring “the region closer to, not farther away
from, peace and security.”  As the U.S. supports countries such as  Egypt , Tunisia,
Libya and Yemen in their nascent democratic transitions, Clinton
said the Obama administration is also making clear they must
fight terrorism and extremism and honor international
commitments.  “Working closely with them on these critical issues does
not mean we seek a return to the old bargain,” Clinton said.
“Honoring obligations abroad does not lessen the need for those
governments to respect fundamental rights, build strong checks
and balances and seek dialogue at home.”  In response to questions after her remarks, Clinton said
well-deserved suspicion has left the Israelis with a lack of
“generosity” and “empathy” for the Palestinians. She urged
the Israelis to be “generous” with the Palestinian Authority,
saying that it’s still possible to reach an agreement with
secular  West Bank  Palestinians and create some stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  