-- Pena Nieto Assumes Mexico’s Presidency Vowing Security, Growth
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-12-01T22:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/enrique-pena-nieto-takes-oath-as-mexico-s-president.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
took office today pledging to reduce crime, erase the  budget
deficit  and spur competition in communications industries, where
the world’s richest man has a near monopoly in phone service.  Wearing the green, red and white presidential sash, the 46-
year-old president said in his inaugural address that he’ll
create a national crime prevention program after more than
57,000 people were killed in drug warfare since 2006 under his
predecessor,  Felipe Calderon . He called for “austerity” in
 government spending  while saying infrastructure investments
should be accelerated.  “It’s time for us to break the myths and paradigms and
everything else that has limited our development,” Pena Nieto
said in an address at the National Palace. “It’s now up to us
to take advantage of this platform to boost growth and achieve
the most important economic objective -- improve the economy for
Mexican families.”  Pena Nieto takes over a $1.2 trillion economy analysts
forecast will grow 3.8 percent this year, more than  Brazil  yet
less than Latin American countries including Colombia and Peru.
He said his government will bring “21st century” development
to Mexico, promising a wider social safety net, more passenger
railroads and greater oversight of state government debts.  “The nation hasn’t grown sufficiently,” Pena Nieto said.
“Mexico hasn’t achieved the advances that the people demand and
deserve.”  Street Protests  Before the swearing-in, several hundred protesters fought
with police at barricades around Congress, with rioters hurling
bottle rockets and officers spraying tear gas to disperse them
as eight people were injured, according to Mexico City Mayor
Marcelo Ebrard. A group of marchers rammed a truck into a police
barricade and separate protests along Mexico City’s main
business boulevard, the Paseo de la Reforma, left dozens of
storefronts shattered.  Pena Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI,
ruled Mexico for 71 years until 2000. Opponents, including
supporters of election runner-up  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ,
have warned that Pena Nieto’s administration may return to the
corruption and cronyism that marked the PRI’s prior rule.  As part of his economic agenda, Pena Nieto vowed to seek
bids for two more over-the-air broadcast networks in a nation
dominated by  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO)  and TV Azteca SAB. He also said
there should be more competition in the telephone industry, even
as billionaire  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest person who
controls 80 percent of Mexico’s landlines and 70 percent of its
mobile-phone lines through America Movil SAB, attended the
speech.  ‘Trapped Growth’  “We need to find a way to unleash that trapped growth
potential in the economy, and that’s why those reforms are so
critical,” said  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., before the speech. Investors are looking to see that
the PRI “will be willing and able to reach across the aisle to
achieve meaningful reforms,” he said.  Pena Nieto said all Mexicans deserve access to high-speed
Internet and urged steps toward universal social security while
saying his government will propose eliminating the budget
deficit in 2013. Mexico’s Congress passed a budget for this year
that forecast a deficit of 0.4 percent of gross domestic
product.  The incoming leader also said he’ll send Congress a bill to
increase oversight of state debt and push for a constitutional
amendment to consolidate the criminal code.  Energy Details  The president failed to give details on his campaign plans
to open up the  energy industry , dominated by state-run  Petroleos
Mexicanos , to foreign competition. Crude production at the
company has fallen for seven straight years and Pena Nieto had
previously said he favored accelerated development of shale gas
reserves and deep-water oil deposits.  Some of Pena Nieto’s stated goals are similar to ones
pushed by Calderon’s  National Action Party  over the past six
years, many of which were blocked by Pena Nieto’s Institutional
Revolutionary Party, or PRI. Gustavo Madero, the  PAN ’s
president, reiterated on Nov. 24 that his party will work with
the PRI to achieve the overhauls that it worked for under
Calderon.  “In a country’s life, six years is a short time,” Pena
Nieto said. “But 2,191 days are sufficient to put down roots
concerning what, starting now, should be our goals -- making
 Mexico  a prosperous nation and one of opportunities and well-
being for all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  