-- Mexico Oil Monopoly and Drug War Head New President’s Agenda
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-12-01T17:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/mexico-s-oil-monopoly-and-drug-war-head-new-president-s-agenda.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
takes office today vowing to bolster  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy by ending a seven-decade oil monopoly and
improving security in a nation wracked by drug violence.  The 46-year-old former governor of  Mexico  state assumed
office in a midnight ceremony where the national anthem was
played and outgoing President  Felipe Calderon  handed him a
Mexican flag. Pena Nieto will take the formal oath of office
today as the first president from his  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , or PRI, to lead the country since voters
ended the party’s 71-year rule in 2000. He’s then scheduled to
give a speech at the National Palace.  As the lower house of Congress began the session for Pena
Nieto’s swearing in, Ricardo Monreal, a legislator who ran
election runner-up  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ’s campaign, took
to the podium to rail against alleged corruption by the PRI and
Calderon’s  National Action Party . Hundreds of protesters fought
with police at barricades around Congress, with rioters hurling
firecrackers and officers spraying tear gas to disperse them.  Pena Nieto’s economic goals have fared better, getting a
boost last month when PRI lawmakers, working with Calderon’s
PAN, passed a labor bill intended to increase productivity by
allowing hourly wages and part-time contracts. The 3.8 percent
economic expansion analysts forecast for this year is still
below the 6 percent potential outlined by the government.  ‘Trapped Growth’  “We need to find a way to unleash that trapped growth
potential in the economy, and that’s why those reforms are so
critical,” said  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Investors are looking to see that the PRI “will be
willing and able to reach across the aisle to achieve meaningful
reforms,” he said.  Mexico’s economy has accelerated faster than  Brazil  and the
U.S. as companies from Ford Motor Co. to  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  spur a
manufacturing boom. Yet growth still trails Chile, Colombia and
 Panama .  The incoming leader has also promised to turn the tide in a
drug war that claimed more than 57,000 lives under Calderon.
That violence shaves about 1 percentage point off annual gross
domestic product, according to government estimates.  Pena Nieto won a July 1 election with 38.2 percent of the
national vote, compared with 31.6 percent for  Lopez Obrador .
During the five-month transition, Pena Nieto prioritized
transparency and anti-corruption measures over economic
legislation amid public concern the PRI would return to the
cronyism that marked its prior rule.  ‘Solid Perspective’  Investors are bullish on Mexico’s prospects. The nation’s
access to cheap energy, low wages and proximity to the U.S.
consumers are helping manufacturers boost exports to a record
this year and may help the nation overtake Brazil as Latin
America’s largest economy within 10 years, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc.  “A lot of variables are coming together to give Mexico a
very solid perspective going forward,” Carlos Slim Domit, co-
chairman of America Movil SAB, the largest wireless carrier in
the Americas by subscribers, and the eldest son of  Carlos Slim ,
the world’s richest person, said in an interview.  Pena Nieto has said he favors allowing more private
investment in the nation’s energy sector and accelerating
development of shale gas reserves and deep-water oil deposits as
Pemex seeks to reverse seven years of declining crude
production. Yesterday he named Emilio Lozoya to run Pemex.  Tax Revenue  He’s also pledged a fiscal overhaul to help boost  tax
revenue  that equaled 19 percent of GDP in 2010, the lowest among
34 nations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. Luis Videgaray, who ran Pena Nieto’s campaign and
headed his transition team, was named Mexico’s next finance
minister yesterday, making him the point man on budget and
spending in the $1.2 trillion economy.  The  PAN  pushed for similar changes during Calderon’s six-
year term, only to be blocked by the PRI. Gustavo Madero, the
PAN’s president, reiterated on Nov. 24 that his party will work
with the PRI to achieve the overhauls that it worked for under
Calderon.  “Fiscal and energy reform are the most difficult to get
through, and also the ones he needs most urgently so that he can
do many of the other things he has promised,” Andres Rozental,
who served as deputy foreign minister under PRI President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, said in an interview.  Pena Nieto has also said he wants to diversify Mexico’s
exports beyond the U.S., the buyer of about 80 percent of the
nation’s goods sold abroad. After his election, Pena Nieto made
his first international trips to Latin America and  Europe  before
going to  Washington  earlier this week.  In his meeting with President  Barack Obama , Pena Nieto said
he wants to help strengthen security at the 2,000-mile border
that separates the two countries and that he supports Obama’s
aim to change immigration law to resolve the status of 6 million
Mexican immigrants living illegally in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  