-- Vonn Wins Second Straight World Cup Downhill Race in Canada
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-02T06:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/lindsey-vonn-wins-second-straight-world-cup-downhill-in-canada.html
Olympic champion  Lindsey Vonn  beat
fellow American Stacey Cook to complete a sweep of the women’s
 World Cup  downhill ski races in  Canada  this weekend.  Vonn, 28, posted a time of 1 minute, 52.90 seconds to win
her sixth straight downhill at Lake Louise, Alberta. Vonn, who
was hospitalized last month in  Colorado  for severe intestinal
pain, got the 28th World Cup downhill win of her career.  Vonn trailed Cook by about a half second after taking a
wide turn midway through her run. She rebounded over the second
part of the course to win by 0.52 seconds.  “I almost went into the fence and somehow kept it going,”
Vonn said on the U.S. Ski Team’s website. “It was definitely
interesting but I didn’t give up. I haven’t won with that big of
a mistake before.”  Vonn has 55 World Cup victory to tie Switzerland’s Vreni
Schneider for second all-time.  Austria ’s Annemarie Moser-Proell
holds the record with 62 wins.  Vonn, the four-time overall World Cup champion, won the
downhill Nov. 30 and will try to duplicate last year’s three-
race sweep in Canada in today’s super-G.  Cook’s best World Cup finish before this weekend was a
fourth place in Lake Louise six years ago. Switzerland’s
Marianne Kaufmann-Abderhalden was 0.62 seconds back in third
place.  Leads Standings  Vonn leads the season downhill standings with 200 points,
40 more than Cook. Slovenia’s  Tina Maze , who finished 10th
today, continues to lead the overall standings with 347 points,
with Vonn moving up to fourth with 210 points.  Italy’s Matteo Marsaglia won his first World Cup title by
taking the men’s super-G on the Birds of Prey slope in Beaver
Creek, Colorado.  “I had been close to the podium last year so I knew I
could do it, especially in super-G,” Marsaglia, 27, said on the
World Cup website. “I have always loved this slope.”  Marsaglia had a time of 1:14.68, 0.27 seconds faster than
Norway’s Aksel Lund Svindal. Hannes Reichelt of Austria finished
0.70 seconds behind in third.  Svindal leads the overall standings with 360 points, 140
more than American Ted Ligety, heading into tomorrow’s giant
slalom. The Norwegian also has a 51-point lead over Marsaglia in
the super-G standings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 