-- Kuwaitis Vote for Parliament Amid Opposition Boycott Calls
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-12-01T18:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/kuwaitis-start-voting-in-parliament-elections-amid-boycott-call.html
Kuwaitis voted today in the nation’s
second parliamentary elections in less than a year as the
opposition movement called for a boycott.  Men and women cast their ballots for a 50-seat National
Assembly at segregated polling stations across five districts
for 12 hours before stations closed at 8:00 p.m. The state-run
KUNA news agency reported that long lines of people still
waiting to vote were allowed to do so once doors had closed.
About 422,000 people were eligible to vote in a country where
about a third of the population of 3.8 million is Kuwaiti.  “It’s possible that we’ll have one of the lowest voters’
turnout in record and the turnover will be the largest number of
freshmen MPs,” Abdullah Al-Shayji, chairman of the political
science department at  Kuwait  University, said on his Twitter
account after polls closed.  Kuwait’s opposition yesterday staged one of the biggest
rallies in the Gulf nation’s history, urging a boycott of the
polls amid calls for political reform and more power sharing
with elected politicians. The opposition, which won a majority
in February’s elections, has opposed government changes to the
voting system, which requires voters to choose only one
candidate, instead of four previously.  “I’m voting for new faces,” said Abdul Al Bu Abbas, a 50-
year-old oil industry employee, after voting in Salwa, south of
Kuwait City. “It’s my right. I’m looking forward to a new
system.”  Voting Rules  The economy of Kuwait, OPEC’s third-biggest producer which
relies on oil for more than 90 percent of its revenue, has
trailed Gulf peers as political disputes have brought repeated
dissolutions of parliament and Cabinet resignations, and held up
a $110 billion development plan.  “I don’t totally support the government, but we need the
constitutional process to continue,” Zainab Abbas said after
casting her ballot in Rumaithiyah, south of the capital. “The
change can be made using constitutional tools. We don’t want
chaos, we want stability.” The 28-year-old civil servant voted
for a female candidate and supports the new voting system.  The opposition said changes to the voting rules were
gerrymandering aimed at reducing their chances of winning and
making it easier for candidates to buy votes. The government
said they were intended to ensure stability and boost democracy.  Islamists, pro-democracy activists and youths inspired by
the Arab Spring are among the groups who have been mobilizing
street protests since 2011. The opposition has vowed to “use
all constitutional tools” to bring down the new parliament.  ‘Be Positive’  “Be positive and take part in the electoral process to
choose the best, most effective, honest and responsible to
represent you in the coming National Assembly,” Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah said last month. Fighting corruption and
reforming state bodies can’t be addressed through protests,
“but through cooperation, unity, hard work and constructive
dialogue,” he said.  Daham Mahmoud Al-Reshaidi said he was voting today because
he couldn’t defy the wishes of the emir. “I hate loud voices
and chaos,” said the 65-year-old as he approached a polling
station. “Whoever wants to boycott, that’s their personal
opinion. I’m hoping this parliament will last longer, bring more
reform and meet the hopes of the people and the emir.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  