-- Nations May Keep Sanctions Exemption for Cutting Iran Oil
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-01T01:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/nations-may-keep-sanctions-exemption-for-cutting-iran-oil.html
Oil-importing nations are continuing
to cut back their purchases from Iran, making it likely those
countries will earn a new round of exceptions from U.S.
sanctions next week.  Two U.S. officials said yesterday that publicly available
oil trading figures indicate that the seven nations whose
waivers are up for renewal on Dec. 8 have continued to
significantly reduce their Iranian oil imports over the last 180
days.  The Obama administration certified six months ago that
India, Turkey,  South Korea ,  Sri Lanka , Taiwan,  Malaysia  and
 South Africa  had “significantly reduced” their purchases of
Iranian oil, in keeping with a December 2011 law that imposes
U.S. sanctions on foreign financial institutions that facilitate
oil transactions with Iran.  On Dec. 8, those 180-day exceptions from sanctions will
expire, and the administration must certify whether the
countries have continued to reduce their purchases and qualify
for a renewal.  Malaysia and South Africa have stopped importing oil from
Iran, and the other five nations appear to have continued to
reduce their purchases, putting them on track to earn a second
round of exceptions from sanctions if all the figures are
certified, the officials said. The officials spoke on condition
of anonymity since the final decision by Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  hasn’t been made and relies on data other than
publicly available trade figures.  U.S. Law  All 20 nations that imported Iranian oil last year,
including 10 European Union countries,  China  and  Japan , were
able to show a significant reduction in their imports earlier
this year, allowing them to continue buying smaller quantities
of Iranian oil without facing sanctions. The EU imposed an
embargo on all  oil purchases  from Iran that took effect July 1.  U.S. Senators Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, and  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, were the architects of a year-old
U.S. law that curtailed Iran’s oil exports and revenues to
pressure the Islamic Republic to make concessions over its
disputed nuclear program. The U.S., European Union and  Israel 
say Iran is secretly pursuing a nuclear weapons capability. Iran
says its nuclear program is strictly for civilian energy and
medical research.  Exports Drop  The December 2011 law cuts off from the U.S. banking system
any foreign financial institution that handles oil trade with
Iran if their home country hasn’t earned an exception from
sanctions by reducing its oil imports.  The  International Energy Agency  said Iranian oil exports
dipped below 1 million barrels a day in July after the European
Union banned purchases of the country’s crude. The Paris-based
IEA estimates that Iranian exports rebounded to 1.3 million
barrels in October.  Iran’s oil output, formerly the second-largest in OPEC, has
dropped to fifth among the 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries as a result of economic sanctions
imposed by the U.S. and its allies.  In the first half of 2011, China was the biggest importer
of  Iranian crude , followed by the European Union, Japan, India
and South Korea, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  Oil capped its first monthly increase since August on
signals that economic expansion in the U.S. is accelerating.
Crude oil for January delivery advanced 84 cents to $88.91 a
barrel yesterday on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the
highest settlement since Nov. 19. Futures increased 0.7 percent
this week and gained 3.1 percent this month. Prices are down 10
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  