-- News Corp. Is Said to Pick Thomson as CEO of Spinoff
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-03T00:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/news-corp-said-to-plan-to-name-robert-thomson-as-ceo-of-spinoff.html
Rupert Murdoch’s choice of Wall
Street Journal editor Robert Thomson to lead his publishing
spinoff would put the company in the hands of a close lieutenant
while underscoring the Journal’s role in setting strategy.  Thomson, who serves as editor-in-chief of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Dow
Jones and managing editor of the Journal, will be named chief
executive officer of the company’s proposed spinoff as soon as
this week, a person familiar with the matter said. Murdoch, the
billionaire founder and CEO of News Corp., also may outline the
board makeup of the spinoff and original company, said another
person, who asked not to be named because the plans are private.  News Corp., bowing to pressure from shareholders, agreed in
June to break off the publishing assets, which are growing more
slowly than its Fox entertainment businesses. Putting Thomson in
charge of the publishing spinoff would help Murdoch preserve his
vision for the company, said Ken Doctor, an analyst at Outsell
Inc., a Burlingame, California-based research firm.  “Robert Thomson has been well-schooled in the College of
Murdoch,” said Doctor, who covers the publishing industry.
“They have long worked closely, and, in a sense, this is a
continuation of that partnership.”  Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment on whether Thomson had been picked as CEO.  In choosing Thomson, Murdoch passed over  Tom Mockridge , CEO
of News International, the company’s U.K. publishing group.
Mockridge now plans to step down by the end of the year, News
Corp. said in a statement dated Dec. 3.  ``His decision to step down is absolutely and entirely his 
own,'' Murdoch said in the statement.  Career Journalist  Murdoch  hired Thomson , a fellow Australian, to run the
Journal in 2007 and appointed him head of Dow Jones the
following year. Thomson, 51, had served as editor of the Times
of London, where he bolstered Internet readership. Before that,
he was editor of the U.S. edition of the Financial Times.  The new job still would entrust the management of a global
media corporation to a career journalist, rather than an
experienced CEO. Thomson has worked in newspapers since 1979,
when he began as a copyboy at the Herald in  Melbourne .  Thomson would need to reinvigorate a business suffering
from shrinking profit and a scandal at its U.K. newspapers. Even
so, the operation will have a clean balance sheet, with no debt
and “very large reserves of cash,” Murdoch said when the plan
was proposed in June.  Close Ties  Murdoch will remain CEO of News Corp.’s entertainment
company after the spinoff and serve as chairman of both
entities. That means the outspoken 81-year-old will continue to
loom large at the new business, Doctor said.  “There’s little room between Murdoch as chairman of the
new company and Thomson as CEO,” he said.  News Corp. shares  fell 0.3 percent to $24.64 on Nov. 30,
the most recent trading day. The stock has climbed 38 percent
this year.  In the new role, Thomson will have to confront a lingering
scandal in the U.K. News Corp. closed its News of the World
newspaper in July 2011 in response to public anger over
revelations that journalists accessed messages on a murdered
schoolgirl’s mobile phone nearly a decade earlier. The
investigation spawned parallel probes of computer hacking and
bribery and led to the arrests of more than 80 people, including
the unit’s former head of security and its top lawyer.  Mockridge had replaced Rebekah Brooks last year as head of
the U.K. division in the wake of the scandal.  Publishing Assets  In addition to operating the Wall Street Journal and Times
of  London , the spinoff will include other newspapers in the
U.S., U.K. and  Australia , as well as the  HarperCollins  book
division, education and marketing assets. News Corp. has said it
will complete the breakup by the middle of next year.  News Corp. acquired the Wall Street Journal as part of its
purchase of Dow Jones in 2007. When Thomson ascends to the CEO
job, Gerard Baker, his deputy at the Journal, will replace him
as managing editor, one of the people familiar with the
situation said.  Of News Corp.’s newspapers, the Journal has the most growth
potential, and Thomson’s ascension signals that the publication
will be the heart of the spinoff, Doctor said. The paper has
pioneered the use of video, advertising and tablet computers
among news organizations, he said. It also was an early convert
to paid Internet subscriptions, an approach copied by the  New
York Times Co. (NYT)  and other rivals.  The Wall Street Journal is the largest circulating weekday
newspaper in the U.S., with 2.29 million readers, according to
the most recent figures from the Alliance for Audited Media. The
paper’s circulation gained 9.4 percent from a year earlier.  “It has global business potential, while all the regional
papers, each in their own ways, are constrained by being non-
global players,” Doctor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  