-- Obama Said Set to Name National Security Team in Weeks
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/obama-said-set-to-name-national-security-team-in-weeks.html
President  Barack Obama  may announce
his nominees for secretaries of state and defense and head of
the CIA in the coming weeks, according to an administration
official.  Former Nebraska Senator Chuck Hagel, a Republican, is among
Obama’s top candidates to head the Pentagon, replacing Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta, said the official, speaking on the
condition of anonymity. Other contenders are Michele Flournoy,
former defense undersecretary for policy, Ashton Carter, deputy
defense secretary, and Democratic Senator John Kerry of
 Massachusetts , the official said.  Obama is also considering Kerry, chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, to replace Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton as the nation’s top diplomat, along with Susan Rice, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, the official
said.  The nominations would be among the first that Obama makes
as he shuffles his Cabinet for a second term. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner, the only remaining member of Obama’s
original economic team, has said he intends to leave. The
Commerce Department is headed by an acting secretary, Rebecca Blank, and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk has said he
doesn’t plan to stay through another four-year term.  The possibility that Obama may act in December was reported
earlier yesterday by the Associated Press.  Senate Confirmation  The Cabinet nominations are subject to confirmation by the
Senate.  Hagel, who retired from the Senate in 2009 after 12 years
in office, would give the president a bipartisan cast for his
Cabinet. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood also is a
Republican former lawmaker.  With Clinton having announced her intention to leave
office, Rice has been Obama’s favored candidate to take over.  Rice has come under fire from Republican lawmakers, who are
threatening to block any nomination over comments she made in
the days following the deadly Sept. 11 attack at a U.S.
diplomatic outpost in Benghazi, Libya.  In televised interviews Rice discussed the circumstances
surrounding the deaths of four American officials in the attack
that killed U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other
Americans, saying a spontaneous protest against an anti-Muslim
video was “hijacked” by militants.  Congressional Investigation  The attack on the consulate is the subject of investigation
by congressional committees, and Rice has met with some of her
critics in the Senate.  Obama has defended Rice from criticism by Republican
senators, including John McCain or  Arizona . At a Nov. 14 news
conference, the president said his UN envoy had done “exemplary
work” and that the efforts by some senators  “to besmirch her
reputation is outrageous.” On Nov. 28, Obama praised her as
“extraordinary” in remarks to reporters.  Should Obama nominate Kerry to be the nation’s top
diplomat, Democrats risk losing one of the two Senate seats they
picked up in the November elections and make newly elected
Elizabeth Warren the state’s senior senator.  To lead the Central Intelligence Agency, Obama is
considering Deputy Director Michael Morell, who took over as
acting director when David H. Petraeus resigned last month
following the revelation of an extramarital affair, the official
said.  The other candidates for the CIA job include Hagel, Michael Vickers, undersecretary of defense for intelligence, and White
House counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  