-- Pakistan to Free More Taliban Captives to Back Afghan Peace
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-12-03T09:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/pakistan-to-release-more-taliban-to-support-afghan-peace-talks.html
Pakistan  said it will release more
members of Afghanistan’s Taliban movement in a bid to help the
U.S. and Afghan governments start meaningful negotiations with
insurgents to end a decade-old conflict.  The plan was announced by Pakistan’s Foreign Office after
Afghan Foreign Minister Zalmai Rassoul visited the capital,
Islamabad, Nov. 30 and met with Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf and Pakistan Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar. Pakistan
last month freed nine Taliban prisoners, according to the
 Associated Press , a move that the U.S. and Afghanistan welcomed
as a positive first step and an indication that Pakistan
supports the stalled Afghan  peace process .  Pakistan agreed to “release more prisoners, facilitating
contacts and urging the Taliban to renounce ties to al-Qaeda,”
the Foreign Office said in a statement.  The U.S. and  Afghanistan  have long sought Pakistan’s help
in facilitating talks with the Taliban, whose leadership they
allege is hiding in and around the southwestern Pakistani city
of Quetta in Baluchistan, a province that borders Afghanistan.
Pakistan denies charges that its military protects senior
insurgent commanders in a bid to maintain influence over
Afghanistan’s future and oppose  India ’s growing role there.  Rustam Shah Mohmand, who served as Pakistan’s ambassador to
Kabul between 2002 and 2005, said the release of mid-level
Taliban members is unlikely on its own to persuade the
movement’s leadership to begin substantial negotiations.  Troop Withdrawal  “As soon as they were detained, the Taliban
renounced any links with them, saying that they do not belong to
the movement,” he said by phone from  Peshawar . “There has been
a consistent stand of the Taliban that as long as coalition
forces remain on the soil of Afghanistan, no negotiations will
be held.”  The statement didn’t say when Pakistan will release the
Taliban prisoners or who will be among them. Pakistan arrested
Abdul Ghani Baradar, a lieutenant of Afghan Taliban leader
Mullah Mohammad Omar, in 2010 after he had held discussions with
mediators from the  United Nations , the world body’s former envoy
to Afghanistan, Kai Eide, told the British Broadcasting Corp.  The push for talks has become more urgent as the U.S.-led
international coalition prepares to pull its combat troops out
of Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  Efforts to discuss peace with the Taliban, which includes
distinct factions, received a setback when  Burhanuddin Rabbani ,
Afghanistan’s top official for talks with the militants, was
killed in a suicide bombing last year. Rabbani’s son,
Salahuddin, now heads efforts to hold talks.  Sanctions  Pakistan and Afghanistan also agreed last month to work
together to remove the names of potential negotiators among the
Taliban and other groups from a UN sanctions list to enable them
to participate in peace talks.  “All concerned countries including Pakistan, Afghanistan
and U.S. will facilitate safe passage to potential negotiators
to advance the reconciliation process,” a delegation of
Afghanistan’s High Peace Council, a body set up to negotiate
with the insurgent group, said in a statement issued after it
met top Pakistani officials in Islamabad last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  