-- Posen Sees BOE Putting QE on Hold ‘Indefinitely’
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-12-03T10:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/posen-sees-boe-putting-qe-on-hold-indefinitely-.html
Former  Bank of England  policy maker
 Adam Posen  said U.K. central bankers are likely to refrain
“indefinitely” from further asset purchases as they mistakenly
doubt the potency of quantitative easing.  In his first interview on the outlook for U.K. monetary
policy since leaving the Bank of England in August, Posen said
officials won’t extend their 375 billion-pound ($601 billion)
 bond-buying program . Some officials’ hopes that credit-boosting
measures such as the Funding-for-Lending Scheme will provide an
adequate stimulus, and the bank’s transition to a new governor,
also are contributing to the hiatus, he said.  “Central banks shouldn’t be afraid to make mistakes or
change their minds when the data changes, but the data hasn’t
changed,” Posen said in  London  last week. “I fear they’re
going to be on hold indefinitely.”  Posen said the change in attitude -- reflected in recent
comments from policy makers including Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  -- was “bizarre” and akin to “talking themselves into
policy defeatism.” The Bank of England stopped buying gilts in
November after completing a final 50 billion-pound round.  “For us to have said, rightly but bravely, we’re going to
do QE when inflation was well above target, and now, when
 inflation  is at and going below target except for a little
fluctuations, for them not to do QE, then that’s just bizarre,”
he said.  Carney’s Appointment  Posen, an American citizen who turns 46 this month, spoke
in the same week that another foreigner was linked to the U.K.
central bank as news emerged that Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will succeed  Mervyn King  as Bank of England chief from
next July. Posen wrote in a  Dec. 1 article  in the Financial
Times that Carney will need “to prioritize public engagement
and open debate” in his new role.  “Anyone who needed to be wooed with promises of a 60
percent salary rise over his predecessor’s, as well as London
living expenses in order to have the honor of serving as
governor, will have an uphill climb to be perceived as a British
public servant rather than a globetrotting corporate free
agent,” he wrote.  Posen led the charge for the Bank of England to restart
quantitative easing during his three years at the central bank,
finally winning over the rest of the Monetary Policy Committee
in October 2011. He will formally take over as head of the
Washington-based Peterson Institute for International Economics
in January.  QE ‘Bite’  On Aug. 1, the central bank implemented a new credit
boosting scheme, the so-called FLS. In September, Tucker said
the  asset-purchase program  no longer has “the same bite.” By
October, officials’ disenchantment with QE had become
increasingly apparent, with minutes of the Oct. 3-4 meeting
showing that some members questioned the impact future gilt
purchases could have. In November, the MPC voted 8-1 to stop
expanding the plan, with only  David Miles  calling for a 25
billion-pound expansion.  While Posen said in the interview that the U.K. will avoid
returning to recession and the economy’s underlying pace of
expansion is better than that predicted by the central bank and
the  Office for Budget Responsibility , expansion will be
“mediocre.”  “We’re going to get no more recession,” said Posen.
“We’re just going to have very mediocre growth.”  Posen said rather than suspending QE, the Bank of England
should diversify asset purchases into corporate bonds and
securitized loans, and stand ready to support any government
push for aggressive business lending. He rejected the idea of an
 interest-rate cut  as “fiddling” and no substitute for more QE.  Banking Policy  It would also “not hurt” for the central bank to
encourage more competition in the banking sector, he said.  Posen said that while it was difficult to gauge the true
impact of QE, evidence suggests it “is doing what it’s supposed
to do.”  The resistance within the Bank of England ignores the
continued  lack of wage gains , tame inflation expectations or the
policy’s past success, he said. In expressing hope that the FLS
will work, Posen said its existence was no reason not to be
buying securities as well.  “There’s no reason to do watchful waiting for FLS,” he
said. “It’s not like suddenly broad money growth is going to
quadruple.”  Data today showed banks drew down 4.36 billion pounds from
the FLS in the first two months of operation. Banks have 18
months from Aug. 1 to access the program.  Though recent comments from his former colleagues Miles and
Markets Director  Paul Fisher  suggest they may be less opposed to
more stimulus, in general “the debate seems to have moved in a
very weird direction,” Posen said.  “This talk that we don’t see it working is just a counsel
of despair, which is unjustified,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  