-- South Africa’s Zuma Wins ANC Support for Second Term as Head
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-12-01T08:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/south-africa-s-zuma-wins-anc-support-for-second-term-as-leader.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
won the most nominations to lead the  African National Congress ,
putting him on track to remain the ruling party’s head and to be
its presidential candidate in elections in 2014.  Zuma, 70, secured more than 60 percent of the total votes
according to results tabulated after six of nine provinces 
nominated candidates to lead the party for the next five years. 
The majority was secured at 2:30 a.m. local time today, when 
65 percent of the delegates in the Eastern Cape province, the 
ANC’s second-largest, voted for Zuma.  The president has faced internal party divisions, an
 unemployment  crisis and a wave of mining strikes that helped to
cut growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy by more than half. Deputy
President  Kgalema Motlanthe , who is backed by the Youth League,
has criticized the way the country is run.  Motlanthe now trails in the race for deputy president, a
traditional stepping stone to take over the party.  Cyril
Ramaphosa , former trade union leader turned tycoon, is ahead
with 43 percent of votes, after 75 percent of nomination ballots
were cast. Motlanthe only has support from 6 percent of ANC
delegates so far.  While the provincial nominations aren’t binding on the
4,500 party delegates who will vote at the Dec. 16-20 party
conference, they’re a strong indicator of who will probably win.
The percentage of delegates who back Zuma and Motlanthe during
the nominations in each province will show who has more support
nationwide.  Motlanthe said yesterday he’s “still agonizing” over
whether to run as a candidate if nominated. He may make up some
ground in the remaining three provinces.  Strikes  Zuma’s government drew widespread criticism when police
opened fire on striking workers at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana
platinum mine on Aug. 16, killing 34 people. That was followed
by a wave of industrial action in mining, transportation and
agriculture that has stunted economic growth. Output grew an
annualized 1.2 percent in the third quarter, the slowest since a
recession in 2009 and down from 3.4 percent in the previous
three months, Statistics  South Africa  said on Nov. 27.  The cost to protect South African debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps has jumped about 20
basis points since the beginning of August, indicating
deteriorating risk perception among investors, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Zuma has failed to tackle the one-in-four  jobless  rate,
which he had said was his top priority. The government estimates
the economy needs to expand 7 percent a year to meet its goal of
creating 5 million new jobs by 2020.  National Presidency  The leader of the 100-year-old ANC is almost guaranteed the
national presidency because the party controls almost two-thirds
of Parliament, which elects the president.  Gauteng, the nation’s commercial hub that includes
Johannesburg and  Pretoria , was the first province to back
Motlanthe as the leader to replace Zuma. He won support from 60
percent of the ANC branches in the region, which accounts for 12
percent of votes at the national conference.  Zuma received unanimous support this week from his home
province of KwaZulu-Natal, which has 22 percent of the voting
delegates. Yesterday, 86 percent of delegates from the Northern
Cape, the ANC’s smallest province, backed Zuma. On Nov. 29, he
won unanimous backing in Free State, which has 8 percent of the
vote, and 96 percent in Mpumalanga, which makes up 11 percent of
delegates voting in December.  Earlier this week, the ANC military veteran’s association
and the Women’s League agreed to back Zuma, while the Youth
League nominated Motlanthe. The three structures each have 1
percent of the vote.  ANC Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe is also likely to hold
on to his position with backing from 60 percent of the delegates
so far.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  