-- Syrian Internet Service Starts as Assad Forces Clash With Rebels
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-01T17:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/syrian-internet-service-starts-as-assad-forces-clash-with-rebels.html
Syrian communication services resumed
today as forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad battled armed
rebels across the country, state TV reported.  The broadcaster’s website started working again today after
all Internet traffic in and out of  Syria  was shut down on Nov.
29. The U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said in
an e-mail today that mobile-phone services and the Internet were
working.  Syrian forces killed five rebels in Deir Ezzor province in
an assault on the town of Ayash, while clashes were raging in
the Damascus suburbs, according the Observatory. Fighting near
Damascus International Airport on Nov. 29 prompted both Emirates
and EgyptAir to cancel flights to and from Syria. Yesterday, the
airport was closed to flights as troops clashed with rebels on
the main road leading there, Al Arabiya television reported.  The Internet outage was so extensive that essentially all
of Syria was cut off from the Internet, making it the most
significant nationwide outage since  Egypt ’s Internet went dark
in January 2011 amid violent protests, according to Renesys
Corp., a Web-monitoring company based in Manchester, New
Hampshire.  ‘Failed State’  Syria’s 20-month civil war has resulted in at least 40,000
deaths, the Observatory said, and rises by about 150 a day as
opposition forces seek to oust the government. Assad’s forces
killed 73 people today, including 23 in Damascus and its
suburbs, the opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an
e-mail today.  The United Nations envoy to Syria warned yesterday that the
Middle East country in the throes of a civil war runs the risk
of becoming a “failed state” unless a peace agreement is
reached.  “Naturally, nobody wishes to see a failed state in
Syria,” Lakhdar Brahimi, a veteran diplomat, told the UN
General Assembly. “Nobody wants to see the state and its
institutions withering away, lawlessness spreading, warlordism,
banditry, narcotics, arms smuggling, and worst of all, the ugly
face of communal and sectarian strife take hold of Syria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  