-- Zynga Vice President Roy Sehgal Departs in Latest Executive Exit
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-01/zynga-vice-president-roy-sehgal-departs-amid-stock-price-decline.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  Vice President Roy Sehgal
and Steve Schreck, a general manager, are departing as the
largest maker of social games struggles to keep top managers
amid a stock-price decline.  Sehgal, who joined in 2009 and created Café World, is
resigning to take time off of work, he said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Schreck is leaving to join a game startup
founded by another Zynga alumnus, Mike Verdu, according to
Zynga.  More than a half-dozen senior executives have left Zynga in
recent months amid growing concern among investors about the
company’s ability to accelerate growth. A stock tumble of 75
percent since the company’s December 2011 initial public
offering has lessened the value of equity used to compensate
staff. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  has reorganized
staffing and cut costs in a bid to turn the company around.  Schreck’s departure is a boon for Verdu, who left his job
as Zynga’s chief creative officer in August to start a mobile-
games company. Because of non-competitive terms of Verdu’s
departure, Zynga said Schreck needed approval to join the new
company.  Schreck managed Zynga’s recent hit, “Hidden Chronicles,”
and led a team of almost 100 people, according to his profile on
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ’s website.  Zynga has also recently lost David Wehner, the game maker’s
former chief financial officer who left for a job at  Facebook
Inc. (FB) , as well as former Treasurer Mike Gupta, who took a similar
role at Twitter Inc.  The game maker announced on Nov. 29 that it has loosened
terms of its longstanding alliance with Facebook, potentially
making it easier for competing game developers to thrive on the
social network.  Zynga fell 6.1 percent to $2.46 at the close in  New York 
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  