-- ‘Innocence of Muslims’ Actress Sues Filmmaker and Google
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-19T23:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/-innocence-of-muslims-actress-sues-filmmaker-and-google.html
An actress in a movie trailer
“Innocence of Muslims” posted on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube sued
the filmmaker and the search engine company, saying she was
misled into participating in a “reprehensible” anti-Islamic
film.  Cindy Lee Garcia said in a complaint filed today in
California state court in Los Angeles that she was cast in a
film titled “Desert Warrior” and that filmmaker Nakoula
Basseley Nakoula, who used the name Sam Bacile, told her that it
was an adventure film about ancient Egyptians. There was no
mention of Mohammed or reference to religion, Garcia said.  The 14-minute trailer shows a fictional attack by Muslims
on a Christian family, followed by an account of the origins of
Islam depicting Mohammed as a womanizer. YouTube blocked access
to the clip in  Egypt  and  Libya  following attacks on the U.S.
missions in those countries. The U.S. ambassador to Libya and
three embassy employees were killed Sept. 11.  “The film is vile and reprehensible,” Garcia said in the
complaint. “This lawsuit is not an attack on the First
Amendment nor on the right for Americans to say what they think,
but does request that the offending content be removed from the
Internet.”  The actress, whose voice and those of the other actors was
dubbed in Arabic on the YouTube clip, received death threats,
she said. YouTube declined her request to remove the clip from
the Internet, she said.  Steven Seiden, a lawyer for Nakoula, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office.  YouTube said in an e-mailed statement the company is
reviewing the complaint.  The case is Cindy Lee Garcia v. Nakoula Basseley Nakoula,
BC492358, California Superior Court, County of  Los Angeles  (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 