-- T-Mobile USA Names Legere Chief as Customer Losses Mount
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-19T17:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/t-mobile-usa-names-legere-chief-as-customer-losses-mount.html
T-Mobile USA Inc., the fourth-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, named John Legere as chief
executive officer, turning to a phone-industry veteran to
reinvigorate growth and challenge Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Legere, a former CEO at Global Crossing Ltd., fills the
vacancy left by  Philipp Humm , who stepped down in June. Jim Alling, who had run the  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  division on an
interim basis, will return to the position of chief operating
officer, according to a statement today.  A 32-year telecommunications business veteran, Legere
oversaw Global Crossing’s emergence from bankruptcy in 2003 and
helped transform the company into a provider of Internet-based
communications services. He managed the company’s $1.9 billion
sale to  Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT)  last year. The 54-year-old
faces the task of halting customer losses at T-Mobile, reducing
costs and overseeing a network upgrade that will match
technology offered by larger rivals.  “Legere has a reputation of a wheeler-dealer: He brought
Global Crossing back from bankruptcy and ended up selling it on
pretty good terms for Global Crossing holders,” said  Donna Jaegers , an analyst with D.A. Davidson & Co. in Denver. “With
T-Mobile getting fresh cash from the tower sales, we will see
what Legere will do to catch up to competitors.”  Tower Sale  After Deutsche Telekom failed to sell T-Mobile USA to AT&T
Inc. last year, the German company explored options to combine
it with local rivals, including  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) ,
people familiar with the situation said in May. T-Mobile USA
also put its cellular towers up for sale to help finance network
expansion, a person with knowledge of the matter said in June.  Deutsche Telekom,  Europe ’s second-largest phone company,
rose 2.3 percent to 9.85 euros at the close of trading in
 Frankfurt , bringing the  stock ’s gains this year to 11 percent.  “We are pleased to see the market reaction,” Deutsche
Telekom CEO Rene Obermann said in an interview. “It’s not so
much a surprise, given that John has a proven track record.”  Legere, a Massachusetts native and a competitive marathon
runner, also has served as head of AT&T’s corporate strategy and
business development, and he ran  Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s European and Asian
businesses.  Legere said his top priority at Bellevue, Washington-based
T-Mobile is to return to growth, rather than focusing on mergers
and acquisitions.  “Any company that is playing the game for M&A is in
trouble,” he said in an interview. “That’s not the case with T-
Mobile.”  Unlimited Plan  Legere aims to leverage T-Mobile’s unlimited data plan,
which has helped the company stand out from the more restricted
offerings at Verizon and AT&T, the largest U.S. carriers. He
also signaled that T-Mobile will go after Sprint Nextel Corp.,
No. 3 in the market.  “If I were the No. 3 player, I’d be watching over my
shoulder,” he said. “We’ve made moves to be a value leader.”  Even so, T-Mobile’s smaller size makes it hard to compete
with the major carriers, said Will Draper, a London-based
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  “He has significant problems to deal with,” Draper said.
“First, he must stop the subscription losses and revenue
decline. In the long term, there are big strategic challenges
linked to the company’s lack of scale.”  Cutting Jobs  T-Mobile USA  lost 1.65 million contract customers last year
and has reported more defections this year, forcing the company
to reduce operating costs and invest in new technology. The
carrier said in March it plans to shutter seven out of 24  call
centers , cutting 1,900 jobs. In May, it announced plans to
reduce 900 more jobs.  As part of the turnaround effort, the division has budgeted
an additional $1.4 billion for network upgrades for the two
years through 2013, bringing total investment to $4 billion. The
carrier plans to roll out a faster network using long-term
evolution, or LTE, and obtain additional wireless frequencies.  With 33.2 million users, T-Mobile USA is positioning itself
as a more affordable alternative to Verizon, AT&T and  Sprint. (S)  T-
Mobile USA has about 36,000 employees and generated about 25
percent of its parent’s revenue last year.  Revenue from Deutsche Telekom’s U.S. business rose 5.3
percent to 7.7 billion euros ($10 billion) in the first half.
The unit’s adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization climbed about 15 percent to 2
billion euros, helped by cost cuts.  Humm left T-Mobile USA to join competitor  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  as head of northern and central Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net  