-- Lacker Says Fed May Not Be Able to Quickly Fix Job Market
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-09-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/lacker-says-fed-may-not-be-able-to-quickly-fix-job-market.html
Richmond Federal Reserve President
 Jeffrey Lacker  said the shock from the credit crisis may impede
efforts by the central bank to quickly bring down unemployment
even with the use of record stimulus.  “Monetary policy is simply unable to offset all of the
ways in which various frictions impede the economy’s adjustment
to various shocks,” Lacker said in a speech yesterday to the
Money Marketeers of  New York University .  The U.S. jobless rate has been stuck above 8 percent for 43
consecutive months, prompting Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week
to pledge stimulus in the form of bond buying until the labor
market improves “substantially,” according to a Federal Open
Market Committee statement. The FOMC for the first time didn’t
set a limit on the amount the Fed will buy or the duration of
purchases.  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said in a speech yesterday the new stimulus is vital for
boosting “unacceptably slow” improvement in growth. Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  said the new bond buying, or
quantitative easing, will help the economy weather  Europe ’s debt
crisis and potential tax increases and spending cuts.  Lacker dissented at the FOMC’s Sept. 12-13 meeting,
extending his string of dissents from every FOMC decision this
year. He said more stimulus “runs the risk of raising
inflation.” Lacker said in response to an audience question
that he wanted to “stand pat” on current policy.  ‘Huge Blow’  “The collapse in housing construction was a huge blow to
our economy, and it will take a substantial amount of time for
us to recover by shifting labor, capital and spending toward
other growth opportunities,” Lacker said.  “My assessment is that a reasonably strong case can be
made that the natural rate of unemployment that corresponds to
the Fed’s maximum employment mandate is now relatively
elevated,” Lacker said. “Further monetary stimulus runs the
risk of raising inflation in a way that threatens the stability
of inflation expectations.”  The FOMC voted to purchase $40 billion a month in mortgage
debt and said it was “concerned that, without further policy
accommodation, economic growth might not be strong enough to
generate sustained improvement in labor market conditions.”  The FOMC said in its Sept. 13 statement that it “expects
that a highly accommodative stance of  monetary policy  will
remain appropriate for a considerable time after the economic
recovery strengthens,” and forecasts it would hold the
benchmark rate near zero until at least mid-2015.  Further Easing  “In the absence of further monetary easing, I concluded
that growth would remain too subdued over the next several years
to make big inroads into the spare capacity that remains from
the Great Recession,” Dudley said yesterday in a speech in
 Florham Park ,  New Jersey . “As a result, unemployment would
remain unacceptably high, with economic risks skewed to the
downside.”  Bernanke in a press conference following the FOMC’s
decision said the lack of payroll growth was a “grave
concern.”  A Fed report last week showed industrial production fell
1.2 percent in August, the most since March 2009. Inflation rose
1.3 percent for the 12 months ending July, below the central
bank’s target of 2 percent.  “Given the slow and fragile recovery, the large resource
gaps that still exist, and the large risks we face, it remains
clear that we needed a more resilient economy,” Evans said
yesterday in a speech in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . The Fed’s actions
last week “provided a more accommodative monetary policy that
can help us achieve such resilience.”  Job Creation  Treasuries rose amid speculation economic growth will fail
to fuel  job creation , and most U.S. stocks retreated. Ten-year
U.S. Treasury yields declined three basis points yesterday to
1.81 percent while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1
percent to 1,459.32 in New York.  In a statement released by the Richmond Fed explaining his
dissent, Lacker said purchases of mortgage-debt should be the
responsibility of fiscal authorities.  “Channeling the flow of credit to particular economic
sectors is an inappropriate role for the  Federal Reserve ,”
Lacker said in his statement.  Lacker told reporters after the speech that measuring any
impairment on markets from increased Fed purchases of bonds is
“difficult to estimate.”  Still, “having an open-ended program rather than a fixed-
size program lowers the bar to some extent for stopping the
program if inflation pressures should emerge and become
destabilizing,” he said. “So that’s a positive feature.”  He said in his statement explaining his dissent that the
FOMC’s commitment to continue providing stimulus as the recovery
gathers strength was “inconsistent with a balanced approach to
the FOMC’s price stability and maximum employment mandates.”  Lacker, 56, has been president of his regional bank since
2004. He was previously the Richmond Fed’s director of research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Chris Wellisz
at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  