-- Adobe Forecast Misses Amid Move to Subscriptions
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-09-20T13:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/adobe-forecast-misses-amid-move-to-subscriptions.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  forecast fiscal
fourth-quarter sales and profit that missed analysts’ estimates
as the company offered a lower-priced subscription version of
its flagship Creative Suite software.  Revenue for the current quarter, which ends Nov. 30, will
be $1.075 billion to $1.125 billion,  San Jose , California-based
Adobe said in a statement yesterday. That fell short of the
average analyst  estimate  of $1.21 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding certain items will be 53
cents to 58 cents a share, less than the 67 cent estimate.  Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen is pushing the
world’s largest maker of graphic design software to offer more
of its products over the Web and on mobile devices such as
tablets in addition to personal computers. Adobe has also
started a subscription model for Creative Suite that costs much
less than the software sold for desktop computers.  “The shift to subscription pricing is going to result in
lower reported revenue,” said  Josh Olson , an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , in a telephone interview.
“But it’s ultimately a good thing because the goal is to get to
a more stable revenue model.”  Shares of Adobe rose 1.4 percent to $33.59 at 9:50 a.m. in
 New York . Through yesterday, the  stock  had increased 17 percent
this year.  Subscriptions Added  For the third quarter, which ended Aug. 31, sales were
$1.08 billion and profit excluding some items was 58 cents a
share. Analysts on average had projected profit of 59 cents on
revenue of $1.1 billion.  Net income rose 3.2 percent to $201.4 million, or 40 cents
a share, from $195.1 million, or 39 cents, a year earlier.  Subscriptions for the Creative Cloud software suite grew to
about 200,000 by the end of the quarter as Adobe added
approximately 8,000 a week, more than the 5,000 weekly gains the
company had anticipated.  “We believe through next year, as we get through more of
this transition, we will be growing the business overall at a
faster rate,” Chief Financial Officer Mark Garrett said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  One version of the subscription-based software, Creative
Cloud, is delivered over the Internet for $50 a month or $600 a
year. It will take Adobe more than four years to collect from
cloud customers as much as it generates from a single sale of
the desktop version of the top-end “Master Collection,” which
goes for $2,600.  ‘Subscription Worry’  “We believe an overly pessimistic street view of the
subscription transition and secular concerns around the shift
from print to web are overblown and as these concerns abate, the
stock is likely to move higher,” said Walter Pritchard, an
analyst with Citigroup Inc.  Owners of some older versions of Creative Suite receive a
promotional $30-a-month rate for the first year. A version of
Creative Cloud for businesses will come later this year.  “One concern would be, after that 12 months, will we see
any sort of fall-off in subscribers,” said Olson at  Edward
Jones . “Once the prices for the software are no longer
promotional, how sustainable is it?”  Since a reorganization and job cuts announced last
November, Adobe has concentrated its efforts on making design
tools that use the increasingly popular HTML5 programming
language instead of its proprietary Flash technology. The
company is also investing in software for publishing printed and
broadcast material to tablets and other devices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  