-- AEG Draws Interest From L.A. Drug Billionaire Soon-Shiong
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-19T19:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/aeg-draws-interest-from-l-a-drug-billionaire-soon-shiong.html
Patrick Soon-Shiong, the richest
man in Los Angeles, said he is interested in arena-owner
Anschutz Entertainment Group.  “Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong is well aware of the fact that
AEG is in play,” according to an e-mailed statement today from
a spokesman for the billionaire drug-company executive. Soon-
Shiong admires the role Anschutz and AEG’s chief executive
officer,  Tim Leiweke , have played revitalizing downtown Los
Angeles. “We clearly are interested exploring the opportunity
to further this legacy.”  Denver billionaire Phil Anschutz said yesterday that he was
putting AEG, the world’s second-largest concert promoter, up for
sale. Soon-Shiong, with a net worth of about $10 billion, is an
avid sports fan, having purchased  Magic Johnson ’s minority stake
in the Lakers two years ago. AEG owns a 30 percent stake in the
basketball team. He was also a member of an unsuccessful bidding
group for baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers by hedge fund manager
 Steven Cohen  of SAC Capital Advisors LP.  AEG, based in Los Angeles, owns and operates 100 venues on
five continents. The company owns the Staples Center in downtown
Los Angeles and is the largest concert promoter behind  Live
Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV)  AEG also owns the Stanley Cup champion
Los Angeles Kings and soccer’s Galaxy, with star  David Beckham .  The Los Angeles Times reported the interest of Soon-Shiong,
60, yesterday.  Anschutz, 72, hired  Blackstone (BX)  Advisory Partners to manage
the sale of AEG, which has plans to build a $1.2 billion
downtown stadium in order to lure a National Football League
team to Los Angeles.  Blackstone oversaw the bankruptcy sale of baseball’s
Dodgers, which sold for a record $2.15 billion to a group that
includes Johnson and Guggenheim Partners.  The price for AEG will depend on which assets Anschutz and
Leiweke decide to sell. The company is looking for a buyer that
is “fully committed to working with AEG’s management team as it
pursues its long-term business objectives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  