-- Agricultural and Energy Firms Press CFTC for Swap Dealer Delay
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-09-19T14:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/agricultural-and-energy-firms-press-cftc-for-swap-dealer-delay.html
A Washington-based lobbying group
representing agricultural and energy firms is pressing the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission to stop Dodd-Frank Act
rules for swap dealers from beginning to take effect next month.  The  Commodity Markets Council , whose members include  Bunge
Ltd. (BG)  and Cargill Inc., have filed a petition seeking a delay for
non-bank dealers because the CFTC hasn’t completed other capital
and collateral rules for firms that register. The agency should
postpone the Oct. 12 start to registration, the group said.  “They seek to extend the registration requirement because,
depending on the costs associated with operating as a regulated
entity, which remain uncertain, they may simply choose to exit
certain businesses in swaps,” Sanjeev Joshipura, president of
the council, said in the petition submitted yesterday. “This
would be an unfortunate outcome, given that it will further
concentrate participation in the swaps market in the very
institutions that Congress perceived to be the cause of the
financial crisis in 2008.”  Steven Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, declined immediate
comment.  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are working
to complete regulations for the swaps markets after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis and led to
the U.S. rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Swap
dealers will face the highest capital, collateral and conduct
regulations under rules completed by the agency that have yet to
take effect.  Wall Street  The CFTC has estimated that 125 entities will become swap
dealers, with Wall Street banks possibly registering multiple
divisions.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank
of America Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  controlled
96 percent of cash and derivatives trading for U.S. bank holding
companies as of March 31, according to the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  Companies must begin tallying their swap dealing trades on
Oct. 12 to determine if they cross the $8 billion minimum
threshold for registration. A company that crosses the threshold
in mid-October will have until the end of the year to register
with regulators.  “Commercial entities are not as prepared to be regulated
in a ‘bank-like’ CFTC-regulated environment; they do not have
nearly as much of the infrastructure already in place to meet
the anticipated regulatory requirements; and they are not
capitalized in the same way as a traditional financial
intermediary,” the council said in its letter.  In addition to Bunge and Cargill, the council’s members
include Virtu Financial LLC, an automated trading firm, and
Louis Dreyfus Commodities LLC, according to the group’s  website.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  