-- American On-Time Arrivals Fall to 54% as Delays Spread
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-09-20T20:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/american-axes-flights-on-sick-pilots-after-labor-change.html
American Airlines ’ on-time
performance tumbled to 54 percent amid flight cancellations and
delays that the carrier blames on a pilot shortage and increased
maintenance issues.  Almost 800 flights failed to arrive on time yesterday,
including 291 that were late by more than 44 minutes, according
to  FlightStats.com , an industry data tracker. Only 37 percent of
flights arrived within 15 minutes of schedule on Sept. 17, when
there were 1,070 delays, FlightStats data showed.  The results fall short of American’s 74 percent on-time
rate in August, according to FlightStats, and the 83 percent
industrywide average this year through July as tracked by the
federal  Bureau of Transportation Statistics . It defines on-time
arrivals as being within 15 minutes of schedule.  Disruptions began Sept. 14 as the unit of bankrupt AMR
Corp. began imposing new contract terms on pilots to help with
its restructuring. After dropping 250 flights from Sept. 14
through Sept. 17, American trimmed systemwide seating capacity
as much as 2 percent through October.  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for  Fort Worth , Texas-based
American, declined in an interview earlier today to discuss the
airline’s recent on-time performance.  “There have been substantial disruptions,” Hicks said.
“The numbers speak for themselves.”  No Action  The airline and  the Allied Pilots Association  have been at
odds for years, failing to reach a labor agreement in
negotiations that began in 2006. Pilots’ rejection of American’s
final concessionary contract offer prompted the carrier to seek
court authority to void their existing agreement and impose new
terms.  While pilots are voting to authorize a strike, the union
legally does not have the right to stage a walkout now. There is
“no job action of any sort that is organized, supported or
sanctioned by” the union, APA said in a statement today.  The union rejected the airline’s claim that increased sick
calls contributed to the schedule cuts.  The union “independently tracks the airline’s operational
performance,” according to the statement. “We have verified
that pilot sick rates have not deviated from normal historical
rates. We have likewise verified that crew cancellations remain
at normal rates.”  Flight cancellations for Sept. 18 through 23 will total
300, according to American, which stood its ground on the causes
of recent disruptions.  They “are primarily due to the significant increase in
maintenance write-ups by our pilots, many right at the time of
departure,” Hicks said in an e-mailed statement. Sick-leave
usage by pilots has been up more than 20 percent year over year
and “has been elevated for months,” American said.  The APA joined unions for American flight attendants and
ground workers in reaching contract agreements in April with
potential suitor  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  The accords are
contingent on a merger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  