-- America Movil, DirecTV Face Brazil Rules on Pay-TV Quality
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-09-19T20:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/america-movil-directv-may-face-brazil-rules-on-pay-tv-quality.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL)  and DirecTV,
Brazil’s biggest pay-television providers, may be required to
show regulators their investment plans and goals to improve
quality in a government plan under consideration.  Anatel, as the nation’s telecommunications regulator is
known, expects to meet with satellite and cable-TV carriers next
week to discuss ways to reduce user complaints, which have
surged in the past year, said Joao Rezende, the agency’s
president. Anatel aims to improve service quality and the
attention customers receive through call centers, he said.  The plan is part of a government push to more closely
monitor telecommunications services as they become widely
adopted. Anatel instituted an 11-day ban on the sale of some
mobile-phone subscriptions in July to address network failures
and customer complaints.  “This is an alert for a growing industry,” Rezende said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Brasilia. “Many of
these new subscribers are from lower classes and are just
arriving to this pay-TV market, a whole new world for them.”  Under stable economic conditions, Brazilian pay-TV
subscriptions will more than double to 35 million subscribers by
2018, Rezende said. The nation had 14.8 million pay-TV clients
at the end of July, a gain of 31 percent from a year earlier,
according to Anatel  data .  Biggest Carriers  America Movil , based in Mexico City, held about 55 percent
of Brazil’s pay-TV market at the end of last year through its
Net Servicos and Embratel units, according to Anatel. El
Segundo, California-based  DirecTV (DTV) ’s Sky service had about 30
percent of the market.  America Movil rose 0.4 percent to 16.50 pesos at the close
in Mexico City trading. DirecTV gained 0.4 percent to $53.64 in
New York.  Darris Gringeri, a spokesman with DirecTV, and an America
Movil official didn’t return phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment.  Telefonica Brasil SA (VIVT4) , a unit of Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
and Brazil’s biggest wireless company, has fallen 7 percent in
Sao Paulo trading since July 13, when a government official said
Anatel would ban the sale of some wireless subscriptions,
indicating the government was scrutinizing the industry more
closely.  No. 2 carrier  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , a division of  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT) , is down 17.5 percent in that span. America Movil,
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , has declined 7 percent.
Rio de Janeiro-based  Oi SA (OIBR4) , partially controlled by  Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) , has fallen 12 percent.  ’Unloved Staples’  Telecommunications equities in Latin America remain
“unloved staples” that provide opportunities for investors,
and their valuations in Brazil already reflect some of the
country’s inherent regulatory risks, said Adam Kutas, manager of
Fidelity Investments’ Latin America fund, without identifying
specific companies.  “In this environment where there is a lot more investor
uncertainty given some of the policy responses in other sectors,
people have been kind of gun shy and selling quite
aggressively,” Kutas, who manages about $2.59 billion in the
fund, said in a telephone interview on Aug. 31.  Telecommunications stocks in  Latin America   made up  15.6
percent of the fund’s total holdings as of Sept. 17, compared
with 8.4 percent in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Latin America
benchmark index, according to a Bloomberg estimate based on a
July 31 regulatory filing and subsequent price changes.  The fund has provided a  return  of 5.3 percent over the past
three years, the period during which Kutas has managed the fund,
compared with 4.6 percent in the benchmark index, and better
than 73 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  