-- Manchester City’s Hart Angers Mancini With Criticism: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-19T06:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/manchester-city-s-hart-angers-mancini-with-criticism-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Mancini’s Rebuke  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  said  Joe Hart 
“should stay in goal and make saves” after the goalkeeper
criticized his team for blowing a 2-1 lead in last night’s 3-2
Champions League loss at Real Madrid, the  Guardian reported .  “If anyone should criticize the team it should be me, not
Joe Hart,” the Guardian cited Mancini as saying. “I am the
judge, not Joe Hart.”  Rooney Ready  Manchester United striker  Wayne Rooney  will be available
for the Sept. 23 Premier League game at Liverpool after resuming
full training a month ahead of schedule following a thigh
injury, the  Sun reported .  United had expected Rooney to be out for two months after
gashing his right leg against Fulham on Aug. 25, the Sun added.  United Tribute  United and Liverpool will put their rivalries aside and
participate in a joint tribute to the victims of the 1989
Hillsborough soccer stadium disaster when they meet in four
days, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The opposing captains, likely to be  Steven Gerrard  and
 Nemanja Vidic , will release 96 red balloons before kick off to
represent the number of Liverpool supporters who died, the
Telegraph added. The match will be Liverpool’s first at home
since an independent report last week into the deaths.  Barcelona Backup  Barcelona wants to sign Newcastle United goalkeeper  Tim Krul  at the end of the season as backup for Victor Valdes, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  The 36-year-old Jose Pinto, the Spanish club’s current
reserve goalie, is set to leave the Camp Nou when his contract
expires next year, the Mirror added.  Ba’s Future  Demba Ba’s future at Newcastle is in doubt after the
Senegalese striker’s agent criticized Magpies manager  Alan Pardew  for not starting him at Everton two days ago, the
 Independent reported .  “If he continues to be a substitute all season, we’ll look
at other solutions,” the newspaper cited the agent Alex Gontran
as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  