-- Landmark Is Said to Seek $2.5 Billion for Secondary Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-09-19T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/landmark-is-said-to-seek-2-5-billion-for-secondary-fund.html
Landmark Partners, a private-equity
firm that has invested in secondary deals since 1989, is seeking
$2.5 billion for a new pool to buy existing stakes from other
funds, according to a person familiar with the situation.  Landmark Equity Partners XV LP, which the firm started
marketing this week, can invest globally and will primarily
purchase buyout fund stakes from firms focusing on Western
markets, said the person, who asked not to be indentified
because the information is private.  Scott Conners, partner at the Simsbury, Connecticut-based
firm, didn’t respond to an e-mail request for comment.  Several secondary firms have raised or targeted funds of $1
billion or more this year to scoop up private-equity assets from
sellers including banks and pension plans. GS Vintage Fund VI
LP, the latest secondary fund from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
private-equity group, is targeting $4.5 billion, according to
researcher Preqin Ltd. Coller International Partners VI LP, a
fund managed by Coller Capital Ltd., closed on $5.5 billion
earlier this year.  There are presently 31 secondaries funds in the market
seeking a total of $24 billion, according to data from London-
based Preqin.  $2 Billion  Landmark raised $2 billion for its most recent private-
equity fund, Landmark Equity Partners XIV LP, in 2008. That fund
has completed 25 deals representing 198 interests in 184
partnerships, according to the firm’s website.  In one recent deal, Landmark was a lead investor in a new
fund raised by Willis Stein & Partners that is keeping alive
some investments made by Willis Stein’s 2000 buyout fund.  Founded in 1989, Landmark Partners invested exclusively in
private equity until 1996, when it created its real estate
secondaries business. The firm has formed 27 funds focused on
 venture capital , buyouts, mezzanine and real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  