-- Hang Lung Says China Local Governments Keen to Sell Land
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-09-19T08:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/hang-lung-s-chan-says-china-governments-keen-to-sell-more-land.html
Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , the Hong
Kong developer investing $8.5 billion on the mainland, is
finding local governments in  China  more willing to sell land,
Chairman Ronnie Chan said.  “It has definitely gotten easier,” Chan, whose company
derives half of its rental earnings from its shopping malls in
mainland China, said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday.
“The local governments want to sell more and you have
developers who are eager to buy.”  The value of land transactions in China rose to 96.4
billion  yuan  ($15 billion) in August, the highest this year, as
developers expect  home prices  to recover after two central bank
interest rates cuts in June and July. Prices rose for a third
month in August, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s
biggest real estate website owner.  Chinese developers with improved sales and cash flows are
showing renewed interest in land acquisitions. Seven of China’s
biggest real estate developers by market value, including China
Vanke Co., bought land worth 8.9 billion yuan in major cities in
the first week of September,  China Daily  reported last week.  “We have never stopped negotiating; the question is
whether we are going to bite or not,” said Chan. “Our
situation is a bit different because we want our sites to be in
the best location. So if you want something that’s tailor-made,
it obviously would take longer.”  Hang Lung’s shares rose 0.2 percent to HK$27.75 at the 4
p.m. close in  Hong Kong . That brings its gain this year to 26
percent, compared with the 28 percent increase in the nine-
member Hang Seng Property Index.  ‘Financially Capable’  Hang Lung last bought a site in the southwestern Kunming
city in September 2011, its first land purchase in the country
in more than two years. Chan in August 2011 said the company is
“financially capable” of increasing its initial investment in
China to tap the country’s growing luxury spending.  The company, which is planning to open at least one
property in Chinese cities outside of Hong Kong every year, will
next week open its second shopping mall in the northeastern
Shenyang city. Hang Lung also has projects in Dalian, Jinan,
Wuxi, Tianjin and Kunming.  China’s  economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in three years, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis crimped exports and the government’s
property crackdown cooled domestic demand. The slowdown may
extend into a seventh quarter, according to Deutsche Bank AG,
which cut its growth estimate for the world’s second-largest
economy to 7.5 percent for the three months through September
from 7.9 percent.  Rental Income  “With consumption down, obviously growth in rental
wouldn’t be too strong,” said Chan. “But we don’t have a
problem renting our spots out.”  Rental profit from China, which includes shopping malls in
Shanghai, Jinan and Shenyang, rose 26 percent to HK$1.17 billion
in the first half, Hang Lung said in July.  China has more than 1,000 county-level governments and
hundreds of city and municipal councils that rely on revenue
from local taxes, land sales and central-government transfers
because rules bar most of them from selling bonds. Land sales
make up 30 percent of local government revenue and in some
cities account for more than half, according to a June 2011
report by Zurich-based UBS AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  