-- AOL Appoints New Chief Financial Officer, New Director
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-09-19T20:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/aol-appoints-new-chief-financial-officer-new-director.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , owner of the  Huffington
Post  and TechCrunch, appointed Karen Dykstra as chief financial
officer and added  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Hugh Johnston as director,
three months after fending off an activist investor challenge to
shake up the board.  Dykstra, who served as a board member since 2009, replaces
Arthur Minson, who was promoted to chief operating officer in
June to reorganize AOL’s operations. Dykstra will no longer
remain on the board. Johnson, chief financial officer of
PepsiCo, adds consumer retail expertise to the  Internet company .  “Hugh’s financial expertise and consumer-industry
experience makes him a great addition to the board,” AOL Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  said today in a statement.  Since the Web portal was spun out of Time Warner Inc. in
2009, Armstrong has transformed AOL into an ad-based publishing
business. The company bought the Huffington Post for $315
million last year and invested as much as $300 million in Patch,
a local-news division that Armstrong sees commanding as much as
$50 million in sales this year.  Facing a slump in sales earlier this year, AOL agreed in
April to sell and license patents to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The company
is selling more than 800 patents and related applications to
Microsoft. The company announced stock buyback agreements and a
special cash dividend last month as part of its steps to return
about $1.1 billion to shareholders.  The move has helped lift AOL’s stock price, which has more
than doubled this year.  The rising stock price bolstered Armstrong’s case as he
fended off an activist investor’s bid to shake up the board
earlier this month. Starboard Value LP, an investment firm
owning 3 percent of outstanding shares, had fought to install
three directors, saying AOL was spending too much money on
failed efforts such as the Patch news sites.  Dykstra, a former partner at Plainfield Asset Management
LLC, will serve as a key member of the executive team, according
to the company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  