-- Apple, Four Publishers Bid to End EU Price-Fixing Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-19T11:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/apple-four-publishers-bid-to-end-eu-price-fixing-probe.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest
technology company, and four publishers offered to overhaul
pricing models for digital books to allay European Union
concerns that they blocked competition.  The publishers won’t limit retailers’ discounts for two
years under  details  of proposals by Apple, CBS Corp.’s Simon &
Schuster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins, Verlagsgruppe Georg von
Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette
Livre published today in the EU’s Official Journal. The European
Commission said they first made an offer to settle its
investigation in April.  Facing EU pressure, Apple has promised to terminate so-
called agency agreements with the four companies and Pearson, it
said in its  proposal . Under Apple’s pricing strategy, the iPad
maker takes a fixed percentage of e-book prices set by the
publishers.  “The commission took the preliminary view that, by jointly
switching the sale of e-books from a wholesale model to an
agency model with the same key terms on a global basis, the four
publishers and Apple engaged in a concerted practice with the
object of raising retail prices” and preventing the emergence
of lower prices for e-books, the Brussels-based agency said.  The EU is asking rivals and customers to comment on the
offer by Oct. 19 before accepting it, which would end the EU’s
investigation without imposing fines or determining that the
companies violated competition rules.  Penguin Probe  Regulators continue to probe  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin, which
hasn’t offered to settle, the EU said in a separate statement.
The antitrust agency last year opened the probe to examine
Cupertino, California-based Apple’s deals with publishers and
the publishers’ deals with retailers.  While the Holtzbrinck group has denied all charges of
collusion over e-books it believes “it is in the best interests
of our European business to proceed towards a settlement,”
Joyce Lorigan, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  HarperCollins said it was “working with the EU to find a
solution,” according to an e-mail from spokeswoman Siobhan Kenny.  Hachette Livre is “convinced that it didn’t violate
competition law at any time,’” the company said in a statement
on its website. It said it was offering to settle with the EU to
avoid a contentious, costly and long process.  Apple and  Simon & Schuster  didn’t immediately respond to e-
mails seeking comment.  Discounts  Under the proposed settlement, the four publishers won’t
limit e-book retailers’ discounts or promotions for two years as
long as the total value of a retailer’s discount doesn’t exceed
the commission it received from the publisher over a 12-month
period. The four publishers also commit to terminate any
restrictive agency deals with retailers.  Apple said in its  proposal  that its entry into the e-
book market “brought needed competition to a market occupied by
a single reseller” and it “strongly contests” that it
violated competition rules. It said it was modifying agency
agreements “to resolve the uncertainty caused by the
commission’s investigation.”  The  U.S. Department of Justice  sued Apple, Macmillan and
Pearson’s Penguin in  New York  earlier this year, claiming the
publishers colluded to fix e-book prices. Simon & Schuster,
Hachette and HarperCollins reached settlements with the DOJ.  Music Downloads  PricewaterhouseCoopers  said last year that European e-book
sales have been sluggish, partly because of the small range of
non-English titles and fixed price agreements between publishers
and stores in 13 countries. The EU’s antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  has said he wants to fight “artificial restrictions
imposed by some companies to cross-border trade.”  Apple previously settled an EU antitrust case in 2009 by
agreeing to reduce prices for U.K. iTunes music downloads and
was probed over restrictions on iPhone applications in a case
the EU closed last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 