-- Asia’s Millionaires Increase as Economic Growth Adds Wealth
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-09-19T04:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/asia-s-millionaires-increase-as-economic-growth-creates-wealth.html
More people in  Asia  became
millionaires last year as the region’s economic growth and
entrepreneurship helped generate affluence, according to a
report by RBC Wealth Management and Capgemini SA.  The number of individuals in Asia-Pacific with investable
assets of $1 million to $5 million climbed 1.9 percent to 3.08
million in 2011, according to the report released in Singapore
and Hong Kong today. Their total wealth increased 1.5 percent.  The report underscores the region’s growing importance as a
wealth management center as the world’s rich struggle to
maintain their fortunes amid Europe’s debt crisis and a slowing
global economy. Asia-Pacific millionaires outnumbered those in
North America for the first time last year, according to the
World Wealth Report published by RBC and Capgemini in June.  Asia’s richest people weren’t unscathed by the European
crisis that has roiled markets worldwide. The population of
ultra-high net worth individuals -- those with investable assets
of at least $30 million -- in Asia-Pacific fell 3.9 percent to
21,700, the report showed. Their wealth dropped 5.2 percent.  The number of people in the region with investable assets
of $5 million to $30 million declined 1.6 percent to 266,000,
and their wealth slid 1.9 percent, according to the report,
which focuses on 10 Asian markets.  Assets Decline  While the number of millionaires in Asia rose last year,
their assets declined 1.1 percent to $10.7 trillion, led by a 20
percent drop in  Hong Kong  and by India’s 18 percent slide, the
report showed.  Slumping stocks drove the erosion of wealth in Hong Kong,
Alex Khein, chief operating officer at BlueBay Asset Management,
a London-based unit of RBC, told reporters in the Chinese city.
The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  tumbled 20 percent in 2011. It has
rebounded about 13 percent this year.  “Asia-Pacific will likely continue to face challenges such
as high inflation and global factors such as the weak economy in
Europe,” Jean Lassignardie, corporate vice president at
Capgemini, said in a statement. “However, the diverse nature of
Asia-Pacific exports and economies means the outlook for the
region as a whole remains strong.”  Economic growth in developing East Asia and the Pacific
will slow to 7.6 percent this year from 8.3 percent in 2011, the
 World Bank  forecast in June. The U.S. will expand 2.1 percent
and the euro area will contract 0.3 percent, the bank said.  RBC Wealth Management, a unit of Toronto-based  Royal Bank
of Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest lender, plans to manage $25
billion in Asia in the next four years, said Barend Janssens,
head of the company’s  emerging markets  division. That’s more
than double the $10 billion it manages in the region now.  The World Wealth Report showed in June that the number of
individuals in Asia-Pacific with at least $1 million in
investable assets jumped 1.6 percent last year to 3.37 million,
helped by increases in China, Japan,  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and
 Indonesia . So-called high net-worth individuals in  North America 
dropped 1.1 percent to 3.35 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  