-- Astro Said to Seek $1.5 Billion in Malaysian Share Offering
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-09-19T02:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/astro-said-to-seek-1-5-billion-in-malaysian-broadcaster-debut.html
Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO) , the
country’s largest pay-TV broadcaster, is seeking to raise as
much as 4.6 billion ringgit ($1.5 billion) in the world’s sixth-
biggest corporate initial public offering this year, according
to three people with knowledge of the matter.  Backed by billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan, Astro plans to
sell 1.52 billion shares at 2.70 to 3 ringgit apiece, said the
people, who asked not to be identified as the information is
private. The company will start taking orders for stock
tomorrow, one of the people said.  Malaysia has been home to three of the world’s six largest
IPOs by companies this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Demand for shares from institutions outstripped
supply when  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV)  raised $3.3
billion in June and  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH)  sold $2.1 billion of
stock in Kuala Lumpur and Singapore the following month.  “There will be strong demand,” Ang Kok Heng, who oversees
about 1.3 billion ringgit as chief investment officer at Kuala
Lumpur-based Phillip Capital Management Sdn., said by phone.
“There’s no strong competitor and they have a fairly secure
business. The valuation is not cheap.”  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has risen 7.3
percent this year and closed at a record on Sept. 4.  Tallest Building  Astro was taken private in 2010 by Ananda Krishnan, the
country’s second-richest man according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . The relisted company excludes the group’s
international operations.  Astro Chief Executive Officer Rohana Rozhan couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment by phone at her office today.  Malaysia-born Ananda Krishnan also owns interests in real
estate, telecommunications and oil and gas and helped develop
the 88-floor Petronas Towers in  Kuala Lumpur  -- the world’s
tallest building until 2004.  Two other companies he bought out have since sold stock to
the public after being restructured. Mobile-phone operator  Maxis
Bhd. (MAXIS)  raised $3.6 billion in a 2009 IPO after similarly stripping
its international interests.  Bumi Armada Bhd. (BAB) , Malaysia’s
biggest supplier of support vessels for the oil and gas
industry, sold $882 million of shares in July last year.  Maxis has gained 43 percent from its offer price and Bumi
Armada is up 23 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Almost 60 percent of the proceeds will be used for capital
spending, and about 30 percent to repay debt, according to a
draft prospectus posted on the Securities Commission’s website
last month.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., together with Malaysia’s  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , are among banks managing
the offer, people with knowledge of the matter said in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  