-- Hatch Says Bernanke Would Cut QE If Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s ,   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-19T22:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/hatch-says-bernanke-would-curtail-qe-if-inflation-accelerates.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a meeting with U.S. senators that the central
bank would curtail its bond purchases if inflation accelerates,
according to Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Republican from Utah.  “If inflation starts to rise, he said he’d have to back
off” from so-called quantitative easing, Hatch said today after
Bernanke met with members of the Senate Finance Committee in
Washington. “He felt that inflation was under control.”  After 43 straight months of unemployment above 8 percent,
the  Federal Open Market Committee  announced on Sept. 13 its
third round of large-scale asset purchases since 2008. The FOMC
for the first time didn’t set a limit on the amount the Fed will
buy or the duration of purchases. Bernanke said that day at a
press conference he’ll add to the record stimulus until
achieving “sustained improvement” in the labor market.  Bernanke urged the lawmakers to ensure the U.S. takes the
steps needed to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff that would
cause a recession, said Hatch, the committee’s top Republican.  “He made it very clear that we can’t go off the cliff
without going into a recession,” Hatch said. “I think he’s got
a tiger by the tail and he’s doing the best he can.”  The Fed chairman was “very helpful” in describing the
risks of the more than $600 billion of tax increases and
spending cuts that will kick in automatically at the end of the
year unless Congress acts, said Senator  Max Baucus , chairman of
the panel and a Democrat from Montana.  Main Risk  The  Congressional Budget Office  said in an Aug. 22 economic
report that fiscal tightening of that magnitude could cause a
recession. That is one of the “main sources of risk” facing
the  U.S. economy , Bernanke has said.  Lawmakers are deadlocked over how to avert the fiscal
cliff, particularly on tax policy. Democrats propose letting tax
cuts expire for top earners while Republicans want to extend
expiring tax reductions for all income levels.  “The Federal Reserve chairman reiterated what we already
know, but it can’t be said enough,” Senator  Charles Grassley ,
Republican of Iowa, said in a statement. “Impending tax
increases combined with the mandatory budget cuts would be a
severe, negative shock to the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  