-- Aussie Gains Versus Yen on BOJ; Kiwi Touches 4-Month High
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-09-19T07:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/aussie-drops-versus-peers-before-europe-china-pmi-data.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars advanced versus the yen after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded
stimulus measures, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, touched a more
than four-month high against the yen after the BOJ added 10
trillion yen ($126 billion) to its 45 trillion-yen fund that
buys assets including government debt. Gains in the so-called
Aussie were limited before tomorrow’s release of a European
purchasing managers’ index and a similar gauge of Chinese
factory output by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  The BOJ decision “is a broad positive for risk appetite,
including the Aussie and kiwi,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asia
local markets strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore .
“The bias over the coming months is definitely higher.”  The Australian dollar gained 0.4 percent to 82.73 yen as of
5:06 p.m. in Sydney. It was at $1.0465 from $1.0457 yesterday,
when it slid to $1.0410, the lowest since Sept. 11. New
Zealand’s dollar advanced to 65.71 yen, the most since April 30,
before trading at 65.54, 0.5 percent above yesterday’s close. It
rose 0.2 percent to 82.91 U.S. cents.  Australia ’s  10-year note yield  rose 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.35 percent.  Five of 21 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  had
predicted today’s BOJ easing, while 11 forecast the action by
October.  Current Account  New Zealand ’s dollar also strengthened after the statistics
bureau said today the nation’s  current-account  shortfall was 4.9
percent of gross domestic product in the year ended June 30,
compared with a revised 4.5 percent in the 12 months through
March. The gap was the widest since June 2009, though narrower
than the 5.2 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
nine economists.  Prime Minister John Key said the New Zealand government is
taking a number of steps to help take pressure off the
“relatively high” local currency, including a return to fiscal
surplus. Currency intervention wouldn’t help lower the New
Zealand dollar, he said in response to questions in Parliament
today.  Rating Affirmed  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed Australia’s AAA long-term
sovereign credit rating, citing the country’s “ample fiscal and
monetary policy flexibility, economic resilience, public policy
stability and a financial sector that appears to be sound,”
according to a statement today. The nation also holds the top
score from Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  The Aussie has fallen 2.6 percent in the past month, the
worst performance after the  U.S. dollar  among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The kiwi dropped 0.1 percent.  A euro-zone  composite index  for manufacturing and services
industries was probably at 46.6 this month, little changed from
the August reading of 46.3 in August, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Markit will
release the figure tomorrow.  A separate gauge by Markit and HSBC for manufacturing in
 China , Australia’s largest trading partner, is also due for
release tomorrow. The index, which is based on a poll of
purchasing managers in the industry, was at 47.6 last month. For
both measures, a reading below 50 indicates contraction.  “For the China HSBC PMI and the euro-zone PMIs out this
week, I think there’s still some downside risk,” said  Joseph Capurso , a strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in
Sydney. “Global drivers are going to still push the Aussie
down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  