-- AutoNation Peerless Within U.S. Industry: Riskless Return
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-09-19T12:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/autonation-peerless-within-u-s-industry-riskless-return.html
AutoNation Inc. (AN)  led  car dealerships 
in providing the best way to participate in the U.S. auto
industry’s rebound from its bottom three years ago.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows AutoNation
produced the highest risk-adjusted return among six U.S. dealer
groups since September 2009, the year the industry began a climb
from the weakest demand for new autos in almost three decades.
Car retailers, which are more flexible than assembly lines when
cutting costs, outperformed the 24-member Bloomberg Industries
North American Auto Parts index and an index of 18 automakers
that sell vehicles in the U.S.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Jackson  has said retailers
like his can be profitable in good and bad markets because they
make money servicing old vehicles and selling to used-car buyers
when demand for new autos slips. AutoNation reported its only
quarterly loss in the past decade in 2008’s third quarter, when
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s failure fueled a credit crunch
that dramatically reduced consumers’ ability to borrow money to
buy cars.  The crisis was “a litmus test, a moment of truth, and if
you look at the performance of the automotive retailers during
the crisis period, in relative terms it was outstanding,”
Jackson, 63, said in a telephone interview from AutoNation’s
headquarters in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . “The beauty of our
business model is the foundation is service and parts. That
covers over 90 percent of our fixed costs.”  Lowest Volatility  AutoNation had a total return of 127 percent since
September 2009, the first month after government incentives for
new car buyers that had  inflated  demand in July and August of
that year expired. While AutoNation had the fourth-best total
return among dealership groups, it had the lowest volatility at
33, giving it the No. 1 rank by risk-adjusted return.  Standard & Poor’s  boosted the company to investment-grade
last year, and Moody’s Investors Service in November assigned a
positive outlook on its rating, the highest speculative-grade
level.  “We’re able to adjust our cost base very quickly to
changes in the marketplace,” Jackson said. “The manufacturer
and supplier business model has high fixed costs, is extremely
cyclical and not very resilient.”  Group 1 Automotive Inc. in Houston had the second-best
total return at 131 percent and a volatility of 46, giving it
second place in the ranking.  Lithia Motors Inc. (LAD) , best by total
return with a gain of 164 percent, ranked third, dragged down by
the highest volatility in the group, at 60.  Beating Suppliers  AutoNation, Group 1, Lithia Motors,  Asbury Automotive Group
Inc. (ABG) , Penske Automotive Group Inc., and Sonic Automotive Inc.
combined to post a 3.1 percent risk-adjusted return, topping
parts suppliers at 2.2 percent and automakers at 1.05 percent.
The ranking is based on a Bloomberg Industries index of
automotive dealers and excludes used-car dealers America’s Car-
Mart Inc., CarMax Inc. and Copart Inc., as well as AutoCanada
Inc., which sells cars in Canada.  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns aren’t annualized. Higher volatility means an asset’s
price can swing dramatically in a short period of time,
increasing the prospect for unexpected losses.  Lampert, Gates  AutoNation benefited from a stable ownership, with  Edward Lampert ’s RBS Partners LP hedge fund  owning  almost 40 percent of
the company. The 50-year-old billionaire also personally held
18.6 million shares, a 15 percent stake, as of June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cascade Investment LLC,
 Bill Gates ’s personal money management firm, and his Gates
Foundation hold ownership stakes of 13 percent and 2 percent,
respectively.  AutoNation, the second-largest U.S. stock holding of RBS,
has delivered some of the best profits for Lampert, with annual
gains of 31 percent since September of 2009. Sears Holding,
RBS’s largest U.S. stock position, has languished at 2009
levels, gaining an annual 1.9 percent in the same period.  Asbury Automotive provided a risk-adjusted return of 2.7
percent since September 2009. Billionaire  Michael Dell ’s MSD
Capital LP holds a 10.5 percent  stake  in Duluth, Georgia-based
Asbury, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Richest Guy’  Michael Larson , chief investment officer of Cascade
Investment in Kirkland,  Washington , and Todd Fogarty, a
spokesman for MSD Capital, declined to comment for this story. A
spokesmen for Lampert didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  “I don’t think there are a lot people who really
understand this industry, who understand what we have and just
how good of a business this is,” Craig Monaghan, CEO of Duluth,
Georgia-based Asbury Automotive, said in a telephone interview.
“The richest guy in town is never the doctor or the lawyer.
It’s the guy who owns the dealership. There’s a reason for
that.”  U.S. auto sales are on pace to exceed 14 million this year
for the industry’s best total since 2007, according to Autodata
Corp. The new-car market is on track to grow for a third
consecutive year.  The industry is rebounding after a plunge to 10.4 million
light-vehicle sales in 2009, the worst year for the U.S. market
since 1982. Annual deliveries averaged 16.8 million from 2000 to
2007, according to Autodata in Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey .  The increasing sales are being spread across a smaller U.S.
auto-dealer footprint, according to  Urban Science , a Detroit-
based consulting firm.  Industry Rebound  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC pared their
retail networks as part of their 2009 U.S. government-backed
bankruptcies. The U.S. industry now has fewer than 30,000 dealer
franchises, down from almost 50,000 in 1997, Urban Science said
in an Aug. 14 report.  That means new-vehicle sales probably will climb to a
record 805 per dealership in 2012 as demand recovers faster than
estimated and carmakers keep the number of their retail outlets
stable, according to the report.  “In that scenario, where I’ve leaned out my cost structure
to the bone, I’d rather be a dealer” than a supplier or
automaker,  Kevin Tynan , an automotive analyst with Bloomberg
Industries based in Princeton, New Jersey, said in a telephone
interview. “As the industry starts to recover, the retailers’
cost structure, which was leaned to the bone in 2009 and 2010,
is probably still lean relative to before the crash.”  Industrywide per-store dealership profit has almost tripled
from 2008, according to the National Automobile Dealers
Association, which represents 16,000 new-car dealers. The
average U.S. auto dealer earned a pretax profit of  $785,855  last
year on revenue of $34.7 million, McLean, Virginia-based NADA
said in its year-end  report . Dealers’ average pretax profit was
 $279,685  in 2008.  Labor Costs  Auto retailers’ labor costs are variable because their
workers’ compensation typically is tied to commissions for every
car they sell or repair, Bloomberg Industries’ Tynan said.
Automakers and suppliers have a more difficult time keeping
those costs contained because they need to maintain much of
their work force to keep plants operational.  “As demand starts to come back, you have that lag where
you have half the sales and back office people you had when we
were at 16 million” annual vehicle sales, Tynan said. “You
have this window of opportunity for expanded margins.”  The “foundation” of AutoNation is its parts and service
business, Jackson said. The retailer focused on keeping fixed
costs down through the industry sales decline and relied on
gross profit from that line of business to offset 90 percent or
more of those costs.  ‘91% Happy’  “When I wake up in the morning, I’m 91 percent happy
before I leave the house,” Jackson told employees at an Atlanta
town hall in August 2011. “I’m looking forward to the day that
I wake up 100 percent happy. I’m going to sleep in.”  AutoNation’s  gross margin  in the parts and service business
exceeded 43 percent in every quarter during 2010 and has
exceeded 41 percent in each of the last five periods, Bloomberg
data shows. That compares to as much as a 9.8 percent margin in
its used-vehicle retail business and as much as 7.8 percent in
new vehicles.  Asbury’s parts and service gross margin has averaged 55
percent in the last 10 quarters, the data show. The segment is
the “real bread and butter” of Asbury’s business, said
Monaghan, the CEO.  ‘Recession-Resilient’  “It’s a business that just continues to perform in good
times and bad,” he said. “I wouldn’t say it’s recession-proof,
but it’s certainly very much recession-resilient.”  AutoNation closed at an all-time high of $42.45 on July 19,
while Asbury climbed to a record $29.93 on Sept. 14. Penske
Automotive, based in  Bloomfield Hills ,  Michigan , reached its
best close ever on Sept. 17, rising to $30.32.  “The dealer business model is a lot less cyclical than
people think it is,” Matthew Nemer, an analyst at Wells Fargo
Securities based in  San Francisco , said in a telephone
interview. “In a deep recession, you may not need to get your
bumper fixed, but if there’s a mechanical problem with the car
and you use it to get to work, you need to get it fixed. That
profit line is incredibly stable.”  The share performance by the companies is a stark
turnaround since the economic crisis four years ago. AutoNation
fell 37 percent in 2008 and reached a low of $4.21 in October of
that year. Asbury plunged 70 percent and slipped to as low as $2
the same month that year. Penske declined 56 percent in 2008 and
dropped to $4.84 in March 2009.  Bottom ‘Bounce’  “During the recession, the market basically priced all
these companies as if they were going bankrupt,” Wells Fargo’s
Nemer said. “The public dealers haven’t been around all that
long and they’d never been through a deep recession. There was a
little bit of fear of the unknown.”  Nemer, whose family owns a chain of car dealerships, said
auto retailers’ stock-market outperformance compared with
carmakers and suppliers may reflect a “bounce” from deeper
bottoms, rather than their prospects in a recovery. Carmakers
may be better to own in that scenario, he said.  “As the capacity starts to fill up, for the manufacturers
where you have fixed capacity and you start to fill that
capacity and cover your fixed costs, that’s where you get sort
of explosive earnings growth,” he said.  ‘Protected Business’  Monaghan said auto retailers still trade at relatively
lower valuations compared to most retailers. Some investors
discount their shares because car manufacturers need to give
permission for adding additional stores.  “Some people look at our model and say ‘well, they can’t
grow because the manufacturer controls their ability to open a
greenfield site,” he said. Those investors are overlooking the
fact that automakers’ restrictions also shield retailers from
added competitors entering their area.  “You have a protected business that produces a very nice
 cash flow ,” he said. “They’ve missed what is really a very
attractive investment here. It’s very consistent, reasonably
predictable business that throws off cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  