-- Bank of Japan Enlarges Toolkit as Inflation Goal Recedes
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-09-20T02:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/bank-of-japan-enlarges-toolkit-as-inflation-goal-recedes.html
The  Bank of Japan  added to its
toolkit by abandoning a minimum return on bonds it purchases, a
step that may ensure it meets targets for adding stimulus to the
economy even as a goal of ending deflation remains out of reach.  The BOJ scrapped the requirement for regular purchases of
government debt, currently set at 1.8 trillion yen ($23 billion)
a month, and for notes that it accumulates under a 55 trillion
yen asset-purchase fund. Policy makers also yesterday expanded
the asset program by 10 trillion yen.  A report today showing a slide in exports underscored the
need for steps to support an economy where growth has now
paused, according to the BOJ. The slowdown has contributed to a
surge in demand for government debt as a haven that sometimes
left the central bank unable to complete planned bond purchases
in recent months. Three-year notes yield just 0.1 percent.  “The Bank of  Japan  really wanted to smooth the way for
carrying out bond purchases, to make sure that asset purchases
can be completed,” said Shogo Fujita, chief Japanese bond
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Tokyo . “It also
opened the door for negative rates.”  Exports fell 5.8 percent in August from a year earlier, the
third straight decline, the  Finance Ministry  said in Tokyo.  Stocks Fall  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.7 percent as of 11:30
a.m. in Tokyo after yesterday climbing to the highest level
since May because of the central bank’s easing, which was
forecast by only five of 21 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
The yen was little changed at 78.39 per dollar.  Yields on benchmark 10-year government bonds were today at
0.8 percent. Two-year yields were at 0.09 percent.  Central banks across the globe have had to come up with new
tools after they lowered benchmark rates toward zero. The U.S.
Federal Reserve last week unveiled a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, committing to buy $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month. Denmark has experimented with negative  interest
rates , while  Switzerland  capped its  exchange rate .  In Japan, the central bank held 10.2 percent of government
bonds as of the end of June, the highest proportion since 2006,
the BOJ said in a report today.  Economic Challenges  Japan’s challenges span entrenched deflation, tensions with
 China , nuclear plant shutdowns,  weakness in exports  and the risk
the government will run out of money because of a parliamentary
deadlock. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said last week that an
extra budget will be needed. Consumer prices excluding fresh
food fell 0.3 percent in July from a year earlier, the sharpest
decline since March 2011.  The Bank of Japan downgraded its economic assessment
yesterday, saying growth has “come to a pause” while overseas
economies have moved “somewhat deeper into a deceleration
phase.” A manufacturing index for China today indicated a
contraction, in a preliminary reading for this month.  JPMorgan Securities , Credit Suisse Group AG and BNP Paribas
expect Japan’s economy to contract this quarter after growth
slowed to a 0.7 percent annual pace in the previous three
months. Lawmakers have pushed for bolder action from the BOJ as
a target of 1 percent inflation remains distant.  With the BOJ saying it anticipates consumer prices will
remain flat for the time being, “this elevates our concern that
the bank will not be able to meet its long-term inflation
goal,” HSBC Holdings Plc analysts wrote.  Losing Traction  The central bank removed the yield requirements after its
stimulus efforts had started to lose traction in markets.  So-called rinban purchases of government debt failed to
reach BOJ targets twice since May, which hadn’t happened since
2006. Separate funding operations and buying tied to the central
bank’s asset-purchase program also ran short of securities to
purchase, short-circuiting the primary method for injecting
money into the financial system.  The decision to purchase Japanese  government bonds  without
regard to yield should have an impact on financial markets,
central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters
yesterday.  “If  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened in coming months,
negative yields could become possible in Japan as investors
sought out less risky assets,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief
economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. and a former central
bank official. “For now, financial markets in Europe are
stabilizing, so negative yields are unlikely.”  European Stresses  In the euro area, negative yields this year highlighted the
stresses which prompted European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s Sept. 6 pledge to buy a potentially unlimited amount of
securities.  Germany  yesterday sold two-year notes with a positive yield
for the first time since June 20. The nation auctioned the
securities at an average yield of 0.06 percent, the Bundesbank
said, up from zero at the previous sale on Aug. 22.  In Japan, Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said yesterday’s
easing was bolder than expected and “very much welcomed” by
the government.  “Whether central banks intend it or not, there is a
competition for loosening monetary policy around the world,”
said  Izuru Kato , chief market economist in Tokyo at Totan
Research Co. and one of the analysts who forecast easing.
Shirakawa doesn’t want to be seen as “reluctant to compete in
the race” because of the risk of yen gains that will hurt the
economy, Kato said.  Yesterday’s 10 trillion yen increase is made up of 5
trillion yen of government bonds and 5 trillion yen of treasury
bills. The central bank pushed back the completion of purchases
under the asset program to December 2013 from June 2013.  Likely Triggers  “The BOJ appears to be moving away from its cautionary
stance and into a new age of pre-emptive action,” HSBC
economists Izumi Devalier and Fred Neumann wrote in a note after
the announcement. “Likely triggers include recent unprecedented
actions by the Fed and ECB, as well as a potentially new dovish
bias caused by the addition” of two new non-career BOJ board
members, they wrote.  Takehiro Sato, a former economist at Morgan Stanley who
joined the board in July, said July 24 that buying foreign bonds
was one option for the central bank. Takahide Kiuchi, a fellow
newcomer to the board, said the same day that the bank may need
to consider “new forms of monetary easing.”  Japan’s weakening recovery faces an added threat from a
territorial dispute with China, Japan’s biggest export market.
Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co.
production at some plants in China has been affected by
protests.  The yen strengthened to a seven-month high of 77.13 per
dollar on Sept. 13, after the Fed announced its plan for a third
round of quantitative easing.  “We are concerned about an increase in the speed of yen
appreciation, and our sense of crisis is intensifying,”  Akio Toyoda , chairman of the Automobile Manufacturers Association and
chief executive officer of Toyota, said Sept. 14. “We strongly
hope the government and the BOJ can cooperate closely and act
swiftly to correct a historically strong yen level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  