-- Chelsea Opens Champions League Defense With Tie; Barcelona Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-19T23:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/barcelona-beats-spartak-moscow-in-champions-league-chelsea-ties.html
Chelsea opened defense of its
Champions League soccer title by blowing a two-goal lead in
tying Juventus, while  Lionel Messi  scored twice as  Barcelona 
rallied to beat Spartak Moscow 3-2.  Fabio Quagliarella came off the bench to score in the 80th
minute last night and earn Italian champion Juventus a 2-2 draw
in  London . Messi got his goals in the final 19 minutes to lift
Barcelona to the home win.  “We found ourselves in a great position to win the game
and we only got a draw but we knew we were playing a quality
side who have a lot of good players,” Chelsea coach Roberto Di Matteo told  Sky Sports . “It was a good football match and both
teams could have won it.”  It was the fifth straight year the titleholder opened the
tournament with a draw.  Bayern Munich  and  Manchester United , who
have both finished runner-up twice in the past four seasons,
were among the winners last night as the first round of games in
Europe’s elite club competition concluded.  Brazilian midfielder Oscar, making his first start after
joining Chelsea from Internacional in July, got both goals as
Chelsea took a 2-0 lead in the Group E match at  Stamford  Bridge.  The 21-year-old playmaker opened the scoring in the 31st
minute with a shot that flicked off Juventus defender Leonardo Bonucci. Oscar struck again two minutes later when he spun away
from two defenders outside the area and curled a shot inside the
right post.  Juventus pulled one back in 38th minute as  Arturo Vidal  cut
into the middle and fired a shot past  Petr Cech .  Tying Goal  Quagliarella then tied the score five minutes after coming
on for Sebastian Giovinco. Chelsea gave the ball away in its own
half and  Andrea Pirlo  passed to Quagliarella, who beat  John Terry ’s attempted offside trap and slid a shot under Cech.  Quagliarella almost won it for Juve when he clipped the
crossbar with an 87th minute shot.  “It was a cheap goal to give away,” Chelsea’s John Obi Mikel told Sky Sports. “We switched off. We should have dealt
with it properly.”  In the other Group E Game, Henrik Mkhitaryan scored both
goals as  Shakhtar Donetsk  beat Nordsjaelland 2-0.  Barcelona, seeking its fourth European Cup in eight
seasons, took the lead in the Group G match at the Camp Nou
stadium on Cristian Tello’s goal in the 14th minute.  Spartak drew even on an own goal from Daniel Alves after 30
minutes and took the lead in the 59th minute when Romulo scored
on a counter attack after goalkeeper Andriy Dykan stopped a shot
from Messi.  Messi Double  Messi tied the score in the 71st minute when he tapped in a
pass from Tello and the three-time World Player of the Year
headed in the winner nine minutes later.  “It’s not easy to win a game like this when the other team
sits back and defends,” Messi said on the website of tournament
organizer UEFA.  Celtic, returning to the group stage for the first time in
four seasons, drew 0-0 at home with Benfica in the other Group G
game.  Michael Carrick  scored the only goal in the seventh minute
as Manchester United beat Galatasaray in Group H.  Penalty Save  United missed a chance to double its lead at at Old
Trafford when Galatasaray goalkeeper Fernando Muslera stopped
Nani’s penalty kick in the second half. The Turkish club hit the
post twice with shots and was also denied by a double save from
United goalkeeper David de Gea.  “We expected a tough game,” United manager  Alex Ferguson 
told Sky Sports. “You just have to be patient and make sure
that when you get possession you make it count.”  Rafael Bastos scored both goals as Cluj won 2-0 at Braga in
the other Group H match.  In Group F, Bayern Munich, which lost to Chelsea in last
season’s final, got goals from Bastian Schweinsteiger and Toni Kroos to beat Valencia 2-1, while Aleksandr Volodko, Vitaly
Rodionov and Edgar Olekhnovich scored in the first half to lead
BATE Borisov to a 3-1 win at Lille.  The second round of Champions League group matches will be
played Oct. 2 and 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 