-- Baseball Learns to Be More Like Football
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-09-19T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/baseball-learns-to-be-more-like-football.html
It happens every year.  Sometime around the All-Star break in July, when the
committed fan has already logged, say, 100 hours of baseball,
the pace of the game starts to feel less leisurely than
excruciating. Boredom sets in. The remainder of the season
beckons with all the dramatic promise of an Andy Warhol film or
a  Sweeny Murti disquisition .  Then, in September, baseball snaps us to attention. Teams
that had seemed destined for the postseason are suddenly
struggling to stay alive; teams that seemed utterly out of
contention are fighting for a playoff spot. Just like that, we
are watching the game with fresh eyes, and those 10-pitch at-
bats that were agonizing a month ago are once again
exhilarating.  Last year, of course, gave us one of the most exciting
finishes in Major League Baseball history, courtesy of the
 Boston Red Sox  and  Atlanta Braves , who both capped monthlong
collapses with improbable losses on the season’s final day --
the Braves in 13 innings, the  Red Sox  surrendering a lead with
two outs in the bottom of the ninth. This won’t happen again,
not just for the Red Sox, who are out of it, but for the game
itself. (Even for the Sox, a choke of this magnitude was  truly
historic .)  Bud’s Grace  But the end of the 2012 season is looking pretty good, too,
especially in the National League. No fewer than seven teams are
competing for the final playoff spot, including the  Philadelphia
Phillies  and the  Milwaukee Brewers , who both made moves in late
July that seemed -- to those of us who were still awake, anyway
-- to indicate that they were basically giving up on the season.  They are alive now not by the grace of God, but by the
grace of Bud, as in Commissioner  Bud Selig , who decided last
year to add two more wild-card spots to baseball’s playoffs,
bringing the number of postseason teams to 10. In each league,
the two wild-card winners will face off in a single-elimination
game to be played two days after the regular season ends.  Baseball purists have taken  great offense  at this. They
look at the two weeks ahead and see not the prospect of a lot of
exciting, meaningful baseball games, but the further sullying of
our national pastime, which has for a while now been gradually
adding more teams to the postseason.  They look at this playoff inflation and bemoan the end of
the “pennant race,” those heady days when a fan could only hope
that baseball’s endless slog of a season would improbably
produce two teams in a single division with nearly identical
records. They condemn the “mediocrity” rewarded by the new
system. (Imagine, a team that’s barely over .500 might make the
playoffs!?)  It’s worth mentioning that wild-card teams have not,
historically speaking, been mediocre. They played in the  World
Series  every year from 2002 to 2007, and won it in 2002, 2003
and 2004. The reigning world champions, the  St. Louis Cardinals ,
were a wild-card team.  It’s also worth mentioning that adding a wild-card team to
each league will actually make winning the division more
important, thus increasing the odds of a tight pennant race.
After all, the alternative means basically being compelled to
pitch your best starter in a must-win wild-card game -- and
losing him for the first game or two of the divisional series.  Most of all, it’s worth remembering that the subject under
discussion is baseball. Whatever comfort  the game’s poets  have
found in the immutability of its structure, we are not talking
about amending the Constitution. We’re talking about giving two
more teams a chance to play baseball a little deeper into
October.  Bud’s Strategy  No one has any illusions about Selig’s motivations: His
game has the great misfortune of moving toward its yearly climax
just as professional football, the most popular and profitable
sport in the U.S., is getting started. He is trying desperately
to raise the stakes of September baseball. If he can’t compete
with the national appeal of the NFL, he can at least give more
fans in more places a reason to resist the siren’s song of
concussive collisions taking place just a few clicks away.  Selig is trying to do so by stealing a play from the NFL
itself, which sends 12 of its 32 teams to the playoffs every
year. Baseball will never be football. (Not even football can be
football for much longer, but that’s a subject for another day.)
Baseball can learn, however, from the NFL’s wildly successful
economic model, which in part relies on encouraging fans to
gorge themselves on an all-you-can-eat postseason buffet.  More than anything, baseball’s new wild-card system is a
sign that the game, like any smart business, is evolving in an
effort to keep pace with the increased metabolism of today’s
sports fans and to help offset the payroll disparity among its
franchises. It’s simple math. Creating two more playoff spots
will give small-market teams two more chances at the postseason.  Once they get there, anything can happen. This may be an
affront to the game’s purists, who would prefer to see only the
strongest survive until October. But why not reward your fans
for making it through their summer-long endurance test, too?  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A long-time contributor to the  New York  Times Magazine, he is
the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx
Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on an  immigration bill  everyone
can love;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  what Romney got wrong on the Middle
East ;  Michael Kinsley  on  cartoon conservatives and liberals ; Dean
Lacy on why  Romney’s moocher myth appeals to moocher state voters ;
Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  Banana Republic’s first expansion .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 