-- BHP Says Pace of China Iron Ore Demand Has Slowed by Half
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-09-19T05:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/bhp-says-pace-of-china-iron-ore-demand-has-slowed-by-half.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said the pace of iron ore demand from
 China , the biggest importer, has slowed by more than half.  “We’re already seeing the beginning of the end of the
first phase of economic development in China,” Alberto Calderon, the Melbourne-based company’s chief commercial officer
and manager of its aluminum and nickel  business , said today at a
conference in Canberra. “The pace of demand of iron ore from
China has slowed down by more than half.”  Australia , the world’s biggest iron ore exporter, yesterday
cut its price forecasts for this and next year on concern that a
slowing economy in China will curb demand growth. BHP last month
delayed an estimated $68 billion of projects, including an  iron
ore  port expansion, as commodity prices declined.  “What we have seen in the past ten years is not only a
function of massive demand coming from China but the industry
not being prepared,” Calderon said. “This won’t be repeated.
Margins will still be good but that scarcity pricing we won’t
see again, on average.”  BHP rose 0.6 percent to A$34.17 at 3:39 p.m. in Sydney
trading, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.5
percent.  Iron Ore Volatile  Iron ore, used to make steel, fell to its lowest level in
almost three years this month, having reached a record $191.90 a
metric ton on Feb. 16 last year. Prices have since rebounded 26
percent to trade at $109.60 a ton yesterday. The fall in the
iron ore price forced BHP competitor  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-biggest exporter, to restructure its
debt earlier this week.  “Demand will grow less, although still quite impressively
and the producers, in general, are more prepared,” said
Calderon. “This doesn’t mean that the boom has ended, but it
does mean to expect that prices will grow or even stay at very
high levels, you would do it at your own peril.”  Calderon said demand growth for seaborne iron ore will
probably be low, or could contract, for a protracted period from
the middle of the next decade as more steel scrap is used for
new construction in China.  Copper Strong  Copper prices will probably remain high as supply struggles
to keep pace with demand, Calderon said. The market needs one
new Escondida mine a year to replace mined material and as old
mines struggle with falling ore grades, he said. BHP is operator
of  Chile ’s Escondida, the world’s biggest copper mine.  BHP had been due to decide this year on approving the
expansion of its Olympic Dam mine, an iron-ore port expansion in
Western Australia and a potash project in  Canada . The three
projects may cost a combined $68 billion to build, according to
a May 23 estimate from Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  