-- Billionaire Lui Gains as Probes Hit Macau Casino Rivals: Retail
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-09-20T03:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/billionaire-lui-gains-as-probes-hit-macau-casino-rivals-retail.html
For casino billionaire  Sheldon
Adelson , what happens in Macau doesn’t always stay in Macau as
U.S. courts probe his operations in the world’s biggest gambling
hub. The scrutiny has investors favoring local rivals.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , a Macau gambling operator
owned by  Hong Kong  property tycoon Lui Che-Woo, has surged 75
percent in Hong Kong trading in the past 12 months, more than
double the 34 percent gain in Adelson’s  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  That
helped put Lui among the world’s 100 richest for the first time
yesterday, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Adelson and U.S. rival  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  have invested more
than $10 billion to build in Macau and now count on the
territory, site of  China ’s only legal casinos, for most of their
profit. The two helped expand the industry after the former
Portuguese colony opened to global firms in 2002 and were
rewarded by investors as Wynn Resorts’s share price jumped
almost ninefold since then and Adelson’s  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) 
has added about 60 percent since its 2004 initial public
offering.  “The lawsuits at Sands or Wynn have been going on for some
time and we’ve already priced in that risk by cutting our
exposure,”  Alex Au , managing director of Richland Capital
Management Ltd., said by phone in Hong Kong. “We like Galaxy
instead.”  Las Vegas  Sands was sanctioned Sept. 14 by a Nevada judge
who said the company and its Sands China Ltd. unit deceived the
court concerning evidence sought by the former head of its China
operations in a lawsuit over his firing.  Wynn’s Macau operations are also under investigation by the
Securities and Exchange Commission and face lawsuits in Nevada
courts, underscoring the difficulties foreign casino operators
have to face as they navigate both regulatory relations.  Following Rules  Sands China has followed regulations in both Macau and Las
Vegas, Chief Executive Officer Edward Tracy said in an interview
last month. Melina Leong, a spokeswoman for the company in
Macau, declined to comment on the probe on Sept. 15.  Wynn Resorts, based in Las Vegas, is under Securities and
Exchange Commission investigation over a HK$1 billion ($129
million) donation last year to the University of Macau. Former
director and largest shareholder Kazuo Okada, a Japanese
pachinko billionaire, has also sued Wynn over the company’s Feb.
19 unilateral redemption of his shares.  Katharine Liu, a spokeswoman for  Wynn Macau , declined to
comment on the investigation.  Rising Incomes  “The lawsuits concerning Sands or Wynn have made several
headlines that would prompt investors to exercise caution,”
said Edwin Fan, an analyst at BOC International. The U.S.-based
companies are “being penalized by the negative news flow,” he
said.  Adelson said in Macau today Sands plans to begin
construction of a new $2.5 billion casino resort on Macau’s
Cotai strip in 60 days and it will have more than 3,000 hotel
rooms and replica of the Eiffel Tower.  Casino revenue in the gambling hub rose to 26.1 billion
patacas ($3.27 billion) in August from 24.8 billion patacas a
year earlier, and more than doubling from the 11.3 billion
patacas in August 2009, according to data from the city’s Gaming
Inspection and Coordination Bureau.  Galaxy profit is expected to double this year to HK$6.4
billion, according to the average of 16 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The estimated profit growth is the Macau
industry’s fastest, driven in part by Galaxy’s focus on China’s
middle-class gamblers, who bring higher margins because they
tend to visit on their own rather than through VIP junkets,
which take a share of profit.  Profit Jump  Galaxy’s first-half profit climbed nine-fold after it drew
more Chinese visitors to a gambling resort it set up last year.
Its revenue overtook that of Sands China last year with HK$41.2
billion, making it the city’s second-largest operator after  SJM
Holdings Ltd. (880)   Despite the earnings growth, Galaxy’s shares are still
 relatively cheaper  than Sands China’s. Its stock trades at 15.8
times estimated 2012 earnings compared with 22.1 times for
Sands, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit at Adelson’s Macau unit will probably rise about 13
percent to HK$10 billion this year, according to the average of
15 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Wynn Macau earnings
are expected to gain 15 percent to HK$6.8 billion, the average
of 11 analyst estimates.  Cotai Strip  Galaxy “has a good mix of VIP and mass-market gamblers,”
Au at Richland Capital said in a phone interview. “Galaxy also
has good growth potential as it’s expanding to double its
capacity in three years.”  On the territory’s Cotai strip, a piece of reclaimed land
that is the Asian equivalent of the  Las Vegas Strip , Sands’
Venetian stands next door to Galaxy’s more Asian-focused resort.
The Venetian has artificial canals and singing gondoliers that
resemble those of  Venice . The Galaxy Macau offers a Shanghai-
styled cabaret show at the kitsch China Rouge club.  SJM, founded by Hong Kong billionaire  Stanley Ho  and
operated as Macau’s casino monopoly for almost 40 years until
2002, is still the largest by revenue.  “We understand the market, we understand the fabric of the
society and we’re closer to the government as I see it, so we’re
able to read the pulse better than the other operators,”
Ambrose So, SJM chief executive officer, said in an interview in
Macau this month. “We’re in a better position, though that’s
not because the foreign players are facing lawsuits.”  China Refugee  Lui arrived in Hong Kong as a refugee from mainland China
at age four in 1934. He helped his family by selling food on the
streets, his son Francis, who handles the day-to-day running of
Galaxy, said in an interview with Bloomberg Markets magazine
last year.  Galaxy Chairman and founder Lui is also close to the
government. He’s a member of the 1,193-person committee that
elects Hong Kong’s chief executive, and he was the first casino
operator to win a permit to expand capacity in the latest cycle
of government approvals.  The permit win is “suggesting strong support from the
Macau government,” Gabriel Chan, an analyst at Credit Suisse,
said in a July research note. “The new project is set to
provide Galaxy the first-mover advantage in the next round of
casino opening cycles.”  Macau, like Hong Kong, is a special administrative region
of China. Galaxy is expected to double its capacity and the
expansion will be completed by 2015.  ‘Improper Leverage’  Macau locals including Galaxy and SJM still have a profit
gap with Las Vegas-based rivals Wynn and Sands.  Adelson visits Macau today to open the latest expansion of
one of his casinos on the island’s so-called Cotai strip.  The visit comes amid a probe of allegations by  Steven Jacobs , the former CEO of Sands China who sued in 2010 after he
was fired.  Jacobs claims Adelson directed him to secretly investigate
Macau government officials and use “improper leverage” against
them. Las Vegas Sands denied Jacobs’s allegations and said it is
cooperating with the investigations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  