-- Phil Anschutz to Sell L.A.-Based Live-Event Promoter AEG
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/billionaire-anschutz-to-sell-los-angeles-entertainment-unit-1-.html
Billionaire Philip Anschutz said he
plans to sell his Anschutz Entertainment Group, owner of  Los
Angeles ’ Staples Center and the world’s No. 2 concert promoter.  Anschutz Co., AEG’s Denver-based parent, hired Blackstone
Advisory Partners to assist with the sale, according to an e-
mailed statement yesterday. AEG, based in Los Angeles, is second
in the concert business to  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , which
had a market value of $1.71 billion as of yesterday.  AEG has created entertainment districts in  London , around
the O2 arena, and Los Angeles, where it built Staples, home of
the Lakers NBA basketball team and the Kings in hockey. Given
its size and global reach, there are few potential buyers, said
 David Carter , executive director of the Sports Business
Institute at the University of  Southern California .  “The number of suitors would be small,” Carter said in an
interview. “It’s hard to tell who could step up to this size of
a deal.”  Led by Chief Executive Officer  Tim Leiweke , AEG developed
L.A. Live, a hotel and entertainment complex adjacent to Staples
Center in downtown Los Angeles. In London, the O2 is surrounded
by piazzas, bars and restarants as well exhibition space. The
company owns and operates 100 venues on five continents, in
addition to interests in the Lakers, Kings, and the L.A. Galaxy
professional soccer team.  The company may fetch several billion dollars, according to
the Wall Street Journal, which reported the plans yesterday.  ‘Entertainment Destinations’  AEG’s proposal to build a $1.2 billion NFL stadium next to
Staples Center received city planning approval last week.  The company’s formula of combining live sports, theaters
and restaurants with real estate development helps create “true
entertainment destinations for consumers,” Leiweke said in the
statement.  A decision to sell may hinder AEG’s plans to attract an NFL
team to Los Angeles, causing team owners to question Anschutz’s
commitment, Carter said.  “They will have to do damage control around the NFL
deal,” Carter said. “This will give pause to some NFL
owners.”  Football Boost?  City officials said the sale of AEG may boost efforts to
attract an NFL team.  “Maybe this means it’s more about football than ever
before,” Los Angeles City Councilwoman Jan Perry, whose
district includes part of downtown, said in a telephone
interview. “This could be a surge ahead. There is a greater
emphasis on football than ever before.”  In a statement, Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  said he had
received assurances from both Anschutz and Leiweke that a sale
“will not affect plans for an NFL team to return to Los
Angeles.”  AEG produces annual festivals that include the Coachella
Music & Arts Festival and the Stagecoach Festival in Indio,
 California , and the New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival, the
company said.  Last week, the company formed a venture with Lollapalooza
producer C3 Presents to purchase Front Gate Tickets, based in
Austin, Texas.  Oil, Lodging  Anschutz, 72, whose interests range from energy and farming
to lodging to cinema chain  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , is ranked
39th on Forbes magazine’s list of the richest Americans, with
wealth estimated at $7 billion.  His public holdings include a 78 percent voting stake in
Regal Entertainment Group, the nation’s largest cinema chain,
that is valued at $1.35 billion, based on the company’s
regulatory filings and stock price.  Anschutz Corp. has been in the natural resources business
for more than 75 years, according to the website of one
affiliate, Anschutz Exploration, which lists involvement in
projects in  Montana ,  Wyoming ,  Colorado , New York and Texas.  Through its Xanterra Parks & Resorts, the company is the
largest operator of lodging, restaurants and retail outlets in
U.S. national parks, including at Grand Canyon and Yellowstone.  Anschutz Film Group made the movie “Ray” about  Ray Charles , and his Clarity Media Group owns the Washington
Examiner and The Weekly Standard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  