-- BlackBerry Creator Lazaridis Puts $100 Million Into Nano Labs
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/blackberry-creator-lazaridis-puts-100-million-toward-nano-plan.html
Mike Lazaridis ,  whose invention of
the BlackBerry smartphone more than a decade ago redefined the
way people send e-mail, is drawing inspiration from the early
days of computing for his next act.  Backed by his $100 million donation, the Mike & Ophelia
Lazaridis Quantum-Nano Centre opens tomorrow in Waterloo,
Ontario, aiming to recreate the conditions that made AT&T Inc.’s
Bell Labs a hive of technological innovation in the early 1960s
and laid the groundwork for the success of Silicon Valley.  The new research center is designed to produce
breakthroughs in the science and technology of things
approaching the size of an atom. It’s “absolutely” going to be
the Bell Labs of the 21st century, Lazaridis said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “That reality got clearer and clearer to
me as we got closer to the ribbon-cutting.”  Lazaridis, who resigned as chairman of struggling
BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  in January, says he’s
now devoting most of his time to help get the Quantum-Nano
Centre off the ground and to form a cluster of cutting-edge
research with the decade-old  Institute for Quantum Computing  and
 Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics , both founded with a
total of more than $250 million of his own money and additional
funds he helped raise.  The facilities will be enough to lure the brightest minds
in the field to  Canada , Lazaridis said.  No Mountains  “We can’t offer them ocean, beaches or mountains, but we
can try and offer them the best environment, the best
collaborators, the best equipment that would be conducive to
them making the breakthroughs of their lifetime,” Lazaridis
said. “One of the best ways to describe this is we’re trying to
break the known laws of physics.”  The technology Lazaridis is talking about is designed to
redefine the boundaries of Moore’s Law, the principle --
associated with  Intel Corp. (INTC)  co-founder Gordon Moore -- that the
number of transistors that can be placed on an integrated
circuit doubles every two years. Quantum computing and
nanotechnology would allow medicine to be delivered to
individual cells, could create minute energy sources and could
even produce self-healing materials that could be used in a
nuclear power plant, he says.  “It’s getting more and more difficult to make smaller
devices as we approach the size of an atom, but it’s also
getting more expensive to build those devices,” he said. “You
know you’re at the limit when those two things happen. The only
way we can break through those barriers is quantum computing.”  Possible Investments  While Lazaridis said he’s considering investments in nano
and quantum technology, he wouldn’t say when or how much he’ll
invest. The 51-year-old still  owns  29.7 million shares in RIM,
which are worth about $214 million, according to an April
filing.  “I do have the funds to invest in both angel and  venture
capital , but I’m being very, very strategic,” he said.  While Waterloo does have some local venture capital that
startups can tap, it lacks the billion of dollars in venture
capital that investors are willing to risk in Silicon Valley on
local startups. That doesn’t faze Lazaridis, the son of Greek
immigrants who immigrated to Canada as a boy and started RIM
while still at the University of Waterloo in the 1970s.  “The venture capital will find its way to those individual
entrepreneurs or companies that are interested in
commercializing these discoveries,” he said.  Valley’s Roots  Bell Labs , founded in 1925 and now part of Alcatel-Lucent,
had its operations in  New York  City and the New Jersey suburbs,
an area that hasn’t been able to seize the mantle of
technological innovator held by  California ’s Silicon Valley,
home to Intel, Apple Inc. and Google Inc. Bell Labs alumni such
as  William Shockley  helped bring the research center’s
innovations to the West Coast.  In Waterloo, other companies are championing the growth of
the technology industry as RIM continues to shrink, with users
switching to devices from Apple and Samsung Electronics Co.  Desire2Learn Inc., a local online-education software
startup, raised $80 million in venture funding this month from
investors including  Menlo Park , California-based New Enterprise
Associates Inc. Waterloo-based OpenText Corp., a 20-year-old
maker of  business software , saw revenue grow 17 percent to $1.21
billion in its most recent fiscal year and employs more than
4,500 workers worldwide.  The two provide a morale boost to the local economy as RIM
cuts 5,000 jobs to try to return to profitability. Chief
Executive Officer Thorsten Heins, who took over in January, is
counting on a new lineup of phones, due next year, to reverse
the company’s fortunes.  Lazaridis, who remains on the board of RIM and runs its
innovation committee, says he still regularly consults with
Heins, who he picked as his successor.  While he declined to say if he’s happier being able to
devote himself full-time to pure science and philanthropy rather
than running RIM, he said he’s enjoying his new project.  “Never in my wildest dreams did I think I would be part of
this adventure,” he said. “I wouldn’t have it any other way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  