-- Blame FDR and LBJ for ‘Moocher’ Paradox in Red States
-- B y   D e a n   L a c y
-- 2012-09-19T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/blame-fdr-and-lbj-for-moocher-paradox-in-red-states.html
No sooner did Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  revive the Moocher Myth than
his critics  jumped in  with evidence to challenge it.  The Moocher Myth is this: People who vote Republican are
successful, responsible strivers who pay taxes and keep the U.S.
government afloat, while people who vote for Democrats are
irresponsible moochers living off government programs. In
Romney’s phrase, they are the 47 percent “who are dependent on
government, who believe they are victims.” Reporter Mike Barnicle was criticized for saying something similar after the
2000 presidential election, claiming that the blue states on the
map that voted for  Al Gore  were the “sense of entitlement”
states.  But research then and now has pointed out that the states
that got the most per capita in federal dollars were more likely
to vote for Republicans. What explains this paradox?  Let’s start with the numbers.  The U.S. Census Bureau keeps track of where every federal
dollar is spent, by state and county. The  Internal Revenue
Service  records where federal-tax dollars come from, including
income, payroll and excise taxes. Dividing total federal
spending by the taxes paid provides a federal spending ratio for
a state or county.  Federal budget  deficits complicate the calculation because
during deficit years all states, counties and people may pay
less in taxes than they receive in spending. The  Tax Foundation ,
a nonpartisan research organization, excludes budget shortfalls
when calculating a state’s federal spending ratio.  Biggest Beneficiaries  Every year, about 30 states receive more in federal
spending than they pay in taxes, while the other 20 states
bankroll the federal government.  New Mexico  and  Mississippi  are
usually the greatest net beneficiaries of spending, receiving
roughly $2 in spending for every dollar paid in taxes.  New
Jersey  and Illinois are the greatest net contributors to the
federal government, receiving about 60 cents in spending for
every dollar paid in taxes. States in the Northeast, Great Lakes
and Pacific Coast generally lose money to the federal
government, while Southern and Great Plains states benefit.  If we think of states as voters -- and they are in
presidential elections due to the Electoral College -- then the
Moocher Myth is  backward . Starting with the 2000 election, the
states that have benefited the most from federal spending have
voted Republican. Those that pay the most in taxes per dollar
received in spending vote Democrat. This paradox occurs even
controlling for a state’s per-capita income, total population,
racial composition, education level and defense spending.  At the county level, the Moocher Myth is more intriguing.
The Census Bureau counts federal dollars in five broad
categories: retirement and disability payments, salaries and
wages, procurement contracts, grants, and other direct payments.
In 2004 -- the last year the  Tax Foundation  calculated the tax
burden per county -- the counties that received the most per
person in retirement or grants had higher vote margins for
Democrat  John Kerry .  But the counties that received the highest per-capita
spending in the category “other direct payments” voted for
 George W. Bush . “Other direct payments” includes Medicaid,  food
stamps , crop subsidies, housing assistance and many other
programs that people generally think of as “welfare.”  It remains a mystery why places that receive the most per
person in federal spending, particularly on welfare programs,
vote in presidential elections for the party that wants to cut
those programs. The most likely suspects are  Franklin Roosevelt ,
 Lyndon Johnson  and the Framers of the U.S. Constitution. The New
Deal and Great Society programs forged by Roosevelt and Johnson
sent federal dollars to the South, which was largely Democratic
from the 1940s through the 1960s.  Southern Shift  In the 1970s, the South switched to Republican presidential
candidates but continued to elect members of Congress, both
Democrats and Republicans, who protected the flow of federal
dollars to their states.  All of this is made possible by the Constitution. The
separation of powers between the president and Congress also
separates national interests represented by the president from
local interests represented in Congress. Members of Congress
from both parties and in all parts of the country have protected
and redirected federal funds to their states. Senator  Ted Stevens , a Republican from  Alaska , and Senator  Robert Byrd , a
Democrat from  West Virginia , famously used their powerful
positions to funnel federal dollars to their constituents back
home.  Voters in net beneficiary states have the luxury of voting
for presidential candidates who pledge to cut taxes and halt the
expansion of government while knowing that their congressional
delegations will continue to protect federal spending.  We will know what voters value more only when they face a
real choice between a party that promises to cut taxes and lower
spending, versus one that pledges to increase taxes and continue
spending. Until then, many states and voters can enjoy the
benefits of federal spending while opposing any further spending
programs. If past elections are a guide, many of those states
and voters, moocher class or not, will vote for Mitt Romney.  (Dean Lacy is a professor of government at Dartmouth
College. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on an  immigration bill  everyone
can love;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  what Romney got wrong on the Middle
East ;  Michael Kinsley  on  cartoon conservatives and liberals ;
Jonathan Mahler on what  football has taught Major League Baseball ;
Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  Banana Republic’s first expansion .  To contact the writer of this article:
Dean Lacy at  dean.lacy@dartmouth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 