-- BOE Unanimous on QE Amid Divisions on Inflation Risks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-19T11:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/boe-unanimous-on-qe-amid-divisions-on-need-for-more-stimulus-1-.html
Bank of England policy makers voted
unanimously to maintain their bond-purchase target this month as
officials differed on the need for more stimulus in light of
growing inflation risks.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mervyn King  voted 9-0 to keep the target at 375 billion pounds
($610 billion), according to the minutes of the Sept. 5-6
meeting published in  London  today. All members also agreed to
hold the benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent.  “For most members this decision was relatively
straightforward, although some of these members felt that
additional stimulus was more likely than not to be needed in due
course,” the central bank said. “Others saw the risks to
inflation in the medium as being more balanced around” the 2
percent target.  Global central banks are continuing to loosen policy as the
euro-area debt crisis continues, threatening global growth and
financial stability. The Bank of  Japan  unexpectedly expanded its
asset-purchase fund today, a week after the U.S. Federal Reserve
voted to extend its quantitative-easing program. The  European
Central Bank  has agreed to buy the bonds of governments that
accept austerity conditions to tame the euro turmoil.  “More QE isn’t a done deal and the MPC is going to want to
take stock of policy actions here and abroad,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist Scotiabank  Europe  Plc in London. “Clearly
the door’s still open. Even if the end of the world is avoided
things are going to be subdued for a long while.”  ‘Finely Balanced’  The minutes showed that the September decision was “more
finely balanced” for one MPC member, who saw a “good case”
for adding more  bond purchases  this month. That’s fewer than in
August, when the minutes showed that “for some members the
decision was nevertheless more finely balanced, since a good
case could be made at this meeting for more asset purchases.”  The Bank of England last expanded QE in July and is
currently buying 50 billion pounds of gilts in a program due to
run until November.  It said today that “very substantial risks” from the euro
area were likely to remain for some time. These, if they
crystallized, “could have a considerable impact on the
stability of the global banking system,” it said.  BOJ Expansion  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  unexpectedly expanded its asset-purchase
fund by 10 trillion yen ($126 billion) to 55 trillion yen,
seeking to counter an increasing danger of contraction in the
world’s third-largest economy. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said
the bank also will abandon minimum yields for 1.8 trillion yen
in monthly government-bond purchases conducted separately from
the stimulus fund, opening the door to the potential for
negative rates.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.6 percent today, while
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.1 percent.  Japan’s weakening recovery faces an added threat from a
territorial dispute with  China , its biggest export market.
Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co., halted
production at some plants in China while  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
reported damage to a factory. Thousands have marched in anti-
Japanese protests in dozens of cities.  Elsewhere in  Asia , China said that foreign direct
investment fell in August and that the spat with Japan will hurt
trade relations between the two nations.  Europe Weakness  In Europe,  construction output  fell for a second month in
July, suggesting the industry’s slump extended into the third
quarter. Construction in the 17-nation region slipped 0.3
percent from June, when it dropped a revised 0.6 percent.  Swiss  investor confidence  fell in September as the
economy’s weaker-than-forecast first-half performance damped the
outlook. An index of investor and analyst expectations that aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance dropped
to minus 34.9 from minus 33.3 in August.  On the U.K. economy, the  Bank of England  said there may be
 further volatility  in measured gross domestic product in the
short term, though the level of demand “remained weak and the
outlook was subdued and uncertain.”  It also said that recent industrial production data
suggested some “modest underlying expansion,” and it forecast
a modest recovery in underlying activity “beginning towards the
end of the year and into next year.”  The central bank said that  inflation , which eased to 2.5
percent last month, may cool at a slower pace in the “near
term” than previously forecast. It noted that  oil prices  had
risen and tensions in the  Middle East  could add to upward
pressure.  “The rise in energy prices would mean that the squeeze on
real household incomes would not ease further in the short
term,” the central bank said.  FLS Outlook  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec in London, said the
MPC minutes show there is “still a bias toward more QE.” His
“central case” is that the BOE will expand stimulus by a
further 50 billion pounds in November.  “The minutes continued to refer to the substantial margin
of spare capacity which would bear down on domestic inflation
pressures for some time,” he said in an e-mailed note.  The Bank of England said the recovery in the U.K. would in
part depend on the success of its Funding for Lending program,
set up to boost credit to companies and households.  “The committee noted that banks would need time to review
fully their lending plans and products, and it was likely to be
some while before there would be drawdowns on a significant
scale” from the FLS, it said. “Lending rates were thus a more
immediate guide to the scheme’s impact and it was encouraging
that there had been further cuts announced by some banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  