-- Boeing Engineers Slow Work on Contract Offer, Union Says
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-09-19T20:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/boeing-engineers-slow-work-on-contract-offer-union-says.html
Some  Boeing Co. (BA)  engineers are
slowing work by adhering strictly to rules, a move that may
widen if contract talks during a record production boost don’t
yield a better offer from the planemaker, a union leader said.  The moves, carried out by “dozens of employees” in
clusters along production lines, aren’t organized by the Society
of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace, said Ray Goforth, its  executive director . The number of participants may
grow into the hundreds, he said.  Speea’s existing contract covering 23,000 engineers and
technical employees, largely in the Seattle area, expires Oct.
6. If Boeing refuses to engage in “substantive” dialogue after
the parties return to the bargaining table, Goforth said the
union may organize mass “work-to-rule” campaigns in which
members complete required tasks and nothing more.  Boeing hasn’t received any reports of slowdowns or work-to-
rule activities, Doug Alder, a spokesman, said. A labor action
by engineers, who work alongside machinists and must sign off on
assembly throughout a jet’s production, would hurt Boeing’s
efforts to boost output 60 percent over four years, work through
a 787 backlog and develop new variants like the 737 Max.  Goforth said ballots on the Sept. 13 contract proposal are
being sent to members this week and the union has recommended
voting it down. The election ends Oct. 1. Union leaders have
already unanimously recommended rejecting the offer, citing
proposed wages that stagnate or even lose purchasing power.  ‘Heavy-Handed Rhetoric’  “There’s always a little bit of heavy-handed rhetoric that
goes around with these discussions,” said  Peter Arment , an
analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. in New York who rates
Boeing shares a buy. “It’s just part of the process that’ll
eventually get everyone back to the table and hammering out an
agreement.”  About 1,500 union members rallied against the proposed
contract during a break today at Boeing’s Everett, Washington,
factory, where aircraft such as 777s, 767s and 787s are built,
Goforth said. Members chanted and held signs opposing the offer
for about 30 minutes as company security officers looked on, he
said, adding that work was not disrupted. Alder, the Boeing
spokesman, declined to comment on the rally.  The union discontent mirrors similar sentiment a year ago
at Boeing vendor  Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc. (SPR) , where some of
3,100 unionized programmers, technicians and engineers started
work slowdowns over a stalemate in contract talks. Spirit, a
maker of jet fuselages and parts for Boeing and  Airbus SAS (EAD) , at
that time was raising production of fuselages for the 737 at
Boeing’s behest, along with increasing output on other models.  “Like a lot of these deals, sometimes they go to the 11th
hour,” Arment said. “When you put an offer on the table, it
isn’t always your last offer.”  Proposed Raises  In Boeing’s offer, the salary adjustment fund from which
engineers are awarded raises would rise by 3.5 percent annually
for the next four years. For technical workers, the increase
would be 3 percent the first year and 2.5 percent after that.  Goforth said those raises don’t sufficiently keep up with
inflation in the Seattle area. The  Consumer Price Index  for the
Seattle area rose  2.7 percent  during the past 12 months.  Employees’ contributions to health-care coverage would more
than double during the contract to $4,100 a year in 2016 from
$2,000 this year, Chicago-based Boeing said in online summaries
of the proposals.  Boeing fell 0.8 percent to $69.90 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have declined 4.7 percent this year.  The company said yesterday in a statement that the union’s
decision to put the proposal directly to a member vote is an
“unprecedented departure from the normal negotiating process.”
The action removed “the opportunity to come to a mutual
understanding about our proposal,” Boeing said.  The last contract, in 2008, provided annual raises of about
5 percent and higher pension payments and overtime rates, while
union members paid about $200 a year more for improved health-
care benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  