-- Boeing Says EADS-BAE Merger Proposal Needs Rigorous U.S. Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-09-19T20:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/boeing-says-eads-bae-merger-proposal-needs-rigorous-u-s-review.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said it has begun a
review of the proposed $45 billion merger between  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  that would
create an aerospace and defense rival larger than the U.S. maker
of airliners and combat jets  “While many details of the planned merger have not been
released, we have initiated an internal assessment of these
critical issues based on the information made public to date,
and our knowledge and experience as a U.S. government
contractor,” Chicago-based  Boeing said  today in an e-mailed
statement. Boeing also said it would expect to participate in
any U.S. government review of a merger proposal.  EADS and BAE announced on Sept. 12 plans to create the
largest aerospace and defense company by sales, realizing a more
than decade-long goal to create a European company big enough to
rival Boeing and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  of Bethesda,  Maryland .
The European companies face an Oct. 10 deadline to spell out
detailed merger plans, which would then be subject to antitrust
and U.S. security review.  “Boeing shares the concerns raised on both sides of the
Atlantic this week that government and regulatory agency reviews
of the proposed EADS-BAE merger must include a rigorous
examination of a full range of complex industrial and national
security considerations,” Boeing said. It said that “until we
have completed our analysis, we are withholding specific
comments about the merger’s potential implications or any
concerns we might raise during the formal government and
regulatory reviews.”  A BAE Systems spokesman said existing security mechanisms
under which the company’s business is managed should satisfy
U.S. regulators after the merger as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  