-- Boeing Engineers Urged to Reject Contract Offer
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-09-19T00:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/boeing-engineers-urged-to-reject-contract-offer.html
A union representing  Boeing Co. (BA) 
engineers urged them to reject the planemaker’s contract offer
in voting slated to end just five days before the current
agreement expires.  Leaders of the Society of Professional Engineering
Employees in Aerospace unanimously voted against the offer in a
meeting yesterday, said Ray Goforth, the union’s executive
director. Ballots will be sent to the 23,000 professional and
technical members this week and counted after 5 p.m. Oct. 1.  “There’s nothing in this proposal that is worth
accepting,” Goforth said, calling the wage increases the lowest
in decades. “These wages are either stagnant in their
purchasing power or lose purchasing power every year.”  The union is negotiating its new contract during a record
production increase for Boeing. The planemaker plans to boost
output 60 percent over four years, work through a backlog on the
787 Dreamliner that mushroomed amid more than three years of
delays and develop new variants such as the 737 Max.  The union’s decision to put the proposal directly to a
member vote is an “unprecedented departure from the normal
negotiating process,” Boeing said in a statement today sent to
employees. “It appears to us that some have repeatedly tried to
provoke an emotional response by creating a perception of
mistrust and disrespect.”  Larger Contributions  The proposal includes competitive wage increases and
market-leading benefits, the company said.  The planemaker said Sept. 13 that it was offering employees
raises while also seeking larger contributions toward health-
care insurance. The current contract for the workers, who are
mainly based in the Seattle area, ends on Oct. 6.  “This is not the time Boeing needs this to happen,” said
Carter Leake, a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst at BB&T Capital
Markets. “Boeing has its hands full, and these are the type of
issues it probably wishes were not occurring.”  The profitability of the biggest aerospace company makes
its proposal particularly unattractive, Goforth said. Chicago-
based Boeing has raised its  dividend  10 percent since 2008, when
the unions’ last contracts ran out, and Chief Executive Officer
Jim McNerney’s total compensation including pension has
increased 21 percent to $22.96 million.  “Boeing is not struggling financially,” Goforth said.
“All the other stakeholders in the company are being rewarded
handsomely.”  Contract offer  In Boeing’s contract offer, the salary adjustment fund from
which engineers are awarded raises would increase by 3.5 percent
annually for the next four years. For technical workers, the
figure would rise 3 percent in the first year and 2.5 percent
after that.  Employees’ contributions to their health-care coverage
would more than double during the contract to $4,100 a year in
2016 from $2,000 this year, Boeing said in summaries of the
proposals posted online.  The last contract, in 2008, provided annual raises of about
5 percent and higher pension payments and overtime rates, while
union members paid about $200 a year more for improved health-
care benefits.  A strike vote has not yet occurred, and there is still
enough time for the union and Boeing to come to an agreement,
Leake said.  “As rhetoric increases, it’s more likely that a deal will
happen,” he said. “This is a necessary step.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  