-- BofA Seeks to Dismiss FHFA Suit Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-19T23:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/bofa-seeks-to-dismiss-fhfa-suit-over-mortgage-securities.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s Countrywide
Financial unit asked a judge to throw out claims for “billions
of dollars” in damages by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
for mortgage-backed securities bought by  Freddie Mac  and Fannie
Mae.  The agency’s federal and state securities law claims were
filed too late, Brian Pastuszenski, a lawyer for Countrywide,
said at a hearing today in federal court in Los Angeles. U.S.
District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer took the request under
submission without indicating when she may rule.  Pastuszenski argued the FHFA was wrong to ask the judge to
interpret the 2008 Housing and Economic Recovery Act as
extending the agency’s deadline for filing a claim under the
1933  Securities Act .  “It would give the FHFA carte blanche to pursue claims for
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae,” Pastuszenski said. “At some point
it ends, your honor.”  The FHFA sued Countrywide last year as conservator of
Freddie Mac and  Fannie Mae , the government-sponsored enterprises
created to support the housing market by buying residential
mortgages in the secondary market. It alleges negligent
misrepresentations and fraud related to the offerings of
Countrywide mortgage-backed securities.  ‘Underwriting Guidelines’  “Defendants falsely represented that the underlying
 mortgage loans  complied with certain underwriting guidelines and
standards, including representations that significantly
overstated the ability of the borrower to repay their mortgage
loans,” the FHFA said in its complaint.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae bought $26.6 billion worth of
residential mortgage-backed securities Countrywide sold from
Aug. 30, 2005, to Jan. 23, 2008, according to the complaint,
which was originally filed in state court in  New York  last year
and moved to federal court in  Los Angeles . The agency also seeks
to hold  Bank of America , which bought Countrywide in 2008,
liable as successor of the mortgage lender.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  Christine Chung, a lawyer for the FHFA, said at the hearing
that Congress, when it enacted the 2008 Recovery Act and created
the agency, expressly gave it more time than otherwise would
have been available under applicable statutes to investigate and
bring claims on behalf of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.  “There’s one set of rules for everybody else and one set
of rules for the agency,” Chung said.  Three Years  The FHFA brought its lawsuit against Countrywide in
September of last year to make sure that it would fall within
the three years the agency had from the time of the start of its
conservatorship in September of 2008 to file tort claims on
behalf of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, Chung said.  Bank of America and the other defendants, including former
Countrywide executives and underwriters of the Countrywide
mortgage-backed securities, are seeking now only to dismiss the
FHFA’s claims based on timeliness, venue and jurisdiction issues
and can still ask to have the claims thrown out for other
reasons, according to court filings.  Pfaelzer has dismissed as time-barred securities law claims
by other investors in Countrywide mortgage-backed securities
that weren’t included in the first lawsuits filed in 2007 and
2008. She also has dismissed claims that Bank of America is
liable as successor of Countrywide.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan  in May refused
to throw out the FHFA’s securities law claims against UBS AG
over mortgage bonds bought by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Cote
dismissed the FHFA’s negligent-misrepresentation claims.  17 Banks  The FHFA sued 17 banks including  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Deutsche Bank AG. Most of the suits
were filed in federal court in Manhattan in September 2011 or
moved to the court later. Mortgage-backed securities cases
against Countrywide are being coordinated in Los Angeles.  Countrywide, based in Calabasas,  California , was once the
biggest U.S. residential lender, originating or purchasing about
$1.4 trillion in mortgages from 2005 to 2007. The bulk of them
were sold to investors as mortgage-backed securities.  Former Countrywide Chief Executive Officer  Angelo Mozilo  in
2010 agreed to a record $67.5 million settlement to resolve U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission claims that he misled
investors. The  Justice Department  in February ended a criminal
investigation of Mozilo without bringing charges.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Countrywide,
12-01059, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  