-- BofA Joins ABN Amro Buying European Stocks on ECB Support
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-20T15:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/bofa-joins-abn-amro-buying-european-stocks-on-ecb-support.html
(Corrects Merrill Lynch’s assets under management in third
paragraph of story published on Sept. 19.)  Money managers at  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and ABN Amro Private Banking moved to a so-called
overweight positions in euro-area equities for the first time in
two years after unprecedented central-bank stimulus boosted
confidence in the region.  The European division of Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch
Global Wealth Management and ABN Amro Private Banking say they
now hold more European stocks than are represented in global
benchmarks for the first time since at least 2010.  “The balance of risk has seen to have shifted,”  Bill O’Neill , who helps oversee about $1.8 trillion in assets as
chief investment officer for  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  at
Merrill Lynch Wealth Management in London, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “The  European Central Bank  and  Federal
Reserve  have effectively taken out some of the tail risk. Come
what may they are going to stimulate the economies.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has gained 12 percent this year
as ECB policy makers agreed on an unlimited asset-purchase
program and the Fed announced a third-round of quantitative
easing. The U.S. central bank said it will expand its holdings
of long-term securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion
of mortgage debt a month and hold the federal funds rate near
zero “at least through mid-2015.”  Held Off  The ECB’s move prompted  ABN Amro  Private Banking to start
buying equities on Sept. 10, Chief Investment Officer Didier Duret, who helps oversee about 155 billion euros ($203 billion)
in assets, said on Sept. 17. Merrill Lynch held off until after
the Fed announcement on Sept. 13., according to O’Neil. Merrill
Lynch previously had an underweight position on European shares,
while ABN Amro was neutral.  “There is a huge incentive to put money to work,” Duret
said in a telephone interview from Geneva. “The market has to
recognize that the institutional problems of Europe will be
tackled. From an investment perspective, it is very important to
start to look at the end game.”  Investors funneled $12.1 billion into all equity funds last
week, the most in 15 months, according to data compiled by EPFR
Global. Inflows into European stocks reached an 18-week high.  Global fund managers are the most bullish on euro-area
equities in 18 months, according to Bank of America’s September
survey. A net 1 percent of respondents, who together oversee
$524 billion in client assets, said they were overweight Europe,
the first time since April 2011. Cash levels also fell to six-
month lows.  ‘Amazing Job’  “The ECB has done an amazing job in averting disaster and
investors really don’t want to stand in the way of that,” John Bilton, Bank of America’s European investment strategist, said
at a press conference in  London  yesterday. “European investors
are starting to shift from a sell-the-rally mentality to a buy-
the-dips mentality.”  Even so, global growth and profit expectations fell in
September while inflation concerns rose to a 15-month high, the
Bank of America survey showed. A net 15 percent of respondents
were overweight equities globally, below the 10-year average of
25 percent.  “In terms of our overall investment strategy, at this
stage we are not prepared to bet the house on a big equity-
market move,” O’Neill said. “Policy will sufficiently propel a
re-rating in European equities, but the difficulty is the
earnings environment does limit the absolute upside.”  The Stoxx 600’s  valuation  has climbed to 12.2 times the
estimated earnings of its member companies, near the highest
since December 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  