-- BOJ Follows Fed to Bolster Stimulus as Growth Falters
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-09-19T08:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/boj-follows-fed-to-bolster-stimulus-as-economic-recovery-falters.html
The  Bank of Japan  unexpectedly
expanded its asset-purchase fund by 10 trillion yen ($126
billion), seeking to counter an increasing danger of contraction
in the world’s third-largest economy.  The BOJ’s program, in which it buys mainly government debt,
or JGBs, was enlarged to 55 trillion yen, the bank said in a
statement in Tokyo. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the bank
also will abandon minimum yields for 1.8 trillion yen in monthly
government-bond purchases conducted separately from the stimulus
fund, opening the door to the potential for negative rates.  Japanese stocks jumped and the yen fell after the decision
to ease policy, which was forecast by only five of 21 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . With today’s move, the BOJ joins
counterparts from the  Federal Reserve  to the  European Central
Bank  in acting against persistent risks to growth, five years
after the U.S. mortgage meltdown derailed the global economy.  “Whether central banks intend it or not, there is a
competition for loosening monetary policy around the world,”
said  Izuru Kato , chief market economist in Tokyo at Totan
Research Co. and one of the analysts who forecast easing.
Shirakawa doesn’t want to be seen as “reluctant to compete in
the race” because of the risk of yen gains that will hurt the
economy, Kato said.  Stocks Climb  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  closed at its highest level
since May, and stocks in Europe halted a two-day decline after
the BOJ’s announcement. The yen lost 0.3 percent, trading at
79.02 as of 4:53 p.m. in Tokyo, about 5 percent from the postwar
high reached in October last year. Yields on benchmark 10-year
 government bonds  fell 0.005 percentage point, to 0.810 percent.  The decision to purchase JGBs without regard to yield
should have an impact on financial markets, Shirakawa told
reporters today. The so-called Rinban operations were maintained
at 1.8 trillion yen a month. Shirakawa said policy makers will
closely monitor the effect of yen strength.  In its unanimous policy decision, the BOJ kept the
benchmark interest  rate  between zero and 0.1 percent and
maintained a separate fund that extends credit to banks at 25
trillion yen. The bank downgraded its economic assessment,
saying growth has “come to a pause” while overseas economies
have moved “somewhat deeper into a deceleration phase.”  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today’s easing was bolder
than expected and “very much welcomed” by the government,
after calls from some lawmakers for the BOJ to do more to spur
growth and counter entrenched deflation.  Extra Budget  Nuclear plant shutdowns,  weakness in exports , tensions with
 China  and the risk the government will run out of money because
of a parliamentary deadlock over financing are challenges for an
economy that contracted last year after an earthquake and
tsunami. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said last week that an
extra budget will be needed.  JPMorgan Securities , Credit Suisse Group AG and BNP Paribas
expect  Japan ’s economy to contract this quarter after growth
slowed to a 0.7 percent annual pace in the previous three months.
The expansion was 5.3 percent in the first quarter.  “Further easing is still possible this year because the
BOJ is emphasizing uncertainties in its outlook,” said
 Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at JPMorgan Securities in
Tokyo.  Enlargement Composition  Today’s 10 trillion increase is made up of 5 trillion yen
of government bonds and 5 trillion yen of treasury bills. The
bank removed minimum bidding yields for purchases of government
and corporate bonds after the BOJ failed to secure targeted
amounts at some of its buying operations. It pushed back the
completion of purchases under the asset program to December 2013
from June 2013.  Japan’s weakening recovery faces an added threat from a
territorial dispute with China, Japan’s biggest export market.
Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co., halted
production at some plants in China while Panasonic Corp.
reported damage to a factory. Thousands have marched in anti-
Japanese protests in dozens of cities.  The yen strengthened to a seven-month high of 77.13 per
dollar on Sept. 13, after the Fed announced its plan to buy $40
billion a month of mortgage debt in a third round of so-called
quantitative easing. The yen has gained about 47 percent in the
past five years, eroding exporters’ profits.  “We are concerned about an increase in the speed of yen
appreciation, and our sense of crisis is intensifying,”  Akio Toyoda , chairman of the Automobile Manufacturers Association and
chief executive officer of Toyota, said Sept. 14. “We strongly
hope the government and the BOJ can cooperate closely and act
swiftly to correct a historically strong yen level.”  In other economic news in Asia today, China said that
foreign direct investment fell in August and that the spat with
Japan will hurt trade relations between the two nations. In the
U.K., the  Bank of England  will release minutes of its Sept. 5-6
meeting, when policy makers left their benchmark  interest rate 
at 0.5 percent and kept an asset-purchase target unchanged.  The U.S. will release data on housing starts and home sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  