-- BOJ Fails to Match Fed in Quashing Deflation Bets: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-09-19T04:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/boj-fails-to-match-fed-in-quashing-deflation-bets-japan-credit.html
Japan’s bond market is signaling
the nation’s central bank won’t succeed in emulating the  Federal
Reserve  in printing its way to an economic recovery.  Japan’s 30-year bond yield was 1.19 percentage points  lower
than  for similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries on Sept. 14, the most
since May 10 and suggesting little concern among investors that
inflation will eat into the value of the yen-based debt. A
 Bloomberg News  survey of economists showed that none anticipate
inflation to meet the Bank of Japan’s 1 percent target through
the end of March 2014.  Since Fed Governor  Ben S. Bernanke  unveiled open-ended bond
purchases last week, expectations for U.S. price gains climbed
to a 16-month high. The BOJ, which bolstered monetary stimulus
at the end of a two-day meeting today, has so far failed to turn
around a decade of falling prices that weighs on growth. Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has joined the deflation fight too,
pledging to beat it within a year as he faces party elections on
Sept. 21.  “There is a big difference in the degree of enthusiasm
between the BOJ and the Fed,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief
economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. “The
BOJ just takes a wait-and-see attitude despite its inflation
goal, while the Fed is striving to reduce unemployment.”  Japan’s central bank increased its asset-purchase fund to
55 trillion yen ($695 billion) from 45 trillion yen, according
to a statement released in Tokyo today. Five of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted easing while 11 forecast
the action by October.  JGBs Advance  Japanese bonds rose, with yields on the benchmark  10-year
government securities  falling two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 0.795 percent after the BOJ’s move.  The Fed introduced purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month on Sept. 13 in a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, or QE, to stimulate the economy through
lower borrowing costs. Policy makers are looking for “ongoing,
sustained improvement” in the job market, Bernanke said.  The gap in yield between five-year Treasuries and similar-
maturity inflation-linked debt, a gauge of  expectations  for U.S.
consumer prices, widened to 2.47 percentage points on Sept. 17,
the most since May 2011. The one-year  break-even rate  slid to a
low of negative 0.3 percentage point on June 29.  Meanwhile, the five-year  break-even  in  Japan  was at 0.61
percentage point yesterday, compared with minus 0.38 percentage
point in November.  Japan’s  consumer prices  excluding food and energy have
fallen an average of 0.6 percent per month from a year earlier
over the past 10 years, according to government data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with average gains of 1.9 percent in
the U.S.  Corporate Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Tokyo-based Global One
Real Estate Investment Corp. hired Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. for a sale of four-year bonds, the brokerage said
in a statement yesterday.  The prefectures of Kyoto and Chiba and Japan Finance Corp.
also hired banks for offerings of securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Japanese
corporate notes instead of sovereign debt climbed five basis
points since the end of July to 53 basis points yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread for company bonds
worldwide fell 30 to 171 in the period, according to the data.  Aging Population  An aging population is weighing on demand for goods and
services in the world’s third-largest economy, helping prolong
deflation. More than a quarter of Japan’s population will be
over 65 years old in 2014, the highest ratio globally, according
to U.S. Census Bureau estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The prevailing atmosphere shows no clue on when inflation
will rise into positive territory and stay there,” said  Daisaku Ueno , a senior foreign-exchange and fixed-income strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley in Tokyo., one of the 25 primary
dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.  Noda made ending deflation part of his campaign to lead
Japan’s ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan, with a Yomiuri
newspaper poll showing he’s favored to win at a party election
this week. He’s pledged to call national elections “soon.”  While the persistent decline in consumer prices saps
economic growth, currency strength is hurting the
competitiveness of Japan’s exporters such as Panasonic Corp. and
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , threatening to derail a recovery from last
year’s record earthquake and tsunami. The yen traded at 79.07
per dollar as of 1:06 p.m. in Tokyo, compared with the post-
World War II high of 75.35 reached Oct. 31.  China Tensions  The nation’s  overseas shipments  fell for a third month in
August, dropping 7.5 percent from a year earlier, according to
the median estimate of economists before the Ministry of Finance
releases the data tomorrow.  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive
officer of Nissan, Japan’s second-largest automaker, said this
month that the rising currency is deterring the company from
expanding domestic production.  Adding to exporters’ plight are diplomatic tensions between
Japan and  China  that have escalated since Noda’s government last
week purchased and nationalized islands claimed by both nations.
Nissan halted production at some plants while Panasonic reported
damage to its operations in China as protesters smashed store
fronts and cars in demonstrations.  “Japanese companies’ sales and reputation with Chinese
consumers are likely to be affected, at least in the short
term,”  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday in a statement.  Sovereign Risk  The cost to insure Japan’s sovereign debt against
nonpayment for five years was at 75.4 basis points yesterday
after touching 66.5 basis points on Sept. 12, the lowest since
December 2010, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. A drop in the contracts signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an increase
suggests the opposite.  Noda last month pushed through legislation to raise Japan’s
sales tax for the first time since 1997 in a bid to lessen the
government’s dependence on debt.  The BOJ’s  balance sheet  has expanded 42 percent since
September 2008 when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed,
sparking the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
The Fed’s total assets have tripled during that period.  The U.S. central bank bought $1.75 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt in the first round of  quantitative easing , or QE1,
from November 2008 to March 2010. It then acquired $600 billion
of Treasuries between November 2010 and June 2011 in QE2,
bringing the total purchases to $2.35 trillion.  Asset Purchases  The BOJ has bought assets worth about $1.42 trillion since
November 2008 through its purchases of government debt and the
asset-purchase program.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters on Aug. 9
that it is important to explain the central bank’s methods in an
easy-to-understand manner rather than paying “ lip service .”  Bernanke said at a news conference last week that he’s
adopting a "Main Street policy" to create jobs.  “In terms of raising expectations for inflation, the Fed
is more successful than the BOJ,” said Jun Kawakami, a market
economist at Mizuho Securities Co., a primary dealer. Compared
with Bernanke, Shirakawa comes across as serious and thus
“lacks a sense of showmanship,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  