-- BP’s Putin Meeting Signals Exploration Deal With Rosneft
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-19T16:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/bp-s-putin-meeting-signals-arctic-exploration-deal-with-rosneft.html
BP Plc (BP/)  talks with President
 Vladimir Putin  indicate that the U.K. oil company may gain
access to Russia’s Arctic fields as part of a deal to sell half
of its TNK-BP venture to  OAO Rosneft. (ROSN)   BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley yesterday spoke to
Russian President Vladimir Putin and Rosneft CEO  Igor Sechin 
about building cooperation with Russian partners, a Kremlin
spokesman said. Rosneft has asked banks for as much as $15
billion to finance the purchase of BP’s half of TNK-BP, Russia’s
third-largest oil company, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the deal.  “It looks like the deal will be $15 billion in cash, plus
maybe $10 billion in shares and access to the Arctic,” said
Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in  London .
“That package would be good for BP. The company’s strongest
card was always that it’s a plausible and worthy partner for
Rosneft in the Arctic.”  BP is recasting its global operations after the 2010  Gulf
of Mexico  oil spill wiped out a third of its market value. The
company has sold more than $32 billion in assets to shore up its
balance sheet while it attempts to reach a settlement with the
 U.S. Department of Justice  and draw a line under the disaster.
Dudley said in July that investors should be open to receiving a
combination of cash and shares for the TNK-BP stake.  Texas City  Putin is inviting foreign producers into Russia to help
keep the country’s oil output at a post-Soviet high of 10
million barrels a day.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  took BP’s place in a
Kara Sea exploration pact that failed last year and also agreed
to start drilling shale prospects in Siberia next year.  BP is in talks to sell its  Texas City , Texas, refinery to
 Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  for as much as $2.5 billion, the
Financial Times reported today, citing people it didn’t
identify. BP sold some of its Gulf of Mexico fields to Plains
Exploration and Production Co. for $5.55 billion this month.  BP rose 1.1 percent to 443.75 pence in London trading.  David Nicholas, a company spokesman, declined to comment on
the Texas City talks. BP reiterated its long-term commitment to
Russia in yesterday’s meeting, said  Vladimir Buyanov , a
spokesman in Moscow.  BP’s June 1 decision to seek a sale of TNK-BP, a 50-50
venture with a group of billionaires, followed a failed share-
swap and exploration deal with Rosneft for the Kara Sea in 2011.
Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer that together with BP had
offered to buy out the billionaire partners for $32 billion last
year, said in July it was interested in bidding for the stake.  Cash and Shares  In selling TNK-BP, BP “will look carefully at value,”
Dudley said on a July 31 conference call with analysts. “How we
do that in terms of combinations, whether it’s all cash or
whether it’s shares and cash, far too early to say.”  Relations between BP and its partners in the nine-year-old
TNK-BP venture have often been fractious. In 2008, Dudley was
forced to resign as head of the venture and leave Russia after
months of battling between the shareholders over strategy.
 Mikhail Fridman , one of the billionaires, quit as CEO of TNK-BP
this year. He was supposed to stay at helm of the company until
the end of 2013.  AAR, which represents the partners in TNK-BP, has said
they’re interested in buying half of BP’s 50 percent stake. The
group blocked the $7.8 billion deal with Rosneft last year in
court, arguing that BP was required to pursue all opportunities
in Russia exclusively through TNK-BP.  Arctic Agenda  “If there’s a joint venture with Rosneft, Arctic
exploration must be on the agenda,” said  Peter Hutton , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. A Rosneft venture
“would be positive but difficult to value. It’s a vehicle for
the value of TNK-BP to be realized without taking $30 billion
out of the country.”  TNK-BP produced 2.04 million barrels of oil and gas a day
in the first quarter, and output at Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest
producer, was about 2.63 million barrels a day. TNK-BP has paid
BP $19 billion in dividends since 2003 and accounts for a
quarter of the company’s global output.  AAR rejected a proposal from the U.K. energy producer for
TNK-BP to pay a $1 billion dividend on July 30. TNK hasn’t paid
dividends on any 2012 income as it has lacked a functioning
board since December.  Dudley said July 31 that the plan to sell the stake in TNK-
BP doesn’t mean the company intends to leave Russia. “BP hopes
to continue to play a role in Russia’s energy sector for many
decades to come,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  