-- Brain Operates on 84 Percent of Human Genes, Map Shows
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-09-19T17:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/brain-operates-on-84-percent-of-human-genes-map-shows.html
About 84 percent of human genes are
active in the brain, a finding that may help explain its
complexities and diseases, according to the most extensive DNA
analysis of the organ to date.  In mapping the ways the genes link to the brain’s
structures, researchers at the  Allen Institute for Brain
Science , funded by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Paul Allen, found
that the vast majority of the 20,000 genes in the human genome
play a role in the organ’s function and architecture. That’s
more than in any other organ in the body, according to the
report published today in the journal  Nature .  Figuring out how the brain is built and organized may help
scientists studying diseases, by pointing out which part of the
organ uses a gene that previous research has shown to be faulty,
said Seth Grant, a professor at Edinburgh University and a study
author. The data outlines 400 to 500 distinct brain areas in
each hemisphere.  “The human brain is the most complex structure known to
mankind,” Grant said in a telephone interview. “This allows us
for the first time to overlay the human genome on the human
brain.”  Two brains from male donors ages 24 and 39 were mapped, and
the genes’ expression between the two were very similar. Before
today it wasn’t clear how alike any two brains would be. These
two organs were of similar age, gender, and ethnicity. Their
high degree of similarity suggests a “strong underlying common
blueprint” for all human brains, the scientists wrote.  Ambitious Project  The group analyzed tissue from about 900 sites of the
brains as well as a half of a third specimen and used more than
60,000 gene expression probes to establish the information,
according to the report.  “It’s breathtaking in its ambition,” said  Steve
McCarroll , the director of genetics for the Stanley Center for
Psychiatric Research at the Broad Institute in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . He wasn’t involved in the study. “I was amazed
to see how many anatomically defined sites they’d actually
dissected out of each brain. In the effort to make a geographic
atlas of regional gene expression it goes really far beyond
anything that’s been done before.”  Scientists have begun to identify a number of genes with
clear relevance to mental illness, McCarroll said. However, most
researchers aren’t sure what these genes do in the body, and
having the atlas may help for future steps, he said. For
instance, if a gene is identified as a schizophrenia risk
factor, knowing where it’s expressed in the brain may help
explain why patients behave the way they do.  Brain Differences  There will probably be differences between male and female
brains, said  Ed Lein , a co-investigator at the Allen Institute,
and one of the study authors. The group started with male brains
because there were more of them available, he said. Previous
work the Institute has done in rodents suggests there would be
differences.  The Institute’s previous  gene atlas  of a mouse brain, when
compared to today’s human blueprint, may help drug companies
develop better psychiatric medicines, Lein said. Since many
treatments work well in mouse models and fail in human trials,
knowing how the two systems differ on a fine-grained level may
help pharmaceutical companies avoid expensive failures in the
future, Lein said.  Paul Allen and his sister Jody Allen Patton founded the
Seattle-based institute to undertake neuroscience research.  Paul
Allen  has committed $500 million to the institute as of 2012,
according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 