-- Brazil Doubling Sugar-Cane Biomass Research Plan to $988 Million
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-09-19T20:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/brazil-doubling-sugar-cane-biomass-research-plan-to-988-million.html
BNDES,  Brazil ’s national
development bank, and the research-financing agency  Finep  plan
to provide 2 billion reais ($988 million) for ventures
developing new techniques to process sugar cane into fuel and
specialty chemicals through 2014, double the initial plan.  The two government agencies may approve 300 million reais
in loans and grants for projects this year, 700 million reais in
2013 and 1 billion reais in 2014, Carlos Cavalcanti, head of
biofuels at Rio de Janeiro-based BNDES, said in an interview at
a conference in Sao Paulo yesterday.  The agencies are expanding support for the research program
in response to growing interest in converting cane residues into
useful products, he said. Companies including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,
DuPont Co. and  Braskem SA (BRKM5)  have proposed projects worth more than
3 billion reais that have passed an initial selection phase.  “Demand was higher than our forecast budget,” Cavalcanti
said. The funds “will be concentrated in a few projects.”  Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social and
Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos, as the two agencies are
formally known,  announced  in March 2011 plans to provide 1
billion reais to finance research into second-generation ethanol
technologies, techniques to make new products from cane and
gasification processes.  BNDES approved the first grant under the initiative last
week for a project by Heerlen, Netherlands-based vitamin maker
Royal DSM NV and Brazil’s  Institute of Technological Research ,
he said. The companies are developing technology to make
succinic acid, a sweetener, from sugar cane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  