-- Brazil Will Maintain Low Rate Policy Next Year, Mantega Says
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-09-19T14:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/brazil-s-mantega-sees-room-for-tax-cuts-as-economy-picks-up.html
Brazil’s inflation rate will remain
within the target range and allow a low- interest-rate  policy to
continue next year, Brazil’s finance minister said.  Traders are betting the central bank will have to increase
its  benchmark  interest rate in 2013 to as high as 9 percent
after cutting it by 500 basis points to 7.5 percent since August
last year. Annual  inflation  jumped for the second consecutive
month in August to 5.24 percent.  Tax cuts and energy rate reductions announced by the
government will maintain inflation within the target range of
4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Paris.  “Inflation is within the target limits and this will
continue,” Mantega said. “The policy of low interest rates
will continue.”  A government official close to the central bank said
yesterday that policy makers won’t hesitate to raise rates next
year to keep inflation in line with their target.  Brazil has room for further tax cuts as growth in  Latin
America ’s largest economy gathers pace, Mantega said.  “We are in a solid fiscal position, which gives us some
freedom to take measures to reduce costs, lower taxes and
provide direct stimulus for infrastructure projects,” Mantega
said.  Growth is picking up in the second half of this year and
government stimulus measures will boost the economy further in
2013, Mantega said, adding that he doesn’t see a need to
increase fuel prices in the near future.  Power Rates  Brazil ’s government will change the inflation index used to
adjust electricity rates when it renews concessions for power
utilities, Mantega said.  “When the electricity contracts expire, we will also
modify this indexation,” Mantega said. “We will take concrete
steps to reduce indexation,” he added, referring to the common
practice in Brazil of tying rate adjustments to inflation
indexes.  The government is requiring power companies to cut the
rates they charge consumers and industries in exchange for a
renewal of concessions that expire beginning in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  