-- Bush-Era Tax Cuts May Expire as Step to Budget Deal, Tyson Says
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-19T20:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/bush-era-tax-cuts-may-expire-as-step-to-budget-deal-tyson-says.html
Bush-era tax cuts may be allowed to
expire at the end of the year as a prelude to an agreement on
the budget, according to  Laura Tyson , an economics professor
who advises President  Barack Obama  on the labor market.  An expiration “is the major scenario right now,” Tyson, a
professor at the University of California-Berkeley and a member
of Obama’s jobs advisory board, said in an interview today with
Bloomberg News editors and reporters in Washington.  Tyson played down the impact of such a step on the economy,
saying the tax cuts could be reinstated later and made
retroactive to the start of 2013. The expiration though might
help “force” through a deal on the budget, she said.  The Berkeley economist took Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  to task for criticizing Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and said the financial-services
industry is undergoing a “secular” change that would restrict
its profits during the next decade.  The income-tax reductions that were first pushed through in
2001 and 2003 by former President  George W. Bush  are the biggest
single item in the so-called fiscal cliff -- a mix of more than
$600 billion of tax increases and government spending cuts that
will go into effect next year if Congress does nothing.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said on Sept. 11 that he was
“not confident at all” that Congress will reach a deal on
avoiding the fiscal cliff and blamed Obama and the Democratic-
controlled Senate for the impasse.  Tyson, who served as chairman of the  Council of Economic
Advisers  under President  Bill Clinton , said the “tone may
change” on  Capitol Hill  if Republicans lose seats in the Nov. 6
election.  Tyson Optimistic  “The willingness to deal might change,” Tyson said,
adding, “I’m optimistic” there will be an agreement. She said
she’s unsure whether that will occur later this year or early in
2013.  There’s little appetite in Washington for providing much in
the way of stimulus for the economy, Tyson said. Some small
measures though might be discussed in the context of
negotiations on the fiscal cliff, including extending and
possibly broadening the 2 percent payroll-tax cut due to expire
at year-end, according to Tyson.  The economics professor said the Fed “did the right
thing” last week in deciding to expand its holdings of long-
term securities in a third round of quantitative easing.  The move showed that central-bank policy makers “are
seriously worried about the economy,” she said. Growth slowed
to a 1.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter from 4.1
percent in the final three months of last year, and the jobless
rate has been stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  Romney criticized the Fed’s action, saying it would do more
harm than good, and repeated his determination to replace
Bernanke as Fed Chairman when his term expires in January 2014.  ‘Attacking’ Fed  “I would criticize the Romney campaign for attacking the Fed
and the Fed chair,” Tyson said, adding that politicians in
general should refrain from bashing the independent central
bank.  Tyson, who is on the board of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said the
financial-services industry is undergoing a structural change in
the aftermath of the recent crisis. Companies are trying to come
up with new business models at a time of “very significant”
uncertainty about the regulatory regime they face, she said.  It’s unclear how some of the new rules governing the
industry, both domestically and internationally, will be
implemented, she added.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. also are
adjusting to being regulated by the Fed after converting into
bank holding companies during the crisis, she said. Morgan
Stanley is the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets and Goldman the
fifth largest. Both are located in  New York .  “People have put their heads down to try to figure out
what to do with their own institutions,” she said.  She said she does not see a return to the days before 2007,
when the industry’s profits were growing as a share of the
economy and as a share of corporate earnings.  “It’s not just cyclical,” she said. “There’s a change in
the structure of the industry going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  