-- Business Tax Extension Vote May Be This Week, Durbin Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-19T17:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/business-tax-extension-vote-may-be-this-week-durbin-says.html
The U.S. Senate’s second-ranking
Democrat said a vote may be held this week on $205.1 billion in
tax-break extensions, including those for wind energy, corporate
research and financial services companies’ overseas operations.  “We would like to move to it before we leave, get a vote
on it,” Senate Majority Whip  Richard Durbin , an Illinois
Democrat, said today in an interview in Washington.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, is
negotiating with Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, to schedule a vote, Durbin said. The Senate is
trying to wrap up its business so members can go home and
campaign for the Nov. 6 election.  “I think it’s a little late, because there’s no time,”
said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the second-ranking Republican.
“It’s a huge subject. By letting it go this long, I just think
we’ve forgone the opportunity to effectively deal with it this
week.”  A vote on the tax breaks this week is preferable because
some “have a direct impact” on business investment decisions,
Durbin said.  “We’re finding that a lot of the renewable and sustainable
energy investments are being held up because of the
uncertainty,” he said. “We hope that we can pass this extender
bill, maybe even encourage the House to do the same, and dispel
the uncertainty and create more jobs.”  House Republicans  Even if the Senate acts this week, the measure won’t become
law because Republicans who have the majority in the House have
said they will wait until after the election to address the tax
breaks.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  told
reporters he would rather deal with the tax-break extensions
after Congress acts on continuing the George W. Bush-era tax
cuts.  “I am really not prepared to talk about extenders right
now,” Camp said. The Michigan Republican spoke after he met
privately today with Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Most of the tax breaks have lapsed and would be revived by
the measure, S. 3521. One exception is the production tax credit
for wind energy, which expires Dec. 31. The bill would extend
the wind energy production tax credit through 2013.  Alternative Minimum Tax  The proposal also would ensure that more taxpayers aren’t
subject to paying the alternative minimum tax in 2012 and 2013.
The tax, initially designed to prevent high-income households
from avoiding taxes legally, disproportionately affects people
in high-income states with heavy local tax burdens, including
New York, New Jersey and California.  The Senate Finance Committee approved the measure Aug. 2.
The panel’s chairman, Montana Democrat  Max Baucus , developed it
with Utah’s  Orrin Hatch , the panel’s top Republican, marking a
rare bipartisan agreement on tax policy.  Financial-services companies that operate outside the U.S.,
companies that conduct corporate research and some restaurant
owners are among the businesses benefiting from the tax breaks.
Companies including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  are among those lobbying for extensions of
expired provisions.  Some tax benefits, including those for investment in the
District of Columbia, wouldn’t be extended under the plan.  Finance Committee members are meeting privately throughout
the day on strategies for addressing with the so-called fiscal
cliff, the combination of the expiring Bush-era tax cuts and
automatic spending reductions set to take effect in January. The
panel’s private meetings include a 4:30 p.m. session with
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  