-- TLC Network Said to Be in Talks to Pick Up Ancestry Show
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n ,   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/tlc-network-said-to-be-in-talks-to-pick-up-ancestry-show.html
Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) ’s TLC
is in talks to pick up “Who Do You Think You Are,” a show that
works with  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM)  to unearth the genealogy of
celebrities, two people familiar with the discussions said.  Producers of the television show, which was canceled by NBC
earlier this year, are also in talks with other networks, said
the people, who asked not to be identified yesterday because the
discussions are private. Negotiations with the TLC cable network
are at an advanced stage, one of the people said.  NBC’s cancellation contributed to a plunge that shaved a
third of Ancestry.com’s market value earlier this year. A new
show would help attract more users and boost prospects for the
sale of the company, which has been talking to potential buyers,
people familiar with the discussions said last month.  Shares of Provo, Utah-based Ancestry.com rose less than 1
percent to $31.42 at the close in  New York  yesterday. The stock
then rose as much as 3.7 percent in after-market trading.
Discovery climbed 1.6 percent to $59.44.  “Who Do You Think You Are” was adapted from a British
show and lasted three seasons on NBC, where it delved into the
ancestry of such celebrities as Sarah Jessica Parker,  Gwyneth Paltrow  and Spike Lee. The show, which touted Ancestry.com’s
genealogical data, would typically find surprising facts about
each week’s guest.  Michelle Russo, a spokeswoman for  Silver Spring , Maryland-
based Discovery, declined to comment yesterday, as did Heather Erickson, a spokeswoman at Ancestry.com.  Potential Buyers  Ancestry.com gets most of its revenue from online
subscriptions, which let users study their family trees. The
final season of the NBC show accounted for 5 percent to 7
percent of Ancestry.com’s marketing budget, Chief Financial
Officer Howard Hochhauser said on a conference call in July.  Shares have surged 39 percent since June 5, when Bloomberg
reported that the company had hired  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst
Partners LLC to find buyers.  Ancestry.com asked potential buyers including Permira
Advisers LLP and TPG Capital LP to increase their competing bids
for a possible buyout, two people with knowledge of the matter
had said last month. They asked not to be identified because
discussions are private. Ancestry.com turned down a bid of $35 a
share, one person had said.  “Ancestry.com being a profitable market leader is very
attractive for private equity,” Raghavan Sarathy, an analyst at
Dougherty & Co., said in a recent interview.  Ancestry.com, founded in 1983 as a publisher of
genealogical books and magazines, reported second-quarter sales
and profit in July that topped analysts’ estimates, citing user
gains and demand for new products. The company raised its sales
forecast for 2012 to as much as $480 million and said it passed
the 2 million-user milestone in the period by providing access
to more information, including on DNA and U.S. census figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  