-- HTC Unveils New Models With Windows 8 Software
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-09-19T18:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/htc-unveils-new-models-with-windows-8-software.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , a Taiwanese smartphone
maker, unveiled two models running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows
Phone 8, as HTC works to claw back handset market share lost to
rivals and Microsoft expands the software’s reach.  The Windows Phone 8X and 8S sport a new design, better
audio and a wide-angle camera, HTC said today in a statement.
They will debut in November, said Jason Mackenzie, HTC president
of global sales and marketing, and AT&T Inc.,  Verizon Wireless 
and T-Mobile USA Inc. will sell them in the U.S.  Microsoft, seeking a comeback for its mobile-phone
business, is aiming to offer a wider selection of phones for the
holiday season. The HTC rollout builds on the introduction of
Windows 8 phones earlier this month by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , a close
Microsoft partner. HTC’s phones show the Taiwanese company’s
strength in hardware and are sleeker than Nokia’s devices,
according to research firm CCS Insight.  “Pairing HTC’s beautiful new Windows Phone 8X and 8S with
our brand is a big milestone for both companies,” Microsoft
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said today in the
statement.  The 8X has a 4.3-inch screen and an 8-megapixel camera, and
will be able to use the fastest wireless networks in the U.S.,
called long-term evolution.  The 8S has a 4-inch screen. Both phones come in bright
shades like red and blue and include Beats audio technology from
Dr. Dre’s  Beats Electronics LLC , in which HTC has a stake of
about 25 percent.  Smartphone Share  In the global smartphone market, HTC has lost share to
iPhone maker Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co., which
unveiled its own Windows Phone 8 handset in August. Even among
Windows Phone sellers, HTC, one of Microsoft’s first partners
for the revamped Windows Phone, has been surpassed in sales by
Nokia, which struck a five-year deal with Microsoft.  Ballmer’s appearance at the HTC event, the same treatment
Nokia got for its event, is a boost to HTC’s standing as a
Windows Phone vendor, CCS Insight said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  