-- California May See More Bankruptcies, Chiang Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-09-20T23:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/california-may-see-more-bankruptcies-chiang-says.html
California  may see more municipal
bankruptcies than the three that have been filed since June,
state Controller John Chiang said.  Municipal budgets already strained by surging pension costs
and declining real-estate tax revenue were stripped of more than
$1 billion in local redevelopment funds and vehicle-license fees
to cut California’s deficit.  Stockton, San Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes have filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in the past three months.  “We will start to see more bankruptcies, not necessarily
because of pension issues,” Chiang said yesterday at a
conference in San Francisco. “We need the state to participate
in trying to prevent these bankruptcies.”  About 400 redevelopment agencies that helped finance
projects to overcome blight were dissolved Feb. 1 by Governor
 Jerry Brown  to redirect more than $1 billion of their funds to
help fill a budget gap.  Stockton and San Bernardino officials have said the state
raid on redevelopment funds helped push them into  bankruptcy
court . Mammoth Lakes traced its problems to an adverse court
judgment.  Chiang pointed to recent financial distress in  Jurupa
Valley , Wildomar, Eastvale and Menifee in Riverside County.
Those cities were all incorporated within the last five years.
Under a state formula approved in 2006, extra license-fee money
was directed to new cities to help them get established. Brown
vetoed a bill to return funding to the cities yesterday, saying
it would cost $18 million that the state couldn’t afford.  ‘Huge’ Issues  “They’re having huge financial issues,” Chiang said in an
interview after the conference. “The question is when you take
one of their principal revenue sources, if not their principal
revenue source, how are they going to sustain themselves?”  Frank Oviedo, city manager of  Wildomar , a city of 32,000,
disputed Chiang’s assessment.  “There’s not an imminent danger of bankruptcy in
Wildomar,” he said by telephone. “Certainly, the loss of the
vehicle-license fee has been a huge hit to our general fund and
has made it difficult for us to provide public safety in our
community.”  Eastvale  City Manager Carol Jacobs said her city of 55,000,
incorporated in 2010, lost about $3 million, or a third of its
annual revenue, in the vehicle tax switch.  State Promise  “The city based its future financial health and well-being
on the promise of the state giving us that vehicle-license
fee,” Jacobs said in an interview. “Whether or not we go under
or bankrupt, I don’t know.”  In  Menifee , while the loss of the vehicle-license fee
revenue has affected the community, bankruptcy “is not
something we’re contemplating at this time,” Terri Willoughby,
the city’s finance director, said by telephone.  Chiang said his office is conducting audits of cities and
counties that took over bond obligations when the redevelopment
agencies were shuttered.  “Many of them are close to the margin of going off the
fiscal cliff,” Chiang said, without offering details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  