-- Chanos Sees No Shortage of Overpriced Stocks in U.S. Bull Market
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-09-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/chanos-sees-no-shortage-of-overpriced-stocks-in-u-s-bull-market.html
Jim Chanos , who oversees about $6
billion as the founder and president at Kynikos Associates Ltd.,
is finding companies to bet against as the U.S. stock market
heads for the biggest rally in three years.  The 54-year-old  money manager  who rose to fame shorting
Enron Corp. before its collapse predicts declines in companies
that may be  inexpensive  compared with earnings. Even as the  U.S.
economy  recovers and profits approach  record  highs, Chanos is
finding so-called value traps in natural gas companies, iron-ore
producers, Hewlett-Packard Co. and Coinstar Inc.  “A number of high-profile natural gas companies may end up
in financial difficulty as early as next year,” he said,
declining to give any company names. For Hewlett Packard, “It’s
very difficult in the technology space when you have been
leapfrogged to prosper again,” he said during a Sept. 11
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .  With the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index trading 11 percent
below its average  valuation  since the 1950s, Chanos is trying to
identify companies that are likely to fall even as the economy
improves. He declined to provide performance data for his funds.
The  S&P 500 (SPX)  has rallied 16 percent in 2012 and is poised for the
biggest annual gain since 2009.  Gross domestic product in the U.S. is forecast to increase
2.2 percent this year while earnings in the  S&P 500  may reach
$103.53 a share, the most ever, according to the average of
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Better Shape’  “Our economy and our banking system are in better shape
than others,” Chanos said. “The surprises will probably be on
the positive side in the U.S. market. I don’t think that
necessarily helps someone like a Coinstar or Hewlett-Packard.”  The S&P 500 Oil & Gas Exploration & Production Index, which
 includes  companies such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and Devon
Energy Corp., has risen 5 percent this year, about a third of
the advance in the S&P 500. Since 2009, its price-earnings ratio
has shrunk to 12.9 from 54.  Shares of Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. gas producer,
have lost 37 percent in the past year as a slump in gas prices
squeezed  cash flow  and forced Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  to accelerate asset sales. The stock was battered amid
two federal probes of potential conflicts between the CEO’s
personal financial transactions and corporate duties.  Job Cuts  Exco Resources Inc. (XCO)  wrote down the value of its gas fields
by $429 million in July amid dwindling prices for the fuel. The
company’s output is 98 percent natural gas, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and its shares have fallen 30 percent
this year.  Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman, declined to comment.
Douglas H. Miller, Exco’s chairman, and Stephen F. Smith, the
company’s president, did not return calls seeking for comment.  Natural gas prices in New York trading have averaged $2.57
per million Btu this year, the lowest since 1999. Prices reached
a record high of $15.78 per million Btu in December 2005.  “These companies have enormous cash needs,” Chanos said,
who tries to profit by selling borrowed shares and replacing
them after they fall. “One intriguing trade might be to be long
natural gas and short some of the leveraged natural-gas
companies.”  PC Earnings  Earnings for personal-computer makers are being hurt by
consumers and businesses favoring tablets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad. Hewlett-Packard, which reported a record loss on Aug. 23,
has posted four quarters of declining sales on weaker demand.  Shares of the  Palo Alto , California-based company have
tumbled 29 percent this year.  HP (HPQ)  trades at a forward price-to-
earnings ratio of 4.3, down from 10.45 in 2009. The company is a
“value trap,” according to Chanos, who’s shorting the stock.  “Hewlett-Packard finds itself in that difficult position
today, having to make pricey and risky acquisitions, just to
stop itself from shrinking,” he said.  Former Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  pushed into
enterprise services with the $13.2 billion purchase of
Electronic Data Systems Corp. in 2008. The company said last
month that it would write down the value of its enterprise-
services business by $8 billion.  “HP is better aligning our cost structure with our revenue
profile to invest in innovation and quality, and ultimately
deliver better returns to shareholders,” HP’s spokesman Michael Thacker wrote in an e-mail.   Coinstar Inc., operator of the Redbox movie-rental kiosks,
is also among Chanos’s bearish bets as he says its business is
reaching a saturation point.  Missing Estimates  Coinstar shares have tumbled 28 percent from this year’s
high on July 5. The owner of the Redbox movie-rental kiosks
reported second-quarter revenue growth that missed analysts’
estimates and said last month that Gregg Kaplan, the company’s
president and interim chief of the Redbox DVD rental unit, plans
to leave in March.  “Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  management is optimistic about the future
of its businesses and ongoing growth opportunities,” Marci Maule, a Coinstar spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail. “We do not
comment on the views or opinions of investors.”  Bets related to  China  in Kynikos’s global short fund make
up about 20 percent of its roughly 100 positions, he said.
 China’s economy  grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace in three years, as  Europe ’s debt crisis limited
exports and property curbs damped domestic demand.  ‘Very Good’  “China has been a very good place to be short stocks for
the past three years,” he said. “People are increasingly
taking a closer look at the Chinese banking system. The
questions being asked are getting more granular.”  Australian iron-ore producer  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  is
also among Chanos’s shorts. He said industry capacity is going
to expand globally even as demand stalls because of China’s
slowdown. Iron-ore prices have fallen 29 percent this year
through Sept. 12, trading at $98.1 a metric ton, according to
The Steel Index Ltd.  Yvonne Ball, a spokeswoman for Fortescue, didn’t respond to
an e-mail or phone call seeking for comment.  “As much as I like the story on the short side, there’s
lots of things to do globally and we don’t want to be just short
China,” Chanos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  