-- Chavez Rival Maintains Lead in Poll Ahead of Oct. 7 Election
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-09-19T13:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/chavez-rival-maintains-lead-in-august-consultores-21-poll-1-.html
Venezuelan opposition candidate
Henrique Capriles Radonski maintained his lead over President
 Hugo Chavez  in the latest survey from Consultores 21, a Caracas-
based polling company, less than three weeks before elections.  Capriles had 48.1 percent against 46.2 percent for Chavez
in a poll taken at the end of August, Consultores 21 President
Luis Christiansen said yesterday at a conference hosted by the
Council of the Americas in  New York . The survey of 1,000 people
was taken in the last two weeks of August had a margin of error
of 3.2 percentage points, Christiansen said.  Chavez, who is seeking to extend nearly 14 years in power
with another six-year term, is facing his toughest electoral
fight yet after his opponents buried their differences and
unified behind a single candidate. Pollsters are divided on who
has the advantage in the race.  “If we were to make a linear projection for the election,
it would be that Capriles will maintain an advantage of 2.5
percent over Chavez,” he said.  Other polls favor Chavez by a wider margin. Chavez had 46.8
percent support compared with 34.2 percent for Capriles,
according to a Datanalisis poll of 1,288 people taken between
July 16 and Aug. 9.  The former paratrooper, who has undergone three operations
since June 2011 to remove two tumors from his pelvic area, has
managed to dispel doubts that he wouldn’t be fit enough to
contest the elections, Christiansen said. That doesn’t mean that
the issue of his cancer has completely disappeared, he said.  ‘Physical Capacity’  “In Chavez’s style of campaigning it’s been very clear
that he has a number of limitations in terms of the intensity
and physical capacity to move around the country,” he said.  While Chavez has high levels of loyalty among supporters,
it doesn’t extend to his ministers, Christiansen said. If his
followers are concerned he won’t be able to assume his duties
after the elections, some voters may choose to abstain, he said.  Chavez, 58, increased  government spending  by 30 percent
this year and is promoting social programs for the elderly and
children in extreme poverty. The surge in spending and a 17.6
percent expansion in the  construction industry  in the second
quarter helped the  economy  grow 5.4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier.  Capriles, a 40-year-old former governor of Miranda state,
has visited more than 250 towns across the country and is
promising to maintain some of Chavez’s popular social programs
while dismantling economic policies such as currency and price
controls in his bid to unseat him.  Debt Impact  An opposition win would bolster debt as Capriles unwinds
economic policies such as the nationalization of key sectors of
the economy, Alejandro Grisanti, Latin America economist at
Barclays Plc, said at the same conference. A re-election of
Chavez’s wouldn’t cause bonds to plunge because a victory is
already priced in, he said.  “A victory by Henrique Capriles would produce a very
strong Venezuelan bond rally that would allow the country in the
future to sell debt at substantially lower yields than it can
today,” he said.  The yield on the benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due in 2027
rose was unchanged at 11.07 percent at 9:23 a.m. Caracas time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price fell
0.05 cents to 86.7 cents on the dollar.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell one
basis point to 975 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co indexes.  Venezuelan bonds have returned 39.8 percent in the past 12
months, the second-highest in  emerging markets  after  Ivory
Coast , according to JPMorgan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  