-- Chicago Teachers Quell Unrest, Take Heat Off Obama
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/chicago-teachers-quell-unrest-take-heat-off-obama.html
Chicago teachers ended the city’s
first school strike in 25 years, after union delegates quelled
an outbreak of labor unrest in President  Barack Obama ’s hometown
with seven weeks to go before the presidential election.  Delegates, who refused to suspend their walkout two
days earlier, voted to reverse themselves yesterday, sending
350,000 students back to class.  “It was really the best we were going to get,”  John
Collins , a delegate who teaches physical education at Brunson
Elementary School, said in an interview. “If we would have
stayed out, I don’t think there was anything left we would have
gained.”  Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  called the settlement “an honest
compromise” in remarks at Walter Payton College Prep, one of
the system’s premier selective-enrollment schools.  “It means a new day and a new direction for the Chicago
Public Schools,” he said. “In past negotiations, taxpayers
paid more but our kids got less. This time, our taxpayers are
paying less and our kids are getting more.”  The contract carries an annual price tag of about $74
million, for a total of $295 million over four years, according
to a statement released during the weekend by the  Chicago  Board
of Education. The previous four-year contract cost $129 million
a year. Even before the new accord, the district faced a 2013
deficit of $1 billion.  The vote to end the walkout was about “98 to 2 percent,”
said Karen Lewis, president of the Chicago Teachers Union.  ‘Time to End’  “We said it was time, that we couldn’t solve all the
problems of the world in one contract, and it was time to end
the strike,” Lewis said of the 30,000-member union. Asked what
message she had for the mayor, Lewis said, “I hope he agrees to
this in good faith.”  The strike in the third-largest U.S. school system, which
began Sept. 10, was the most public opposition to Emanuel since
Obama’s former chief of staff took office 16 months ago. He had
pledged to restructure the city’s operations, with lowering
labor costs central to that goal.  Ending the walkout also removed a political hazard for
Obama, who is counting on the support of organized labor while
trying to appeal to independent voters who tend to favor some of
the education policies at the heart of the conflict.  The strike had put Obama between the  American Federation of
Teachers , which endorsed his re-election in February, and
Emanuel, who as mayor oversees the school district. Obama’s
Education Secretary Arne Duncan is the former chief executive
officer of Chicago’s schools. The president has used federal
funds to advocate  tying  teachers’ evaluations to student
performance, measures opposed by the union.  Longer Day  The teachers had been negotiating with the mayor since
November over his efforts to lengthen the school day and year,
as well as the board’s decision to cancel a 4 percent pay
increase. In the last Chicago teachers strike, in 1987, union
members walked out for four weeks.  Rank-and-file members of the union will vote on whether to
ratify the contract “in a couple of weeks,” Lewis said. The
delegates’ decision made moot a court hearing set for today to
consider the board of education’s request that a judge force
teachers back to work.  The union cited the city’s court filing as an example of
Emanuel making it more difficult to reach an agreement, calling
it “a vindictive act instigated by the mayor.”  Several delegates said the union leaders changed their mind
after overcoming what one called “systemic distrust.”  Blind Faith  “We’ve gone into blind faith contracts before and we have
literally gotten burned,” said Valerie Morris, 51, a special-
education teacher at McKay Elementary School. “My head and my
heart said it was time to come back.”  Both sides sought to rally support even as the delegates
gathered to vote. Backers of Emanuel and the school board aired
television ads that included excerpts from local newspapers
applauding the contract’s longer school day and more control for
principals over teacher hiring.  Supporters of the union released an ad lauding “their
fight for students and parents.” Stand Up! Chicago, a coalition
of community and labor organizations, held several events where
parents and students expressed their support for the teachers.  The union delegates declined to suspend the strike in a
weekend vote though Lewis had said contract language would
“assuage” their concerns about the teacher-evaluation process.  Evaluating Teachers  Teacher evaluations have been central to delegate
deliberations because the district’s deficit is expected to
result in the eventual closing of scores of schools. That will
be unavoidable, regardless of the new contract’s provisions,
said Paul Vallas, the Chicago schools chief executive officer
from 1995 to 2001 who now runs Bridgeport,  Connecticut , schools.  “This is a district that has exhausted its reserves,” he
said in an interview last week. “The settlement itself is going
to create pressure to cut even more, ultimately impacting more
teachers, impacting more schools. It’s inevitable. It’s like a
death spiral.”  School officials  said the contract is for three years with
an option for a fourth. They said “student growth” will
account for 25 percent of a teacher’s evaluation in the first
two years of the pact, and 30 percent in the third. A new state
law requires the 30 percent benchmark.  A “student survey will be piloted” in the contract’s
second year and would contribute to 10 percent of the teacher
evaluation, according to the school system. The contract would
provide a pay increase of more than 16 percent over four years.  Emanuel previously extended Chicago’s school day to 7 hours
from 5 hours and 45 minutes at elementary schools, and to 7 1/2
hours from 7 hours at most high schools. The school year was
lengthened to 180 days, from 170, which had been one of the
shortest in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net 
Tim Jones in Chicago at   tjones58@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  