-- China’s Xi Jinping Meets Panetta Following Two-Week Absence
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-09-19T05:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/china-s-xi-jinping-meets-panetta-following-two-week-absence-1-.html
China’s Vice President  Xi Jinping ,
in line to become the country’s next president, met with U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  at the Great Hall of the People
in Beijing today, his first announced appearance with a foreign
visitor after being absent in public for about two weeks.  Panetta told Xi that he appreciates his “support in
encouraging better military-to-military relations between our
two countries.” Panetta announced yesterday that the U.S. would
invite a Chinese ship to participate in a 2014 naval exercise
off the coast of  Hawaii .  Xi previously canceled a Sept. 5 meeting with Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  and other foreign leaders. The dearth of
information about his whereabouts prompted speculation about his
health and who else might step in to oversee the world’s most
populous nation and second-biggest economy, which undergoes a
leadership change this year.  Tung Chee-hwa, the former Hong Kong chief executive who is
a vice-chairman of an advisory body to  China ’s legislature, said
today on CNN that Xi had injured his back in a sports accident
and had recovered. Tung said he believed the injury was
sustained when Xi was swimming.  Panetta and Xi met in a ceremonial room at the Great Hall,
which overlooks  Tiananmen Square  and is used for hosting state
visits and for sessions of China’s legislature. Wearing a dark
blue suit and a light blue tie, Xi appeared healthy and shook
hands with Panetta before greeting other U.S. officials.  ‘Model Relationship’  “I believe that your visit will be very helpful in
advancing the state-to-state and military-to-military
relationship between our countries,” Xi told Panetta.  China and the U.S. are “two great Pacific nations with
common concerns,” Panetta said. “We want to begin what you’ve
called a new model relationship. And we can begin with better
military-to-military relations.”  Xi visited the China Agricultural University on Sept. 15
after his unexplained absence. This year’s leadership transition
has already been complicated by the downfall of Bo Xilai, who
had been a candidate for appointment as one of China’s top
leaders before he was removed as party chief of the municipality
of Chongqing in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Beijing at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  