-- China Stocks Rise First Time in Three Days on Miner Rally
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-09-19T08:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/china-s-stock-index-futures-little-changed-on-economy-reforms.html
Chinese stocks  rose for the first
time in three days as an unexpected increase in Japan’s asset-
purchase program boosted commodities and fueled speculation that
central banks will revive the global economy.  Zijin Mining Group Co. jumped 4.9 percent and Jiangxi
Copper Co. surged 4 percent as metal prices advanced.  Pacific
Securities Co. (601099)  paced an advance by brokerages after the Shanghai
Securities News said regulators will push for market reforms.
Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery Joint-Stock Co. fell to a seven-month low
after Chengdu Evening News reported a shareholder sold stock.  “Investors are using  Bank of Japan ’s asset purchase as an
excuse to buy stocks,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central
China Securities in Shanghai. “This is a short-term effect.
Fed’s QE3 didn’t have such a big impact, let alone this.
Sentiment to stocks are still low with the weak economy.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.4 percent to 2,067.83
at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 0.5 percent to 2,246.24.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  rose 1.8 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, slid 0.9 percent in New York yesterday.  The Bank of Japan expanded its asset-purchase fund by 10
trillion yen ($126 billion), seeking to counter an increasing
danger of contraction in the world’s third-largest economy. The
BOJ joins counterparts from the Federal Reserve to the  European
Central Bank  in taking steps to bolster growth.  Commodities Advance  A gauge tracking materials producers climbed 2.3 percent,
the most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry  groups . Zijin Mining
jumped 4.9 percent to 4.08  yuan , the highest since June 18.
Jiangxi Copper surged 4 percent to 22.75 yuan.  Gold rose 0.3 percent to its highest level since February,
while copper advanced 1.1 percent in London.  Pacific Securities added 1.3 percent to 5.60 yuan.
Northeast Securities Co. increased 2 percent to 15.66 yuan.  China will push for 15 major capital market reforms during
the current five-year plan, Shanghai Securities News reported.
The reforms include increasing the development of debt markets
and stable development of a futures market, the Shanghai
Securities News said, citing an unidentified China Securities
Regulatory Commission official.  Yanghe Brewery lost 2.7 percent to 117.20 yuan, the lowest
close since Feb. 21, Nantong Zongyi Investment Co. sold 1.85
million shares in the liquor maker, Chengdu Evening News
reported, citing its own statistics. Calls made by  Bloomberg
News  to Cong Xuenian, Yanghe’s board secretary, were unanswered.  Swap traders have halved expectations for the scale of
China’s interest-rate cuts in the coming year as policy makers
signal concern that global monetary easing will reignite
inflation.  Interest Rates  Swap derivatives reflect bets the People’s Bank of China
will lower its one-year  deposit rate  of 3 percent by 44 basis
points, compared with expectations a month ago for a 90 basis
point reduction, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
central bank has refrained from acting since July 6, when it
reduced by 25 basis points for the second time in a month. The
 Federal Reserve  pledged last week to keep its benchmark rate
near zero until at least mid-2015.  U.S. quantitative easing will hamper the decision-making
ability of authorities in emerging economies and “do serious
damage” to the global economy, Zhang Monan, an economic
researcher at the State Information Center, wrote in the China
Daily newspaper today.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.6 percent in its
second day of declines to $34.52.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  