-- CIC-Led Group Said to Pay $2 Billion for Alibaba Holding
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-20T05:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/cic-led-group-said-to-pay-2-billion-for-alibaba-holding.html
Investors led by  China  Investment
Corp. paid $2 billion to acquire a 5.6 percent stake in Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd., the country’s biggest e-commerce company,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The group includes CIC International, Boyu Capital, CITIC
Capital and China Development Bank, said the person, asking not
to be identified because the details aren’t public. The parties
were identified as investors in a Sept. 18 statement and the
company isn’t providing details on the individual investments,
Alibaba spokesman John Spelich said in an e-mail yesterday.
Phone calls to CIC’s Beijing-based press office went unanswered.  Alibaba had said it paid $7.6 billion to complete a
repurchase of a stake in itself that was held by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and
to amend its agreement. Alibaba said the financing package was
the biggest private financing for a closely held Chinese
company, and the largest non-leverage buyout private financing
for a technology company globally.  The financing includes a mixture of cash on hand, senior
debt and the sale of convertible preference and ordinary shares,
the company said in its statement. The new equity financing was
completed at a valuation of about $40 billion, it said. The
convertible preference shares were sold to global institutional
investors, Alibaba said.  Selling Shares  The company raised almost $4 billion selling ordinary and
convertible preference shares, said another person, who didn’t
identify the investors. The financing package includes a $1
billion loan from a syndicate of international banks and a $1
billion facility from  China Development Bank , according to the
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the details aren’t public.  “Share issuance of $4 billion is large for this sector,
but Alibaba’s Taobao platform is extremely strong and attracts a
lot of excitement,” said Jim Tang, chief analyst at Shenyin
Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “They are another Tencent or
Baidu.”  Tencent Holdings Ltd. is China’s biggest Internet company,
and Baidu Inc. is China’s biggest search engine.  Alibaba also paid $800 million from cash on hand and Yahoo
also received $800 million worth of the Chinese company’s
preference shares, the person said.  Alibaba bought back about half of Yahoo’s 40 percent stake
for about $7.1 billion, which includes $6.3 billion in cash and
$800 million in preference shares, the Chinese company said
Sept. 18. It also paid Yahoo $550 million in cash in connection
with changes in terms of a technology and intellectual-property
licensing agreement.  Yahoo acquired about 40 percent of Hangzhou, China-based
Alibaba in 2005 in exchange for $1 billion and ownership of
Yahoo’s Chinese operations.  CIC, China’s sovereign wealth fund, was set up to improve
returns on foreign-exchange reserves by investing overseas. The
$482.2 billion fund’s holdings in China are largely limited to
stakes in financial institutions for the government.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser in  Hong Kong  at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  