-- Community Health Faces Penalties in Medicare Rules Shift
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-09-19T17:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/community-health-faces-penalties-in-medicare-rules-shift.html
Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  and
 LifePoint Hospitals Inc. (LPNT)  face the biggest reductions in payments
next month when the U.S. Medicare program starts penalizing
providers with high readmission rates, according to an analysis
of government data by CRT Capital Group LLC.  The penalties may mean 2013 results fall below analyst
estimates at the two hospital chains, according to a note today
from Sheryl Skolnick, an analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-based
CRT.  Community Health , the second-biggest U.S. hospital owner,
may lose $14.3 million in Medicare payments, while LifePoint
would see a $4.5 million reduction, she estimated.  Medicare, the government-backed program for the elderly,
will reduce reimbursements by as much as 1 percent starting Oct.
1 at hospitals with high readmission rates for patients with
heart attacks, pneumonia and other ills. While the initial cuts
may be small, they’re due to increase in future years and
private insurers may follow suit, Skolnick said.  “For those hospitals receiving either the full or close to
the full 1 percent cap on cuts, fiscal 2013 is shaping up to be
a painful year,” Skolnick wrote. “The lack of investment in
preventing readmissions by controlling the things a hospital can
control may well have led to ‘overstated’ earnings.”  The projections are based on government-collected
readmission and mortality rates from 2008 to 2011 and may not be
as precise as forecasts made by the companies themselves,
Skolnick said.  HCA Rates  Quality scores may also endanger profit forecasts at
 Vanguard Health Systems Inc. (VHS) , she said. The rates were lowest,
and the potential penalties less severe, at the biggest U.S.
chain, Nashville, Tennessee-based  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , as well as
for Dallas-based  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the No. 3 chain,
according to CRT’s analysis.  Community Health expects reimbursement cuts to be smaller,
about $5 million to $7 million, said Tomi Galin, a spokeswoman
for the Franklin, Tennessee-based chain. The company also
projects some increased payments from Medicare as it meets other
quality incentives, she said in an e-mail.  Community Health’s hospitals “are focused on initiatives
to continuously improve the quality of care delivered for their
patients,” Galin said. Fifty of the company’s hospitals were
cited as “top performers” today in a  report  issued by The
Joint Commission, the  Oakbrook Terrace , Illinois-based group
that accredits health-care organizations, Galin said.  Diane Huggins, a spokeswoman at Brentwood, Tennessee-based
LifePoint, and Gary Willis, a senior vice president at
Nashville-based Vanguard, didn’t return messages seeking comment
on the report.  Medicare Cuts  Cuts to Medicare revenue at individual hospitals may
average 0.4 percent at the three companies, Skolnick said.  Community Health rose 1.1 percent to $29.50 at 1:25 p.m.
New York time, while LifePoint shares fell less than 1 percent
to $43.22. Vanguard rose 7.5 percent to $11.50 after Joseph
 France , a Cantor Fitzgerald LP analyst in New York, said in a
note that patient volumes at its hospitals were increasing.  High readmissions may be explained by higher poverty rates
in some areas, though it’s not the whole story, Skolnick wrote.
HCA and Tenet operate in many low-income areas yet had higher
quality scores than rivals in many cases, she said.  “We think it is now appropriate for investors to hold
management teams accountable for not investing in quality
improvement programs for the last decade,” she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  