-- Ctrip Surges as ADRs Rebound on Japan Stimulus: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-09-19T20:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/ctrip-surges-as-adrs-rebound-on-japan-stimulus-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose in the U.S. for
the first time in three days as stimulus measures by Japan’s
central bank and U.S. housing data boosted the outlook for
exporters.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  rallied.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York added 1.4 percent to 92.79 yesterday.
Internet-based retailer  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  surged
while Ctrip jumped to a three-month high as  China ’s largest
online travel agency sold $160 million of convertible notes.
Social media operator  Renren Inc. (RENN)  climbed the most in six weeks
and  NetEase Inc. (NTES)  gained after Nomura Holdings Inc. raised its
recommendation to neutral from reduce.  The central bank of Japan, China’s fourth-largest export
destination, unexpectedly expanded its asset-purchase fund by 10
trillion yen ($126 billion) to counter a slowdown in the world’s
third-largest economy. The move follows similar actions by the
 European Central Bank  in August and the U.S. Federal Reserve
earlier this month. Sales of  existing  U.S. homes rose more than
forecast in August, a sign the country’s housing market is
gaining strength in the second half of the year.  “Japan in concert with the world’s central banks acting to
stimulate demand is certainly a positive for Chinese stocks,”
Gabriel Wallach, who manages $2.5 billion in global emerging
market assets as chief investment officer at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners, said by phone from Boston yesterday. “Any
recovery in existing U.S. home sales is a positive sign for the
 U.S. economy  and a positive for Chinese exports.”  China ETF Advances  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 1.6 percent to
$35.08, snapping a two-day decline. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  added 0.1 percent to 1,461.05.  Japan, which counts China as its biggest buyer of goods and
services, took steps to avoid a further economic slowdown.
Central banks across the globe have had to come up with new
tools to stabilize currencies and spur growth. The U.S. Federal
Reserve last week unveiled a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, committing to indefinitely purchase $40
billion of mortgage debt a month.  China is likely to further cut its banks’ reserve ratio as
its seeks measures to bolster growth, Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-
based senior economist at Citigroup Inc. said in a Sept. 18
interview on Bloomberg Television. China’s third-quarter growth
may slow to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent in Q2, a survey of 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg shows.  China reduced benchmark  interest rates  in June and July,
and has lowered required reserve-ratio for banks by 1 percentage
point this year to spur lending.  Ctrip Convertibles  Shanghai-based Ctrip climbed 5.6 percent to $18.57, the
highest since June 8, as volume totaled more than four times the
stock’s three-month daily average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Ctrip said the five-year notes due September 2017
were priced with a 0.5 percent interest rate and can be
converted into the company’s ADRs at $19.34, or about a 10
percent premium over the closing price yesterday.  “The offering was well received by investors, and the
company got favorable terms on the sale,” Andy Yeung, an New
York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said yesterday.  Ctrip’s senior management team bought a total $55 million
of the bonds in the sale, and the company will use a portion of
the net proceeds to buy back company shares in private
transactions, it said.  E-Commerce, the biggest online book retailer in China known
as Dangdang, surged 6.9 percent to $5.45, the most since Aug. 6.  NetEase, the Beijing-based online games company, advanced
the most in four weeks, rising 3.4 percent to $51.93, as Nomura
analyst Jin Yoon raised its rating and boosted its 12-month
target price to $48 from $45.  Renren Jumps  Renren climbed 5 percent to a six-week high of $4.20 as
Porter Bibb, managing partner at the merchant bank Mediatech
Capital Partners in  New York , mentioned the Beijing-based social
networking website in an interview on CNBC. Volume was 4.5 times
the daily three-month average.  Purchases of existing U.S. houses increased 7.8 percent in
August to a 4.82 million annual rate, the most since May 2010,
figures from the Washington-based National Association of
Realtors showed yesterday. The  median  forecast of 78 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for sales to increase to a 4.56
million pace.  Record-low  mortgage rates , more affordable properties and
limited supply of new homes are driving new orders while sales
of distressed properties are starting to account for a smaller
share of the market.  “It does seem like the U.S. housing market is starting to
recover and that is certainly constructive for the U.S. economy
and ultimately for  emerging markets ,” Lewis Kaufman, a Santa
Fe, New Mexico-based money manager at Thornburg Investment
Management who oversees the Thornburg Developing World Fund and
helps manage $79 billion, said yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.4 percent yesterday
to 2,067.83. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in  Hong Kong  climbed 1.7 percent to a one-month
high of 9,849.06.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 Tbarak@bloomberg.net  