-- Dana Surges as Investors See Sukuk Resolution: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-09-19T12:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/dana-surges-as-investors-see-sukuk-resolution-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  surged the most since
February after the company’s biggest shareholder said the fuel
producer may reach a “reasonable resolution with investors” on
$1 billion in Islamic bonds maturing next month.  The shares soared 4.9 percent, the most since Feb. 19, to
43 fils, at the close in  Abu Dhabi . Dana Gas was the  most traded
by  volume in Abu Dhabi’s benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  and the
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the Persian Gulf region’s top 200
equities. The stock, which lost  38 percent  last year, led Abu
Dhabi shares 0.2 percent higher to 2,617.49.  “The outcome may favor an upside, given the company’s
solid financials and the probability of restructuring debt,”
said Talal Touqan, head of research at Al Ramz Securities LLC in
Abu Dhabi. “There was overshot on the downside, which makes
anticipated rebounds stronger and against negative
expectations.”  Crescent Petroleum Co.’s President Badr Jafar told
reporters in Dubai yesterday that he is “very optimistic about
the professionalism of Dana Gas management to reach a reasonable
resolution with investors. Discussions are ongoing with Egypt
regarding scheduling payments.” Crescent Petroleum holds a 20.1
percent stake in Dana Gas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Dana Gas has appointed Deutsche Bank AG,  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  and Latham & Watkins LLP to advise on the sukuk. Bondholders
of the Islamic debt hired London-based  law firm  Linklaters LLP
to negotiate a restructuring, three people familiar with the
matter said in May. The sukuk is secured against the company’s
Egyptian assets as well as Sajaa Gas Private Ltd. and United Gas
Transmissions Co., part of a venture to supply Iranian gas the
 United Arab Emirates  that is yet to start.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  