-- David Jones Studies Sale of Properties to Raise A$612 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-09-19T08:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/david-jones-studying-sale-of-properties-worth-a-612-million-1-.html
David Jones  Ltd.,  Australia ’s
second-largest department-store company, is studying a possible
sale of its flagship Sydney and Melbourne outlets for A$612
million ($640 million) as full-year net income fell 40 percent.  Consultants Cushman & Wakefield have been appointed to
“investigate opportunities to unlock and enhance the value” of
the Sydney-based company’s property portfolio, David Jones said
in a statement alongside its annual results today. The stores
have 85,000 square meters of floor space and could be rented for
A$39 million a year, the company said.  Stagnating sales and tightening profit margins have  halved
profit  at David Jones since 2007, driving the company’s market
value to an eight-year low compared with that of its assets. Net
income in the year ended July 28 fell to A$101 million, the
bottom end of the company’s  forecast  of a drop of between 35
percent and 40 percent.  “If you can sell the asset off with a really low rental
and have it secured, that’s going to be good for them,” Sean Fenton, a portfolio manager at Tribeca Investment Partners Pty.
in Sydney, said by telephone. “I’m not sure there’s a huge
amount of demand to buy that sort of asset out there.”  Tribeca’s assets under management don’t include David Jones
shares.  David Jones declined 0.4 percent to A$2.26 at the close in
Sydney trading, while Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index
gained 0.5 percent.  Store Redevelopment  Cushman & Wakefield  conducted a review to provide an
indication of the potential sale price of the stores assuming a
lease to David Jones or an equivalent tenant, the department-
store owner said in its statement.  The company is also examining opportunities to redevelop
the flagship stores, which account for about a quarter of sales.
It plans to update the market in six months, David Jones said.  “It’s not in our intention to sell the buildings at all,”
Chief Executive Officer Paul Zahra told a media briefing after
the results. “We’ve had no discussions with any potential
property partners.”  The estimated A$612 million valuation of the stores on
Elizabeth Street and Market Street in Sydney and Bourke Street
in Melbourne is about half of David Jones’s current  market
valuation  of A$1.19 billion.  Competitor’s Earnings  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , Australia’s largest department-store
company, has no significant property assets and has a current
market value of A$1.18 billion.  Net income  fell to A$139 million
in the year ended July 28, from A$160 million in the prior 12-
month period, Myer said in a statement on Sept. 13.  David Jones said full-year sales dropped 4.8 percent to
A$1.87 billion. That’s the lowest level since 2006, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross profit margin of 37.5 percent was the narrowest since
2004, the  data  show. The profitability measure was depressed as
management pushed through discounts to improve sales and clear
excess stock, David Jones said.  The company didn’t provide a forecast for this fiscal year.  The estimated A$39 million annual rent for the space
equates to an investment return of about 6.4 percent and a
charge of A$459 per square meter for the properties, according
to a calculation by Bloomberg.  That compares with about A$8,700 per square meter for the
best retail locations in  Melbourne  and A$11,500 in Sydney,
according to data provided in May by CBRE Group Inc.  Buckskin Seller  David Jones was founded in 1838 by a Welsh-born immigrant
selling buckskin, gingham and silks, according to the company’s
 website . The company moved its main outlet to the seven-story
art deco building on Sydney’s Elizabeth Street in 1927.  It transferred the stores in Sydney and Melbourne to
Deutsche Bank AG through a sale-and-leaseback agreement in 2000.
David Jones reacquired them in September 2006 for A$362 million
to regain control of redevelopment and avoid rising rents.  The value of David Jones’s latest strategy depends on
whether it is able to do anything worthwhile with the money
raised, Tribeca’s Fenton said.  “They could crystallize a bit of cash but there’s not a
huge economic imperative to do so,” he said. “The potential is
to unlock greater value without hurting your business too much,
but it’s a bit of a tricky balance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  