-- Dell Unveils 3 Computers Running Microsoft’s Windows 8 Software
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-09-19T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/dell-unveils-3-computers-running-microsoft-s-windows-8-software.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  unveiled three computers
based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s new Windows 8 software, including a
tablet sporting a 10-inch screen for corporate users, a notebook
that weighs less than four pounds and an all-in-one desktop.  Dell’s Latitude 10 tablet, set to debut this year for
business users, features  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Atom chip and runs
Windows 8, which is designed to work better with tablets. The
company’s fall lineup will also include the Latitude 6430u
laptop, a thin and light Ultrabook design, and the OptiPlex
9010, which houses its electronics, power supply and 23-inch
touch screen inside one chassis.  Dell and other personal-computer makers are counting on
Windows 8 to jog anemic growth as consumers and businesses
increasingly opt for Apple Inc.’s iPad and other tablets. Global
PC shipments this year may increase just 1 percent to 367
million units, market researcher IDC said last month, down from
a previous projection of 5 percent growth.  Dell, whose own PC sales  declined  14 percent in the fiscal
second quarter, said its Windows 8 tablet for businesses will be
available this year. No. 1 PC maker  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  has said
its Windows 8 tablet for businesses may not be available until
January.  “We’re already sampling to customers -- we will ship this
year,” said Neil Hand, a Dell vice president of product
marketing, at a demonstration of new Windows 8 devices in  San
Francisco .  Device Options  The Latitude 10 includes options for a longer-lasting
battery and a dock featuring additional ports for connecting to
printers, screens and other equipment Hand said. The 6430u
Ultrabook features a 14-inch screen, replaceable battery and
optional wireless docking system for use in an office.  The all-in-one OptiPlex 9010 desktop machine can be placed
on a desk or mounted on a wall, Hand said.  Last month at a Berlin trade show, Dell showed off several
other devices based on the new  Windows operating system . The
 Round Rock , Texas-based company previewed a tablet based on
Windows RT software -- a version of Windows designed for chips
running  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ’s technology -- as well as an Intel-
based convertible Windows 8 tablet that flips around to reveal a
keyboard.  Dell shares fell 1.3 percent yesterday to $10.57 at
yesterday’s close in New York. The  stock  has fallen 28 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  