-- Deutsche Euroshop May Buy German Mall for $392 Million This Year
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-09-19T06:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/deutsche-euroshop-may-buy-german-mall-for-392-million-this-year.html
Deutsche Euroshop,  Germany ’s
largest listed shopping-mall owner, is in talks to buy a German
shopping center valued at as much as 300 million euros ($392
million).  The company may agree to make the acquisition by the end of
this year, Chief Executive Officer Claus-Matthias Boege said.
The Hamburg-based company already  owns large malls  in Germany,
 Poland ,  Austria  and  Hungary . Last month, Boege said the company
doesn’t plan to make any further acquisitions because prices had
become too high.  “If it happens, it will happen this year,” said Boege in
an interview at a conference in Berlin.  Deutsche Euroshop is seeking to expand its 3.1 billion euro
portfolio of properties by an average of 10 percent a year. The
company hasn’t made any acquisitions in 2012, citing high prices
and strong competition from bidders seeking a safe investment
amid  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  The company would pay for the purchase by tapping a 150
million euro  credit line  and borrowing as much as 150 million
euros, according to company spokesman Patrick Kiss. The  credit
line  would then be replaced by a share increase, he said.  Deutsche Euroshop  has risen about 17 percent this year  to
29.04 euros in Frankfurt trading. In that time, the MDAX index
for medium-sized companies has  climbed 24.1 percent .  “The market would welcome another acquisition,” said Kai Klose, an analyst at Berenberg Bank who has a buy rating on the
stock. German shopping centers are considered a profitable
investment because rents are expected to rise, he said.
“International retailers are hesitant to expand in other
European countries, but they’re happy to come to Germany for the
stability.”  Larger Malls  Deutsche Euroshop typically buys malls with at least 25,000
square meters (270,000 square feet) of space. It owns the Main
Taunus Zentrum in  Frankfurt  and the A10 Center in Berlin.  Yields for prime shopping centers in good locations fell by
10 basis points to 5 percent in the first half, according to
data compiled by broker CB Richard Ellis Inc. That compares with
about 5.75 percent in 2009. Deutsche Euroshop buys properties
with yields of at least 5.50 percent, Kiss said.  The outlook for shopping centers is favorable because
German unemployment is at a two-decade low of 6.8 percent,
according to CBRE Group Inc. Household spending grew 0.4 percent
in the second quarter compared with the first quarter, according
to the  Federal Statistics Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  