-- Direct Edge CEO Says Focused on Prospects as Independent Company
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-09-19T22:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/direct-edge-ceo-says-focused-on-prospects-as-independent-company.html
Direct Edge Holdings LLC is focused
on expanding its business on its own, according to its chief
executive officer, a sign that buyout talks that were reported
in July may have cooled.  The owner of two U.S. equity exchanges based in Jersey
City, New Jersey, continues to review its capital market
options,  William O’Brien  said in a phone interview. The Wall
Street Journal reported two months ago that  TMX Group Inc., (X)  the
parent company of the Toronto Stock Exchange, was negotiating to
acquire the fourth-largest U.S. stock exchange operator.  “We have like any other major global stock market been
exploring our capital markets alternatives,” O’Brien said.
“That runs the gamut from exploring public market alternatives
to private market transactions and M&A activity. Right now we’re
not having discussions with anybody about a significant
transaction. There are no discussions currently ongoing.”  O’Brien said the appeal of different options “will vary
based on market conditions, based on needs and the desires of
all of our stakeholders.” He remains enthusiastic about Direct
Edge’s prospects as an independent company, he said.  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for TMX in Toronto, declined
to comment. The company completed a transaction July 31 in which
Maple Group Acquisition Corp., whose 12 members include Toronto-
Dominion Bank, Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan and Manulife
Financial Corp., acquired 91 percent of its shares.  Speculation over a Direct Edge sale dates to December when
the U.S. Justice Department made the divestiture of  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ’s 31.5 percent stake, held through its International
Securities Exchange unit, a condition of its merger with  NYSE
Euronext. (NYX)  European regulators blocked the trans-Atlantic union
two months later and the Frankfurt-based exchange never sold.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Citadel LLC each own almost 20 percent of Direct Edge. A group
of financial firms also own a stake in the exchange operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  