-- Doha Bank May Raise $1.4 Billion From Share Sale
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-09-19T12:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/doha-bank-planning-50-capital-increase-to-meet-growth-needs-1-.html
Doha Bank QSC (DHBK) , Qatar’s fourth-
biggest by assets, may raise as much as 5.81 billion riyals
($1.6 billion) from selling shares as it seeks to boost lending
and expand in foreign markets.  Doha Bank will raise the money in the first quarter of 2013
and needs shareholder approval for the 50 percent capital
increase, the lender said. Details of the plan will be announced
later, the bank said today in a statement to the Qatari bourse.  The capital increase will help the bank participate in the
country’s “major infrastructure” projects and expand overseas,
including opening a branch in  Abu Dhabi  in the next two months,
Chief Executive Officer  Raghavan Seetharaman  told reporters in
Doha today. The increase will also help the bank meet  capital
requirements  under the new Basel III rules, he said.  Bank lending in the Persian Gulf country, the world’s
biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas, surged 38 percent in
the 12 months through July as banks helped fund $130 billion of
planned spending on building projects ahead of the 2022 soccer
 World Cup . Qatari banks are also expanding overseas to beat
limited growth prospects in a country of 1.7 million people.  Doha Bank  shares  rose 0.4 percent to 56.2 riyals in the
Qatari capital today, valuing the bank at 11.6 billion riyals.  Doha Bank may raise 5.81 billion riyals if it raises half
its current market value at no discount, and 4.1 billion riyals
if it sells shares at a 30 percent discount, according to Jaap Meijer, a director for equity research at Dubai-based Arqaam
Capital Ltd., who has a hold rating on the stock.  Regulatory Capital  The fundraising will boost Doha Bank’s core tier-1 equity
to 19.2 percent at the end of 2013 if it raises money at the
current market price from 9.6 percent now, he said. Tier-1
equity will rise to 16.8 percent with a discounted sale.  The bank’s capital “is very tight and some of the money
will go to plug that capital deficit and a part of it will be
for mergers and acquisitions,” Meijer said by phone today.  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Persian Gulf country’s biggest
bank by assets, raised $3.5 billion from a rights issue last
year. Qatar National Bank increased its stake in Dubai based-
 Commercial Bank International PSC (CBI)  to 39.9 percent from 16.5
percent in August in a deal that may be worth about $75 million
and also received approval from  Egypt ’s central bank to start
due diligence on French bank Societe Generale SA’s local unit
this month ahead of a potential acquisition.  Doha Bank in July reported a 5.4 percent rise in first-half
profit to 740 million riyals. The bank had total equity of 6.95
billion riyals at the end of June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In March, the lender raised $500 million from the
sale of five-year Islamic bonds at a coupon of 3.5 percent.  Doha Bank expects its assets to expand between 15 percent
and 20 percent a year over the next five years, Seetharaman said
in October. It had assets of 51.8 billion riyals in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  