-- Drug Companies’ Lobbyist May Push to Expand U.S. Payments
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-19T21:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/drug-companies-lobbyist-may-push-to-expand-u-s-payments.html
Drugmakers may push to boost U.S.
government spending on  prescription drugs  even as the  U.S.
Congress  seeks to reduce health-care spending, according to
internal documents from the industry’s top lobbying group.  The staff of the Washington-based group wants to expand the
structure of the Medicare prescription medicine benefit known as
Part D to other programs, according to the documents, which have
been sent to the group’s board for final approval. Since 2006,
the U.S. has  spent  $336 billion on the benefit, which enables
recipients to choose coverage from private insurance plans
governed by federal rules.  Making more Medicare programs similar to the Part D benefit
would increase the negotiating power of the  Pharmaceutical
Research and Manufacturers of America  group’s members, which
include New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   “Pricing and access controlled by the market, but big
payments by the government,” said  Erik Gordon , a business
professor at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , in a
telephone interview. “It’s the best of both worlds.”  Castellani Speech  John Castellani , president and chief executive officer of
PhRMA, may talk about the group’s priorities tomorrow when he is
scheduled to speak at the  National Press Club  on the policy
choices faced by national and state lawmakers.  Matt Bennett, a spokesman for PhRMA, declined to say
specifically what Castellani would say, only that he would talk
about a “variety of issues.”  The staff said the group also should push for more access
to drugs through state health exchanges to be established in
2014, according to the documents.  PhRMA staff said they would wait to determine specific
lobbying action until they had “a better sense of how the
political and legislative dynamics are developing,” according
to the documents.  The report was presented to the board in July as lawmakers
may look to restructure Medicare under constrained budgets and
as the 2010 health law takes effect.  Matt Bennett , a PhRMA
spokesman, said the documents were prepared to give the board of
sense of the future “landscape” for the industry. He declined
to comment on the board’s response.  The Part D program in Medicare, the U.S. health program for
the elderly and disabled, is “the best available framework for
sustaining access to new medicines in an environment demanding
cost containment,” according to the PhRMA documents.  Centralizing Government  “This position is grounded in the experience demonstrating
that the principal alternative, centralized government decisions
about the value of medicines, is nearly always used to restrict
rather than improve access to medicines and should be avoided,”
the documents said.  A Part D model in other parts of Medicare, such as those
that cover payments for physicians and hospital care, would help
drugmakers, said  Joshua Cohen , senior research fellow at the
Tufts Center for the Study of  Drug Development  in  Boston .  “PhRMA doesn’t want reimbursement rate cuts for doctors
and price controls,” Cohen said. “And even though PhRMA
doesn’t have a direct interest in what hospitals get paid, they
don’t want there to be some kind of strict budgeting of what
hospitals can and cannot afford and can and cannot spend.”  Highest Priority  PhRMA staff suggested placing the highest priority on rules
governing access to medicines and said they could accept modest
changes in the Medicare eligibility age, according to the
documents.  The report didn’t propose specific lobbying strategies.
Instead, the staff said the group should continue to tout the
success of Part D and its importance as a model for future
reform until a plan is developed.  The  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services  last month
said average monthly Part D premiums for 2013 will remain
constant for the third year in a row. Premiums are projected to
be about $30, 50 percent less than original estimates, according
to PhRMA.  The lobbying organization would also like to use the
example of Medicare Part D to shape how states set drug coverage
under insurance marketplaces known as exchanges. The exchanges
are scheduled to come into effect in 2014 under the federal
 Affordable Care Act  approved in 2010.  Insurers Reaction  Insurers may not be on board. Health insurers can provide
cost-effective drug coverage in the state exchanges “absent
specific Part D restrictions that constrain our ability to fully
mobilize our tools to provide even more value to consumers,”
Daniel Durham, executive vice president of policy and regulatory
affairs for America’s Health Insurance Plans, the lobbying
groups for insurers, wrote in January to HHS.  The insurance group declined to comment on PhRMA’s Medicare
proposal,  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  PhRMA staff recommended the group work to allow patients
maximum access to medicines by extending coverage through the
state exchanges to more drugs rather than limited payments to a
smaller group of preferred treatments.  One strategy to expand access would be to push for
protected classes of drugs, which are categories of medicines,
such as antidepressants, in which Medicare requires every
therapy available be covered by insurers.  “They have gotten away from the political theory
rhetoric,” Gordon said. “PhRMA is much more sophisticated.
They’ve gotten into the argument that this is the most effective
way of doing it. It is a pocketbook argument.”  The drug organization’s staff said their approach to the
exchanges may face challenges from health plans and small
employers because it could increase premiums.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  