-- EADS-BAE Canvass Investors Irked by $45 Billion Merger
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-09-20T07:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/eads-bae-canvass-investors-irked-by-45-billion-merger.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , a week into announcing plans for
a $45 billion combination, are starting to canvass investors who
are doubtful a merger adds any value to what they have now.  The two companies have started briefing select groups of
non-government shareholders to convince them of the merits of a
deal, people familiar with the talks said. EADS Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Enders , in a message to employees, acknowledged
yesterday the announcement may have caught some shareholders off
guard on Sept. 12, causing a 12 percent stock drop since.  EADS and BAE are seeking to harmonize the interests of the
U.K., Germany,  France  and  Spain , and to avoid alienating the
U.S. Department of Defense, the biggest source of BAE’s sales.
BAE investors get higher  dividends  than those at EADS, and the
company has a more focused portfolio with no government
involvement beyond the U.K.’s passive veto share, clouding the
appeal of joining forces with Toulouse, France-based EADS.  “Long-term investors and hedge funds are scratching their
heads a bit because it is not immediately clear what the
benefits of this merger are,” said Robert Stallard, an analyst
at RBC Capital in London.  Shares of BAE traded 1 percent lower at 338.90 pence in
London as of 8:11 a.m., in line with a wider decline in markets.
EADS was little changed in Paris trading.  Among BAE’s biggest shareholders is  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , with a
stake of 13.25 percent, while Blackrock Inc. and Axa SA each own
just below 5 percent, the latest filings show. EADS has three
main  investors , with  Daimler AG (DAI) , Lagardere SCA, and the French
government controlling a combined 44 percent of the company,
while the rest of its stock is freely traded.  ‘Perfect Fit’  Beyond a basic structure giving EADS investors 60 percent
of the new company and those of London-based BAE the rest,
details of the combined entity remain unclear. Under U.K.
regulations, the companies have until Oct. 10 to work out how to
formalise their merger. An EADS spokesman said he had no
immediate comment. A spokeswoman for BAE said the company has
been in touch with investors since the announcement.  Saying he was encouraged with progress on the plan, Enders
called EADS and BAE a “a perfect fit” in a letter to employees
yesterday. A merger would let EADS reach its goal of balancing
its portfolio between defense and civil aerospace much sooner
than its original target of 2020, while flushing out a pact that
retains equal control between the main shareholders, he said.  “Despite some initial critical reactions, word will soon
go around that this deal makes good business sense,” he said.  Ratio of Power  One area of contention is the ratio of power within the
combined company. While EADS is more than twice the size of BAE
in terms of revenue, the U.K. company will have 40 percent of
the combined business. In terms of market value, EADS is a third
larger than BAE, a relation that was inverse three years ago,
when BAE’s value trumped that of EADS.  “BAE management is effectively selling at precisely the
wrong time,” said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst Agency Partners
in London.  A change in the merger ratio is not being considered, said
a person close to negotiations. EADS said last week that it
would pay shareholders 200 million pounds ($324 million) to make
up for the lower dividend. EADS has a 12-month dividend yield of
1.8 percent, compared with 5.5 percent at BAE. EADS scrapped its
payout altogether in 2010, the first time since the company was
created a decade earlier, because of cost overruns and delays.  BAE shares , which initially surged 12 percent on Sept. 12,
the day  Bloomberg News  first reported the plan, slumped 7.3
percent the following day and have lost 7.2 percent in total
since the news broke. The company has a market value of 11
billion pounds, compared with 21.2 billion euros for EADS.  Government Meddling  EADS in particular has focused its initial campaign to win
followers at governments, with  Germany  and France the two sides
that need to find common ground. While France owns a direct
stake of 15 percent, Germany is home to some of the biggest
production sites. The U.K. has a so-called golden share in BAE
that can block takeovers, and the companies said they would hand
out special government shares under the new group.  Enders, who has been critical of government meddling in
EADS, has made the unraveling of the state shareholdings a
cornerstone of his endeavor to pair with BAE. In his letter to
employees, Enders said that failure to establish “good
governance” that limits governments’ role would derail a deal.  Among concerns voiced by BAE investors is how the U.S.
business will guard its independence. The BAE Systems Inc.
subsidiary, run by Linda Hudson, now operates under a so-called
special security arrangement that gives it clearance to handle
sensitive contracts with the Pentagon. EADS and BAE have said
they would keep the asset “ring-fenced,” without elaborating.  Unknown Synergies  The U.S. government may require asset disposals after a
merger plan is subjected to security review. A BAE Systems
spokesman said existing mechanisms to address the Pentagon’s
security concerns should accommodate a new ownership structure.
There are no plans to divest any of the business in the U.S. as
part of a combination with EADS, he said.  EADS and BAE have promised cost savings without providing
details on their scale or how they may be generated. Among
possible opportunities is the ability to generate more sales as
BAE’s ties in export markets such as  Saudi Arabia ,  India  and
 Australia  open the door to EADS units.  Enders said the benefits will go beyond broadening  market
access , and that the companies will “go for real operational
and industrial synergies across all combined businesses.” While
Enders voiced optimism that talks are progressing and that the
companies would be able to present a plan soon, some past deals
point to the drawn-out nature of negotiations.  Drawn Out  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  required 10 months to complete
the purchase of Goodrich Corp., a deal that lacked the
complexities in the multinational EADS-BAE tie-up.  Now both EADS and BAE need to convince their shareholders
that what they get under the united group is better than what
they signed up for as shareholders of either separate entity.
Given the make-up of the new company, whose name has yet to be
disclosed, will be unrecognizable from the former companies,
some investors may balk at the prospect of a merged group.  “Most of the people that were in EADS wanted to invest in
the positive civil aerospace cycle and the margins potential at
Airbus,” said Stephan Boehm, a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Commerzbank AG. “Long-term investors that wanted to invest in
civil aerospace might now consider looking for alternative
investments within the European commercial aerospace sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  