-- EADS CEO Says Government Talks Advance to Close BAE Deal
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-09-19T14:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/eads-ceo-says-government-talks-advance-to-close-bae-deal.html
  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said efforts are
progressing to win shareholder backing for his planned $45
billion merger with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , while mounting pressure on
governments to cooperate or risk seeing a deal fall apart.  “I’m pleased with our progress so far,” Enders said in a
letter to employees that was obtained by  Bloomberg News .
Discussions with governments to address their concerns are
“constructive and advanced,” he said.  Enders’s comments are the first direct message to employees
since the companies said Sept. 12 that they plan to combine, in
an attempt to create a European aerospace and defense company to
match those in the U.S. Enders, who has publicly criticized a
creeping increase in political involvement at EADS, said the
shareholder pact created in 2000 to balance French and German
interests would fall by the wayside in a merger, calling that
element a “go” or “no-go” for the planned combination.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  will meet this weekend in  Germany  where they
will discuss the proposal. Merkel said today she wants to
overcome differences with  France  and “find a solution” as the
governments weigh their response ahead of an Oct. 10 deadline.  With France owning a 15 percent stake in EADS, and the U.K.
able to veto any takeover of BAE, the companies need government
backing for their merger that would mark the biggest attempt yet
at building a pan-European corporate champion. The German
government controls no direct holding in EADS, though its
interest is represented by shareholder Daimler AG.  Normal Company?  “If we succeed and if the EADS shareholder pact can be
dissolved, our governance will be significantly simplified and
’normalized,’” Enders said in the letter.  To assuage concerns about job losses from combining
 Europe ’s largest civil aircraft maker and its largest defense
contractor, Ender said “the two companies are largely
complementary and have very little overlap.”  EADS and BAE are seeking to merge to combine Airbus SAS
civil aircraft and BAE’s cybersecurity and other military
products, helping balance earnings swings between the two
industries. A combination would bring the merged company closer
to a structure resembling  Boeing Co. (BA) , Airbus’s biggest rival.  Enders said there will be “real operational and industrial
synergies across all combined businesses, in particular in
military aircraft, defense electronics, missiles and
security/cybersecurity,” according to the letter. “This would
be the best way to secure a good future for these businesses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  