-- Eastern Europe Remains Vulnerable to Euro Crisis, Capital Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-09-19T13:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/eastern-europe-remains-vulnerable-to-euro-crisis-capital-says.html
Eastern Europe remains at risk of
an escalation in the euro crisis because of its dependency on
external borrowing, a shortage of credit and a high level of
non-performing loans, Capital Economics Ltd. said.  Vulnerabilities in the region persist even after the
 European Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan and the  Federal
Reserve ’s third round of quantitative easing cut financial-
contagion risks, Liza Ermolenko, an emerging-market economist at
London-based Capital, wrote in an e-mailed note.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
yesterday the ECB’s bond-purchase plan isn’t enough to solve the
debt crisis. Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said today
investors continue to “worry” about a possible breakup of the
17-member currency bloc.  “We fear” that the ECB’s so-called Outright Monetary
Transactions program to buy bonds “will just delay a further
deepening of the euro crisis,” Ermolenko wrote. “If we are
right and tensions in the euro zone do escalate, it would become
markedly harder for banks in emerging Europe to roll over their
debt.”  Credit continues to shrink in the Baltic states and
Hungary, while there are signs of a lending slowdown in  Poland ,
Ermolenko wrote.  Non-performing loans make up 18 percent of the total in
 Lithuania , 15.9 percent in  Romania  and 14.9 percent in  Bulgaria ,
Capital said. Foreign-currency loans account for 80.9 percent of
the total in Latvia, 73 percent in Lithuania and 64.3 percent in
Romania, it said.  Short-term external debt was 35.7 percent of gross domestic
product in Latvia, 25.8 percent in  Estonia  and 14.6 percent in
Hungary, according to Capital.  Western banks have pulled 15 billion euros ($19.5 billion)
of capital from the region’s banks in the last year and the
withdrawals didn’t abate after the ECB’s longer-term refinancing
operations began in December, Ermolenko wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  