-- Lehman Sells Austin Office Portfolio Stake to Thomas, Calstrs
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-09-19T14:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/lehman-sells-austin-office-portfolio-stake-to-thomas-calstrs.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sold
its stake in eight Austin, Texas-area office buildings to  Thomas
Properties Group Inc. (TPGI)  and the California State Teachers’
Retirement System as part of an $859 million deal.  Thomas and Calstrs had held 25 percent of the venture
owning the properties and bought out the entire portfolio, the
companies said today in a statement. Lehman, the investment bank
that filed for the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history four years
ago, sold its 50 percent stake, while an unidentified sovereign-
wealth fund had held 25 percent.  Thomas considers the buildings to be “crown jewels,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James Thomas said in the
statement. “We are very encouraged by the continued strength in
the Austin market and the prospects for future growth.”  Thomas, based in  Los Angeles , and Calstrs formed a new
venture, known as TPG/CalSTRS Austin LLC, to own the Austin
portfolio, with each company holding a 50 percent interest. As
part of the deal, Thomas sold a one-third stake in the entity
that owns its interest to Madison International Realty.  The venture acquired the portfolio in a deal that values it
at $859 million before prorations and adjustments, Thomas  said
in the statement. As part of the purchase price, Thomas and
Calstrs assumed five existing first mortgage loans totaling $626
million. The transaction reduced the existing leverage on the
portfolio by repaying about $200 million owed to Lehman
Commercial Paper Inc., Thomas said.  Liquidating Property  Lehman is liquidating its real estate portfolio, seeking to
recover as much as $12.9 billion from mortgages and assets
around the globe. It has invested more than $5 billion in its
real estate since its 2008 collapse, as it waits for opportune
times to sell properties. The company was part of a
restructuring of the Austin portfolio in March 2009, according
to a separate statement.  “We have achieved an excellent result for the partnership
and for Lehman creditors who will benefit from a significant
return on our 2009 investment,” Ashish Gupta, a senior vice
president in the Lehman Brothers real estate group, said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  