-- Heineken Beer Scuffle Leaves Thai Tycoon Charoen Richer
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-09-20T07:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/heineken-beer-scuffle-leaves-thai-tycoon-richer-southeast-asia.html
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s planned purchase of Fraser & Neave Ltd. for
S$12.7 billion ($10.4 billion) will give him a beverages and
real estate company at a 30 percent discount.  F&N’s assets are valued at as much as S$18.2 billion, based
on an offer by  Heineken NV (HEIA)  to buy the company’s stake in  Asia 
Pacific Breweries Ltd. and analysts’ estimates of the valuation
of its remaining property, soft drink, dairy and food units.  Thai Beverage Pcl and TCC Assets Ltd., both controlled by
Charoen, will back Heineken’s S$5.5 billion bid for F&N’s 40
percent stake in APB at a shareholder meeting next week, the
companies said yesterday. The Dutch brewer, which runs APB in a
venture, agreed not to make a competing offer for F&N. The deal
means Charoen only needs to convince F&N shareholders to accept
his offer for the rest of the company.  “This is another shrewd move by the Thais,” said Justin Harper, a Singapore-based market strategist at IG Markets.
“Charoen has already benefited from Heineken’s offer on the
table for  APB. (APB)  He’s made money from that and he can now
concentrate on the property and soft drinks side.”  Charoen’s foreign foray started when he bought a 22 percent
stake in F&N for S$2.78 billion from Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. and its affiliates in July. He then spent about S$950
million buying a further 8 percent of the company in the open
market over two months, based on the average price over that
period. That was followed by last week’s S$9 billion bid for the
remaining 70 percent of the 129-year-old  Singapore  conglomerate
after the purchases triggered takeover rules in the city-state.  Parts Valuation  Besides the S$5.5 billion Heineken will pay in cash for the
APB stake, F&N’s property  assets  are valued at S$8 billion to
S$10 billion, said Jenai Chua, an analyst at Bank  Julius Baer  &
Co. in Singapore. F&N’s food, dairy and soft drinks units have a
market value of about S$2.7 billion, Lim Jit Soon, a Singapore-
based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said last month.  “When you strip out APB, he’s buying the property assets
at at least a 30 percent discount, so he’s not paying a high
price for F&N,” said Jonathan Foster, a Singapore-based
director of Global Special Situations at Religare Capital
Markets. “We need to wait and see if F&N recommends that and
whether there are other players out there who see that the price
to get hold of those assets is too cheap and they’d be willing
to pay a premium for that.”  Thai Record  TCC, controlled by 68-year-old Charoen, made the S$9
billion bid on Sept. 13, offering S$8.88 a share for F&N. It’s
the largest announced by a Thai company in at least 10 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The offer came before a
Sept. 28 meeting where F&N shareholders will vote on the Dutch
brewer’s proposal to buy the APB shares it doesn’t already own.  “Charoen’s style isn’t to rush in to buy a stake to scare
shareholders,”  ThaiBev (THBEV)  Chief Executive Officer Thapana Sirivadhanabhakdi said of his father at a media briefing in
Bangkok on Sept. 9. “The company has studied F&N’s business for
many years.”  F&N’s real estate business has boosted sales 33 percent
since 2007 and the soft-drink unit’s revenue has increased 64
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its brewing
business rose 60 percent. Charoen’s unlisted TCC Group has a
real estate arm and ThaiBev sells non-alcoholic drinks in
addition to beer and spirits.  Charoen’s plans for the remaining business remain unclear,
said Julius Baer’s Chua.  “Maybe he wants to keep the property assets because his
empire spans a whole range of business activities from drinks to
property to finance,” she said. “At this point really we don’t
know what he’s thinking.”  Final Offer  F&N recommended that holders accept Heineken’s increased
S$53-per-share bid for the 40 percent stake in APB in August.
Heineken, the world’s most acquisitive brewer in the past 12
months, had said it would be its final offer. Heineken had
originally been spurred to bid for control of APB, which it
holds at least 42 percent of, after a company controlled by
Charoen’s son-in-law bought shares in APB.  “It is the deal of the decade,” ThaiBev’s Thapana said.
“It provides an opportunity for us to expand businesses in
Asia. We want to be a leader in the beverage business.”  The Thai group will also make about S$178 million selling a
separate stake of 8.6 percent in APB to Heineken, which it
bought in July from OCBC and related parties for S$45 a share.  Stock Gains  ThaiBev jumped as much as 22 percent to 42 Singapore cents
yesterday, the highest level since its May 2006 initial public
offering in Singapore, before closing at 39 cents. The stock
fell 1.3 percent as of 3:06 p.m. today. Heineken’s share price
rose 6.4 percent to 45.55 euros in Amsterdam yesterday, the
biggest gain in more than three years. It fell 0.1 percent as of
9:07 a.m. today.  Since OCBC announced on July 16 it was in talks to sell its
shareholdings in F&N and APB, F&N’s stock has risen 12 percent
and APB shares have surged 53 percent as of yesterday. F&N’s
shares fell 1 percent to close at S$8.88 yesterday, and are
unchanged today. APB’s shares slipped 0.2 percent in Singapore
yesterday, and fell 0.1 percent to S$52.94 at 2:48 p.m.  Kirin (2503) ,  Japan ’s largest brewer by market value, bought 14.7
percent of F&N two years ago for S$1.34 billion, or S$6.50 a
share. Kirin closed 1.8 percent higher in  Tokyo  yesterday and
rose 0.2 percent to close at 1,031 yen today. The company had
considered making a bid for F&N’s food and soft-drinks unit,
people with knowledge of the matter said in August.  “Investors are telling Kirin not to spend money since it
has a huge interest-bearing debt,” said Masashi Mori, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “They are thinking they
don’t care if Kirin retreats from Southeast Asia so long as it
won’t join the takeover war. Their  Southeast Asia  profit
contribution is small.”  Yuko Kusano, a spokeswoman for Kirin, declined to comment.  Cash Distribution  F&N said last month it plans to distribute to shareholders
about S$4 billion of the proceeds from the APB stake sale
through a capital reduction. The proposal requires the approval
of 75 percent of F&N shareholders to proceed.  “He may decide that he’ll rather retain that capital
within F&N and then he’ll have more flexibility to do what he
chooses.” Religare’s Foster said. “It’s a decision they’ll
make depending on what they want to do with the assets.”  Charoen was born and raised in Bangkok’s Chinatown district
after his parents moved from Shantau in  China , according to
TCC’s website. He started a trading business that supplied
distilleries, and became a distiller after being awarded
concessions to produce liquor in  Thailand . Charoen bid for the
rights to operate distilleries under the Sang Som Group during
the liberalization of the nation’s liquor industry, and later
expanded into beer, alcohol, sugar, and packaging businesses,
according to the company.  “So far he seems to be controlling all the action,” 
Julius Baer’s Chua said. “He doesn’t seem to be reacting. He 
seems more proactive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  