-- Telenor Targets $876 Million Savings to Boost Earnings
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-09-19T10:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/telenor-targets-876-million-savings-to-boost-earnings.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
largest phone company by revenue, plans to find savings of 5
billion kroner ($876 million) over four years as stiffer
competition weighs on earnings.  The reduction in costs from the 2011 level will be made by
2015, Telenor said today in a statement. Improved performance in
 Russia , where Telenor holds a stake in  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , is key to
lifting earnings, according to slides on the company’s website.
Telenor shares networks with competitors in Sweden and several
other regions, and extending this approach may reduce costs and
capital expenditure by as much as 35 percent,  it said .  Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas is trying to
boost efficiency after net income slumped 45 percent last year
and declined more than that in each of the first two quarters of
2012. The company, based in Fornebu near Oslo, is seeking growth
in Russia and Asia as competition intensifies in the Nordic
region, where almost everyone already has a mobile phone.  Telenor said last month that it was increasing its stake in
Russian mobile-phone company VimpelCom to almost 43 percent and
expected the deal to close before October. Baksaas said he would
like to take advantage of Telenor and VimpelCom’s size, which
could lead to better deals when buying telecommunications
equipment in Russia.  Dividend Plan  Russia’s Anti-Monopoly Service, known as FAS, is disputing
the Nordic company’s right to raise its stake by buying
VimpelCom shares from Egyptian billionaire Naquib Sawiris.  The FAS may withdraw its claim this month, Ria Novosti
reported, citing  Igor Artemyev , head of the watchdog. The case
is “without merit,” Baksaas said today.  Telenor rose 0.1 percent to 109.9 kroner at 12:08 p.m. in
Oslo. The stock has advanced 12 percent this year.  The company plans to pay 50 percent to 80 percent of
normalized net income as dividends, it said today.  Telenor’s Uninor venture in  India  had 22 telecommunications
licenses canceled this year by the country’s  Supreme Court .
Telenor said the terms of a new license process have yet to be
confirmed and that it would announce its plan for Uninor before
Oct. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  