-- Elton John’s Peace Call, Binoche’s Party: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-09-20T23:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/elton-john-s-peace-call-binoche-s-party-london-weekend.html
Elton John leads the biggest show
in the 13-year history of the Peace One Day movement tonight.  The pop knight will be joined onstage by  James Morrison  and
2CELLOS, introduced by Jude Law and Lily Cole. Also appearing is
actor Jeremy Gilley, who founded Peace One Day to promote a
global truce for at least 24 hours every year.  Wembley Arena, Empire Way, HA9 0PA. Information: +44-20-
8782-5500 or  http://www.wembley.co.uk ,  http://peaceoneday.org/ ,
 http://www.eltonjohn.com/ . The event will be streamed live on
the Peace One Day’s YouTube channel.  Saturday  When Vincent van Gogh lived in  London , he was wowed by one
particular landscape painting.  It’s easy to see why.  John Everett Millais’s exquisite “Chill October” (1870)
is now owned by composer  Andrew Lloyd Webber . It’s a late gem in
Tate Britain’s sprawling tribute to the Pre-Raphaelites, a
movement both avant-garde in its critique of industrialization
and backward-looking in its love of the early Renaissance.  As an artist, Millais towers over the rest. He also woos
another man’s wife after portraying her on canvas. The female
figure in “The Order of Release, 1746” (1852-3), a certain
Mrs. John Ruskin, later becomes Mrs. Millais.  If you don’t have time to see everything, the catalog is
clear and well illustrated.  “Pre-Raphaelites: Victorian Avant-Garde” ends Jan. 13,
2013. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  Saturday Night  Juliette Binoche  is back in London as a certain Miss Julie.  On stage at the  Barbican  Theatre, she plays a bored young
noblewoman who crashes a servants’ party and falls for the
footman. The themes of class, lust and gender are all box-ticked
in this classic 19th-century work by  Sweden ’s August Strindberg.  Binoche will be wearing Lanvin and performing in French
with English surtitles. The production, directed by Frederic
Fisbach, premiered at the Festival d’Avignon.  “Mademoiselle Julie” ends Sept. 29 at the Barbican
Theatre:  http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-845-120-7511.  Polpo Smithfield is a 10-minute walk from the Barbican and
worth the effort. It’s the latest outpost of  Russell Norman , one
of London’s most influential restaurateurs, who specializes in
cool restaurants serving unfussy Italian food at low prices. The
new Polpo ticks all of those boxes. Information:
 http://polpo.co.uk/  or +44-20-7250-0034.  Sunday  Passersby in  Trafalgar Square  are mystified by the
appearance of a large black rubber cylinder.  It’s a temporary container for a sound installation you can
experience as part of the  London Design Festival . Every day, a
new soundscape composed by one of five musicians can be heard
inside it. They range from the purely natural -- disintegrating
glaciers, for instance -- to the heavily electronic.  “Be Open Sound Portal” (ending Sunday) is designed by
Arup and sponsored by the Russian billionaire Elena Baturina.  There are plenty of other events at the Victoria & Albert
Museum and elsewhere for the London Design Festival, which also
ends Sunday. Information:  http://www.londondesignfestival.com .  While you’re in the Trafalgar Square area, explore Covent
Garden market, if you don’t mind weekend crowds. Union Jacks,
the latest outpost of  Jamie Oliver ’s pizza chain, is there. The
food is good, and the prices are reasonable. Just don’t go
expecting peace and quiet.  Information:  http://www.unionjacksrestaurants.com/  or +44-
20-3640-7086.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 