-- Emerging Stocks Rise, Snapping 2-Day Drop on BOJ Stimulus
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-19T21:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/emerging-stocks-rise-snapping-2-day-drop-on-boj-stimulus.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in three days as an unexpected increase in Japan’s
asset-purchase program boosted metals and fueled speculation
that central banks will revive global growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.3 percent to
1,009.44 by 4:54 p.m. in  New York . Mexico’s  IPC index  climbed to
the highest in six weeks, with homebuilder  Urbi Desarrollos
Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  and  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  leading gains.  China ’s
 Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899)  and Poland’s  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  rose as
copper and gold prices increased.  Lonmin Plc (LON)  climbed in
Johannesburg after signing a wage agreement that ended a six-
week strike.  The  Bank of Japan  increased its asset-buying fund by 10
trillion yen ($128 billion), following new debt-purchase plans
by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European Central Bank  this
month. An MSCI Inc.  gauge  of raw-materials stocks in developing
nations jumped to the highest level since May, while a report in
the U.S. showed sales of existing homes rose more than
estimated.  “What we are seeing is a liquidity driven rally that has
supported risky assets,”  Kieran Curtis , an  emerging markets 
bond fund manager at Aviva Investors Ltd., said by phone from
London. “The BOJ’s move adds to the view that central banks are
going to do what they can to support the markets.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, was little
changed. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, added 0.1 percent.  Mexico IPC index (MEXBOL)  advanced 0.9 percent as Urbi Desarrollos
climbed 5.5 percent and Homex added 3.6 percent.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index declined 0.2 percent after reaching
the highest valuation in almost three years on speculation
recent gains may have been excessive and concern inflation may
curb the country’s economic recovery.  Localiza Rent a Car SA , Latin America’s biggest car-rental
company, was the biggest loser on the gauge after Morgan Stanley
lowered its recommendation to the equivalent of sell.  China Rally  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  rose 1.7 percent and the Shanghai Composite
Index increased 0.4 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries increased 4 basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 294, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  Commodities Gain  Copper climbed 0.7 percent in New York, while gold
increased 0.1 percent.  Zijin Mining, China’s biggest gold producer, increased 5.6
percent to a six-month high and KGHM, Poland’s sole copper
producer, gained 1.7 percent, set for the highest close since
November 2011.  Lonmin rose 1.5 percent, advancing to a one-month high, as
miners agreed to return to Marikana, the mine that produces
almost a 10th of global platinum output. Pay grievances
triggered a violent strike last month and halted work at
Marikana, which accounts for about 96 percent of Lonmin’s
output. Police shot 34 protesters on Aug. 16 in the worst mine
violence since apartheid ended in 1994.  The Shanghai Composite rallied for the first time in three
days. China will push for 15 major capital market reforms,
including development of the futures market, during the current
five-year plan, Shanghai Securities News reported.  Xi Meeting  China’s Vice President  Xi Jinping , in line to become the
country’s next president, met with U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing today, his
first announced appearance with a foreign visitor after being
absent in public for about two weeks.  Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, declined 1.1 percent.
The central bank raised 159.3 billion rubles ($5.1 billion)
selling a minority stake yesterday.  Longfor Properties Co. slumped 8.7 percent, the biggest
drop in 11 months. The Chinese developer said it plans to raise
HK$3.07 billion ($396 million) selling shares.  Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd., the country’s largest pay-TV
broadcaster, is seeking to raise as much as 4.6 billion ringgit
($1.5 billion) in the world’s sixth-biggest corporate initial
public offering this year, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI  Index (VXEEM) 
climbed 0.4 percent today to the highest level in two weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  