-- EnerVest Said to Seek $2 Billion for Latest Energy Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-09-19T15:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/enervest-said-to-seek-2-billion-for-latest-energy-fund.html
EnerVest Ltd., which operates more
than 26,000 oil and gas wells, is seeking about $2 billion for a
new private-equity fund to purchase and manage properties in
 North America .  EnerVest Energy Institutional Fund XIII LP may also invest
in the equity of companies as a way of acquiring assets,
according to a fundraising executive summary, a copy of which
was obtained by  Bloomberg News . It will seek to generate a
current return from producing reserves of the properties it
acquires and to provide incremental gains by developing non-
producing reserves.  The firm, based in Houston, is entering a competitive
fundraising market for energy funds, with a number of managers
seeking $1 billion or more for new funds. EnCap Investments LP
this month started raising money for an oil and gas fund seeking
$4.25 billion. Riverstone Holdings and First Reserve Corp. are
both seeking $6 billion for their next energy funds.  The new EnerVest fund will focus on deals valued at $100
million to $300 million, and occasionally pursue larger
transactions. Fund XIII is able to invest as much as 10 percent
of its capital in higher-risk acquisition and drilling
opportunities associated with new ventures.  Ron Whitmire, the Houston-based firm’s chief administrative
officer, didn’t respond to a call and e-mail seeking for
comment.  The fund is targeting at least a 20 percent net internal
rate of return, the document shows. It will charge a 2 percent
management fee and 20 percent of profits as carried interest
after a 9 percent preferred return.  Fund Returns  Founded in 1992, EnerVest and its affiliates have managed
12 institutional private-equity funds and four co-investment
vehicles. The most recent fund, EnerVest Energy Institutional
Fund XII LP, raised about $2.4 billion in 2010, including debt
and preferred equity. The fund has deployed about 86 percent of
its capital and is expected to be fully invested by the end of
the first quarter of next year, according to the presentation.  The firm’s prior funds, excluding Fund XII, have generated
realized proceeds and unrealized value representing a net
internal rate of return of about 31 percent, the presentation
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  