-- Merkel Euro Policy Making Her Unbeatable in 2013, Poll Shows
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-09-19T15:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/merkel-unbeatable-by-spd-challengers-as-crisis-policy-pays-off.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  trounced
three leading opposition challengers in a poll underscoring her
popularity as she balks at using  Germany ’s economic might to
underwrite debt in the wider euro area.  Merkel, who has indicated she will seek a third term in
elections due a year from now, would defeat  Peer Steinbrueck , a
 Social Democrat  who was finance minister during her first term,
by 50 percent to 28 percent if voters could elect the chancellor
directly, the Forsa poll for Stern magazine showed. Two other
Social Democratic leaders, Frank-Walter Steinmeier and Sigmar Gabriel, would lose by wider margins.  Merkel “seems unbeatable right now,” the Hamburg-based
magazine said in an e-mailed statement today. Young and first-
time voters are among her strongest supporters, Stern said.  The poll highlights the German opposition’s difficulty in
attacking Merkel’s track record on crisis-fighting before
federal elections due in the fall of 2013. The chancellor has
been subject to criticism internationally for her refusal to
commit more to halt the crisis that emerged in  Greece  in late
2009, yet domestic voters say they back her stance.  ‘Credible’ to Voters  “ Chancellor Merkel  is popular because she is credible in
the eyes of German voters,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director
of Spiro Sovereign Strategy Ltd., said by e-mail. “She’s also
perceived to be holding firm against further debt mutualisation
in the euro zone without appearing to be intransigent. It’s a
political strategy that is evidently paying off.”  While Merkel rejects joint euro-area bonds as too easy a
way out of the debt crisis, the Social Democrats backed the
measure as recently as April. Since then, the party has shifted
to urging the pooling of old debt in the 17-nation euro area.
Merkel hasn’t embraced that idea, which was proposed by her
council of economic advisers and backed by billionaire investor
 George Soros  in a plea to avoid the euro area’s break-up.  Polls consistently show Merkel is Germany’s most popular
politician and suggest her Christian Democratic bloc would win
the most votes if the elections were held now. Yet neither her
current coalition nor a combination of the  Social Democratic
Party  and their traditional Green Party partners would win
enough seats to govern, leading to speculation about another so-
called grand coalition with the SPD that she led during her
first term between 2005 and 2009.  Coalition Jostling  Faced with a collapse of support for her Free Democratic
coalition partner since 2009, Merkel said on Sept. 17 she
“can’t rule out” a rerun of the grand coalition, though she
said it isn’t her goal.  “In a grand coalition, there’s always another partner that
wants to have the chancellorship,” she said.  In direct contests, Merkel would defeat Steinmeier, her
former foreign minister and current opposition leader in
parliament, by 49 percent to 26 percent, the Forsa poll showed.
SPD chairman  Sigmar Gabriel , Merkel’s first-term environment
minister, would lose by 16 percent to 60 percent.  Her current environment minister,  Peter Altmaier , like
Merkel a member of the Christian Democratic Union party, made a
plea for party consensus on Germany’s energy overhaul to avoid
it becoming an election theme. Opposition parties accuse Merkel
of mismanaging the switch to renewables from nuclear energy,
stoking electricity-price increases that are due on Jan. 1.  “We have an interest in keeping the fundamental decisions
on energy out of the election campaign because those are
decisions that have to be valid for 20, 30 years, and you can’t
change them every four years,” Altmaier told reporters today.  Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc dropped one percentage point to 39
percent in a separate weekly Forsa poll released today, while
her Free Democratic Party partner gained a point to 5 percent.
That put support for her coalition at 44 percent compared to a
combined 38 percent for the  Social Democrats  and Greens, both of
which were unchanged at 26 percent and 12 percent respectively.  Forsa polled 2,502 voters on Sept. 10-14, with a margin of
error of as much as 2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  