-- Euro Falls Most in 2 Months on Growth Concern; Yen Gains
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-09-20T21:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/euro-remains-lower-before-services-production-data-kiwi-gains.html
The euro dropped the most in two
months against the dollar as services and manufacturing in the
region shrank to a three-year low, adding to evidence the
central bank will need to do more to spur growth.  The yen and the dollar strengthened against most of their
major counterparts as demand for the perceived safety of those
nations’ assets increased after separate reports showed  China ’s
manufacturing and Japanese exports declined for a third month.
The shared currency fell against all its major counterparts as
Spanish bond yields rose for the first time in three days.
Australia’s dollar and South Africa’s rand led losses among
higher-yielding currencies.  “There is caution about how much further the risk rally
can go without constant stimulus injections to keep sentiment
high,” said  Stephen Gallo , a foreign-exchange strategist at
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in  London . “The foreign-exchange market is
also sensing some tap dancing in  Spain  in terms of the official
request for aid.”  The euro dropped 0.6 percent to $1.2968 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time, after sliding 1.1 percent, the biggest decline since July
20. The shared currency weakened 0.8 percent to 101.47 yen and
declined for a fourth day versus the Swiss franc, depreciating
to 1.21010 francs. The yen strengthened 0.2 percent to 78.24 per
dollar.  Dollar Buying  Cumulative net-inflows in to U.S. Treasuries were twice as
strong today, compared with the daily average during the past
year, according to client data from Bank of New York Mellon,
which has more than $26 trillion under administration.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose 0.5 percent to 79.422, after the data
from China and  Japan  added to evidence that Asian economies are
slowing, spurring demand for the safety of U.S. Treasuries.  Ten-year  notes  extended their run of gains to the longest
in four weeks with the  yield  declining as much as five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.72 percent. In times of
economic stress investors seek dollar-denominated assets because
it is the world’s reserve currency.  A preliminary reading was 47.8 for a China purchasing
managers’ index released today by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit
Economics, compared with a final level of 47.6 last month.
Japan’s overseas shipments slid 5.8 percent on weakness in
demand from Europe and China.  Yen Gains  The yen rose against the dollar to the strongest level in a
week, even after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  unexpectedly added 10
trillion yen ($127 billion) in stimulus yesterday. The Japanese
currency is considered a safe haven because of the nation’s
status as a global net-creditor.  The  extra yield  investors receive for purchasing a U.S. 10-
year security versus a similar maturity Japanese bond fell to 96
basis points, touching the least in a week.  “We’ve actually seen that spread widen in favor of the
dollar,”  Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at  Standard
Chartered  in New York, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “We’re looking at
dollar-yen to track a little bit higher, maybe up to 80 to 82.”  The euro weakened against most of its 16 major peers even
after Spain’s borrowing costs fell at a 4.8 billion-euro auction
of three- and 10-year debt, the biggest since January. The sale
came amid expectations the nation will ask the  European Central
Bank  to buy its debt.  Economic Reading  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in euro-area services and manufacturing industries dropped to
45.9 for September, the lowest since June 2009, London-based
Markit Economics said in an initial estimate. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  “One of the big problems that remains unresolved in the
euro area is a lack of growth,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-
exchange strategist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  in
London. “We still anticipate the euro will continue to weaken
and expect a move back to $1.20 over the next six to 12
months.”  The euro has risen 2.1 percent in the past month, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar fell 2.2
percent and the yen weakened 0.8 percent. It 17-nation currency
has rallied 1.7 percent since Sept. 6 when the European Central
Bank pledged unlimited bond purchases to regain control of
 interest rates .  Trade Ideas  Nomura Holdings Inc. increased its euro-dollar forecast to
$1.28 from $1.18 for the third quarter of this year, according
to a note to clients yesterday. The Tokyo-based bank expects the
shared currency to trade at $1.28 at year-end compared to a
previous estimate of $1.15.  Australia’s currency fell as the Chinese data clouded the
prospects for the South Pacific nation’s resource exports.  “The market was probably expecting a bit more of a
bounce” in the Chinese data, said Emma Lawson, a currency
strategist at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in Sydney. “The
Aussie is a little bit lower. There’s just a little bit of
disappointment there.”  The so-called Aussie dropped 0.4 percent to $1.0436. South
Africa’s rand declined 0.4 percent to 8.3069 per dollar.  The People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote in
a commentary published in the Financial News this week that the
central bank will keep the continuity and stability of monetary
policies and at the same time make adjustments that are more
forward-looking, targeted and effective.  China’s  yuan  rose to a five-month high, breaching the 6.3
per dollar level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  