-- Ex-CME Software Engineer Admits to Trade-Secrets Theft
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-19T20:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/ex-cme-group-software-engineer-admits-secrets-theft-u-s-says.html
A former  CME Group Inc. (CME)  software
engineer confessed to stealing  trade secrets  from his ex-
employer, the operator of the world’s largest futures exchange.  Chunlai Yang, 49, who was indicted last year, pleaded
guilty to two counts of trade-secrets theft today before U.S.
District Judge John Darrah in  Chicago .  Yang admitted to downloading more than 10,000 files
containing source code for the CME Globex electronic-trading
platform, acting Chicago U.S. Attorney  Gary Shapiro  said in a
statement. The Libertyville, Illinois, resident is to be
sentenced on Feb. 20. While Yang faces a top sentence of 10
years in prison on each count, nonbinding federal guidelines
dictate a term of 70 to 87 months, according to his plea
agreement.  “He did not intend any consequence for his actions,”
Yang’s lawyer, Edward Genson, said in a phone interview. He
called his client’s downloads “misguided.”  Prosecutors said Yang intended to use the stolen
information to improve an electronic-trading exchange in
Zhangjiagang,  China , and that he was plotting with two other,
unnamed business partners. The U.S claims the potential loss was
at least $50 million.  Yang worked for the Chicago-based CME for 11 years, rising
to the rank of senior software engineer and gaining access to
the company’s proprietary Globex trading programs, according to
the U.S. He downloaded more than 10,000 files to his work
computer at CME, then to a pocket-sized storage device and,
ultimately, to his own computers.  “What the government characterizes as an attempt, we
characterize as a mistake,” Genson said. He said he will seek
probation for Yang, arguing that no property was actually
transferred and that a sentence in excess of 5 1/2 years is
unwarranted.  The case is U.S. v. Yang, 11-cr-458, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  