-- Ex-Sigma Analyst Loses Bid for Insider-Trade Trial Delay
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-19T21:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/ex-sigma-analyst-loses-bid-for-insider-trade-trial-delay.html
Jon Horvath, a former technology
analyst at SAC Capital’s Sigma Capital Management LLC, and two
co-defendants lost a bid to delay their Oct. 29 insider-trading
trial based on new evidence provided by the U.S.  Horvath; Anthony Chiasson, a co-founder of Level Global
Investors LP; and  Todd Newman , an ex-Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager, were charged in January with
operating a “criminal club” of fund managers and co-workers
who reaped almost $62 million based on illegal tips about Dell
Inc. In August, they were indicted for allegedly trading on
inside information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  They deny the charges.  All three men asked to delay the trial until January after
the U.S. filed a memo with details of the prosecution’s case.
The government said it had additional evidence the defendants
attempted or did obtain material nonpublic information about 11
more stocks not listed in the indictment, including  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) ,
 Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Western Digital Corp.  “The court is sympathetic to defendants’ objections,”
U.S. District Court Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan, who is
presiding over the case, said in his ruling today. Still, he
denied the request for a postponement.  The defendants claimed the government’s memo failed “to
provide specificity as to the dates when any alleged inside
information was obtained or received,” according to the judge.  Dates Sought  The memo stated only the quarters during which the
information was obtained, while defense lawyers sought more
precise dates, Sullivan said. He said defense lawyers could
raise this lack of knowledge or specificity when they question
government witnesses at the trial.  Five people who were part of the insider-trading scheme
have pleaded guilty, are cooperating with the government and
could testify for the prosecution.  Steve Peikin, a lawyer for Horvath, and John Nathanson, a
lawyer for Newman, didn’t return calls seeking comment on the
ruling. Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson, declined to
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-CR-00124, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  