-- Ex-Spy Chief Says Pakistan Can’t Deliver Taliban to Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-19T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/ex-spy-chief-says-pakistan-can-t-deliver-taliban-to-talks.html
The U.S. has “unrealistic
expectations” about  Pakistan ’s ability to bring Taliban leader
Mullah Mohammad Omar to peace talks, according to a former
Pakistani intelligence and military chief.  While Pakistan fully supports Afghan peace talks, it
“can’t deliver anybody” to the negotiating table, retired
General Ehsan ul Haq said in a brief interview yesterday in
Washington.  The Obama administration has followed a strategy for ending
the Afghan conflict that involves fighting insurgents, seeking
reconciliation with those willing to lay down arms and
strengthening the Afghan government and security forces -- all
while drawing down U.S. combat forces. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  has called the approach “Fight, Talk, Build.”  The U.S. should seek to advance the “political track”
with the Taliban in the time left before U.S. combat forces
withdraw by the end of 2014, said Haq, a former chief of
Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence agency and former
chairman of the military’s joint chiefs of staff.  While U.S. officials have engaged in behind-the-scenes
exploratory contacts with the Taliban and the Haqqani insurgent
networks, efforts to establish more formal talks through a
Taliban office in Qatar broke down in March. The breakdown
involved disagreement over terms for a potential swap of five
Taliban detainees in Guantanamo for a U.S. soldier believed to
be held by the Haqqani group.  The U.S. should do whatever it can to revive the Qatar
process and make good on pledges over a prisoner swap, Haq said.  Pakistan Connections  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  openly has sought Pakistan’s
help in facilitating peace talks with the Taliban leadership
that was ousted from power in Afghanistan after the U.S.
military operation began there in October 2001.  The Afghan Taliban operate from the Pakistani city of
Quetta and the Haqqani network has rear bases in the Pakistani
tribal area of North Waziristan, with both groups benefiting
from ties to some elements of Pakistani security forces, U.S.
intelligence officials have said.  Haq, who served as Pakistan’s intelligence chief from 2001
to 2004, denied that Pakistan provides any such assistance. He
said yesterday in the interview that Pakistan’s security forces
conducted several raids on the religious school and homes of the
Haqqani network’s founder in the Pakistani town of Miram Shah
between 2002 and 2004.  “He was not there; he was in Paktia, Paktika,” he said,
referring to two provinces in neighboring  Afghanistan .  ‘Last Resort’  Haq questioned the Obama administration’s decision
announced Sept. 7 to blacklist the Haqqanis as a “foreign
terrorist organization,” saying “if it had to be done, it
should have been done seven, eight, 10 years back.”  “Now when you are into a political track,” he said,
declaring groups “terrorists” may be counterproductive to
efforts to start talks.  Haq earlier told a group of congressional officials,
diplomats, analysts and journalists at the Center for the
National Interest, a Washington policy group, that “despite
being a key element” of the U.S. strategy, efforts “toward
dialogue with the Taliban were started late, probably as a last
resort.”  An earlier start to the political process would have
prepared the ground for a stable Afghanistan following the
withdrawal of NATO combat forces by the end of 2014, he said.  Haq said early, secretive U.S. peace efforts raised
“resentment in Kabul and Islamabad for being kept out of the
loop, alarm and opposition among the ex-Northern Alliance
elements” in Afghanistan who helped oust the Taliban from
power.  Although peace outreach “has faltered,” Haq told the
group, “the Taliban have suspended it instead of ending it.”  The negotiation “process will have to be pursued more
seriously with a sense of urgency even if the prospects for a
successful outcome seem remote at present,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  