-- Texas Court Halts State Attempt to Purge Voters as Dead
-- B y   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-09-20T15:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/texas-judge-bars-state-from-ordering-country-voter-purges.html
Texas  officials were temporarily
barred by a state judge from ordering county election officials
to purge presumably dead voters from registration rolls because
the initiative may violate the election code.  The ruling came in a lawsuit filed yesterday by four voters
who were told they would be purged from voter-registration lists
as deceased. They asked state court Judge  Tim Sulak  in Austin to
stop the state from striking about 77,000 names, arguing the
plan violates state and federal law.  The secretary of state is “restrained from further
instructing the counties to remove any other names from the
voter rolls,” Sulak said in an order. “Plaintiffs are entitled
to temporary injunctive relief.”  The voters’ Lawyers say that under the federal Voting
Rights Act the state must get pre-approval for the rule changes.
The law mandates that jurisdictions with a history of rights
violations first get clearance for new election procedures from
the U.S. Justice Department or a three-judge panel.  “There is no statutory authority for this purge,” David
Richards, a civil rights lawyer who represents the plaintiffs,
said in a phone interview while waiting for the judge to rule.  Sulak, a Democrat, based his ruling only on possible
violations of the election code. He said he would set another
hearing in two weeks. The court will expire in 14 days, “unless
otherwise extended,” he said.  State Spokeswoman  Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for the Texas Attorney General
 Greg Abbott , a Republican, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment on the injunction, which was handed down
after regular business hours yesterday.  “Based on the original directives” from the secretary of
state, the order “did not change our plans,”  Tina Morton , the
Travis County  Tax Assessor-Collector and Voter Registrar , said
today in an e-mail.  “The letters mailed to voters Sept. 6 have a 30-day
deadline during which time the TRO expires,” she said. “We
anticipate further directives from the court and the SOS, and
will implement them without delay.” SOS referred to the
secretary of state.  The lawsuit is among multiple court battles over voting
rules, particularly in swing states, including  Florida ,  Ohio ,
 Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin , where Republican and Democratic
presidential campaigns see the possibility of victory.  Pennsylvania Suit  In Pennsylvania, the state  Supreme Court  set aside for
further review a ruling allowing the state to enforce a law
requiring voters to have photo identification, which the
 American Civil Liberties Union  has argued was aimed at keeping
likely Democratic voters away from the polls. The lower court
set a hearing on the review for Sept. 25.  Voter cases are also under way in  Alabama ,  South Carolina 
and  Tennessee .  Lawsuits filed over Florida voting rules include at least
two challenging a law ostensibly designed to purge noncitizens
from voter lists, which opponents say would disenfranchise new
citizens as well.  A federal judge last month blocked enforcement of a new
Florida law restricting voter-registration activities. A
different federal judge in Florida yesterday heard arguments
challenging the state’s 2011 law cutting back early voting days
as biased against blacks.  Support for voter purges often falls along party lines,
said  Rick Hasen , a law professor at the  University of
California ’s  Irvine  School of Law.  Republican Drive  Republicans are pursuing the purges of voter rolls because
they “believe the biggest problem is voter fraud,” Hasen, the
author of more than 80 articles on election law according to the
school website, said in a phone interview. “They believe that
not having dead people on the rolls will discourage fraud.”  “Democrats are resisting the move, because they see it as
a way of removing people who aren’t regular voters from the
rolls,” Hasen said. “These voters are more likely to be
Democratic.”  Texas Secretary of State  Hope Andrade , a Republican,
reached a separate compromise yesterday to resolve a dispute
with Harris County, which includes Houston. The state cut off
the county’s election funds last week to force compliance with
the dead-voter purge. County election officials threatened to
sue to restore funding.  Harris County  Don Sumners, the Harris County voter registrar, refused to
cancel registrations for about 10,000 “possibly deceased”
people that Andrade identified in August by cross-matching state
voter rosters with the U.S. Social Security Administration’s
master death list.  Sumners said the Social Security database is unreliable and
produces false matches. Sumners said hundreds of voters
contacted his  office  to refute reports of their deaths after
getting notices their registrations would be canceled.  Sumners said yesterday that Andrade agreed to restore the
county’s election funds after he agreed to purge voters whose
families confirm their deaths before the election. The county
will wait until after the election to investigate about
10 percent of the remaining names, all of which are strong
matches with the Social Security death list, he said. No action
will be taken on the rest, considered weak matches, he said.  When all nine Social Security numbers, the last name and
birth date are the same on the two lists, that is considered a
strong match, Buck Wood, a lawyer for the voters suing in
Austin, said after yesterday’s hearing. Comparing only a birth
date and the last four digits of a Social Security number
produces a weak match, he said.  Voter Confusion  When voters get these notices, they ask, “What the hell is
going on?” Wood said.  Erika Kane, a lawyer with the state attorney general’s
office, asked the judge if the state would have to retract prior
e-mails.  “How do we address this concern without causing mass
confusion to the public?” she asked.  “I’m not telling you to pull down what’s already gone
out,” the judge said, adding he would order there be no further
instruction to pull voters from the rolls based on weak matches.  He barred the state from ordering counties to remove voters
who failed to “timely comply” with the notices based on non-
responses to weak matches.  The case is Moore v. Morton, D-1-6N-12-002923, District
Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelley Shannon in state court in Austin at
 kelley@kelleyshannon.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  