-- U.S. Justice Officials Faulted Over Mexico Gun Operation
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-09-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/failures-by-u-s-officials-plagued-gun-program-report-says.html
An 18-month investigation by the
U.S.  Justice Department ’s inspector general has found management
failures and flawed strategy in a federal law enforcement
operation designed to track guns illegally flowing to Mexican
drug cartels.  One senior official retired and another resigned as a
result of yesterday’s 471-page report, and the inspector general
recommended another 12 be considered for disciplinary or
administrative action. The report concluded that Operation Fast
and Furious was plagued by miscommunication and unaccountable
officials inside the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives and at the Justice Department.  Republicans have faulted Attorney General Eric Holder’s
oversight of Fast and Furious and his responses to lawmakers’
queries about it. Holder wasn’t found in the report to have
known about or been involved with the failures of the operation
until early 2011, when lawmakers began to probe its fallout.  “Our review of Operation Fast and Furious and related
matters revealed a series of misguided strategies, tactics,
errors in judgment, and management failures that permeated ATF
Headquarters and the Phoenix Field Division, as well as the U.S.
Attorney’s office for the District of  Arizona  and at the
headquarters of the  Department of Justice ,” said Inspector
General Michael Horowitz said in testimony prepared for a House
hearing today.  Seeking Details  Republican lawmakers, led by Senator  Charles Grassley  of
 Iowa  and Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , have battled
with the Justice Department for months for details of the
program, testimony and documents as they attempted to trace how
high up the failures reached. ATF is part of the department.
Issa, chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
is holding the hearing featuring Horowitz.  More than 100 House lawmakers have called for Holder’s
resignation as a result of the operation, his work on terrorism
policy and the department’s refusal to give certain documents to
congressional investigators looking into the program. In June,
the chamber voted to place Holder in contempt of Congress, a
first for a sitting cabinet member.  Holder, in a statement yesterday after the report’s
release, said that it outlined a strategy that had been in place
-- and was driven by field agents -- since 2006 and that the
department’s leadership didn’t know or authorize “the use of
the flawed strategy or tactics.”  ‘Baseless Allegations’  Kenneth Melson, the former acting director for the ATF,
retired effective immediately, Holder said. Jason Weinstein, the
deputy assistant attorney general who is identified in the
report as learning of the program and failing to inform his
superiors or take action to halt its existence, resigned.  Holder criticized the lawmakers conducting their own probe
into the operation, calling it “unfortunate that some were so
quick to make baseless allegations before they possessed the
facts.”  Holder said he hopes the report “acts as a reminder of the
dangers of adopting as fact unsubstantiated conclusions before
an investigation of the circumstances is completed.”  Issa, whose staff already released a report describing
failures by ATF and plans to release two more installments, said
the inspector general’s report confirms “a near total disregard
for public safety in Operation Fast and Furious.”  Issa pointed to Weinstein, as well as former acting Deputy
Attorney General Gary Grindler -- now Holder’s chief of staff --
and Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer as examples of
Holder’s “inner circle” that were referred by the inspector
general for possible disciplinary or administrative action.
Grindler and Breuer are cited in the report for failing to
inform superiors when they had information on the operation.  Inquiry Response  “It’s time for President Obama to step in and provide
accountability for officials at both the Department of Justice
and ATF who failed to do their jobs,” Issa said in a statement.
“Attorney General Holder has clearly known about these
unacceptable failures yet has failed to take appropriate action
for over a year and a half.”  The report was Horowitz’s first major investigation as
inspector general, one heavily anticipated by members of both
parties and the Justice Department. Horowitz, who held senior
positions in the department’s Criminal Division under President
 Bill Clinton  and President  George W. Bush , was confirmed by the
Senate in April, after the investigation was under way.  The report criticized how the Justice Department handled
its response to congressional inquiries into the operation,
noting that a letter to Grassley in May 2011 reaffirming that
Testimony a month later created “ambiguity and uncertainty”
about whether the department was defending those same
statements, according to the report.  U.S. Attorney  The ATF is labeled along with the U.S. Attorney’s office as
bearing the “primary responsibility” in the program designed
to track U.S. guns into  Mexico  and identify leaders in Mexican
drug cartels.  With its inability to track the guns in the program, along
with failures to act against the purchasers of the weapons, the
report labeled the agency conduct and supervision
“significantly flawed.”  ATF officials said that they’ve made improvements since the
operation.  “We’ve made significant changes to ATF management and
business practices, and we will make sure that this agency puts
public safety first in all of our investigations,” B. Todd Jones, the acting ATF director, said in a statement.  ‘Inappropriate Tactics’  Weinstein, a 15-year department veteran who was overseeing
the Criminal Division’s violent crime program and was aware of a
prior operation, called Wide Receiver, that was similar to the
Fast and Furious, was labeled in the report as “the most senior
person in the department in April and May 2010 who was in a
position to identify the similarity between the inappropriate
tactics used in Operation Wide Receiver and Fast and Furious.”  His knowledge of the two programs should have caused him to
“ask questions about the operational details of Fast and
Furious,” according to the report.  Weinstein, in his resignation letter to Holder, called the
report’s conclusions “completely false.”  “For me to have done this would have run counter to the
entire body of work I compiled during the past 15 years, and for
that reason alone such allegations should have given pause to
the inspector general,” Weinstein wrote in the letter dated
yesterday. His lawyer, Michael R. Bromwich, called the report
“badly flawed.”  Melson, in a statement, said while he disagreed “with many
of the speculative assumptions, conclusions and
characterizations in the Inspector General’s report, as the
acting director of the agency I was ultimately responsible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  