-- Fantasia Markets Dollar Bond Sale as Spreads Narrow to 2011 Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-19T05:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/fantasia-markets-dollar-bond-sale-as-spreads-narrow-to-2011-low.html
Fantasia Holdings Group Co. (1777)  is
marketing dollar-denominated bonds while South Korea’s  Doosan
Infracore Co. (042670)  and Mongolia’s XacBank consider sales after yield
premiums on notes from  Asia  dropped to a 15-month low. Debt risk
was little changed.  Fantasia, a Shenzhen-based property developer, plans to
sell five-year bonds this week, while Doosan Infracore and
XacBank are meeting fund managers this week ahead of possible
offerings, according to people familiar with the deals. Spreads
on dollar bonds from Asian borrowers narrowed to 280 basis
points more than Treasuries yesterday, the least since May 31,
2011, according to an HSBC Holdings Plc index.  “Funding conditions will remain very attractive for
corporates if, as we expect, Treasury yields stay low and credit
spreads continue grinding in,” said Mark Reade, a credit desk
analyst at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in Hong Kong. Borrowers “would be
sensible to start thinking about their late 2013 and 2014
funding needs.”  Investors are piling into riskier assets as policymakers
from Japan to Europe and the U.S. announce stimulus measures to
avoid a global slowdown. Asian bond funds had 16 straight weeks
of inflows as of Sept. 12, according to EPFR Global.  Bangkok
Bank PCL (BBL)  and Westpac Banking Corp. sold $3.45 billion of notes
yesterday in the busiest day for offerings from the region since
Sept. 10, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 116 basis points
as of 9:03 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Credit Agricole prices show. It
dropped to 114 on Sept. 14, the lowest since July 2011,
according to data provider CMA.  Doosan Talks  Fantasia may price the dollar-denominated notes in the low-
to mid-14 percent range, the person familiar with the matter
said, declining to be identified because the terms aren’t yet
set.  Doosan Infracore, the Incheon-based construction-equipment
maker, starts talks with debt investors tomorrow and may seek to
sell 30-year bonds that are callable after five years, the
person familiar said. XacBank meets asset managers in Hong Kong
and  London  from today, and its debut dollar offering may follow,
another person said.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, is also
planning meetings with fixed-income investors, a separate person
said today. The Luxembourg-based company is considering a sale
of hybrid notes in dollars, the person said.  Bangkok Bank sold $1.2 billion of 5 1/2 and 10-year bonds
in its first sale in the U.S. currency in almost two years
yesterday, while Westpac priced $2.25 billion of fixed- and
floating-rate notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Australia, Japan Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 1 basis point to 139
basis points as of 10:46 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac
Banking Corp.. (WBC)   The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 1 basis point to 193
as of 9:41 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  