-- FDIC’s Hoenig Says Banks May Revisit Pre-2008 Risky Behavior
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/fdic-s-hoenig-says-banks-may-return-to-pre-2008-risky-behaviors.html
If big U.S. banks are not forced to
sever their investment arms from traditional banking, they will
return to behavior that led to the 2008 credit crisis, said
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. board member  Thomas Hoenig .  “The behavior and practices leading to this crisis will
soon reemerge and these highly complex, more vulnerable firms
will have an even more devastating effect on the economy,”
Hoenig said in remarks yesterday at the Exchequer Club in
 Washington . “Activities leading to the crisis continue today --
and continue to be subsidized -- well after the lessons should
have been learned.”  Regulators should reinstate a separation between commercial
banking and brokerages, a kind of “modern version” of the
 Glass-Steagall Act  to separate commercial banking from brokerage
operations, Hoenig has argued since before joining the FDIC in
April. The public safety net should not protect the banking
industry’s trading risks, according to the former Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City president.  Hoenig said major banks have “misled the markets regarding
 interest rates ” and that “firms using FDIC-insured funds
continue to make directional bets on asset values and global
events.”  He said the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and its so-called Volcker
rule to ban banks from proprietary trading was insufficient and
that the government safety net will still cover swaps trading
and market making, “much of which could become veiled prop-
trading.”  Big Banks  The big banks won’t “come along willingly” but should be
forced to, Hoenig said.  “It is alarming that CEOs of some financial firms fail to
grasp why they are trusted so little nor appreciate the
reputational damage they caused their industry,” he said.  Last week, Hoenig said capital rules revised by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  should be replaced by a simpler
 leverage ratio . Basel’s U.S. implementation should be delayed,
he said, and risk should instead be reduced with leverage ratio
requirements.  Asked yesterday if tighter leverage rules and his proposal
to split up complex banking operations could drive business into
a so-called shadow banking system, he said his ideas would
instead create a system in which capital demands would be
clearer and the market would be more aware of its
responsibilities.  “Yes, firms would fail, and yes, there will be disruptions
from that, but it would not bring the entire world down,”
Hoenig said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  