-- Commodities Boom May Have Peaked as Fed Stimulus Fades
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-09-20T17:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/fed-stimulus-fading-as-forecasters-say-best-is-over-commodities.html
The biggest advances in commodities
this year may be over because of mounting concern that policy
makers aren’t doing enough to bolster economic growth at a time
when producers are expanding supply.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials will
end the year at 677, 3.1 percent higher than now, based on the
median of 10 investor and analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The index is 1.8 percent lower since the  European
Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-purchase program Sept.
6 and 3.8 percent below its level when the  Federal Reserve 
pledged a third round of debt-buying Sept. 13.  That contrasts with a 92 percent surge from the end of 2008
through June 2011 as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two
bouts of quantitative easing. The impact will probably be
smaller this time, Barclays Plc says. Prices are already in a
 bull market , the 17-nation euro area is contracting and  China 
has slowed for six straight quarters.  Europe  and China represent
about 60 percent of global copper demand and about 33 percent of
crude-oil consumption.  “The investment demand that might be driven by people’s
changed perception after Fed action is not going to sustain a
further long-term move of the commodity complex,” said Michael
Aronstein, the president of Marketfield Asset Management in  New
York  who correctly predicted the  slump  in prices in 2008 and the
rebound in 2009. “The longer you keep prices in all of these
sectors elevated, the more supply you recruit.”  Dollar Index  The S&P  GSCI (DXY)  rose 1.8 percent this year, heading for a
fourth consecutive annual advance. Soybeans and wheat led the
gains after the worst U.S. drought since 1956. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities jumped 12 percent and the U.S.
Dollar Index, a measure against six major trading partners,
dropped 0.9 percent. Treasuries returned 1.6 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Commodity assets under management reached $406 billion at
the end of July, from $399 billion at the start of the year,
based on Barclays’ estimates of money tied to  exchange-traded
products , medium-term notes and indexes. Assets reached a record
$451 billion in April 2011. Open interest, or contracts
outstanding, across the members of the S&P GSCI rose 16 percent
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morgan Stanley is forecasting supply surpluses in aluminum,
nickel, zinc and thermal coal in 2013 and Barclays expects a
glut in lead for at least a third consecutive year. The rally in
aluminum and zinc makes production cuts in China less likely,
prolonging excessive production, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a
report Sept. 17.  Oil Inventories  While the Paris-based  International Energy Agency 
anticipates record demand for oil in 2013, it said in a monthly
report Sept. 12 that inventories have become “more
comfortable.” Natural-gas futures tumbled 27 percent in the
past year in New York as production in the U.S., the biggest
producer and consumer, advanced to a record.  Gold will probably be among the biggest winners from
quantitative easing, say JPMorgan Chase & Co., Standard Bank
Group and Credit Suisse Group AG. Some investors buy bullion as
a hedge against inflation and a weaker dollar. The metal, which
reached a six-month high of $1,779.50 an ounce yesterday, will
advance to a record $2,400 by the end of 2014, assuming the
stimulus lasts until then, Bank of America Corp. said.  ‘More Attractive’  “We view owning commodities and gold in particular as more
attractive post the QE3 announcement,” said Walter “Bucky”
Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management
in Birmingham, Alabama. “While the QE is there, it does keep
the bid under commodities prices and gives them an opportunity
to continue to move higher even with a sluggish economy.”  Central-bank action should boost prices across precious and
industrial metals, JPMorgan said in a report Sept. 14, citing a
probable decline in the  dollar . Gold, silver, Brent crude oil
and aluminum will probably rally more than other commodities,
 Standard Bank  said in a Sept. 17 report.  The Fed will buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month and
hold the benchmark interest rate near zero through at least
mid-2015. The ECB held its benchmark rate at a record low of
0.75 percent and said its program will target  government bonds 
with maturities of one to three years. The  Bank of Japan 
unexpectedly expanded its asset-purchase fund by 10 trillion yen
($126 billion) on Sept. 19. More than two-dozen nations cut
market  interest rates  this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The S&P GSCI in one year may be at 720 points, or about 10
percent higher than now, according to the Bloomberg survey. The
 International Monetary Fund  expects global growth to accelerate
to 3.9 percent next year, from 3.5 percent in 2012.  Hedge Funds  Commodities also may rally because of supply cuts. Morgan
Stanley expects copper demand to outpace supply for a fourth
year in 2013. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  is forecasting
the smallest global corn stockpiles in six years and the lowest
soybean inventories in two decades after drought across the U.S.
and Europe parched crops. Sanctions against  Iran  are crimping
oil exports from what was once the second-biggest producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Hedge funds  and other speculators remain bullish and held
the biggest bet on rising prices in 16 months in the week ended
Sept. 11, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
Holdings more than doubled since mid-June. That contrasts with a
95 percent reduction in the net-long position before the start
of the first round of quantitative easing in December 2008.  ‘Tug of War’  “This is not as much as a one-way ticket as it has been in
the previous two instances,” said Sean Corrigan, the chief
investment strategist at Diapason Commodities Management SA in
Lausanne,  Switzerland , which has about $7 billion invested in
commodities. “The tug of war is between how much is already
priced in and how much poorer is the underlying commodity demand
because the world economy is in a much worse condition now.”  China, the biggest consumer of everything from coal to
cotton to copper, set an annual growth target of 7.5 percent in
March. It cut interest rates for the second time in less than a
month in July and lowered  reserve requirements  three times
between November and May. The government approved plans this
month for a $158 billion subways-to-roads construction plan.  The economy of the euro area contracted 0.5 percent in the
second quarter and probably won’t expand again until the second
quarter of next year, according to the median of 24 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The global economy is sliding
into a “twilight zone,” caught between expansion and
recession, and it “could go either way,” said  Joachim Fels ,
the chief economist at Morgan Stanley in  London .  Private Banking  Equities and high-yield debt probably will give greater
returns than commodities, said Ashish Misra, the head of
investment strategy at Lloyds TSB Banking Group in London. Its
private banking unit manages about 11 billion pounds ($17.8
billion) of assets. Commodities have risen about fourfold since
the end of 2001, during which the MSCI All-Country World Index
gained 41 percent and Treasuries returned 77 percent.  “We’re heading for a period of underperformance in
commodities after years of outperformance,” Misra said. “The
effects of a slowdown in China and resumption of normal
production trends in agriculture after this year’s drought-
driven supply shocks should continue to pressure commodity
prices downward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
&cls;Maria Kolesnikova&cle; in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  