-- Florida Cutbacks in Early-Voting Hours Face Challenge
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   M e l i s s a   B l y e
-- 2012-09-19T18:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/florida-cutbacks-in-early-voting-hours-face-challenge.html
Florida ’s 2011 law cutting back
early voting days discriminates against black voters and should
be thrown out, a lawyer for opponents of the measure said at a
hearing.  The law cut early voting from 14 to eight days and removed
the Sunday before the Nov. 6 election as a voting day. U.S.
Representative Corrine Brown, along with the  Democratic Party  of
Duval County and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,
sued in July in Jacksonville to have the prior law reinstated.  Barring voting on the final Sunday before election day is
“discriminatory and unlawful” under the Voting Rights Act,
Neil Henrichsen, Brown’s attorney, argued at a hearing today
before U.S. District Judge Timothy Corrigan, where opponents are
seeking to stop enforcement of the 2011 law. “Once you give
that right, it is a protected right.”  “I’m not sure what, even if you identify some wrong, what
the remedy is,” Corrigan said at the hearing. “It seems that
the old law isn’t what you wanted either.”  Brown and other opponents of the law haven’t shown an
intent to discriminate or lessened voting opportunity, George
Meros Jr., an attorney for the state, said at the hearing.
Changing the rules this close to the election would “create
confusion,” he said.  Bush Appointee  Corrigan, who was appointed to the bench by Republican
President  George W. Bush , didn’t issue an immediate decision. He
said he would rule quickly.  “My decision will be as succinct as I can make it,” he
said today. Whatever he decides, it probably will be appealed,
he said.  Brown and the other opponents contended in court papers
that since Florida began early voting in 2004, “African
American voters have disproportionately taken advantage” of it.
“Sunday voting the last weekend before Election Day has enabled
access” for these voters, they said.  The state said in court papers that the new hours don’t
discriminate and provide more voter access on weekends.  “Florida law affords ample opportunities to vote: eight
days of in-person early voting, no-excuse absentee voting and
Election Day voting,” the state said in written arguments.
“Because plaintiffs have not alleged -- and cannot show -- that
the early-voting law will prevent them from voting, there is no
irreparable harm.”  Multiple Cases  The lawsuit is among multiple court battles over voting
rules, particularly in states including Florida,  Ohio ,
 Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin , where both Republican and Democratic
presidential campaigns see possible victories.  Voter cases are also under way in  Alabama ,  South Carolina ,
 Tennessee  and  Texas . In Pennsylvania, the state  Supreme Court 
set aside for further review a ruling allowing the state to
enforce a law requiring voters to have photo identification,
which the  American Civil Liberties Union  has argued was aimed at
keeping likely Democratic voters away from the polls.  Ohio officials appealed a federal judge’s order to
reinstate equal early-voting hours for everyone. The decision by
U.S. District Judge Peter Economus last month came in a lawsuit
challenging a new state law allowing Ohioans in the military and
living overseas the right to cast ballots until the day before
the election, while ending voting for others four days earlier.  Voter Lists  Lawsuits filed over Florida voting rules include at least
two challenging a law ostensibly designed to purge noncitizens
from voter lists, which opponents say would disenfranchise new
citizens as well.  A federal judge last month blocked implementation of a new
Florida law restricting voter-registration activities.  The state sued the U.S. last year seeking approval of the
new early-voting hours under the federal Voting Rights Act. The
act requires “preclearance” of changes that affect five
Florida counties. A three-judge panel in August denied
preclearance, finding that the new hours would adversely affect
black voters.  The state revised the rules for these counties, providing
for 96 hours over eight days, and the federal government granted
preclearance last week. Under the prior rules, each county’s
supervisor of elections had the discretion to offer six to 12
hours on each of the eight days. The U.S. said it would ask the
state to dismiss the lawsuit.  Law’s Opponents  Brown and other opponents of the 2011 law are asking that
residents of other counties be given the same access. Brown was
joined in the lawsuit by individual plaintiffs as well as the
Democratic Party and the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference.  “We rely heavily on the ruling in the preclearance suit,”
Mike Collins, Brown’s legal counsel, said in a phone interview.  Corrigan asked today whether the parties could settle the
lawsuit, using the formula in the agreement with the U.S. over
the five counties.  The secretary of state “doesn’t have the authority,”
under the current law to do that, Meros, Florida’s attorney said
at the hearing. “The secretary of state believes the new early
voting is a better solution for Florida.”  Florida’s original early voting was spurred by difficulties
of access in the 2000 presidential election, “which resulted in
the disenfranchisement of thousands of qualified voters in the
state of Florida, an effect which fell most heavily upon African
American voters,” according to the lawsuit.  Then-Texas Governor George W. Bush’s 537-vote victory in
Florida, as determined by the U.S. Supreme Court, over Vice
President  Al Gore  in the 2000 presidential election won the
White House for Bush, a Republican.  Black Voters  Black voters began using early voting at a rate double
those of whites, according to the lawsuit. Black churches
organized “souls to the polls” drives to transport congregants
to early-voting sites on the Sunday before Election Day, Brown’s
lawyers said.  The Sunday voting drive was “crucial to African American
voters who work six days a week and/or have inflexible working
hours during the work week,” the lawyers said, citing a
statement by plaintiff Ingrid Fluellen.  Democrat  Barack Obama  won Florida in 2008 over Republican
 John McCain  by 2.8 percentage points.  The plaintiffs claim that the early-voting law was changed
to restrict access of black voters, Hispanics, the elderly and
college students.  During debate over the changes, Republican State Senator
 Mike Bennett  said “he did not want to make it easier for people
to vote, but rather that it should be harder to vote -- as it is
in  Africa ,” Brown’s lawyers said in court papers.  No Bias  Lawyers for the state said the  Justice Department ’s
granting preclearance last week shows that the new hours “were
not enacted with any discriminatory purpose and will not be
retrogressive.”  The new law increased access to Sunday voting in Florida,
the state said. Under the prior law, counties were required to
offer eight early-voting hours for each of the two weekends
prior to the election.  “The vast majority of counties exercised this discretion
by scheduling weekend early voting on Saturdays,” the state
said. “During the 2008 primary and general elections, only 12
of 67 counties offered Sunday early voting, and, of these, only
six offered early voting on the last Sunday before election.”  The new law requires all counties to provide early voting
on one Sunday and two Saturdays for six to 12 hours each day,
the state said.  Allowing early voting “too close to election day” brought
logistical problems, leading to barring voting on the final
Sunday, the state said.  Republican Party  The  Republican Party  joined in the opposition to the
injunction, arguing in court papers that it would be harmed by a
change in rules so close to the November election.  Granting an injunction would disrupt the ability of the
party “to effectively participate in the general election after
having made plans in reliance on a state law that has been in
effect for more than a year,” lawyers for Republican units in
Broward, Sarasota and Clay counties said in a Sept. 14 filing.  The case is Brown v. Detzner, 12-cv-00852, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net 
Melissa Blye in Jacksonville, Florida federal court, at
 blyekm@comcast.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  