-- France to Shut Missions in 20 Nations on Cartoon-Backlash Worry
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-09-19T16:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/france-to-shut-missions-in-20-nations-on-cartoon-backlash-worry.html
France will close diplomatic sites
in 20  Muslim countries  on Sept. 21 on concern that a French
satirical magazine’s publication of cartoons mocking the  Prophet
Muhammad  may provoke a violent backlash.  France will close embassies, consulates, cultural centers
and French schools on Friday, the day of prayer for Muslims, the
foreign ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  “We have given instructions in all countries where it
could pose a problem to take particular security measures,”
Stephanie Desbois, a foreign ministry spokeswoman, said in the
statement.  The publication of the caricatures in the weekly magazine
Charlie Hebdo comes just days after a film seen to be
denigrating the prophet provoked demonstrations against U.S.
missions overseas. The protests resulted in the death of the
U.S. Ambassador to  Libya , Chris Stevens, and three other
diplomats.  In France, the government said it won’t allow street
protests against the cartoons, rejecting a call made by some
Islamic groups.  “We live in a land where freedom of expression is
guaranteed, including that of satire,” Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said in an interview on RTL radio today. “We also live
in a land of rights, and if people feel they have been offended
they can take it to the courts.”  Last weekend, the French police broke up a gathering of
about 200 people near the U.S. embassy protesting the anti-Islam
film.  While saying that he understands that some Muslims might be
offended, Ayrault said “there is no reason to allow in these
issues that don’t involve  France .”  Ayrault praised French Muslim leaders for having issued
calls for restraint.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Viscusi at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ; 