-- Fred Couples Voted Into Golf Hall of Fame to End Status Debate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-20T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/fred-couples-voted-into-golf-hall-of-fame-with-one-major-title.html
Fred Couples , whose 1992 Masters
Tournament victory was one of his 15 career U.S. titles, is the
only player who will be inducted this year into the World Golf
Hall of Fame.  Couples, 52, will be enshrined in the  St. Augustine ,
 Florida , hall on May 6, U.S. PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem
said during a news conference yesterday at the Tour
Championship, the final event of the U.S. men’s golf season. The
induction will be held three days before the start of the
 Players Championship , a tournament Couples has won twice.  With one major victory, Couples’s status as a Hall of Fame-
worthy player had been debated over the years. Couples received
51 percent of the vote on the PGA Tour ballot. Under the hall’s
rules, when no player reaches the required 65 percent total, one
player who tops the 50 percent mark is selected.  “I guess I won a popularity vote here,” Couples, a fan
favorite throughout his career, said during the news conference
at Atlanta’s East Lake Golf Club. “To be in the Hall of Fame
you’ve got to be a very, very good player. I don’t consider
myself to be a great player, but I’m a good player. For everyone
who voted, I appreciate it.”  Mark O’Meara , who has two major titles among 16 career
victories, was named on 36 percent of the ballots. Last year,
when  Phil Mickelson  was selected for induction with 72 percent
of the vote, Couples was chosen on 38 percent of the ballots.  In addition to his 15 wins on the main U.S. Tour, Couples
won five times in Europe and has eight titles since joining the
50-and-over Champions Tour, including the Senior  British Open  in
July. His victory at the 1992 Masters, golf’s first of four
annual major tournaments, made him the first U.S.-born player to
reach No. 1 in the Official World Golf Ranking that started in
1989.  Ryder Cup  Couples, an assistant captain for this year’s U.S. Ryder
Cup team, also played in five Ryder Cup tournaments, helping the
American squad to victory in 1991 and 1993.  It’s the third hall of fame selection for Couples. He was
inducted into the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame
in Chicago in November 2007 and was selected for the Texas
Sports Hall of Fame last year.  Others on the PGA Tour ballot who fell short included  Davis Love III  and Ken Venturi (both 38 percent); Fuzzy Zoeller (22
percent); Dave Stockton (21 percent); and  Jim Furyk  (8 percent).  The PGA Tour ballot voting body consists of golf
journalists, historians and golf dignitaries. Additional
inductees in the international, veterans and lifetime
achievement categories will be announced in the coming weeks,
the hall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  