-- French Socialists Show Split as Hollande Pushes Euro Treaty
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-09-19T09:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/french-socialists-show-divisions-as-hollande-presses-euro-treaty.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
is seeking lawmakers’ support for  Europe ’s fiscal treaty as
differences emerge over economic policy within his Socialist
Party and put the region’s crisis resolution at risk.  The budget pact, which Hollande agreed to in June as part
of a European package of measures intended to put an end to the
three-year euro-area debt crisis, will be put before parliament
on Oct. 2, Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said today in Paris.
It is opposed by Socialist lawmakers including Marie-Noelle Lienemann and Jerome Guedj, who say it will impose austerity
that they campaigned against in the May presidential elections.  “Our budget discipline is not imposed by the treaty,”
Ayrault said today after the French cabinet approved the treaty.
“It’s a question of credibility. My goal is to convince as many
members of parliament as possible to do their duty to give
 France  a strong voice so that it’s listened to. You can’t call
for more European solidarity and not ratify the treaty.”  Support for the treaty from legislators belonging to former
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s party may help enshrine it into
French law. Still, the split within Hollande’s party reflects
the growing political challenge he faces in reviving Europe’s
second-largest economy and retaining the confidence of both
investors and his European partners.  “The fiscal treaty ratification process is going to reveal
 fault lines  in France,” said  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at
Eurasia Group in  London . “It’s going to create lot of noise and
generate issues that have been avoided in France for 25 years.”  German Demands  France, which hasn’t balanced its budget since 1974, has
promised to cut its deficit to 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product this year and 3 percent next year from 5.2 percent last
year, before eliminating the shortfall in 2017. Hollande said
this month that his government is planning 30 billion euros ($39
billion) in tax increases and spending cuts to meet targets.  The fiscal pact, demanded by  Germany  in return for more
support for euro-area governments struggling to get financing,
requires the bloc’s 17 countries to limit their deficits to 0.5
percent of GDP or less when the economy is growing. The pact
takes effect once 12 euro-area countries have ratified it.  Ayrault said in a radio interview today that the pact has
allowed the  European Central Bank  to offer more help to end the
region’s debt crisis.  “Thanks to this, the ECB is ready to intervene, which is a
major change,” he said on RTL radio. By voting for this treaty,
lawmakers will “strengthen the hand of the president” in
European negotiations, he added.  Some French Socialists say the policy risks pushing the
country into recession.  Waning Popularity  “It’s an austerity treaty,”  Lienemann , a Socialist
senator who intends to vote against the pact, said Sept. 5.
“Everything in the current economic circumstances shows that
blocking public spending is a strategy for long-term austerity
and to put us into recession.”  Guedj , a Socialist member of the National Assembly agrees.
“We’d be curbing growth if we vote for this,” Guedj said on
 Europe 1  radio. “We won’t be able to do an economic stimulus
that is sometimes necessary to revive growth.”  Their anti-austerity sentiments have echoed across the
region, with growing opposition to the German-led push in
 Greece ,  Spain  and the Netherlands.  The challenge is an added problem for Hollande at a time
when he’s readying tax increases, spending cuts and is trying to
convince unions to accept increased worker flexibility.  The agenda, along with a stalled economy and unemployment
at a 13-year high, has caused Hollande’s popularity to wane
since winning office in May.  Only 46 percent of voters now have a positive opinion of
Hollande, down 15 points since the end of June and the first
time a majority holds such a view, according to a BVA poll of
1,044 adults published this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  