-- Full Tilt Poker Pay Processor Burtnick Pleads Guilty
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-19T17:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/full-tilt-poker-pay-processor-burtnick-pleads-guilty.html
Nelson Burtnick, the head of
payment processing for poker website  Full Tilt Poker , pleaded
guilty to taking part in a scheme to deceive banks into handling
Internet gambling transactions that violated U.S. laws.  Burtnick, 41, a Canadian citizen, told U.S. Magistrate
Judge Gabriel Gorenstein in  New York  today that U.S. banks would
have refused to process such payments for Ireland-based Full
Tilt Poker had they known the transactions were illegal.
Burtnick admitted committing the crimes while working at both
Isle of Man-based PokerStars and later at Full Tilt.  “We had to do this type of deception to enable U.S. poker
players to load their accounts” with funds, Burtnick told the
magistrate. “I know that what I did was wrong.”  Burtnick faces as long as 15 years in prison when he is
sentenced by U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan , Gorenstein said.
No sentencing date was set.  Kelly Currie, a lawyer for Burtnick, declined to comment on
the plea after court.  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. implemented the
Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act in 2006, barring
banks from processing payments to offshore gaming sites, the
founders and employees of Full Tilt Poker, PokerStars and
 Absolute Poker  worked around the ban.  In July, Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose
office is prosecuting the case, as well as a civil suit against
the three gambling companies, announced a $731 million
settlement with PokerStars and Full Tilt. PokerStars agreed to
forfeit $547 million.  PokerStars agreed to acquire the assets of Full Tilt, whose
U.S. victims will be able to seek compensation from the  Justice
Department  from the funds, prosecutors said at the time.  The case is U.S. v. Tzvetkoff, 10-cr-336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  