-- GE Engines to Lose Steam If High-Speed Rail Judged Too Slow
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-09-19T14:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/ge-engines-to-lose-steam-if-high-speed-rail-judged-too-slow-1-.html
U.S. taxpayers have spent $1.5
billion to allow  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) ’s tracks between  Chicago 
and St. Louis to carry faster passenger trains, one of the
biggest projects in President  Barack Obama ’s high-speed rail
program.  Now a panel advising the same agency that oversaw the work
may require it to be re-done so trains can go even faster, to
the potential benefit of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  and the
detriment of  General Electric Co. (GE)   “In a time of great fiscal constraints, why should
taxpayers pay more money to save a fraction of travel time that
can’t even be achieved unless states spend billions of dollars
more to undo work they have already done?” Rob McKeel, general
manager of global locomotive operations for GE, said in an e-
mail.  A  committee  with representatives from states, U.S.
regulators and  Amtrak , the U.S. national passenger railroad, is
developing specifications for train engines to be bought with
high-speed rail money from Obama’s 2009 stimulus bill. About $1
billion awarded to states in August 2011 for locomotive
purchases has been held up until those standards are issued.  The group, called the Next Generation Equipment Committee,
must decide whether to require equipment to run at top speeds of
110 miles per hour (177 kilometers per hour), the standard for
the Federal Railroad Administration’s work with Illinois on the
Union Pacific tracks, or 125 mph. It also could allow either
standard or permit states to choose.  Higher Speed  The higher speed, while cutting travel time between Chicago
and  St. Louis , would require more spending on track work for the
trains to run at full speed, as 125-mph corridors can’t have
grade crossings across roads under U.S. regulations. Grade
crossings would have to be replaced by overpasses or
underpasses, or closed.  The faster train would shave 20 minutes off the travel time
on that route, assuming it ran at maximum speed for the whole
time and didn’t stop for passengers.  The higher standard could also cost sales for GE, the
biggest seller of freight locomotives in the U.S. market,
because its engine produced now only reaches 110 mph.  Deputy U.S. Transportation Secretary John Porcari said the
decision has to consider future needs.  Track Upgrade  “Passenger rail tends to evolve in stages,” he said in an
interview. “You have to upgrade both the track and signal
equipment and the rolling stock. What you don’t want to do is
buy something with a 30-year lifespan that doesn’t serve you for
all 30 years.”  Committee members, he said, “were unanimous in their
belief that 125 mph is important for the future” and his agency
supports that.  Amtrak’s Acela, the fastest U.S. passenger train, can go up
to 150 mph, though it averages around 80 mph between Washington
and  Boston .  Without naming GE, Caterpillar’s Progress Rail Services
unit, in a May 8 letter to U.S. Congress members, said a 110-mph
standard would exclusively benefit one company. Executives from
Siemens and  Tognum AG (TGM) , both German rail-equipment manufacturers,
also signed the letter.  “A diesel-electric locomotive built to a state-of-the-art,
125-mph design delivers benefits even in advance of track
upgrades that will let it travel faster than 110 mph,” wrote
William Ainsworth, chief executive officer of the Caterpillar
unit; Thomas Koenig, president of Tognum America; and Michael
Cahill, president of Siemens Industry rail systems.  Creating Jobs  Caterpillar has designed a locomotive that can go up to 125
mph and is ready to sell it when there’s demand, Rusty Dunn, a
spokesman, said.  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , Obama’s former chief of staff,
is urging the speed be kept at 110 mph, saying that decision
would immediately create jobs, the intent of the stimulus
package. The slower locomotives would cost less and are
available now, he said.  “The high-speed rail program should put people to work
sooner, rather than later, and states like Illinois shouldn’t
have to spend billions of dollars to undo track upgrades they
have already made,” Emanuel said in an e-mailed statement.  Michigan, Missouri, Washington and  Oregon , like Illinois,
have spent billions of dollars to upgrade tracks to the 110-mph
standard, GE’s McKeel said. The railroad administration today
announced it’s giving $74.8 million to improve 11 miles of track
carrying commuter trains in  Virginia  to accommodate speeds up to
110 mph.  Running Faster  “It doesn’t make sense to insist that these states now
purchase locomotives that run at 125 miles per hour,” he said.  Running trains faster uses more fuel and wouldn’t provide
benefits as great as it might appear, Joe Boardman, chief
executive officer of Amtrak, said in an interview.  “Amtrak doesn’t need any more than 110,” he said.  The  Illinois  Department of Transportation said in a June
 report  that it doesn’t plan to upgrade the tracks again.  Donna Kush, a spokeswoman for Union Pacific, had no
comment.  Market Share  The higher-speed locomotives would use 17 percent more fuel
for a comparable trip than a locomotive with a top speed of 110
mph, according to a 2011 report by the Next Generation Equipment
Committee, the advisory panel.  In another report, the panel said a diesel locomotive
capable of reaching 125 mph “will cost more” than one topping
out at 110 mph, saying quantifying the cost difference “is very
difficult.”  Most long-haul locomotive purchases in the U.S. are for
freight hauling. Caterpillar is based in Peoria, Illinois, the
hometown of U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood.  GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , has about 70 percent
of the U.S. freight locomotive market, said James Husband,
president of RailSolutions Inc., an Alexandria, Virginia-based
rail consulting firm.  GE has increased its market share advantage over
Caterpillar’s Electro-Motive Diesel unit as the North American
freight-locomotive market has shrunk from about 900 sales per
year to about 300 for the past two or three years, Husband said
in an interview.  “Over the last 10 years or so, GE has been winning the
market share by 62-to-64 percent and the remainder EMD,” he
said. “In the last two, three years, the market’s been pretty
slow.”  GE shares rose 4 cents to $22.28 at 9:43 a.m. in  New York 
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  