-- Spanish Bonds Rise as Rajoy Pledges Cuts Amid Rescue Speculation
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-19T15:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/german-bunds-fall-before-auction-as-bank-of-japan-adds-stimulus.html
Spanish bonds gained, with two-year
yields dropping the most in two weeks, as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said his government was committed to cutting the  budget
deficit  and investors bet the country will seek a bailout.  Spain’s securities rose for a second day after Deputy Prime
Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria told opposition lawmakers
they had called for the  European Central Bank  to buy government
debt, setting out the case for an aid request. Spanish bonds are
headed for the biggest monthly gain in a year after the ECB said
it will act to reduce borrowing costs if countries request
assistance. German  two-year notes  rallied as investors bid for
most than the maximum target at a debt sale today.  “Spain’s government has said it’s considering the
possibility of a bailout, which is triggering some positivity,”
said Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist at UBS AG in
 London . “Spain wants to avoid being told they need to make much
stricter commitments than they are planning. The government
wants to come up with a plan of its own and use that as a
platform to get support.”  Spain’s two-year yield fell 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, to 3.12 percent at 4:04 p.m. London time after
dropping as much as 25 basis points, the biggest decline since
Sept. 4. The 4.75 percent note due in July 2014 gained 0.36, or
3.0 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,306) face amount, to 102.865.  The 10-year yield declined 19 basis points to 5.71 percent.  Spanish  government bonds  have returned 4.5 percent this
month, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. The securities are set for their biggest gain since
August 2011, when they gained 5.3 percent.  ‘Finance Ourselves’  “The policy is to reduce the deficit because if we don’t
reduce the deficit we aren’t going to be able to finance
ourselves,” Rajoy told Parliament today in response to a
question from Socialist leader Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba about
anti-austerity protests last week.  Saenz said yesterday the nation would consider seeking
external aid if the conditions were acceptable.  “The ECB is promoting sovereign-debt purchases in the
secondary market, an option that until recently you thought was
positive,” she told Socialist lawmakers in Parliament in  Madrid 
today. While Saenz said Rajoy was still analyzing whether to
seek help, she set out arguments that would justify a request.  Spain Auction  Spain  is scheduled to sell as much as 4.5 billion euros of
debt due in October 2015 and January 2022 tomorrow.  The auction will probably succeed because “recent policy
announcements have created an environment conducive for
peripheral bond auctions to go well, at least in the near
term,” Citigroup Inc. analysts Nishay Patel in London and Aman Bansal in Mumbai, wrote today in a note to clients.  Issuance near the top of the indicated range would push
total supply for this year to about 71 billion euros, or 81
percent of what the government plans to offer in 2012, the
analysts wrote.  Spanish 10-year yields have fallen about 30 basis points
since Sept. 6, when ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced details
of the central bank’s asset-purchase plan. Activation is
dependent on countries asking for help and submitting themselves
to conditions set by the ECB. The Spanish benchmark yield
climbed to a euro-era record 7.75 percent on July 25.  “The fundamental challenges in Spain remain unchanged,”
saidNiels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.
“Yields are definitely more bearable than where we came from
during the summer, but they are still high.”  German Sale  Germany  sold notes due in September 2014 at an average
yield of 0.06 percent, compared with zero at the previous
auction on Aug. 22. Investors submitted bids for 8.45 billion
euros, compared with a maximum target of 5 billion euros.  The two-year yield fell two basis points to 0.06 percent
and the 10-year rate dropped three basis points to 1.61 percent.  Germany’s bonds returned 2.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities rose 0.4 percent and  Italy ’s gained 15 percent.  Volatility on Irish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Spain, according to measures of 10-
year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread between two-year
and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Ireland’s  nine-year bond  yield dropped as much as 25 basis
points to 5.01 percent, the least since August 2010.  Yields on Austrian, Finnish and Dutch debt are too close to
those of similar-maturity bunds to offer investors an incentive
to hold them over their safer German equivalents, according to
Tim Haywood, a  fund manager  at GAM, a subsidiary of  GAM Holding
AG (GAM)  in London.  Haywood, who manages about $14 billion, said he swapped his
holdings in the debt of these countries for that of Germany last
month. The maturities are mainly around five years, he said.  The extra yield investors  demand  to hold Dutch five-year
notes over their German equivalent was 18 basis points after
shrinking to 15 basis points on Sept. 14, the least since June
2011, according to Bloomberg data based on closing prices. The
 spread  between Austrian and German five-year yields is 34 basis
points, while the Finnish-German  spread  is 19 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  