-- German Economy to Stall in Second Half on Debt Crisis, BDB Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-09-19T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/german-economy-to-stall-in-second-half-on-debt-crisis-bdb-says.html
The German economy will fail to
grow in the second half of this year as a weakening world
economy and concerns about the euro region’s sovereign debt
crisis damp exports and investments, bank economists said.  The economy,  Europe ’s biggest, will expand 0.9 percent this
year and 1.1 percent in 2013 provided turmoil in Europe
subsides, the BDB association of German banks said today in an
e-mailed report, citing forecasts by 14 chief economists from
lenders including Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG.  “The European government debt crisis is damping the German
economy,” BDB board member Hans-Joachim Massenberg said in e-
mailed remarks, citing shrinking equipment spending since the
start of the year. “Many companies are holding back with their
investments at the moment.”  German economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second
quarter from 0.5 percent in the first and the Bundesbank,
 Germany ’s central bank, last month said the economy may cool
further. Business confidence fell for a fourth straight month in
August, the Munich-based Ifo institute said Aug. 27.  A recovery at the end of the year will be “moderate,”
said the BDB, which in its last outlook, published in February,
predicted growth of 0.5 percent this year and 1.5 percent in
2013.  Massenberg said the BDB views the  European Central Bank ’s
announced bond-buying program with “very mixed feelings” as
it’s “questionable” in regulatory policy terms and may fail if
governments refuse to carry out policy changes to improve their
countries’ competitiveness.  On the other hand, ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s
announcement and the decision by Germany’s constitutional court
to let the future permanent bailout fund come into existence
have lessened the risk of a breakup of the euro region,
Massenberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  