-- Giants’ Nicks to Miss Panthers Game Along With Bradshaw, Diehl
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-20T04:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/giants-bradshaw-hixon-diehl-ruled-out-for-game-at-panthers.html
New York Giants wide receiver
Hakeem Nicks will miss the team’s game tonight at the  Carolina
Panthers  because of a foot injury.  Nicks was ruled out along with running back  Ahmad Bradshaw ,
wide receiver Domenik Hixon and offensive tackle David Diehl.  Nicks, who was listed as questionable on the team’s injury
report earlier yesterday, didn’t travel to the game at Bank of
America Stadium in Charlotte,  North Carolina , the Giants said on
Twitter. Bradshaw, Hixon and Diehl already were listed as out.  Nicks broke the fifth metatarsal of his right foot in May
while running a route during practice. He had a screw surgically
inserted in the bone and was activated from the physically
unable to perform list in August.  He caught 10 passes for 199 yards and a score in the
Giants’ 41-34 win over the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  on Sept. 16,
noticeably limping after the game. He hasn’t practiced since.
Nicks has 14 catches for 237 yards in two games this season,
second on the team to  Victor Cruz , who has the same number of
yards and 17 receptions.  Bradshaw sprained his neck in the win over the Buccaneers,
rushing for 16 yards on five carries before the first-half
injury. He has a touchdown and 94 yards on 22 carries this
season.  Hixon, who had one catch for 12 yards before suffering a
concussion, and Diehl, who injured the medial collateral
ligament in his right knee, also didn’t play in the second half
against  Tampa Bay .  Diehl started all 16 regular-season games for the Giants
last season. Since being drafted in the fifth round by New York
in 2003, he’s failed to start just four games, all during the
2010 National Football League season.  Defensive end Adewale Ojomo, with a hamstring injury, also
will miss the game, the team said.  Both the Giants and Panthers, who beat the  New Orleans
Saints  in Week 2, are 1-1 this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  