-- Given Imaging Premium Widens as Ceragon Slumps: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-20T07:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/given-imaging-premium-widens-as-ceragon-slumps-israel-overnight.html
Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , the Israeli
maker of pill-sized cameras for diagnosing digestive ailments,
surged in  New York  to trade at the biggest premium to  Tel Aviv 
shares in three weeks after the company submitted trial data for
regulatory approval in  Japan .  The developer rose 5.4 percent to $14.07 in New York
yesterday to trade at a 52-cent premium to its Tel Aviv shares.
The Yokneam, Israel-based company led gains in the  Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded Israeli companies in
the U.S., with the gauge climbing to the highest since May 11.
Given climbed 3.8 percent at 9:55 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  Ceragon
Networks Ltd. (CRNT) , the Israeli maker of wireless networking systems,
tumbled to the lowest since April 2009 yesterday.  Given said yesterday that it filed the results of a study
to Japanese regulators that showed success in 94 percent of the
cases for certain polyps. Shares had dropped to a three-year low
of $12.69 on Aug. 20 after the company said it won’t submit its
pill for general screening approval to the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  following the completion of a clinical trial.  “The stock had been completely oversold previously and any
good news is great news,” Bryan Brokmeier, an analyst at Maxim
Group LLC, said by phone from New York. “Japan is a huge market
and any such news is going to result in the shares correcting on
the positive side.”  Israel ’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  declined 0.1 percent today.
The Bloomberg Israel-U.S. equity gauge rose 0.7 percent
yesterday to 85.7, the most since Sept. 6.  Colorectal Cancer  The PillCam Colon capsule  contributed  $1.8 million to
Given’s total sales of $178 million in 2011. It was cleared for
marketing by the European Union in 2006 and in Israel two years
later, according to the company’s  website .  The submission to the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical
Devices Agency includes the results of the pivotal clinical
trial of the PillCam Colon 2, designed to look at the colon for
pathologies including colorectal cancer, Given said in the
statement yesterday.  Colorectal cancer resulted in 8 percent of the 7.6 million
cancer deaths worldwide in 2008, according to the  fact sheet 
maintained by the  World Health Organization . The group projects
cancer deaths increasing to more than 13 million by 2030.  Given, which trades at 20.2 times estimated earnings in the
U.S., has lost 19 percent this year. The shares in Tel Aviv rose
to 54.89 shekels today, or the equivalent of $13.99.  Ceragon Sinks  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
stock market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Ceragon slid for a sixth day, losing 5.5 percent to $5.11
in New York yesterday. The shares in Tel Aviv fell 0.7 percent
today to 20.36 shekels, or the equivalent of $5.19.  The U.S.-listed stock has lost 26 percent of its value
since it announced the filing of a shelf registration on Aug.
15, which may lead to sales of as much as $150 million of
securities.  Ceragon’s sales will increase at the slowest pace in four
years in 2013, according to the  mean estimate  of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Alcatel-Lucent SA and ZTE Corp., who also
sell their products to telecom operators, reported slower growth
in second-quarter earnings on reduced demand from carriers.  “The dilution that could come with the shelf registration
is responsible for the selloff,”  Joseph Wolf , an analyst at
Barclays Plc, said by phone from Tel Aviv yesterday. “Their
growth rate has been cut because of economic and carrier
spending concerns in their end market. The expectation for the
sector remains under pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  