-- GM Said to Plan Bid for Ally in Europe, Latin America
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/gm-said-to-plan-bid-for-ally-s-europe-latin-america-operations.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest
U.S. automaker, is preparing to bid this week for  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY) ’s auto-lending arms in Europe and  Latin America , said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  GM isn’t pursuing an offer for Ally’s Canadian operations
or its Mexican auto insurer, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. Detroit-
based Ally put its non-U.S. operations up for sale in May to
help repay a U.S. government bailout. Ally has asked companies
to submit bids by Sept. 21 after receiving almost 30 indications
of interest in July, the people said.  An acquisition of the units would more than double the
assets of GM Financial, created in 2010 with the acquisition of
AmeriCredit Corp. Detroit-based GM owned Ally’s predecessor,
GMAC, until 2006, when the automaker sold 51 percent of it to
Cerberus Capital Management LP.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  are among
lenders that have shown interest in Ally’s Canadian operations,
one of the people said. TD bought the former lending arm of
Chrysler LLC in 2011 for $6.3 billion.  “We have disclosed our interest in acquiring some parts of
Ally’s international operations but we’re not prepared to
discuss the topic in any detail in the middle of the process,”
GM said in an e-mailed statement.  Stephen Knight  of TD and
Katherine Gay at Royal Bank declined to comment.  “We are encouraged by the breadth and depth of interest in
the international businesses,” said  Gina Proia , an Ally
spokeswoman. She declined to comment further.  GM’s Expansion  GM bought AmeriCredit to boost auto sales by providing
customers with more access to credit. Last year, GM Financial
bought Toronto-based leasing company FinanciaLinx Corp. to
expand its Canada operations.  The carmaker’s executives view Ally’s $15.3 billion of
assets in Canada as less attractive than the other regions
partly because GM already has a finance business there, one of
the people with knowledge of the matter said. Competition from
local banks also contributed, two other people said.  While GM Financial is focused mainly on  North America , Ally
financed about 30 percent of GM customers internationally in the
first quarter, Colin Langan, an analyst at UBS AG in New York,
said in a note to investors this year. Ally’s Latin American and
European lending units had $16.4 billion of assets, the lender
said in a  May 15 presentation  to investors.  GM’s finance unit had $14.6 billion of assets as of June
30. Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in a May interview
that the automaker was “the natural buyer” for the non-U.S.
operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  