-- Goldman Sachs’s Blankfein Would ‘Go Long’ on Real Estate
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-19T14:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/goldman-sachs-s-blankfein-would-go-long-on-real-estate.html
 Lloyd C. Blankfein, chief
executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said he would
invest in real estate as central banks around the world focus on
avoiding deflation.  “I accept that invitation to have higher asset prices, and
so I would go long more the real assets,” including real
estate, Blankfein, who turns 58 tomorrow, said in a discussion
today with  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  CEO  Gordon Nixon , at an event
hosted by  the Canadian Club of Toronto .  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  today joined the  Federal Reserve  and
 European Central Bank  in acting against threats of an economic
contraction five years after the U.S. mortgage meltdown derailed
the global economy. The BOJ expanded its asset-purchase fund by
10 trillion yen ($127 billion). The Fed said last week it would
buy $40 billion a month of mortgage debt in a third round of so-
called quantitative easing.  “The central banks are obviously putting a real penalty on
holding cash and are trying to incentivize everybody into going
into higher assets,” Blankfein said. “They may be
unsuccessful, but I tell you if more inflationary expectations
seeped into the world, that would be very positive today for the
economic system.”  Blankfein said he would “follow the will of the central
banks,” which are trying to avoid deflation even at the risk of
spurring inflation. “They want asset prices to inflate,” he
said.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history before converting to a bank in 2008, announced a
new round of cost-cutting in July after reporting the lowest
first-half revenue in seven years. In a research report last
week, Goldman Sachs’s bank analysts said the industry’s decline
in profit has been driven primarily by increased capital
requirements and regulation, rather than the economic slowdown.  Blankfein’s discussion today follows appearances at the
Economic Club of Washington, the St. Petersburg International
Economic Forum, the Chicago Club and on  MSNBC  earlier this year.
Goldman Sachs is based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  