-- Google Joins Facebook, Amazon in Internet Lobbying Group
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-09-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/google-joins-facebook-amazon-in-internet-lobbying-group.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and 11 other Internet companies have joined to
form a lobbyist group as issues such as online privacy and
security become a growing focus for lawmakers in Washington.  The Internet Association, based in Washington, will
advocate for economic growth and job creation in the Internet
sector, it said in a release today.  Calls for more regulation of online business have prompted
Web companies to boost their lobbying in recent years. Google,
Facebook and others led an online protest earlier this year
against proposed anti-piracy bills in the U.S. Congress, which
they said would promote online censorship, disrupt the Web’s
architecture and hurt innovation.  The Internet Association is the first attempt at
coordinating efforts, Michael Beckerman, the group’s president
and chief executive officer, said in an interview.  “A group of these companies came together and decided that
they needed a unified trade association to represent the
interests of the Internet economy in the policy debates,” said
Beckerman, a former deputy staff director of the U.S. House of
Representatives Energy and Commerce Committee.  Other members of the organization include  AOL Inc. (AOL) ,
 IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) ,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , Salesforce.com
Inc.,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ,  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) ,
 Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX) ,  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  