-- Google, Hitachi Metals, Samsung: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-19T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/google-hitachi-metals-samsung-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s patent-infringement
complaint targeting Apple Inc. devices, including ones that have
the Siri voice-recognition program, will be investigated by a
U.S. trade agency.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said yesterday it
has begun a formal probe of the complaint filed Aug. 17 by
Google’s Motorola Mobility unit. Notice of the investigation was
posted on the agency’s website.  Motorola Mobility has said it hopes the complaint puts
pressure on Apple to negotiate a cross-licensing deal. The
companies have been fighting since at least 2010 after licensing
talks failed. Google bought Motorola Mobility to get access to
its trove of patents as a bulwark against Apple claims that
devices running on Google’s Android operating system are copying
unique features of the iPhone.  The handset maker, which Google bought in May for
$12.5 billion, claims Apple infringed seven of its patents on
features including interactive voice commands, location
reminders, e-mail notification and phone/video players. The case
seeks a ban on U.S. imports of devices including the iPhone,
iPad and Mac computers. Apple’s products are made in Asia.  The complaint filed last month didn’t name the iPhone 5
because it won’t be in retail stores until Sept. 21. ITC rules
could let Motorola Mobility add the iPhone5 to the list of
devices accused of infringing the patents.  Apple has said Motorola Mobility is making unreasonable
demands for royalties of 2.25 percent of the retail price of
every device. The Cupertino, California-based company is
appealing an ITC case it lost that claimed Motorola Mobility’s
Android phones infringed Apple patents.  Motorola Mobility has a second case against Apple at the
agency. It lost on the issue of whether Apple devices infringed
Motorola Mobility patents that cover wireless technologies used
throughout the industry. The commission last month ordered a
judge to review whether there was infringement of a patent
related to a sensor that prevents accidental hang-ups or
dialing.  The new case is In the Matter of Wireless Communication
Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing devices, Computers,
and Components Thereof, 337-856, and the earlier case is In the
Matter of Certain Wireless Communication Devices, Portable Music
Data, Processing Data Devices, Computers and Components Thereof,
337-745. Both are in the U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  Hitachi Metals Rare-Earth Magnet Complaint to Be Probed by U.S.  Hitachi Metals Ltd. (5486) ’s complaint seeking to block U.S.
imports of competitors’ rare-earth magnets used in electronics,
golf ball markers and power tools will be investigated by the
International Trade Commission.  The commission said yesterday it started a probe into the
case filed Aug. 17 by the Japanese maker of specialty-metal
products against more than two dozen companies. Notice of the
decision was posted on the agency’s website.  The dispute is over patented inventions related to the
manufacture of sintered rare-earth magnets, which are light and
powerful compounds used in batteries, magnets and computer hard
drives. Hitachi is seeking to block products that are using
rare-earth metals from  China , where 95 percent of all such
materials are mined and processed.  Hitachi Metals, based in  Tokyo , said in the complaint it
has an agreement to make the magnets with  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , the
owner of the only rare-earth mine in the U.S., and plans to
begin production in 2013.  Companies named in the complaint objected, saying any
import ban would harm public health because the magnets are used
in robotic surgical systems, radiation equipment, surgical
microscopes and insulin pumps.  “Hitachi Metals seeks a dramatic remedy threatening a
massive upset to the national economy,” audio-equipment seller
 Skullcandy Inc. (SKUL)  said in a filing with the agency.  The complaint names Chinese companies that mine or use the
metals, as well as firms that import or make products that use
them. They include Skullcandy,  Harman International Industries
Inc. (HAR)  and Bose Corp., and athletic-gear makers  Callaway Golf Co. (ELY) ,
Taylor Made Golf Co. and  Adidas AG. (ADS)   Molycorp is working to reopen a rare-earth mine in Mountain
Pass,  California , that closed in 2002 because Chinese exports
caused global prices to plunge, according to Hitachi Metals.
More recently, prices have risen and the  U.S. Congress  has been
calling for an increase in domestic production.  Hitachi Metals said it and other suppliers would be able to
make up for any loss of available products if the rare-earth
magnets from China are halted at the U.S. border.  The case is In the Matter of Sintered Rare Earth Magnets,
337-855, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  Samsung Fails to Defeat Galaxy Tab Sales Ban in Apple Case  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost its bid to persuade a federal
judge in California to lift a preliminary ban on U.S. sales of
its Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer imposed as part of a patent
dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California,
issued the order temporarily blocking sales of the Tab 10.1
computer before a jury found Aug. 24 that Samsung infringed six
of seven Apple patents and awarded Apple $1.05 billion in
damages.  Apple and Samsung agree that a pending appeal temporarily
“deprives the court of jurisdiction to dissolve the
injunction,” Koh wrote in an order Sept. 17.  Lifting the ban during the appeal only to re-impose it
later “would cause confusion in the market and is not necessary
to prevent irreparable harm,” Cupertino, California-based Apple
argued in a filing.  Koh has scheduled a hearing Dec. 6 to consider Apple’s
request for a permanent U.S. sales ban on eight of Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung’s smartphone models and the tablet.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Neiman Marcus Objects to ‘Last Call’ in Charity Thrift Shop Name  Neiman Marcus Group Inc. sent a cease-and-desist letter to
a South Carolina thrift shop connected with a women’s shelter,
South Carolina’s State newspaper  reported .  The luxury-goods retailer objects to the shop’s name --
“ Revente’s Last Call ” -- which the Dallas-based company claims
could be confused with its “Last Call” clearance store,
according to the State.  Ginger Reeder, a Neiman Marcus spokeswoman, said the
company wasn’t trying to shut down the thrift shop and seeks an
amicable resolution to protect its trademark, the newspaper
reported.  State Representative  James Smith , who is also an attorney,
is representing the thrift shop pro bono and told the State that
he was hopeful the parties could come to agreement and the shop
could keep its name.  Yahoo Removes Trademark Symbol From Company Logo  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the Internet media company, has taken the
trademark symbol off its logo, the TechCrunch technology news
website  reported .  Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  used Twitter Inc.’s
service to send out a message saying one of the company’s new
employees had “gone on a mission” to remove all the trademark
symbols from Yahoo’s campus, according to TechCrunch.  She said that the Sunnyvale, California-based company’s use
of the symbol had “bugged” the new employee, and that its
removal wasn’t viewed with alarm by Yahoo’s legal staff,
TechCrunch reported.  “Legal assures us our trademark is implied and quite
secure,” Mayer said, according to TechCrunch.  Jetstar Opposes Toyota’s Jumping ‘Oh, What a Feeling!’ Trademark  Jetstar Airways Pty Ltd., a low-cost airline based in
Sunshine, Australia, is opposing  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
application to register “Oh, What a Feeling!” in connection
with jumping actors as a trademark, the eTravel Blackboard
website  reported .  Jetstar has used jumping actors since 2004, while Toyota
has had ads with actors leaping since the mid-1980s, the website
reported.  Toyota spokesman Glenn Campbell said the company filed its
application to register the mark earlier this year, according to
eTravel Blackboard.  Jetstar said its use of a jump in ads is an iconic symbol
of the company and has been used in a number of Asian countries
in addition to Australia and New Zealand, the website reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pirate Party Member Uses DMCA to Halt Unauthorized Book Copies  A member of the German branch of  the anti-copyright  Pirate
Party , whose book “Click Me” is being published by a unit of
Verlagsgruppe Random House GmbH, is enforcing her copyright in
cyberspace, Spiegel Online  reported .  Julia Schramm , who has called the idea of  intellectual
property  “disgusting” and received a 100,000-euro ($131,000)
advance for the work, had a Sept. 17 release date for the book,
according to Spiegel Online.  Initially, unauthorized copies of the book were circulating
on the Internet, with the link to the site from which it could
be downloaded spread through social media, Spiegel Online
reported.  By the end of the day Sept. 17, visitors who followed the
link were met with a notice that the file was no longer
available because of a takedown request made by the author under
the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, Spiegel Online reported.  Copyright Costs Meant No Art Images in Art History Textbook  First-year students at  OCAD University , a Toronto-based
school focused on art and design education, are paying C$180
($185) for a required art history book that contains no
illustrations because of copyright issues, Canada’s National
Post  reported .  The book, “Global Visual and Cultural Material Culture:
Prehistory to 1800,” contains blank spaces where illustrations
normally would appear, according to the National Post.  The dean of the school’s Faculty of Liberal Arts and
Sciences said that the choice not to include images in the
custom-made textbook was economic, because the fees to reproduce
the images would have doubled the cost, the National Post
reported.  A comparable text for the next term, covering post-1800
art, will also cost C$180 and lack artwork, the dean said,
according to the National Post.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  