-- Google Antitrust Talks Can’t Last Indefinitely, Almunia Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-09-19T17:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/google-eu-antitrust-talks-can-t-last-indefinitely-almunia-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  has a limited time to
settle a European Union antitrust probe, though there isn’t a
formal deadline to end discussions, the EU’s antitrust chief
said today.  The EU is negotiating with Google to resolve a previously
disclosed antitrust dispute over allegations that the world’s
largest search engine discriminates against rivals, said
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  today at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast in Washington.  A so-called Article 9 settlement may require Google to
alter the way it does business without imposing fines or finding
that the company broke competition rules.  “To explore the possibilities of an Article 9 settlement
is not open forever,” Almunia said. He added: “I have no
deadline.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
 Argentina  and  South Korea  are also scrutinizing the company.  Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, said the company is
cooperating.  ‘First Ideas’  “We continue to work cooperatively with the European
Commission,” Kovacevich said in a statement.  Almunia said he has received from Google the “first
ideas” for dealing with EU concerns that the company promotes
its own search services at the expense of competitors’
offerings. The EU also has raised concern that Google copies
rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews and stifles competition in
the advertising industry with website and software-developer
agreements.  Any solution “should be able to solve not only the past
but the risks of the future,” Almunia said. European regulators
also are examining complaints about Google’s Android mobile
operating system for smartphones and tablets, and haven’t yet
decided whether to open a formal investigation, he said.  The discussions with Google aren’t easy and the rapid pace
of technological development is changing the industry’s dynamics
constantly, he said.  Antitrust enforcement itself is evolving, and the EU
“today or tomorrow” will sign an agreement with  China  to
strengthen coordination with the country’s antitrust regulators,
Almunia said.  EU officials are concerned about China’s commitment to
protecting intellectual-property rights and the treatment of
European companies operating in the country, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  