-- Groupon Debuts Credit-Card Payments Service for Merchants
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-09-19T20:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/groupon-debuts-credit-card-payments-service-for-merchants.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the largest daily-
deals website, is introducing a credit-card reader to vie with
products offered by Square Inc. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal service
and boost revenue from small businesses.  The company will charge U.S. merchants that use its coupons
lower fees than Square and PayPal, according to a statement
today from Chicago-based Groupon. The reader is also compatible
with Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPod Touch.  Groupon, which has been testing the service in San
Francisco, is seeking new sources of revenue as diminished
demand for daily deals causes sales to fall short of analysts’
predictions. The new service, Groupon Payments, is designed to
make the company more appealing to existing clients and
potential new ones.  “For the small merchants, credit card transactions have
always been extremely expensive,” said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst
at B. Riley & Co., in a telephone interview.  Existing Groupon customers that use the reader will pay
transaction fees of 1.8 percent plus 15 cents for cards from
Visa Inc., MasterCard Inc. and Discover Financial Services,  For
American Express Co. cards, fees will be 3 percent plus 15
cents. Card readers offered by Square charge 2.75 percent per
transaction, while PayPal has a 2.7 percent fee.  Groupon rose 14 percent to $5.34 at the close in New York.
The  stock  has declined 74 percent so far this year.  The company makes money by selling discounts -- known as
Groupons -- from businesses such as restaurants and nail salons.
It then splits the revenue with the retailers.  ‘Slash Complexity’  “We talk to a lot of Groupon merchants and the one thing
that came up again and again was that they felt like they were
paying too much for credit-card processing,” Mihir Shah, vice
president of mobile and merchant products at Groupon, said in an
interview. “We set out on this mission to slash the complexity
and cost of collecting credit cards.”  Businesses that use Groupon’s card-reader without offering
deals through its website will be charged a 2.2 percent fee plus
15 cents per transaction for Visa, MasterCard and Discover. The
American Express fee will be 3 percent.  The company has tested the service with dozens of merchants
in the  San Francisco  Bay Area, a person familiar with the matter
said in May.  Groupon can afford to charge a lower rate because its
business already supports a large sales staff and other costs
associated with rolling out a payment product to hundreds of
merchants, Shah said.  Free Readers  “We already have the sales force, we have the distribution
advantage, we have the relationship with the merchant,” Shah
said. “All we have to do is turn on the service.”  Groupon is giving away card readers that are made by Roam
Data Inc. and plug into the headphone jack of Apple devices,
Shah said. It will sell more advanced readers made by  Irvine ,
California-based Infinite Peripherals Inc. for $100 apiece, he
said.  Merchants using Groupon Payments will be able to analyze
transaction history, check daily sales reports and review
revenue trends. Groupon said credit card payments will be
deposited overnight in vendors’ bank accounts, faster than the
typical delay of two to three business days.  “Now the merchants can track the time of purchases and
what time the customers walked through their door, how many
people were with them and what they bought,” Sinha said.
“That’s incredibly valuable data.”  Such data has the potential to backfire if it also shows
merchants that offering discounts through Groupon is
ineffective, Sinha said.  “If you give people more transparency,” he said, “you
may discover it doesn’t work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in  New York  at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  