-- Gulf Fisheries Rebounding From BP Spill, Government Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-09-19T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/gulf-fisheries-rebounding-from-bp-spill-government-says.html
Gulf of Mexico fisheries are
rebounding from the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill, landing more fish last
year than in 2009, the year before the worst U.S. offshore
marine disaster, the government said.  The total catch was 25 percent bigger last year than in
2009, and 55 percent more than in 2010, the  National Marine
Fisheries Service  said today in a report. In April of that year,
the Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded, killing 11 workers and
triggering a spill the government estimated at more than 4
million barrels.  “Our fisheries are on the way up,” Harlon Pearce,
chairman of the  Louisiana Seafood Promotion and Marketing Board ,
said in an interview. Some species are doing better than others,
and the industry will “need another year or two of
stabilization” before it’s back completely, he said.  The disaster hurt fisheries that last year provided about a
fifth of the seafood landed by U.S. fishermen, a catch valued at
a record $5.3 billion, according to the report. The country’s
haul was the biggest in volume since 1994. The U.S. is the
world’s fifth-biggest fishing nation, after  China ,  India ,
 Indonesia  and  Vietnam .  The 2011 catch from Gulf states totaled 1.984 billion
pounds, up from 1.283 billion in 2010 and 1.583 billion in 2009,
the National Marine Fisheries Service, a unit of the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , said in the report.
Landings of menhaden, a fish used mainly for oil and meal, were
up 66 percent over 2010. That species accounted for much of the
Gulf’s growth, while oysters, crabs and shrimp are still
struggling to surpass pre-spill catches, Pearce said.  Report Challenged  Dean Blanchard, chief executive officer of Dean Blanchard
Seafood Inc., a shrimper based in  Grand Isle ,  Louisiana , said
the government statistics are misleading and fail to tell the
tale of individual operations. Fishing operations are constrained
by geography, because going greater distances to find fish raises 
transportation costs and eats profits, he said.   The company is suing BP, claiming its settlement offer comes
nowhere near meeting the needs of those most affected by the
spill.  London-based BP agreed in March to pay an estimated $7.8
billion to resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic
loss, property damage and injuries.  “We’re not recovering. Where the oil went, there’s nothing
left living,” Blanchard said in a telephone interview. “I’m
losing customers. I’m just stuck.” Blanchard called the
proposed settlement “a joke” and said his catch is about 10
percent to 15 percent of normal.  Large amounts of weathered oil and tar that washed up last
month after Hurricane Isaac came ashore along the Gulf Coast
show that the spill is still affecting the region, Stuart Smith,
a lawyer for hundreds of property owners and fishing and tourism
businesses, said last week in a letter to the U.S. magistrate
judge overseeing spill litigation.  The BP settlement, reached days before a scheduled trial on
liability for the spill, doesn’t cover federal government claims
and those of the Gulf Coast states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  