-- Libya Attack Not Planned in Advance, U.S. Official Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-09-19T20:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/libya-attack-wasn-t-coordinated-in-advance-u-s-official-says.html
The Sept. 11 attack in  Libya  that
killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three colleagues wasn’t
coordinated in advance, according to Matthew Olsen, director of
the U.S. National Counterterrorism Center.  U.S. and Libyan officials differ publicly on whether the
attack on the American compound in Benghazi, Libya, was planned
in advance by radical Islamists or whether extremists took
advantage of a peaceful protest to attack the U.S. consulate in
the country’s second-largest city.  Olsen said the U.S. is “looking at indications” that
individuals involved in the attack may have had connections to
al-Qaeda or its North African affiliate, al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb.  “The best information we have now indicates that this was
an opportunistic attack,” Olsen, who cautioned that the
investigation isn’t finished, said at a Senate Homeland Security
Committee hearing today in  Washington .  “What we don’t have at this point is specific intelligence
that there was significant advance planning or coordination for
this attack,” he said.  Attorney General Eric Holder said last week the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation had opened an investigation into the
Sept. 11 attack.  FBI officials are due to arrive in Benghazi by Sept. 21 to
work alongside Libyan officials, Benghazi’s chief prosecutor,
Saleh Adem Mohammad, said today in the eastern Libyan city.  Detained Men  Mohammad declined to comment on details of the Libyan
investigation so far or on whether four detained men -- who the
Interior Minister Fawzi Abdulal said are being held in Benghazi
-- are members of a radical Islamist brigade, Ansar al-Sharia.  The alleged role of Ansar al-Sharia brigade members in the
attack on the U.S. compound was stated this week by Libya’s head
of state, Mohammed Magariaf, and the chief of the Benghazi
branch of the Supreme Security Committee.  Magariaf, the recently elected head of the General National
Congress, said the attack was “a deliberate, calculated action
by a group working in collaboration with non-Libya extremists.”  Magariaf said in a Sept. 15 interview in Benghazi that
communications intercepted by the U.S. at some point before the
attack linked al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb to the Ansar al-
Sharia brigade.  Protest ‘Hijacked’  In the interview, Magariaf described the attack as
“preplanned,” in contrast to U.S. officials such as U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice , who said Sept. 16
that a spontaneous demonstration was “hijacked” by extremists.  “We do not have information at present that leads us to
conclude that this was premeditated or preplanned,” she said,
speaking on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  Today, Olsen said individuals who were “certainly well-
armed seized on the opportunity” of the growing protests over
an anti-Islam film that also sparked protests in  Egypt , Tunisia,
Sudan and  Yemen .  Olsen and Kevin Perkins, the FBI’s associate deputy
director, testified as Republican lawmakers called for their own
investigation into the attack in Libya and a group of  House
Republicans  considered legislation to cut foreign aid to the
country.  Senator  Susan Collins  of  Maine , the top Republican on the
committee, told Olsen she that after her briefings she had come
to “the opposite conclusion” from the administration. She said
she agrees with the Libyan leader that the attack was
preplanned, noting the attackers’ use of heavy weapons including
rocket-propelled grenades.  ‘Planned Attack’  “This was a premeditated, planned attack that was
associated with the date of 9/11,” Collins said. “I just don’t
think people come to protest equipped with RPGs and other heavy
weapons.”  Separately, Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  told reporters
in Washington that President  Barack Obama ’s administration
hasn’t done enough to answer lawmakers’ questions about the
security measures in place at the U.S. consulate compound before
the attack.  Initial information indicated there were just two security
guards outside the compound as well as reports of previous
threats, said McCain, the top Republican on the Senate Armed
Services Committee.  In Libya, “there are armed militias that they still
haven’t gotten under control,” he said. “Some are jihadist-
related people and they obviously posed a security threat that
obviously was not met.”  Classified Briefing  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is scheduled to lead a
classified briefing for lawmakers tomorrow on the events of the
past week, according to a notice sent to lawmakers. Director of
National Intelligence  James Clapper , Deputy Defense Secretary
 Ashton Carter  and Admiral James Winnefeld, the vice chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are also scheduled to attend,
according to the notice.  Clinton said yesterday the U.S. had no “actionable
intelligence” that indicated an attack on the U.S. mission in
Benghazi was planned or imminent.  Tomorrow, top Libyan government officials plan to
participate in a memorial service for the four Americans in the
capital, Tripoli.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Benghazi, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  