-- Michael Hammer Added to Knoedler Gallery Fraud Lawsuit
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-09-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/michael-hammer-added-to-knoedler-gallery-fraud-lawsuit.html
Michael Hammer, chairman of New
York’s defunct Knoedler Gallery, was sued by a fashion executive
and his wife over a fake  Mark Rothko .  Hammer “reaped tens of millions of dollars” “and took no
steps to stop the fraud,” Domenico De Sole, chairman of  Tom
Ford International , and Eleanore De Sole said in their amended
complaint filed in  Manhattan  federal court. Hammer and Glafira
Rosales, a dealer in Sands Point on New York’s  Long Island  who
consigned artworks to Knoedler, were among four new defendants
in the complaint.  The lawsuit was originally filed on March 28 and amended
last week. It’s one of three against Knoedler and its former
director, Ann Freedman, by collectors claiming the gallery sold
counterfeits. The plaintiffs are seeking combined damages of
more than $70 million.  Charles David Schmerler, a lawyer for Hammer, didn’t return
a call yesterday seeking comment on the suit. A call and e-mail
to the Carpinteria, California-based Armand Hammer Foundation,
where Michael Hammer is listed as president, chairman and chief
executive, also weren’t returned.  ‘Fake’ Pollock  Knoedler was founded in 1846 and closed on Nov. 30, 2011.
The gallery shut its doors a day after it received a
consultant’s report concluding that a $17 million  Jackson Pollock  it sold was a fake, according to court papers. Samples
of paint recovered from the painting weren’t available until
years after Pollock died, according to a suit filed by the
buyer, hedge-fund executive Pierre Lagrange.  The other new defendants in the De Sole case are Jaime
Andrade, a former Knoedler employee who, according to the suit,
introduced Rosales to the gallery, and Jose Carlos Bergantinos
Diaz, who is described in court papers as Rosales’s companion
and business partner. Their lawyers didn’t return calls seeking
comment on the suit.  Knoedler sold “Untitled, 1956” for $8.3 million in
December 2004 to the De Soles, the Hilton Head, South Carolina-
based couple said in their complaint. Freedman told them an
unnamed Swiss collector bought it directly from Rothko, and
because the collector died, Knoedler was selling on behalf of
his son, according to the complaint.  “The sales pitch, while convincing, was a scam,” the De
Soles said in the complaint.  The gallery bought it from Rosales a year earlier for
$950,000, and relied on her word about its previous ownership,
the complaint said.  ‘Inconsistent’ Technique  After the gallery closed, the De Soles’ lawyers hired a
forensic conservator to investigate the work’s authenticity. The
report found that its marks and composition were “inconsistent
with Rothko’s technique,” according to court papers.  Freedman testified in December at a hearing about the
Lagrange suit that Rosales had said her works were from a
private collector who wished to remain anonymous.  “Do you know that these paintings weren’t painted by Mr.
Diaz in Mrs. Rosales’s garage?” asked John Cahill, a lawyer
representing Lagrange, who bought the painting he believed was
by Pollock. Lagrange co-founded GLG Partners, Inc., a London-
based hedge-fund firm.  “I have every reason to believe that these works are
authentic and painted by the hand of the artist in each
individual case,” responded Freedman, who left the gallery in
2009 after 32 years and now runs  FreedmanArt  in New York.  Lost Money  Freedman’s lawyer, Nicholas Gravante, said in an interview
that the complaint against her is “wholly without merit,
factually and legally.” Steven Kartagener, a lawyer for
Rosales, said in the December hearing that Rosales “comes
before the court maintaining that she’s not done anything
wrong.”  Knoedler was purchased by Armand Hammer, the former chief
executive of  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and  Michael Hammer ’s
grandfather, in 1971. The gallery lost almost $4 million in 2009
and 2010, and its closing was under consideration for about a
year, Michael Hammer said in a December declaration filed in the
Lagrange case.  Hammer earned $295,000 in 2011 at the Armand Hammer
Foundation, according to its  tax return . His career includes
corporate finance at the now-defunct investment bank Kidder
Peabody & Co., positions at Occidental, film production, and
founding, in the  Cayman Islands ,  Grace Christian Academy  and a
nonprofit Christian radio station.  Another Complaint  His son Armie is an actor who played both Winklevoss twins
in the 2010 movie “The  Social Network ,” about  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Michael Hammer is among the defendants in a July 2012 suit
filed by  John Howard , chief executive of  Irving Place Capital ,
concerning an artwork for which Howard paid $4 million. Freedman
and Knoedler said it was by Willem de Kooning, the complaint
said.  “The work is a forgery,” Howard said in his complaint.  At the December hearing,  Matthew Dontzin , who represents
Lagrange, cited a “federal grand jury investigation into the
sale of forged works.” The lawyer said the U.S. Attorney’s
office sent a subpoena requesting information about sales and
purchases involving Freedman and Knoedler. Freedman is
cooperating with the investigation, Gravante, her lawyer, said
in court.  Ellen Davis , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan, declined to comment on whether the office is
investigating.  The case is De Sole v. Knoedler Gallery, 12-cv-2313, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York , (Manhattan). The
others are Lagrange v. Knoedler Gallery LLC, 11-CIV-8757, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan), and
Howard v. Freedman, 12-cv-05263, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 