-- Idemitsu to Raise 100 Billion Yen in Bond Sales in 3-5 Years
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-09-19T05:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/idemitsu-to-raise-100-billion-yen-in-bond-sales-in-3-5-years.html
Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019) ,  Japan ’s third
biggest refiner, plans to sell about 100 billion yen ($1.27
billion) of bonds in three to five years as it considers a $5.8
billion investment in a refinery in  Vietnam .  Idemitsu, based in Tokyo, sold 20 billion yen of notes
split between 1.01 percent seven-year securities and 0.62
percent five-year debt, its first offering ever, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the average 0.78
percent Japanese companies pay to sell bonds, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “The bond spreads were set at a satisfactory level as they
are lower than our loan rates,” Masaharu Taniguchi, a manager
at Idemitsu’s treasury department said in a Sept. 13 interview
in  Tokyo . The company plans to use the funds to repay bank loans
and increase the ratio of direct financing to about 20 percent
in three to five years, Taniguchi said.  Idemitsu is tapping lower borrowing costs to help fund
overseas investments at the time when Japan’s shrinking
population and a shift toward greener energy have reduced demand
at home. The company is in the final stage of talks with its
partners on construction of the 200,000 barrels-a-day Vietnamese
refinery and plans to make the final decision by the end of this
year, said Taniguchi.  “The business environment remains tough as domestic demand
for petroleum products continues to decline,” Japan Credit
Rating Agency Ltd. said in a Sept. 11 report. “The company is
aiming at earnings growth by expanding production in the
resource businesses such as oil exploration and production and
coal, while maintaining a competitive edge in the petroleum
operations by working on reducing domestic refining capacity.”  Idemitsu reduced its interest-bearing debt by 18.5 billion
yen to 901.3 billion yen in the quarter ended June 30, it said
in an Aug. 14 filing. The refiner cut on Aug. 7 its full-year
net income forecast 65 percent to 19.5 billion yen citing an
inventory-valuation loss.  “Despite a temporary drop in the margins in the petroleum
operations due to wild ups and downs in crude  oil prices , steady
earnings can be expected over the medium term,” JCR said in the
report. The ratings company maintained its A- ranking on
Idemitsu’s debt, its forth-lowest investment grade.  Idemitsu and its partners have delayed deciding whether to
build the Nghi Son plant, south of Hanoi, at least three times
as they continue to resolve issues including how to finance the
project. The final decision was originally scheduled for 2010
while commercial operations were expected to start in December
2013.  Idemitsu and Kuwait Petroleum International Ltd. each have
a 35.1 percent stake in the Nghi Son project, while Vietnam Oil
& Gas Group holds 25.1 percent.  Mitsui Chemicals Inc. (4183)  has 4.7
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  