-- Mile-High Towers Possible by 2025 in Race to Top
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-20T06:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/mile-high-skyscraper-possible-by-2025-as-ego-fuels-race-to-top.html
(Corrects height in fourth paragraph in story published
Sept. 19.)  A mile-high skyscraper, almost
double the height of today’s tallest building, may become a
reality by 2025 as developing countries splurge cash in an ego-
fueled race to construct the world’s highest tower.  “If you have enough money, I’m sure the human mind can
create a lot higher,” said  Timothy Johnson , an architect and
chairman of the Chicago-based  Council on Tall Buildings and
Urban Habitat , in an interview in Shanghai yesterday. “Who are
we to say it’s good or bad. People want to push higher and
higher. That’s just human nature, isn’t it?”  Planning for the next milestone, a 1 mile (1.6 kilometers)
building, may be under way before 2020 and completed five years
after that, Johnson said, without giving further details.
Johnson designed the Sail at Marina Bay in  Singapore , the
world’s 10th tallest residential building.  Today’s highest skyscraper -- the 828-meter (2,717-foot)
Burj Khalifa in Dubai -- is set to be overtaken by the 1
kilometer Kingdom Tower in Jeddah when it’s completed in 2018.
 Developing countries  are eclipsing the U.S. and Europe in the
“megatall” category of 600-meter-plus buildings, fueled by
faster economic growth and a desire to show off their wealth.  The council, founded in 1969, is holding its first congress
in  China , where it says nine of the world’s highest 20 buildings
under construction are going up, three times more than any other
country. It has been recognized as the arbiter on building
height and the body that determines the title of “The World’s
(or Country’s or City’s) Tallest Building,” according to its
website.  Mile High  Johnson said he had discussed with a Middle Eastern
developer a plan for a building with a height of 1 1/2 miles
about four years ago. The plan was shelved because of the
economic turmoil in the region, he said, declining to identify
the developer.  “We actually discovered you can do it,” Johnson said.  The challenges are finding materials to replace steel and
cement, and identifying methods beyond traditional elevators to
move people. The world’s next tallest building is unlikely to be
in the U.S. or in  Europe , he said.  Frank Lloyd Wright, the architect who designed  New York ’s
Guggenheim Museum, sketched fantasy skyscraper “The Illinois”
in 1956 that would have been a mile high. The tower called for
76 atomic-powered, quintuple-deck lifts, including express
elevators that could reach the top of the 528-story building in
a minute.  China Skyscapers  “Maybe the one-mile building will be in  Africa , a place
that needs to somehow say ‘look, we are also here,’” Johnson
said.  China completed 23 buildings over 200 meters last year,
more than any other country, according to the council.  The 492-meter World Financial Center in Shanghai is the
tallest tower in China and the third in the world. The 632-meter
Shanghai Tower in the city’s Pudong business hub is set to be
the world’s second-highest building when construction is
completed in 2014.  The world’s No. 2 skyscraper today is the 508-meter Taipei
101 in  Taiwan . Chicago’s 442-meter Willis Tower, the eighth
tallest, is the only building outside of  Asia  or the  Middle East 
in the top 10.  Johnson said he isn’t concerned about the impact of China’s
economic slowdown on the construction of skyscrapers. The
nation’s economy is poised for its weakest expansion in 22 years,
adding to risks in a global economy that is grappling with
Europe’s debt crisis and an anemic recovery in the U.S.  China Slowing  At least 12 banks and brokerages have cut their gross
domestic product forecasts for China, with UBS AG, Morgan
Stanley and Barclays Plc predicting the nation’s growth will
sink to 7.5 percent this year, the lowest since 1990. That
compares with 9.3 percent in 2011.  “It might take time to fill up those buildings, but China
in general has the capacity to continue to grow,” Johnson said.
“Maybe you are not going to take your money back in two years,
but in five or even 10 years.”  Johnson and Adrian Smith, the Chicago architect responsible
for the Burj Khalifa and the Kingdom Tower, spoke today at the
congress hosted by the council in  Shanghai .  “Technologically, mile-high buildings are feasible to do,
you can build them now,” Smith said in an interview today.  Still, Smith said such a venture is unlikely in the near
future. “There is no real reason to go that high and it’s a
very expensive venture. I think we are going to be creeping up
on that stage. My guess is that won’t happen for another 20 to
30 years.”  Ego Driven  Beyond 1 kilometer, skyscrapers would likely need to have
two or three buildings interconnected, with horizontal elements
bracing the “legs,” Smith said. The horizontal areas could be
used as sky-terraces, or sky-decks and lobbies for people to
travel within the building, he said.  Five of the world’s tallest 20 buildings in 2020 will be
located in three countries in the Middle East: the  United Arab
Emirates ,  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, according to the council.  “What’s happening in the Middle East is a bit of ego,”
said Johnson. “A lot of this is built with oil money. There
isn’t necessarily the demand, however the people building these
want to push human ingenuity.”  Kingdom Holding Co., (KINGDOM)  Saudi billionaire  Prince Alwaleed bin
Talal ’s investment company, is seeking a loan to help pay for
the construction of the Kingdom Tower, two people with knowledge
of the matter said in April. It will be about 50 floors higher
than Burj Khalifa.  Emaar Properties PJSC, (EMAAR)  the Dubai-based developer of the
Burj Khalifa, said second-quarter profit more than doubled,
beating analysts’ estimates, as a one-time impairment charge was
not repeated and it cut costs.  Dubai Slump  Like most of its peers in the United Arab Emirates, Emaar’s
earnings dropped after Dubai’s property market collapsed at the
end of 2008 and caused residential values to fall by more than
60 percent. Income from selling properties in the Burj Khalifa
has dwindled as buyers paid their final installments on
completed apartments.  Johnson said it’s an amazing feeling to stand on top of
skyscrapers such as the Burj Khalifa. “But you kind of ask
yourself, ‘why would anyone want to be up that high?’ And some
of it is just human ego.”  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  