-- Impact of Basel Bank Liquidity Rule Must Be Weighed, EU Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-19T17:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/impact-of-basel-bank-liquidity-rule-must-be-weighed-eu-says-1-.html
The European Commission said that
while it remains committed to adopting a “detailed” bank
liquidity ratio in 2015, possible negative effects need to be
studied.  “Clearly we need to pay attention to a possible negative
impact on lending to the real economy and on the  interbank
market ,” commission spokesman Stefaan De Rynck said in an e-
mail. “Important discussions are going on at the level of the
Basel Committee which will finalize its details on this in
2013.” The U.S. and  Japan  have delayed their implementation of
the ratio “because of this.”  The measure, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR,
would oblige banks to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive
a 30-day credit squeeze. The requirement was included by global
regulators in an overhaul of bank rules that was agreed on by
the Group of 20 nations following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  The commission has proposed delaying and weakening banks’
reporting of their compliance with the draft Basel liquidity
rules,  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the European Parliament’s
economic and monetary affairs committee, said in an interview.  Compromise Proposal  Bowles said she would resist the compromise proposal that
was made by the commission to spur negotiations on how to apply
Basel rules in the 27-nation EU, because they would signal a
watering down of the measures.  The compromise proposal on the LCR is “very much
weakened” compared with the regulator’s original plan, Bowles
said. This stems from fears that forcing banks to disclose their
liquid assets “will disturb markets,” she said.  Calls to water down the ratio may also be linked to the
risk that banks will be shown to be overly reliant on central-
bank lending, Bowles said. Concerns expressed by the  European
Central Bank  about the LCR might signal a “conflict of
interest,” she said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s proposals
would require banks to disclose how well they measure up to the
LCR even before it becomes mandatory in 2015.  The commission compromise, obtained by  Bloomberg News ,
would postpone EU decisions on what assets banks would be able
to use to meet the LCR as well as agreements on other parts of
the standard. These include the toughness of the stress scenario
that banks would be measured against.  EU lawmakers and governments must agree on the final
wording of the rules before they can take effect in the bloc.  Balancing Act  Andrea Enria, the chairman of the European Banking
Authority, told members of the parliament in Brussels today that
the EU needed to strike a “delicate balancing act” of having a
strong liquidity rule that won’t “kill the interbank market,
the money market, which is already close to being dead.”  Enria rejected calls from banks to be allowed to include
equities and residential mortgage backed securities in their LCR
buffers.  The Basel committee, which brings together regulators from
27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China , is aiming to
complete a review of the LCR by the end of this year. The ratio
is part of an overhaul of bank capital and liquidity rules known
as Basel III.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  