-- Inditex Profit Beats Estimates as Revenue Growth Accelerates
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-09-19T09:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/inditex-first-half-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-as-sales-climb.html
Inditex SA (ITX) , the Spanish owner of
the Zara and Massimo Dutti chains, said sales have accelerated
since July and reported first-half profit that beat analysts’
estimates helped by expansion in  emerging markets .  Net income climbed 32 percent to 944 million euros ($1.23
billion) in the six months through July, the Arteixo, Spain-
based company said today in a statement. The average  estimate  of
13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg was 893.5 million euros.  “It’s a massive beat,”  Anne Critchlow , a London-based
analyst at  Societe Generale , said by telephone. “It’s very
difficult to spot anything negative.”  Inditex, the world’s largest clothing retailer, increased
the pace of sales growth in the start of its third quarter while
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ’s same-store sales fell 4 percent in August
as a heat wave kept European shoppers away. Inditex is adding
stores in markets such as China as its domestic market faces its
biggest economic crisis in decades. The company is also driving
revenue growth by expanding sales via the Internet.  “Inditex was able to react much faster to the heatwave in
August in Europe than H&M did thanks to its business model,
which allows the Spanish retailer to adapt to new trends and
dramatic weather changes very quickly,” Francisco
Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG Valores, said.  Beyond Europe  The retailer said sales outside  Europe  represented 34
percent of total sales, compared with 29 percent a year earlier.  Inditex rose 2.1 percent to 93.84 euros as of 11:01 a.m. in
Madrid trading. The  shares  have climbed 48 percent this year,
valuing the company at 58.4 billion euros. It’s the second-best
performer in the benchmark IBEX 35 Index this year.  First-half sales gained 17 percent to 7.24 billion euros,
or a 15 percent increase excluding currency shifts. Since the
end of the period, store sales expressed in local currencies
have gained 17 percent, it also said, compared with growth of 9
percent in the same period a year earlier.  After introducing  Internet sales  for Zara in  China  earlier
this month, Inditex said today it will start online operations
in the U.S. for Zara Home and Massimo Dutti in October. Inditex
plans a gradual online expansion for all its brands around the
world, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pablo Isla said on a
webcast conference call today.  Online Sales  “They are rolling out online sales very quickly, giving
them access to more people and markets, which is also driving
sales and margins up,” Critchlow said.  Inditex said store openings are in line with the company’s
target set up in March to add 480 to 520 shops this year. The
company opened 166 stores in 39 markets during the six months,
bringing the total to 5,693. Revenue at outlets open at least a
year rose 7 percent in the first half, it said.  Inditex also sees “strong” growth potential in all
markets where it operates, Isla said.  Earnings before interest and taxes climbed 35 percent to
1.24 billion euros, Inditex said, also beating the average
estimate of 1.17 billion euros in a Bloomberg survey.  “At some point Ebit will have to slow down as this growth
pace cannot carry on indefinitely, but for now the drivers are
there,” Critchlow said.  Gross profit rose 19 percent to 4.31 billion euros, or 59.6
percent of sales compared with 58.4 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  