-- India Most Vulnerable G-20 Nation to Water Stress: HSBC
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-19T12:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/india-most-vulnerable-g-20-nation-to-water-stress-hsbc.html
India , the second-biggest producer
of rice, wheat and sugar, is the most vulnerable among the
world’s leading industrial and emerging economies to future
water stress, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  India exhibits the most worrying trends among the Group of
20 nations with the resource “hovering dangerously near extreme
scarcity levels” by 2030, HSBC said in a  report  today that
forecast the group’s water consumption against supply.  The worst U.S. drought in a half-century drove corn and
soybeans to records in August. Agriculture is the biggest
consumer of water and India, the most dependent on farming among
the G-20 nations, uses 25 percent of all water consumed globally
by the industry, HSBC found.  Companies are unlikely today to disclose information on
local water scarcity that can affect farms, plants and
operations, it said. Investors will increasingly demand more
disclosure to assess potential disruption to earnings, it said.  According to United Nation definitions, India is already
officially water-stressed while  Saudi Arabia ,  South Africa  and
 South Korea  are water-scarce, the report said.  Historical trends are no longer a reliable way to assess
future availability as  climate change  affects rain patterns and
glacial melt, it said. Changing water patterns have already
forced the closure of power, oil and gas and textile facilities
in India this year, the report said.  Dry regions are getting more arid and wet areas wetter as
the water cycle that circulates across the oceans, atmosphere
and land intensifies at twice the rate predicted by global
climate models, HSBC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  