-- Indonesia Considers Raising Subsidized-Fuel Price Next Year
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-09-19T09:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/indonesia-considers-raising-subsidized-fuel-price-next-year-1-.html
Indonesia ’s government is
considering raising the price of subsidized fuel by about a
third next year to reduce costs and make room for infrastructure
investments in its budget.  The cost of subsidized fuel may rise by about 1,500 rupiah
(16 U.S. cents) a liter to 6,000 rupiah, Deputy Energy and
Mineral Resources Minister Rudi Rubiandini said in a Bloomberg
Television interview from Jakarta today. “It’s not yet decided,
but we are preparing to increase our fuel pricing.”  Indonesia is trying to reduce energy subsidies to narrow
its  budget deficit  and make room for spending on infrastructure.
The government’s attempt to contain a budget deficit stumbled in
March after lawmakers rejected a proposal for an immediate 33
percent increase in the price of subsidized fuel.  A parliamentary commission approved a government plan on
Sept. 17 to raise the price of electricity next year,
potentially reducing subsidy costs and encouraging investment in
the nation’s power grid. Higher electricity prices will allow
state utility PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara to supply power for
3.2 million new customers next year, Rubiandini said in a
separate interview.  Energy Infrastructure  Indonesia plans to boost gas consumption by building a
network of pipelines and floating storage terminals to bring
natural gas from producing regions such as Kalimantan on the
island of  Borneo  and the island of Papua to the main islands of
Java and Sumatra, Rubiandini said.  BP Plc (BP/)  said in May it would build a third liquefied natural
gas production line at Tangguh in Papua province for $11 billion.
The facility will produce as much as 3.8 million metric tons of
LNG a year, of which 40 percent will be for the domestic market.  “We try to figure how to build mini-scale refineries
everywhere in Indonesia,” Rubiandini said. ”With this
situation, economic growth won’t only be on Java and Sumatra but
also on other islands.”  The Southeast Asian country is increasing natural gas
consumption for electricity generation and transportation to
reduce petroleum use and cut fuel subsidies.  The government plans to improve the selling price of
electricity produced by  power plants  that use new and renewable
energy sources such as solar, geothermal and biomass power,
Rubiandini said.  The energy ministry issued  a decree  last month that ordered
Listrik Negara to buy electricity from geothermal power plants
for between 10 U.S. cents and 18.5 cents a kilowatt-hour, up
from previous cap of 9.7 cents.  “With the new feed-in tariff, we’ll make new and renewable
energy grow,” he said. Indonesia plans to increase the share of
new and renewable energy to 26 percent of total consumption by
2025 from 6 percent now, the energy ministry said in a statement
posted in  its website.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  