-- Insider-Trader Jiau’s Lawyer Asks to Be Removed From Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-19T00:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/insider-trader-jiau-s-lawyer-asks-to-be-removed-from-case.html
A lawyer for Winifred Jiau, the ex-
Primary Global Research LLC consultant serving a four-year
prison term for  insider trading , sought to be taken off the case
after Jiau asked the court to set aside her conviction.  Joanna Hendon, Jiau’s lead defense lawyer at trial, asked
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  today to remove her
from the case. Hendon said that Jiau contacted her in August and
said she intended to challenge her conviction based on a claim
that her attorney was ineffective.  “Among other arguments, Ms. Jiau intends to allege that
her counsel at trial and sentencing were constitutionally
ineffective,” Hendon wrote to Rakoff. “In my communications
with her, Ms. Jiau has made it clear that she no longer wishes
to be represented by me.”  Jiau was found guilty by a jury last year of selling inside
information about technology companies including  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) 
and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge-fund managers Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager, and
Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management
LP.  ‘For Megabucks’  Jiau, who’s serving her term at the federal prison in
Dublin,  California , today filed her own brief in which she asked
for her conviction to be set aside and her sentence to be
corrected. She argued that her lawyers didn’t adequately
represent her at trial and that her sentence is much longer than
the prison terms given to others convicted of insider trading.  Jiau said in her filing that federal prosecutors in her
case have “fled out of the prosecution office and hurried to
Wall Street law firms for megabucks,” and claimed that her
defense lawyers “labored under numerous conflicts of interest”
and “advanced their own careers.”  She also said the case has been “a nightmare” for her and
claimed that her lawyers failed to investigate Primary Global or
the hedge fund managers, such as Freeman, who testified against
her.  “Other errors of constitutional proportion occurred at
trial,” Jiau said. “Had the defendant been represented by a
lawyer who had her interests at stake, it is likely she would
not be before this court.”  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment on Jiau’s
assertions.  ‘Categorically False’  Hendon’s firm, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, today called
Jiau’s allegations “categorically false.”  “Her attorneys carefully, comprehensively and repeatedly
reviewed with her the evidence against her, the defenses
available to her, and the likely sentence she would face if
convicted,” the firm said in a statement. “The decision to
proceed to trial was Ms. Jiau’s. The District Court and the
responsible AUSAs have stated publicly that Ms. Jiau received
‘extraordinary’ representation in this case -- the ‘Cadillac’ of
defenses.”  At Jiau’s sentencing last September, Rakoff complimented
Hendon and her partners for their work on Jiau’s behalf.  On Aug. 7, Rakoff rejected Jiau’s request to be freed from
prison while her appeal is pending and said he would no longer
accept legal requests Jiau makes without a lawyer’s assistance.
The judge wrote that all future motions she submitted herself
would be returned unread.  “The evidence presented at trial was more than sufficient
for the jury to find Jiau guilty,” Rakoff wrote in his order.
“None of Jiau’s other contentions are sufficiently likely to
result in reversal, a new trial or a reduced sentence.”  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  