-- Insurers Pressued to Hit 10% Return on Equity, Walsh Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-09-19T16:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/insurers-will-struggle-to-post-10-return-on-equity-walsh-says.html
U.S. property-casualty insurers, a
group including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Travelers
Cos., will struggle to post a 10 percent return on equity as low
 interest rates  weigh on investments, Citigroup Inc. said.  “The sector has let investment income be a subsidy for too
long,” counting on fixed-income returns while results from
underwriting insurance coverage were pressured, Keith Walsh, a
Citigroup analyst, said today at a conference sponsored by
Reactions Magazine in New York. A 10 percent return on equity
for the industry is a “best-case scenario” amid low yields for
new investments.  AIG, which counts the U.S. as its  largest investor  after a
2008 bailout, has increased its focus on  emerging markets  and
worked to reduce business in areas that require the company to
hold large amounts of capital. Travelers, the  lone insurer  in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , is charging commercial clients
more for coverage as it copes with falling bond returns.  Lower bond yields have “imposed somewhat of a discipline”
on companies in managing their insurance liabilities, Walsh
said. New York-based AIG spent $1.09 on claims and expenses for
every premium dollar at its Chartis property and casualty
operation in 2011, better than $1.17 a year earlier. The figure
improved to $1.02 in the second quarter.  Chartis is targeting return on equity of 10 percent to 12
percent in 2015 compared with a “normalized” return of 6 percent
in 2010,  Peter Hancock , the unit’s chief executive officer, said
in May.  Travelers’s goal of mid-teens return on equity isn’t
realistic in the near term as natural disasters fuel claims
costs, CEO Jay Fishman said in July. The figure was 11.8 percent
for the first half at the New York-based company.  ‘More Realistic’  “The whole industry and beyond needs to be more realistic
about its return expectations” from investment portfolios,
Jason Pratt, chief investment officer of Bermuda-based reinsurer
 Montpelier Re Holdings Ltd. (MRH) , said at the conference.  The U.S. Federal Reserve pledged last week to maintain
interest rates near record lows until at least mid-2015 and
purchase mortgage debt to stimulate the economy. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury is about 1.78 percent, compared with 3.29
percent at the end of 2010.  Pratt said derivatives and short positions, in which
investors bet on a decline in securities prices, are necessary
tools and that portfolio managers need to convince corporate
boards of their effectiveness.  Children With Guns  “If you think you’re going to operate in a long-only
environment in fixed income, you’re going to die,” Pratt said.
“But you also can’t give guns to children.”  Fishman, who kept Travelers profitable in the credit crisis
by sidestepping losses on mortgage-backed securities, has
shunned adding risk in the bond portfolio this year.  “People say, ‘Where are you going for yield?’ and the
answer is ‘Nowhere,’” Fishman said at a conference last week.
“If we thought that there was a place where, on a risk-adjusted
basis, yield was better than where we are today, we would move
in that direction. But we don’t see it, we don’t perceive that
there is such a place. So we continue to be invested in the
same asset classes that we have been before and accept the
premise of lower returns prospectively.”  AIG, which almost collapsed in 2008 before it was rescued
by taxpayers, has been increasing bets on lower-rated mortgage
bonds. The company has surged 49 percent this year in  New York 
trading as the company bought back about $13 billion in stock,
helping to cut the government’s stake below 50 percent.  “The investment community is OK with companies taking a
little more risk,” Citigroup’s Walsh said today.  Travelers had advanced 16 percent this year as Fishman
raised rates for insurance coverage, beating the 11 percent gain
in the 30-company Dow Average. Montpelier climbed 27 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  