-- IPhone 5 Costliest to Make Since Original Model, IHS Data Shows
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-09-19T07:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/iphone-5-costliest-to-make-since-original-model-ihs-data-shows.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s latest model iPhone 5
is the company’s most expensive handset to manufacture since the
first version was released in 2007, according to data from
market researcher IHS iSuppli.  A larger, more-advanced screen and faster wireless chips
drove the materials and manufacturing cost of the 16 GB entry-
level iPhone 5 to $207, the El Segundo, California-based
researcher said in a  statement  based on preliminary estimates.
That’s the most expensive since Apple unveiled the iPhone in
2007, which iSuppli estimated at the time had material costs of
$246 for a 4 GB version.  Apple, which gets about two-thirds of its profit from
handsets, said it pre-sold 2 million units of the iPhone 5 in
one day, more than double its previous record. Although
production costs are the highest in three years, manufacturing
and bill-of-materials expenses for the entry-level model are 32
percent of the non-contract sales price of $649, according to
iSuppli estimates.  “While the price of some components, such as NAND flash,
has fallen during the past year, the iPhone 5’s overall BOM has
increased mainly because its display and wireless subsystems are
more expensive compared to the iPhone 4S,” iSuppli said.  The estimates are based on a “virtual teardown” and may
be amended after a physical examination of the device and its
components, the researcher said. Deliveries of the new model
begin Sept. 21.  Manufacturing Costs  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, declined
to comment. The Cupertino, California-based company doesn’t
currently list non-contract prices for the iPhone 5 on its U.S.
website, with orders only available through contracts with
carriers.  Materials for the cheapest of the new handsets, with 16
gigabytes of storage, total $199 and manufacturing cost is $8,
according to iSuppli. The combined cost rises to $238 for the 64
GB version, which sells for $849, because the extra storage is
more expensive, according to the researcher’s preliminary
analysis based on known suppliers and prices for components, it
said.  The cheapest version of Apple’s  original iPhone , unveiled
in 2007, had 4 Gigabytes of storage, one-quarter the amount of
the least-expensive iPhone 5. A more expensive version of the
original, with 8 GB, had parts and manufacturing costs of
$265.83, iSuppli said in a follow-up to its earlier analysis.  Apple has in the past criticized similar cost analysis of
its devices.  “Don’t put a lot of credence in these third-party reports
that you see,” Apple CFO  Peter Oppenheimer  said in a July 20,
2010 investor conference call. “It’s always amazing to me the
cost categories and the components that never seem to make it
into the reports.”  Chip Prices  The analysis doesn’t include software, royalty, licensing
and other expenses, iSuppli said. Costs estimates also exclude
research, marketing, administrative and other expenses incurred
by Apple in designing and selling its products.  Combined costs of wireless chips climbed to $34 from $24
for the iPhone 4S, while the display and touchscreen costs $44
compared to $37 for the prior version, iSuppli said.  Falling prices of memory chips cut the cost of storage for
the most-expensive model, with 64 GB, by 45 percent from the 4S
model to $41.60 in the latest version, it said. The cheapest
iPhone 4S had a materials and manufacturing cost of $196, it
said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 