-- Iran Cleric Pummeled by ‘Badly Covered’ Woman After Warning
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-09-19T14:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/iran-cleric-pummeled-by-badly-covered-woman-after-warning-her.html
An Iranian cleric said he was
beaten by a woman in the northern province of Semnan after
giving her a warning for being “badly covered,” the state-run
 Mehr  news agency reported.  Hojatoleslam Ali Beheshti said he encountered the woman in
the street while on his way to the mosque in the town of
Shahmirzad, and asked her to cover herself up, to which she
replied “you, cover your eyes,” according to Mehr. The cleric
repeated his warning, which he said prompted her to insult and
push him.  “I fell on my back on the floor,” Beheshti said in the
report. “I don’t know what happened after that, all I could
feel was the kicks of this woman who was insulting me and
attacking me.”  Since the 1979 revolution that brought Shiite Muslim
religious leaders to power, women in  Iran  have been required to
cover their hair and body curves in public with head-scarves and
loose-fitting coats, to protect religious values and “preserve
society’s morals and security.”  The government condemns short, tight and colorful coats and
loosely tied head-scarves, and routinely organizes police
patrols to enforce the Islamic dress code. Public surveillance
increases in summer when some women opt for flimsier clothing.  Beheshti said he was hospitalized for three days. The
Iranian cleric said it was his religious duty to apply the
principle of “commanding right and forbidding wrong,” and that
he would continue to do so even after living through what he
called “the worst day of my life.”  It isn’t the first time that clerics in Iran have been
beaten up after delivering warnings, Mehr said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 