-- Itau in Wage Fight as Rousseff Targets Brazil Bank Profit
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-09-19T15:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/itau-in-wage-fight-as-rousseff-targets-brazil-bank-profit.html
Workers at  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) 
and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,  Brazil ’s biggest banks by market value,
are preparing for the longest strike in almost a decade as
lenders rebuff demands for raises twice the rate of inflation.  Bank workers nationwide walked off their jobs yesterday
after the banking federation rejected a request for a 10.25
percent salary increase, offering instead 6 percent. Inflation
was 5.24 percent through August.  The wage battle, which shut banks for three weeks in 2011,
may last even longer this year as lenders seek to contain
expenses amid pressure from President  Dilma Rousseff  to cut
consumer loan rates.  Record-low unemployment  and rising profit
at banks are bolstering union demands for pay increases that top
inflation.  “The strike this year will be tougher than last year,”
said Juvandia Moreira, president of the union representing bank
workers in the  Sao Paulo  metropolitan area. “Banks are offering
us much less than the average pay raise that workers were
granted” in other industries.  Itau  rose  1 percent to 34.01 reais ($16.80) in Sao Paulo at
11:45 a.m. and Bradesco advanced 0.8 percent to 35.70 reais. The
Bovespa benchmark index gained 1 percent. Itau fell 0.9 percent
this year before today, compared with a 15 percent gain for
Bradesco and an 8.9 percent increase in the Bovespa index.  ‘Won’t Rest’  Bradesco, based in Osasco, declined to comment, according
to an e-mailed statement. Itau, based in Sao Paulo, didn’t
return e-mails and a phone call for comment.  Rousseff is pushing lenders to lower loan costs for
consumers after the central bank reduced the benchmark interest
rate by 5 percentage points since August 2011, the most of any
Group of 20 nation. She used a Sept. 6 Independence Day speech
to step up her criticism of the banks, saying they’re making too
much money.  “Banks, lenders and especially credit cards can cut rates
charged to the final consumer even more, reducing their profits
to civil levels,” Rousseff said. “I won’t rest until I see
that happen.”  Itau’s second-quarter profit excluding extraordinary items
rose 8.1 percent from a year earlier to 3.6 billion reais.
Bradesco posted a profit of 2.87 billion reais, up 1.5 percent.  Banks probably won’t raise their proposal much higher
because their return on equity is falling as the government
pushes for lower spreads, Karina Freitas, an analyst at
brokerage Concordia Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview.  Declining Returns  Return on equity for Itau fell to 18 percent at the end of
the second quarter from 21 percent a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Bradesco’s return dropped to 19
percent from 23 percent.  Fenaban, the nation’s banking association, has faith that
banks and workers will reach an agreement, said Magnus
Apostolico, the  group’s  director of labor relations. Clients can
still use ATM machines, internet and mobile banking services
during the strike.  “We made an initial proposal that was an improvement
relative to the previous years, so we believe an agreement can
be reached very fast,” Apostolico said in a telephone
interview. “We continue to ask them to show us where they think
our proposal can be improved so the banks can work on it.”  Bank workers have gone on strike every year for the past
eight, and 2011’s work stoppage shut branches for 21 days, the
most since a 30-day stoppage in 2004. Last year, bank workers
won a 9 percent raise.  Outpacing Inflation  In the first half of this year, 97 percent of employees
covered by collective-bargaining agreements won pay raises that
outpaced consumer-price increases, the most since at least 1996,
according to a  survey  published last month by Dieese, a trade
union research institute.  The labor dispute probably won’t affect banking shares,
Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380 million reais at Legan
Administracao de Recursos in Sao Paulo. Investors are already
factoring in any impact on operations because strikes in Brazil
are so widespread, he said.  Interest rates  on consumer loans have fallen to the lowest
in five years relative to what banks pay on savings and
deposits. The difference, or spread, between deposit and lending
rates narrowed to 23 percent in July from 28 percent in
February, according to the central bank.  “It’s impossible to reach an accord with what the banks
have so far put on the table,” said Clemente Ganz Lucio,
Dieese’s technical director. “A real wage increase of half a
percent is very low for a sector that has such high profits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in São Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  