-- Lithium Boom Spurs Production From Brine: Commodities
-- B y   L y d i a   M u l v a n y   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-09-21T16:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/lithium-boom-spurs-production-from-california-brine-commodities.html
Lithium demand, seen doubling in
the next eight years on sales of batteries used in electric
vehicles, is spurring a U.S. company to build a factory to
extract the metal from brine in California.  Simbol Materials LLC ’s proposed Imperial Valley plant near
the Mexican border would slash the time and cost needed to
extract lithium from salty water, Chief Executive Officer Luka Erceg said in an interview. The closely held, Pleasanton,
California-based company may boost output from an initial 8,000
tons a year to as much as 64,000 tons by the end of the decade,
Erceg said, equal to 21 percent of projected global demand.  Simbol is among prospective lithium producers that are
trying to break into a market dominated by four companies
including Princeton, New Jersey-based  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC)  The
price of the lightest metal, used to make long-lasting batteries
for laptops, power tools and now electric vehicles, jumped 35
percent in 18 months, according to Jonathan Lee, an analyst at
Byron Capital Markets in Toronto.  “Electric cars are eventually going to become a bigger
part of auto sales, and given that they require hundreds of
times the amount of lithium needed for laptops, that’s going to
really increase demand,” Chris L. Shaw, a New York-based
analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co., said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Hybrid Demand  Global demand will double to 300,000 tons by 2020,
according analysts at Dahlman Rose & Co. Sales of 1 million
electric vehicles a year would more than double battery-grade
lithium use which is currently 40 million pounds (18,144 tons),
Rockwood Chief Executive Officer Seifi Ghasemi said Sept. 11 in
a presentation.  Each electric vehicle uses about 50 pounds of lithium and
hybrids each use about 20 pounds, compared with about 0.1 ounce
for a mobile phone and about 1 ounce for an iPad, Ghasemi said.
About 40,000 electric vehicles and hybrid plug-ins were sold
globally last year, according to the  EV City Casebook , a report
published on the International Energy Association’s website.  By 2020 there will be annual sales 3.9 million hybrid
vehicles, 1.4 million plug-in hybrids and 2.8 million fully
electric plug-in vehicles, Erceg said.  While lithium is mined from ore, brine evaporation is the
lowest-cost source. Simbol’s technology takes brine from
geothermal power plants and extracts minerals via a so-called
reverse osmosis filtration system in a process that takes 90
minutes to 2 hours. Conventional methods using evaporation can
take 18 months, Erceg says.  Evaporation Process  Brian Jaskula, a mineral commodity specialist for the  U.S.
Geological Survey , said Simbol’s method could be a breakthrough.  “If they can eliminate the evaporation process, they can
produce at a much lower price point, which would be great for
the industry,” he said.  Toronto-born Erceg, 41, has a master’s in business
administration degree from  Rice University  in Houston and a law
degree from  South Texas College  of Law. He worked at El Paso
LLC, CenterPoint Energy Inc. and Philip Services Corp. for 15
years before co-founding Simbol.  The company’s other founders are Carol J. Bruton and Brian
R. Viani, who previously worked at the Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory, and M. Scott Conley. The four are
shareholders in Simbol, alongside Itochu Corp., Firelake Capital
Management LLC and Mohr Davidow Ventures.  Erceg said he expects construction on the first  California 
plant to begin at the start of 2013. He declined to disclose the
cost of the project.  Quebec Mine  “Our intent is to build multiple products and multiple
plants concentrated in one region,” he said.  Other companies are also planning more lithium capacity.
Canada Lithium Corp. expects to start mining 20,000 tons
annually in  Quebec  next year, said Olav Svela, a company
spokesman. Perth, Australia-based Galaxy Resources Ltd., which
started mining in 2010 and processing at a Chinese plant in
April, is developing a lithium and potash project in  Argentina .
Rockwood, in addition to its own expansion plans, agreed last
month to acquire Australian lithium miner Talison Lithium Ltd.
for about C$724 million ($743 million).  Rockwood, Talison, Soc. Quimica & Minera de Chile SA and
 FMC Corp. (FMC)  control about 90 percent of the global market,
analysts at Jefferies & Co. said in a report in June. Rockwood
has about 50 percent of the $900 million market for lithium,
excluding Talison, Ghasemi said in his presentation.  Rising demand allowed Rockwood to raise prices for  lithium
carbonate , the processed form of the material that’s used in
 lithium-ion batteries , by 20 percent in July 2011 and another 22
percent a year later, Ghasemi said.  ‘Berserk’ Industry  Whether Simbol and other companies planning to enter the
market will break the dominance of the largest four producers
depends on whether they execute their business plans and
disregard price to focus on gaining market share, John McNulty,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG who has a buy rating on
Rockwood, said in an interview.  Erceg says high prices are unsustainable in the long term
and that companies like Simbol using new technology will cut
production costs.  There are 23 new projects and expansions for lithium, which
could turn a tight market into an oversupplied one, said Keith
Evans, a retired geologist who worked in the lithium business
for three decades. The industry has gone “berserk” with new
projects since a report six years ago anticipated a shortage,
and if all the companies produce as planned, global output will
climb to as much as 642,000 tons a year by 2020, Evans said.  Complex Product  “Some of the new projects are quite good, but there’s no
room for them at the moment,” Evans said in a telephone
interview from  San Diego . “They’ll just have to exercise
patience and hope the demand after 2020 will increase
dramatically.”  Erceg says he’s not concerned about oversupply of lithium.
He says that in 2009, he counted 72 companies talking about
getting into the lithium industry, while now there are probably
five -- including Simbol -- who have a chance of doing so.  “Most companies, we don’t think they’re going to get
there,” he said. “Lithium is not a smile-and-dial product,
it’s a complex product.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lydia Mulvany in  New York  at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  