-- Japan Declares U.S. V-22 Osprey Safe to Send to Okinawa Base
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-09-19T04:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/japan-declares-u-s-v-22-osprey-safe-to-deploy-to-okinawa-base.html
Japan declared the V-22 Osprey
vertical take-off aircraft safe, clearing the way for the U.S.
to deploy them to a Marine Corps base on the southern island of
Okinawa in the face of local opposition.  Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  and Defense Minister
Satoshi Morimoto made the announcement in  Tokyo  today, after
months of discussion with the Obama administration about the
causes of accidents involving the aircraft. The decision came
two days after U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  met with both
men in Tokyo.  While the Pentagon shipped 12 of the tilt-rotor aircraft to
Japan in July, sending them to Okinawa was delayed amid local
protests. A deal to relocate an American base from one part of
Okinawa to another over the objections of local residents has
increased tensions on the island, which is home to 75 percent of
the U.S. military presence in Japan.  “We have confirmed the Osprey’s operational safety and
decided to allow the U.S. side to begin operations,” Morimoto
told reporters in Tokyo. The deployment will probably be next
month, he said.  The aircraft, which can take off and land like helicopters
and fly longer distances like fixed-wing planes, are set to be
moved to Okinawa this year to replace aging helicopters. The
V-22 is made by Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and the Bell Helicopter
unit of  Textron Inc. (TXT)  of Providence,  Rhode Island .  ‘Deep Partnership’  “This agreement was the result of a deep partnership and
thorough process that allowed both sides to reconfirm the safety
of the aircraft,” Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said in an
e-mailed statement from Beijing, where he is traveling with
Panetta. “The Osprey will provide a critical capability that
strengthens the United States’ ability to defend Japan, perform
humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations, and
fulfill other Alliance roles.”  Thousands of people rallied in Okinawa this month against
the Osprey. One of the aircraft crashed in Florida, injuring
five, and another one crashed in April in Morocco, killing two
Marines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  