-- Japan, Australia Stock Futures Fall Ahead of China Report
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-19T23:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/japan-australia-stock-futures-fall-ahead-of-china-report.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  fell, signaling benchmark indexes in the two countries
will retreat from a four-month high, ahead of a  China 
manufacturing report that will indicate the strength of growth
in the world’s second-largest economy.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s
second-biggest construction equipment maker that gets 13 percent
of sales in China, slid 1.1 percent. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s largest mining company, slid 0.7 percent as metals
prices retreated. Shares of  Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. 
may move as Japan’s No. 1 fixed-line phone company said it plans
to buy back up to 3.4 percent of its shares for as much as 150
billion yen ($1.9 billion).  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 9,125 in Chicago yesterday, down from 9,170
in Osaka,  Japan . They were bid in the pre-market at 9,120 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index declined 0.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.6 percent in Wellington.  “Chinese data are on the soft side and hopes for
stimulating fiscal and monetary countermeasures have thus far
disappointed,” said Mikio Kumada, a Singapore-based global
strategist for LGT Capital Management, which oversees more than
$20 billion. “We continue to prefer a rather defensive overall
picture. The monetary outlook and economic situation in Europe
and Asia is more ambiguous than in the U.S., not to mention
various other economic and political risks that remain.”  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge rose 0.1 percent yesterday, snapping a
two-day decline, after the Bank of Japan increased its asset-
purchase target and sales of existing American homes rose more
than forecast.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index gained 9.1 percent this year
through yesterday compared with a 16 percent increase on the  S&P
500  and a 12 percent advance for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks advanced as central banks from Europe to the U.S. and
Japan took measures to stimulate growth. The Asian benchmark
traded at 12.9 times estimated earnings compared with 14.1 for
the S&P 500 and 12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Japan’s central bank yesterday unexpectedly expanded its
asset-purchase target by 10 trillion yen to 55 trillion yen,
seeking to avoid a further slowdown in the world’s third-largest
economy.  Central banks in Asia, Europe and the U.S. are continuing
to loosen policy as the euro-area debt crisis threatens global
growth and financial stability.  China Manufacturing  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s decision followed last week’s vote by
the U.S. Federal Reserve to extend its quantitative-easing
program. The  European Central Bank  has agreed to buy the bonds
of governments that accept austerity conditions to tame the euro
turmoil.  Investors are awaiting the release today of a HSBC Holdings
Plc China purchasing managers index, which will show the
strength of manufacturing.  New Zealand’s economic growth slowed last quarter by less
than economists forecast amid stronger farm output and
construction, a government report showed today. Gross domestic
product rose 0.6 percent in the three months ended June 30 from
the first quarter, when it expanded a revised 1 percent.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in  New York  added 1.4 percent to 92.79 yesterday.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
retreated 1 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  