-- Japan Land-Price Drop Eases as Housing Measures Spur Demand
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-09-20T05:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/japan-land-price-decline-eases-as-housing-measures-spur-demand.html
Japan ’s  land prices  dropped at a
slower pace for a third year as low  interest rates  and tax
incentives supported housing demand.  The nationwide average price slid 2.7 percent as of July 1,
compared with a 3.4 percent decline a year earlier, the Ministry
of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism said in a  report 
released yesterday. Prices have fallen for 21 years, according
to the report, which the ministry releases every year.  The drop in land values, which are about half what they
were after the peak of Japan’s bubble economy in the 1980s, may
ease further, helped by demand before a planned consumption tax
increase, the nation’s first since 1997. Japan’s government
expanded rebates for homebuyers in 2009 to boost sales, giving a
10-year tax break on properties bought before 2014.  “The recovery trend in land prices has become clearer,”
said Masanobu Komoda, the president of Mitsui Fudosan Co.,
Japan’s largest developer by sales. “As the government plans to
increase the  consumption tax , we would like to see additional
measures to support and boost housing demand.”  The drop in commercial land prices narrowed to 3.1 percent
from 4 percent a year earlier, while the decrease in residential
values slowed to 2.5 percent from 3.2 percent, the land
ministry’s data showed.  ‘Remain Lukewarm’  Property acquisitions by Japan’s real estate investment
trusts, known as J-REITs, have also supported prices. Assets
bought by J-REITs expanded at the fastest pace in four years,
rising 8.8 percent to 8.7 trillion yen ($111 billion) as of June
30 from a year earlier, according to  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Research Institute Co. , a Tokyo-based consulting company.  Still, credit worthiness of Japanese real estate operating
companies and J-REITs as well as commercial mortgage backed
securities deals will remain weak in the medium term, Moody’s
Japan K.K. said in a report, citing that cash flows from office
buildings, which make up the majority of their portfolio will
continue to decline.  “The demand for office buildings in Tokyo will remain
lukewarm, owing to anemic economic growth, exacerbated by
oversupply,” the rating company said in the report. “The
latter will result from a build-up in inventory in 2012.”  The Topix Real Estate  Index (TPREAL)  dropped 1.9 percent as of 1:15
p.m. in Tokyo, while the Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index lost
0.1 percent.  Metropolitan Areas       Declines in prices in Tokyo,  Osaka  and Nagoya, the three
major metropolitan areas, slowed to 1 percent, from a drop of
1.9 percent a year earlier, according to the report. Prices in
rural districts slipped 3.4 percent from a 4 percent slump a
year earlier.  The most expensive piece of commercial property remained in
Tokyo’s Ginza  shopping district , where land can cost as much as
19.7 million yen per square meter (10.76 square foot), the
report showed. Tokyo’s Chiyoda ward, where the Imperial Palace
is located, had the nation’s priciest residential land at 2.78
million yen per square meter.  Nationwide apartments put up for sale may increase for a
third year, Real Estate Economic Institute Co. said in a report.  Household’s housing loans by private banks rose to 164.3
trillion yen in the three months ended in June, the highest
since comparable data are available in the last quarter of 1997,
according to a central bank report released today.  “We can see signs of a recovery in the  property market ,”
said Keiji Kimura, the chairman of the Real Estate Companies
Association of Japan as well as Mitsubishi Estate Co., the
nation’s biggest developer by market value.  Low Rates  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  yesterday kept the benchmark interest
 rate  between zero and 0.1 percent and unexpectedly expanded its
asset-purchase fund by 10 trillion yen, seeking to counter an
increasing danger of contraction in the world’s third-largest
economy.  Parliament last month approved a doubling of the nation’s
sales tax to 10 percent by 2015 to cope with swelling social
welfare costs and slow the increase of the fiscal burden.  The tax increase may drive short-term demand while the
outlook in the long run remains unclear, said Takashi Ishizawa,
a Tokyo-based real estate analyst at Mizuho Securities Co.  “Demand for residential land will remain firm as home
buyers rush to make their purchase prior to the tax increase,”
said Ishizawa. “It is not clear how long that trend will
continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  