-- JPMorgan Said to Break Moody’s Lock on Commercial-Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-09-19T19:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/jpmorgan-said-to-break-moody-s-lock-on-commercial-mortgage-bonds.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has selected
 Standard & Poor’s  to rate its planned $1.5 billion commercial
mortgage bond offering, breaking the stranglehold Moody’s
Investors Service has had on the market for 14 months.  The transaction is set to be offered to investors next week
without a rating from Moody’s, according to a person familiar
with the deal who declined to be identified because the
transaction hasn’t been announced. Elizabeth Seymour, a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to comment.  Wall Street banks have been bypassing S&P’s ratings for
commercial-mortgage bonds since the company derailed a $1.5
billion sale by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. last
year by pulling its grades on the securities. Since then, S&P
hasn’t rated a so-called conduit deal composed of loans from
multiple borrowers, the biggest part of the market, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan’s offering was reported
earlier today by the Wall Street Journal.  Demand for commercial-mortgage backed securities is surging
as investors seek riskier assets with the  Federal Reserve  saying
it’s likely to hold its benchmark lending rate near zero at
least through mid-2015. Yields on debt linked to shopping malls,
skyscrapers and hotels reached a record low 2.19 percent
yesterday, according to the Barclays Investment Grade CMBS
index.  Wall Street banks have issued about $3.83 billion in
commercial-mortgage backed securities this month, Bloomberg data
show. Issuance will likely surpass $40 billion this year,
Jefferies Group Inc. analysts said in a Sept. 11 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  