-- Morgan Lewis, Katten Muchin, Bird & Bird: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-19T11:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/katten-muchin-morrison-bird-bird-business-of-law.html
A lawyer for Winifred Jiau, the ex-
Primary Global Research LLC consultant serving a four-year
prison term for  insider trading , sought to be taken off the case
after Jiau asked the court to set aside her conviction.  Joanna Hendon, of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, Jiau’s lead
defense lawyer at trial, asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan yesterday to remove her from the case. Hendon said
that Jiau contacted her in August and said she intended to
challenge her conviction based on a claim that her attorney was
ineffective.  “Among other arguments, Ms. Jiau intends to allege that
her counsel at trial and sentencing were constitutionally
ineffective,” Hendon wrote to Rakoff. “In my communications
with her, Ms. Jiau has made it clear that she no longer wishes
to be represented by me.”  Jiau was found guilty by a jury last year of selling inside
information about technology companies including  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) 
and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge-fund managers Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager, and
Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management
LP.  Jiau, who’s serving her term at the federal prison in
Dublin,  California , yesterday filed her own brief in which she
asked for her conviction to be set aside and her sentence to be
corrected. She argued that her lawyers didn’t adequately
represent her at trial and that her sentence is much longer than
the prison terms given to others convicted of insider trading.  Jiau said in her filing that federal prosecutors in her
case have “fled out of the prosecution office and hurried to
Wall Street law firms for megabucks,” and claimed that her
defense lawyers “labored under numerous conflicts of interest”
and “advanced their own careers.”  She also said the case has been “a nightmare” for her and
claimed that her lawyers failed to investigate Primary Global or
the hedge fund managers, such as Freeman, who testified against
her.  “Other errors of constitutional proportion occurred at
trial,” Jiau said. “Had the defendant been represented by a
lawyer who had her interests at stake, it is likely she would
not be before this court.”  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment on Jiau’s
assertions.  Hendon’s firm, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, yesterday
called Jiau’s allegations “categorically false.”  “Her attorneys carefully, comprehensively and repeatedly
reviewed with her the evidence against her, the defenses
available to her, and the likely sentence she would face if
convicted,” the firm said in a statement. “The decision to
proceed to trial was Ms. Jiau’s. The District Court and the
responsible AUSAs have stated publicly that Ms. Jiau received
‘extraordinary’ representation in this case -- the ‘Cadillac’ of
defenses.”  At Jiau’s sentencing last September, Rakoff complimented
Hendon and her partners for their work on Jiau’s behalf.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  General Counsel  Fannie Mae Names Pfizer’s Bradley Lerman as General Counsel  Fannie Mae  named Bradley Lerman as general counsel,
executive vice president and corporate secretary effective Oct.
1.  Lerman, 56, joins from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , where he was senior
vice president, associate general counsel and chief litigation
counsel, Fannie Mae said yesterday in a statement.  Before joining Pfizer, Lerman was a partner at Winston &
Strawn LLP and co-chairman of the firm’s white collar defense
practice group. He concentrated his practice on white-collar
defense, product-liability and securities-litigation matters,
Fannie said.  “Brad has integrity, excellent leadership skills and a
proven track record in achieving positive outcomes for
corporations across a broad spectrum of legal specialties,”
Timothy J. Mayopoulos, president and chief executive officer of
Fannie Mae, said in a statement.  News  U.K. Begins Tax-Evasion Probe With Focus on Lawyers, Hair Salons  The U.K. began a crackdown on  tax evasion , including among
 London  lawyers, which it expects to bring in 19.5 million pounds
($32 million).  HM Revenue & Customs  task forces starting yesterday will
focus on five “high risk” business areas in an effort to flush
out tax evaders, the authority said in a press release. The
Scottish motor trade and retail businesses in four U.K. regions
are being targeted in the latest project, the agency said.  “This is not an empty threat -- HMRC can and will track
you down if you choose to break the rules,” said  Mike Eland ,
the agency’s enforcement and compliance chief.  The task forces were introduced following a 917 million-
pound government investment that began in 2011 to take on tax
evasion, avoidance and fraud. The authority said it intends to
raise 7 billion pounds each year by 2015 from the project.  Restaurants in southeast  England  and hair and beauty salons
in the northeast of the country are also under scrutiny.  Firm News  LCD Price-Fixing Case Should Yield High Attorney Fees  Lawyers involved in the LCD price-fixing lawsuits that
settled for more than $1.5 million, will face off at a November
hearing set to hash out the awarding of fees, the Recorder said.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) ,  LG Display Co. (066570)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  in
July agreed to pay $543.5 million to resolve allegations they
conspired to fix prices of flat-screen panels used in
televisions and computer monitors.  Combined with an earlier settlement with other panel makers
for $538.5 million, approved by a federal judge, the cash
settlement set a record for recovery in a class-action lawsuit
over price-fixing.  More than 150 law firms are involved, with four  San
Francisco  plaintiffs firms expected to be the big winners, The
Recorder said.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston has already approved
$121.5 million for Pearson, Simon, Warshaw & Penny LLP and Lieff
Cabraser Heimann & Bernstein LLP, who represented the direct
purchaser class, while Zelle Hofmann Voelbel & Mason LLP and the
Alioto Law Firm, who represented indirect purchasers, are
seeking more than $300 million, according to the Recorder.  The companies are alleged to have fixed prices for the
screens, driving up prices from 1999 to 2006, according to the
lawsuit filed in 2007.  The case is In RE TFT-LCD Antitrust Litigation, 07-01827,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  For more,  click here.   Moves  Katten Hires Structured Finance and Securitization Attorney  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP hired Stephen B. Esko as a
partner in its structured finance and securitization practice in
New York. He was previously with Sidley Austin LLP.  Esko focuses his practice on residential mortgage-backed
securitizations.  Katten’s structured finance and securitization practice has
more than 35 attorneys. The firm has more than 600 lawyers in 10
offices in the U.S., London and  Shanghai .  Corporate Partner Thomas Man Hired by Morrison & Foerster  Morrison & Foerster LLP  hired Thomas Yunlong Man in the
firm’s Beijing office as a corporate transactions partner. He
was previously a partner in the Beijing office of Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP.  Man has experience in advising both inbound and outbound
transactions for U.S. and Chinese clients. He counsels Chinese
and international clients on corporate matters that include
mergers and acquisitions, private equity, corporate strategy,
anti-monopoly law and investigations, particularly concerning
potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and
related issues, the firm said  Morrison & Foerster has about 70 legal professionals in its
three China offices. The firm has more than 1,000 lawyers in 15
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Holland & Knight Grows Litigation Practice in Chicago  Holland & Knight LLP hired Mark A. Flessner, a white-collar
lawyer with more than 25 years of experience, as a partner in
its  Chicago  litigation practice group.  A former assistant U.S. attorney in Chicago, Flessner
counsels clients on the litigation risks arising from government
investigative actions, including criminal, civil or regulatory
ones.  Flessner has tried more than 40 cases to verdict and argued
about 35 cases on appeal, the firm said. He also has experience
in investigating corporate wrongdoing and represents clients
facing complex commercial litigation, internal corporate
investigations, grand jury inquiries and issues involving the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Holland & Knight has more than 1,000 lawyers in 17 U.S.
offices as well as  Abu Dhabi , Beijing, Bogota and Mexico City.  Intellectual Property Lawyer Joins Bird & Bird in London  Bird & Bird LLP hired Allan Poulter as partner in its
international intellectual property practice group in the firm’s
London office.  Poulter joins from  Field Fisher Waterhouse , where he headed
the firm’s India desk, Bird & Bird said. He has experience in
intellectual property with particular focus on trademarks, brand
clearance, protection, exploitation and enforcement.  Bird & Bird has more than 900 lawyers in 23 offices in
Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  Michelmores Expands London Office With Hirings  Michelmores LLP expanded its London office with the
addition of partner Chris Willison and an associate.  Willison specializes in banking and asset-based lending
work. He previously headed the asset-based lending team at Blake
Lapthorn and was formerly a finance law partner at Hammonds LLP
and vice president legal of GMAC Commercial Finance Plc,
Michelmores said.  Michelmores has 47 partners and 115 other fee-earners in
three U.K. offices.  Bankruptcy  Billionaire Ross Says Deal With Lehman Brokerage Is Fair  Billionaire Wilbur Ross said his company is paying a fair
price for an asset held by defunct brokerage  Lehman Brothers
Inc ., after hedge fund Elliott Management Corp. said the price
was too low.  Elliott, a creditor of the brokerage, said the 34 percent
stake in gas-tanker company  Navigator Holdings Ltd. (NVIGF)  is being
offered to W.L. Ross & Co. for about $110 million without a
proper bidding process. Trustee James Giddens, a partner at
Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, would be letting Ross’s company,
which already owns Navigator shares, raise its stake to 61
percent without paying a premium for control, Elliott said Sept.
17 in a bankruptcy court filing in Manhattan.  The fight pits two billionaire investors against each other
in the market in distressed industries. Elliott, the $20 billion
firm founded by billionaire investor  Paul Singer , asked the
judge not to let Giddens complete the sale to Ross.  “WLR not only has agreed to pay a full and fair price for
the shares following arms’ length negotiations between the
trustee and WLR, but WLR, like any other potential purchaser,
was required to agree to binding standstill restrictions that
preclude it from acquiring or exercising control” for a
specified period, the Ross company said in a filing yesterday
that was accompanied by a declaration from Ross, the chairman.  The Lehman brokerage, which is liquidating separately from
its parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., hasn’t paid
institutional creditors anything from its $25 billion hoard
after four years in liquidation. Elliott demanded in June that
Giddens sell securities and pay an initial $3.2 billion soon.  Noting the payment demand, the Ross company said Elliott
appears to have an agenda that many of the brokerage’s creditors
don’t share.  The Lehman brokerage liquidation is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
parent’s case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 