-- KBW Ordered to Face Suit by Guaranty Finanancial Trustee
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/kbw-loses-bid-to-dismiss-guaranty-financial-trustee-s-suit-1-.html
KBW Inc. (KBW)  may face a lawsuit by 
the liquidation trustee for Guaranty Financial Group Inc. 
accusing the investment bank of using inside information 
about the  Texas  lender and shorting its stock before it 
collapsed.  U.S. District Judge Sam Lindsay in Dallas ruled yesterday
that Kenneth Tepper, the trustee, has standing to pursue a
fraudulent transfer claim against KBW under the federal
 bankruptcy code  as well as contract and securities fraud claims.  Tepper is seeking to recover $20 million in fees KBW
obtained as Guaranty Financial’s investment banker, profit it
received from betting against the company’s shares and other
damages, according to the complaint filed in August 2011.  Lindsay granted KBW’s request to dismiss fraudulent
transfer claims under  New York  and Texas law as well as a claim
for breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing. The
investment bank had asked to have the entire lawsuit thrown out.  Guaranty Financial, based in Austin, Texas, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in 2009 after its Guaranty Bank was closed
by regulators. Guaranty Financial hired KBW to help raise
capital before the bank failed with more than $14 billion in
assets, according to court papers.  By repeatedly shorting the lender’s stock, KBW caused a
“substantial adverse impact” on the stock’s price and impaired
Guaranty’s ability to raise capital, according to the complaint.
“KBW knew there was no risk in shorting and sought to reap
rewards for its illegal and improper use of such information
through gains related to the short position,” Tepper alleged in
court papers.  Mike Gelormino, a KBW spokesman, declined to comment on the
ruling.  The case is Tepper v. Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., 3:11-
cv-02087, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas federal court at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  