-- Korea Bond Insurance Drops Most in Asia After Upgrades
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-09-19T04:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/korea-bond-insurance-drops-most-in-asia-after-upgrades.html
Insurance costs on South Korean
 government bonds  are dropping at the fastest rate in  Asia  after
credit-ratings companies upgraded the debt to the highest levels
since the 1997 Asian financial crisis.  The price investors pay to protect their holdings of the
securities from default for five years declined 31 percent in
the past month, with the credit-default swap sliding 35 basis
points to 72, according to CMA. The contracts reached a four-
year low of 69 on Sept. 14, making them cheaper than  Japan  for
the first time since March 2011.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its assessment of the nation to
the fifth-highest investment grade of A+ last week, following
similar moves by Moody’s Investors Service and  Fitch Ratings .
South  Korea ’s debt as a proportion of gross domestic product
dropped to 34 percent in 2011 from 35 percent in 2010 and
compares with 212 percent in Japan. The government announced 4.6
trillion won ($4.1 billion) in additional spending for this year
on Sept. 10 after economic growth slowed to 2.3 percent in the
second quarter, the least since 2009.  “Credit-rating upgrades are positive for South Korean
bonds and we expect them to spur inflows,” Kwon Young Sun, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura International Ltd., said in
an interview yesterday. “The drop in  default risk  shows South
Korea’s ability to repay its debt has risen, making the nation a
less risky investment destination.”  Mizuho Outlook  South Korea ’s 10-year government bonds yield 3.10 percent
today, more than 1.80 percent for similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries and 1.64 percent on German bunds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Asian nation’s securities returned
6.1 percent this year, the third-best-performance among 10
regional bond markets tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.
 Indonesia ’s debt gained 7.2 percent and  India ’s 6.9 percent.  Overseas investors cut ownership of Korean sovereign debt
by 2.6 trillion won last month to 86.9 trillion won, paring this
year’s increase to 3.9 trillion won, data from the financial
regulator shows. The  yield  on three-year notes fell to 2.74
percent on Sept. 5, while five-year borrowing costs touched 2.82
percent, both record lows. The rates have since climbed to 2.86
percent and 2.93 percent, respectively.  Economic Slowdown  Korea Development Institute , the state funded think-tank,
cut its growth forecast for this year to 2.5 percent from 3.6
percent on Sept. 17 and reduced the projection for 2013 to 3.4
percent from 4.1 percent. Policy makers should manage the
economy in a conservative manner in preparation for a prolonged
period of “low” expansion, according to the organization.  Overseas  sales  from Asia’s fourth-biggest economy shrank
6.2 percent in August, the sixth monthly decline this year. The
 Bank of Korea  unexpectedly held the benchmark interest  rate  at 3
percent on Sept. 13, a decision predicted by only one of 16
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank lowered
borrowing costs in July for the first time since 2009.  Mizuho Securities Co. in  Tokyo  sold South Korean assets
because of the deteriorating economic outlook.  “I don’t like South Korea at this moment as the outlook
for domestic demand and exports doesn’t seem great,” Tadashi Tsukaguchi, Tokyo-based chief fund manager of the global macro
hedge fund at Mizuho, said in an interview yesterday. “For
exports, South Korea depends greatly on  China  which is showing
signs of slowing and the currency will probably try to price
that in. Yields are also very low already.”  Tsukaguchi declined to be specific as to what Korean assets
he’s selling or to say how much he manages.  ‘Positive View’  The won reached a six-month high of 1,113.35 per dollar on
Sept. 17 and has since weakened 0.3 percent, trading at 1,116.35
as of 1:29 p.m. today in  Seoul , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
It has appreciated 3.2 percent in 2012, following a loss of 2.3
percent last year.  Fitch Ratings upgraded South Korea’s debt to AA- on Sept. 6,
one level higher than Japan and China. The company cited Korea’s
continued economic financial stability in a volatile global
environment for its decision. Moody’s Investors Service raised
its assessment to Aa3 on Aug. 27.  Credit-default swaps on South Korean debt have dropped 99
basis points, or 0.99 percentage point, in 2012 from the year’s
high of 171, according to prices from CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles quotes from dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a government or company fails to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Manulife Asset Management (Asia), a unit of  Canada ’s
largest insurer overseeing $37 billion in debt, is
“overweight” on South Korean  government securities , according
to Neal Capecci, portfolio manager for fixed income.  “The sovereign-rating upgrade is confirmation of our
positive view on South Korea,” Hong Kong-based Capecci said in
a Sept. 17 interview. “Growth is slowing in Korea just like
everywhere else in the world, but on a relative basis, we’re
still confident with the fundamentals of the Korean economy.”  ‘Good News’  The difference in yields between South Korea’s 7.125
percent dollar-denominated government  bonds  due April 2019 and
similar-maturity Treasuries narrowed six basis points to 113
basis points this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The spread reached 111 basis points on Aug. 28, the least since
January 2011.  “Emerging countries with ratings of A and higher have seen
quite good demand, especially this quarter, and the recent
upgrade of South Korean debt was a short-term boost and good
news for overseas investors,” Hideo Shimomura, chief investor
at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., overseeing the
equivalent of $76 billion in Tokyo, said in an interview last
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 