-- Adoboli Missed Chance to Erase Losses, Ex-UBS Boss Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-09-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/kweku-adoboli-missed-chance-to-erase-losses-ex-ubs-boss-says.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS (UBSN)  AG
trader on trial for fraud and false accounting, missed a chance
to erase billions of dollars in unauthorized trading losses,
according to one of his managers at the bank.  Adoboli, who eventually caused UBS to lose $2.3 billion,
“had a brief window to take the position to zero and he didn’t,
and then the market started to go down,” Ron Greenidge said at
a London court yesterday. Greenidge, who oversaw the exchange-
traded-funds desk until April of last year, was one of the first
people to meet with Adoboli on the day he confessed in an e-mail
to hiding trades.  Adoboli, 32, admitted he risked $5 billion on Standard &
Poor’s 500 futures and a further $3.75 billion in the German
futures market, said Greenidge, who no longer works at UBS.
Adoboli has denied the charges and the former trader’s lawyers
have said he is looking forward to providing the jury with his
own account of what happened.  “This can’t be true,” Greenidge said was his initial
reaction when he saw Adoboli’s e-mail. “I could not believe
that someone I worked with back at the time would do something
like this.”  William Steward, a former accountant in product control for
UBS, said previously he began looking into Adoboli’s trades in
August 2011 after receiving a report of a $3.57 billion
discrepancy. Steward said he believed Adoboli’s initial
explanations that he hadn’t had time to book all of his trades.  Adoboli’s losses piled up when he increased the size of his
positions in June last year and then made several “incorrect”
trades, Greenidge said. “He thought the market was going down,
in fact  it went up .”  E-Mail, Arrest  Adoboli was arrested on Sept. 15, 2011, after confessing to
Steward in an e-mail to accruing losses during “the aggressive
sell-off in the days of July and early August” as a result of
the “escalation of the euro-zone crisis,” prosecutors said at
the trial last week.  “He had been trading in breach of his limits and booking
fictitious trades to hide the exposure,” Greenidge said Adoboli
told him at the meeting on the seventh floor of the UBS London
office on Sept. 14, 2011.  After Steward began demanding more information that day,
Adoboli told his desk he was going to the doctor, left the
office and sent the e-mail to Steward from his apartment in
 London  around 2:30 p.m. Greenidge called Adoboli and asked him
to return to the office, where he was escorted to meeting room
73 at around 3:45 p.m., Greenidge said.  Trades, Exposures  “The e-mail didn’t mention any trades, any exposures, so
it was to find out what the exposure to the bank was,”
Greenidge said of the meeting. “Because the exposure was so
large,” more managers were called in who wanted to know how he
could have amassed such a large position without it being
detected and whether other UBS employees were involved.  Adoboli gave them the settlement dates of the fictitious
trades so the bank could start identifying them.  Greenidge, who worked at UBS for 19 years, said he had
daily contact with Adoboli after he became a trader in 2006
until the time he was arrested. In the Sept. 14 meeting, the
former trader said his first fictitious trade was made in
October 2008, Greenidge testified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 