-- N.J. Needs 8.2% Growth to Meet Revenue Goals, Rosen Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-09-19T19:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/n-j-needs-8-2-growth-to-meet-revenue-goals-rosen-says.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
needs revenue to rise 8.2 percent to balance his fiscal 2013
budget to make up for a tax shortfall in the year ended June 30,
the legislature’s chief budget officer said.  The governor, a first-term Republican, had forecast a
revenue gain of 7.2 percent, the second-most optimistic
projection after  California , according to the New Jersey
treasurer’s office. That growth rate would leave Christie’s
budget $258 million short, according to  David Rosen  of the
nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services.  An 8.2 percent increase in revenue is “considerably more
optimistic than what we’ve said,” Rosen said today in an
interview after appearing before the Assembly budget committee.
That rate is more than double the state’s 10-year average, said
Assemblyman Gary Schaer, a Democrat from Passaic.  “If revenue comes in short, there will have to be
adjustments somewhere in the budget,” Rosen told lawmakers.  Christie, 50, has traveled the state touting a “Jersey
comeback,” an economic-recovery plan that includes a  tax cut .
His revenue forecasts have been challenged by Democrats, who
control both houses of the Legislature, and by  Standard &
Poor’s , which revised its outlook on the state’s debt yesterday
to negative from stable.  ‘Overly Optimistic’  When Schaer, a member of the budget committee, asked Rosen
if Christie’s revenue projections were “aggressive” in the
current economy, the budget officer said: “I think that’s not
an unreasonable term to use.” In March, his agency projected
annual growth of 6.5 percent.  Lawmakers need to begin planning for mid-year budget cuts,
Schaer said.  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, who was also asked to
testify at the hearing, declined to appear. The treasurer cited
a “blackout period” that prevents him from speaking about the
state’s finances ahead of this week’s bond sale, according to a
letter he sent to Assemblyman Vincent Prieto, a Secaucus
Democrat who is chairman of the budget committee.  Prieto scheduled the hearing after Rosen reported to
lawmakers on Sept. 10 that tax collections for fiscal 2012 fell
$254 million short of Christie’s budget forecast. Rosen said
that while some revenue still hasn’t been counted, the figures
in his report represent about 88 percent of all receipts.  Significant Reduction  Christie’s plan had projected a fiscal 2013 surplus of more
than $600 million. In a Sept. 12 offering  statement  for this
week’s sale of $400 million of school-construction and refunding
debt, the administration said the state may face a
“significant” reduction in its surplus for fiscal 2012, and
this year’s ending balance may be lower because of additional
spending or less-than-anticipated revenue.  Such wording is typical of disclosure language, according
to Bill Quinn, a spokesman for Sidamon-Eristoff, and  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie.  “This is nothing more than the standard disclosure that
indicates the fund balance is only an estimate at fiscal year-
end and always subject to adjustment in the audit, and that
there are always uncertainties in the budget that have to be
managed,” Drewniak said Sept. 13 by e-mail.  That bond offering statement was a “clear acknowledgment”
from the administration that New Jersey’s surplus will be less
than budgeted, Rosen told lawmakers today.  ‘Political Show’  Christie’s office has criticized Rosen for estimating
2012’s shortfall, saying figures aren’t official until an annual
financial report is released this year. Rosen said today that
Christie’s administration “ought to have a clear indication”
of whether revenue met their forecast in the year ended June 30.  The governor has criticized Rosen over earlier projections.
In May, he called the budget officer “The Dr. Kevorkian of the
numbers,” a reference to the late physician who assisted
suicides.  Christie called into WKXW-FM radio in Ewing before today’s
hearing, calling it “another political show.”  “This is a long summer vacation for the Assembly and they
decide to come back today to put on a show when they know that
we have nothing new to add,” Christie said. “We won’t have any
new numbers to add until we do the audit, which isn’t done until
December.”  Democrats have set aside $183 million in the current budget
for the cost of the proposed tax relief, and have refused to
release it until they see whether the state meets Christie’s
revenue goals.  Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Republican from Little
Silver who sits on the budget panel, said the hearing was a
politically motivated attempt to smear Christie a year before
the 2013 gubernatorial election.  “The governor’s growth figures are based on historical
trends out of recovery,” he said. “We all want it to be better
than it is. Is it completely unattainable? No. Is it outrageous?
Not at all. It’s in line with previous recoveries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  