-- N.Y. Lawmaker Espada’s Bail Should Be Revoked, U.S. Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-09-19T15:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/n-y-lawmaker-espada-s-bail-should-be-revoked-u-s-says.html
Former  New York  legislator Pedro Espada Jr., convicted of embezzlement in  Brooklyn , New York,
federal court, may still be siphoning money from a Bronx clinic
he ran and should have his bail revoked, a prosecutor said.  Espada and his family members “drained” most of the
remaining assets of the now-defunct Soundview Healthcare Network
in June, Assistant U.S. Attorney Carolyn Pokorny told U.S.
District Judge Frederic Block in a letter dated yesterday and
unsealed today. A jury convicted Espada on May 14 of four counts
of stealing from the Soundview clinics.  On June 29, one of Espada’s sons, Alejandro Espada,
distributed more than $350,000 of the clinic’s funds to the
family and affiliate companies, according to the letter. About
$40,000 of the money went Espada and about $50,000 went to the
 law firm  representing him in the Brooklyn case, Hafetz, Necheles
& Rocco, the prosecutor said.  “It is inconceivable that, absent the defendant’s
continued involvement in Soundview affairs, the victim of his
theft would turn over a significant portion of its final
resources to pay the legal fees of the perpetrator of the crime
against it,” Pokorny wrote.  Espada was granted release on a $750,000 bond on December
16, 2010, according to court filings. He and his son Pedro Gautier Espada face a new trial in Brooklyn on charges that the
jury failed to reach a verdict on in May. The two are also
facing a trial in Manhattan on tax charges.  A lawyer for Espada, Susan Necheles, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message and e-mail seeking comment.  The Brooklyn case is U.S. v. Espada, 10-cr-985, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The
 Manhattan  case is U.S. v. Espada, 1:12-cr-00235, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  