-- Nasdaq Disputes Citigroup Assertion That Facebook Fund Too Small
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-09-19T17:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/nasdaq-disputes-citigroup-assertion-that-facebook-fund-too-small.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , responding
to criticism that it is offering too little to Wall Street 
firms hurt in  Facebook  Inc.’s public debut, said the compensation 
plan covers “objective, discernible” losses suffered by brokers.  The operator of the second-largest U.S. equity exchange has
no plans to enlarge the pool, it said in a letter to the
Securities and Exchange Commission posted on the agency’s
website.  Citigroup (C)  Inc. said last month that it lost millions of
dollars because of Nasdaq’s mishandling of the initial public
offering and deserves greater reimbursement.  Nasdaq OMX, balancing its role as an organization with
legal immunity against claims related to computer breakdowns
with its obligation to members disadvantaged when it bungled
 Facebook (FB) ’s May 18 IPO, proposed paying $62 million. The payout
would be facilitated by a modification to rules governing
exchange liability overseen by the SEC.  “Nasdaq believes that the accommodation  proposal 
establishes a fair, transparent and equitable method of
identifying categories of members for whom Nasdaq’s system
issues caused objective, discernible loss,” it wrote. “The
purpose of the proposal is not to pay all claims of losses
alleged with respect to the trading of Facebook stock, nor
even all the claims of losses alleged to have been incurred on
May 18.”  Delays, Malfunctions  Delays and malfunctions on Nasdaq were the first signs of
trouble in the  Facebook IPO , which prompted lawsuits against the
company, its exchange and the underwriters. At yesterday’s  close 
of $21.87, Facebook was down 42 percent from the $38 price set
by underwriters on May 17.  Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S. bank , said losses in its
equity market-making unit exceeded its portion of the pool
proposed by Nasdaq OMX in July, made after a design flaw in its
computers delayed Facebook’s open and left traders confused
about how many shares they owned.  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment beyond the letter submitted last month.  Citigroup, Chicago-based Citadel LLC, UBS AG in Zurich and
 Knight (KCG)  Capital Group Inc. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , operate
equity wholesaling groups, brokers that execute orders for
individual investors sent by securities firms such as Charles
Schwab Corp. and TD Ameritrade Holding Corp.  Citadel and Knight said previously they support Nasdaq’s
repayment proposal, while UBS, which lost $350 million trading
Facebook, asked the SEC to work with Nasdaq to reformulate the
proposal to increase the amount paid and cover a broader range
of trading losses.  Loss Formula  Nasdaq previously told the SEC it would determine how much
to pay by comparing firms’ executions for Facebook to the
average price, weighted by the number of shares traded, from
1:50 p.m. to 2:35 p.m. on May 18. That price was about $40.53,
 Nasdaq  said. The average price Citigroup suggested was $34.36,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup disputed the formula Nasdaq said it would use to
determine how much to reimburse firms, saying the benchmark
price selected for determining the level of losses should
reflect trading before noon on May 21 -- the next trading day
after the IPO was held.  In its  letter  today, Nasdaq said its calculation is the
appropriate one.  “Nasdaq proposes to use a 45-minute window because 45
minutes should have been ample time for a reasonably diligent
member to identify any unexpected losses or unanticipated
positions and take steps to mitigate or liquidate them,” it
wrote. “This is a reasonable and objective approach given that
trading firms typically process and determine actions on trading
messages within seconds or fractions of seconds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  