-- Negative Outlook on N.J. Debt May Be Campaign Plus for Democrats
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-09-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/negative-outlook-on-n-j-debt-may-be-campaign-plus-for-democrats.html
New Jersey Democrats who cast doubt
on Republican Governor  Chris Christie ’s economic comeback plans
have been handed a weapon heading into next year’s elections.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the state’s credit outlook to
negative from stable yesterday, citing budget imbalances,
pension liabilities and debt burden. The general-obligation
rating of AA-, fourth highest, may be cut “should state revenue
projections turn out to be optimistic,” leading to more
“short-term budgetary maneuvering,” the company said.  “This provides the Democrats with more ammunition to stall
some of Chris Christie’s major proposals, particularly his tax
cuts,”   Patrick Murray , who teaches political science at
 Monmouth University  in  West Long Branch , said in an interview.
“It gives the Democrats some cover to keep the governor from
scoring political points as he heads into next year’s re-
election battle.”  Christie, 50, whose rising star status in his party was
underscored by his selection as keynote speaker for the
 Republican National Convention , hasn’t said whether he’ll run
for a second term.  The credit revision will be a subject of today’s Assembly
Budget Committee hearing, according to Vincent Prieto, a
Democrat from Secaucus who is chairman of the panel.  Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, Republican budget officer in
the lower house, said the hearing is meant as an opening shot
for next year’s “crazy election season.”  ‘Purely’ Politics  “I would be willing to place a bet that tomorrow is purely
about politics,” he said yesterday in an interview.  “They’re
going to try to rough the governor up.”  Michael Drewniak  and  Kevin Roberts , spokesmen for Christie,
didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  “Investors will find S&P’s arguments to be out of step and
its basis for revising New Jersey’s outlook unconvincing,
particularly in the face of the continued growth in New Jersey’s
economy and state revenues,”  Andy Pratt , a spokesman for state
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, said by e-mail.  The governor has traveled the state touting a “Jersey
comeback,” an economic-recovery plan that includes a tax cut.
While Democrats set aside $183 million in tax relief in the
$31.7 billion budget for fiscal 2013, they won’t free it until
they see whether revenue meets Christie’s targets.  A rating cut would be the second for  New Jersey  since
Christie took office in January 2010. S&P lowered the state’s
grade from AA, third-highest, in February 2011, citing growing
pension and health-care obligations.  Optimistic Projections  Earlier this year, S&P said Christie’s budget for the
fiscal year that began July 1 was structurally unbalanced
because it was built on optimistic economic projections.  A New Jersey general-obligation bond maturing in 2021
traded Sept. 10 with an average yield of 2.17 percent, 0.58
percentage point above an index of benchmark municipals with
similar maturity, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That yield difference has increased from Jan. 4, when the
bonds traded with an average yield of 2.24 percentage points,
0.51 percentage point above the index.  Christie’s proposed fiscal 2013 budget counted on a 7.2
percent revenue gain compared with 2012, second only among U.S.
states to a 7.7 percent jump projected by California Governor
 Jerry Brown , according to the New Jersey treasurer’s office.  “The rest of the nation is projecting 2 percent to 3
percent,” Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Wood-Ridge Democrat who heads
the Budget Committee, said by telephone. “All of these
financial rating agencies are keeping a very close look on New
Jersey.”  ‘Muted Recovery’  New Jersey’s economic base is experiencing a “somewhat
muted recovery,” S&P credit analyst John Sugden said in the
report. He criticized “a trend of structurally unbalanced
budgets that include only partial funding of pension obligations
and the reliance on one-time revenues and debt restructurings to
offset underfunding of expenditures and revenue shortfalls.”  For fiscal 2014, the state has already identified about
$2.2 billion in budget gaps, the rating company said.  “The fact that we’re one year out, and these alarm bells
are sounding, I don’t think bodes well for the external
evaluation of Governor Christie’s handling of the New Jersey
economy,”  Brigid Harrison , a Montclair State University
professor of law and political science, said in an interview.  New Jersey tax receipts fell $254 million short of
Christie’s fiscal 2012 budget forecast,  David Rosen , the
nonpartisan budget officer for the Legislature, said in a memo
to lawmakers earlier this month.  Jobless Rate  The state’s  unemployment  rate jumped to a 35-year high of
9.8 percent in July. The governor has said his tax cut will help
create jobs.  Christie, speaking yesterday at a town-hall meeting in
Elmwood Park, didn’t mention the “comeback” or the state’s
jobless rate. In recent weeks he’s replaced the “Jersey
Comeback” banners at such events with one reading “Christie
Middle-Class Reform Agenda.”  Christie told the crowd of about 300 people that he won’t
abandon his call for the tax cut, which he said would make the
state more affordable and competitive with neighboring states
such as  Pennsylvania  with lower tax burdens.  “The money comes from you in the first place, so for us to
say we don’t have enough money to let you keep more of your
money means just one thing: It means that we believe we can
spend your money better than you can,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  