-- New York Sued by Environmental Group Seeking Fracking Documents
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-19T20:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/new-york-sued-by-environmental-group-seeking-fracking-documents.html
New York was sued by an
environmental group seeking documents on the oil and gas
industry’s efforts to influence the state’s regulation of
hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking.  The Washington-based  Environmental Working Group  filed the
suit against the state Department of Environmental Conservation
and Governor  Andrew Cuomo . The group is seeking correspondence
and communications since Jan. 1, 2011, between 25 oil and
natural-gas companies or their representatives and the governor,
his top aides and department officials.  Cuomo’s office provided “only a very limited number” of
records after the group filed requests under the state’s Freedom
of Information Law in March, and “constructively denied access
to the remainder of the records,” according to Environmental
Working Group’s petition, filed Sept. 17 in New York State
Supreme Court in  Albany .  “The public has a ’right to know’ what was communicated to
DEC and to the governor by the oil and gas industry, and what
was communicated by DEC or the governor to the oil and gas
industry, especially as it pertains to the risks of high-volume
horizontal hydrofracking to public health, drinking water,
homes, residents and property values,” according to the
petition.  In fracking, millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break shale rock and
free trapped gas. The process has been blamed for groundwater
contamination.  Shale Gas  Regulators in  New York  have banned fracking while
environmental rules are drafted. Cuomo is considering a plan
that would allow fracking in five counties near the Pennsylvania
border.  The state responded to information requests “in a timely
manner and consistent with the letter and spirit of the law,”
Rich Azzopardi, a spokesman for Cuomo, said in an e-mail. “We
are confident that this will be crystal clear to any court.”  Environmental Working Group provided a stamped copy of the
petition, which couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court
records.  The case is Environmental Working Group v. New York State
Department of Environmental Conservation, 5159/2012, New York
State Supreme Court, Albany County (Albany).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  