-- News Corp. Directors Should Face Investors’ Lawsuits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-09-19T20:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/news-corp-directors-ignored-wrongdoing-judge-is-told.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  directors failed to stop
illegal conduct at the media company, including phone hacking,
and should face lawsuits by shareholders seeking to hold them
accountable, a lawyer for investors told a judge.  Board members knew the newspaper publisher’s reporters
routinely hacked into phones and bribed British police officers
for stories, yet turned a blind eye to their misdeeds,  Jay Eisenhofer , a lawyer for a  New York  Bank and an Illinois pension
fund, told Delaware Chancery Judge John Noble. Eisenhofer urged
Noble to reject company officials’ calls to dismiss the case.  “Directors’ failure to act led to substantial harm to the
company,” Eisenhofer said today at a hearing in Dover. Noble
said he’d rule later on whether the suit can proceed.  News Corp., the New York-based company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , has tried to move past the controversy sparked by the
exposure of illegal reporting tactics and alleged cover-up.
About 80 people have been arrested in connection with criminal
probes, including Rebekah Brooks, the former top executive of
News Corp.’s U.K. publisher.  British lawmakers concluded earlier this year Murdoch was
not “a fit person” to lead a major international company after
News Corp. officials misled Parliament about the extent of phone
hacking at the News of the World. The tabloid paper was closed
because of the scandal.  ‘Blind Eye’  Murdoch “turned a blind eye and exhibited willful
blindness to what was going on in his companies,” the House of
Commons Culture Committee said in a report. News Corp. directors
announced in May they had “full confidence” in Murdoch’s
ability to lead the media company.  Lawyers for News Corp. directors today disputed investors’
claims that board members participated in a cover-up of
wrongdoing because they were beholden to Murdoch and his family.  “Rather than ignoring and covering up these matters, the
evidence shows the board” moved to address the scandal quickly
and openly, Gregory Varallo, one of the company’s attorneys,
told Noble.  Directors’ willingness to back Murdoch despite the phone-
hacking scandal and to approve questionable transactions
involving members of his family shows they can’t be relied on to
act in shareholders’ best interests, lawyers for New York-based
Amalgamated Bank and Jacksonville, Illinois-based  Central
Laborers Pension Fund  said in court papers.  Dominates Board  Investors pointed to News Corp.’s decision in 2011 to pay
$675 million to acquire a U.K.-based television production
company owned by Murdoch’s daughter, Elizabeth, as example of
how the company’s founder dominates its board.  Mark Lebovitch , a lawyer representing News Corp.
shareholders, said that Delaware judges have taken a skeptical
view in the past of buyout deals involving family members.  “Human nature is to protect your children” and that
raises questions about the fairness of such conflicted
transactions, he said.  News Corp. directors also knew by 2009 that some of the
company’s journalists had hacked into celebrities’ phones to get
scoops because of an expose by  London ’s  Guardian  newspaper,
attorneys for disgruntled investors said in the filings.  News Corp. is facing suits from more than 130 people whose
phones were hacked by the tabloid’s reporters, including British
actor  Hugh Grant ;  Sarah Ferguson , the Duchess of York; and U.S.
actors  Brad Pitt  and  Angelina Jolie .  Wrongdoing Limited  Instead of investigating the allegations and halting the
conduct, board members accepted explanations from Murdoch and
his family that the wrongdoing was limited to a single reporter
who’d been fired, shareholders’ lawyers said.  “The board’s bad-faith abdication of its duties, despite
years of warning signs that employees reporting directly to
Rupert and  James Murdoch  have engaged in pervasive and
systematic violations of applicable laws, has left News Corp. in
an ever-worsening series of related scandals,” the attorneys
said in an Aug. 8 filing.  The investors’ so-called derivative lawsuit would return
any recovery from insurance covering Dynegy officers and
directors to the company’s coffers.  Illogical Theory  News Corp.’s lawyers counter investors’ theory that
directors were willing to cover up illegal acts by company
employees is “illogical.”  Investors’ attorneys have leveled numerous allegations in
court filings in a bid “to create a cover-up that just does not
exist,” the company’s lawyers said in an Aug. 22 filing.  “They have nothing to demonstrate that a majority of the
director defendants intentionally acted in bad faith” in
evaluating and responding to allegations of internal wrongdoing,
the company’s lawyers added.  On the question of whether News Corp. directors should have
agreed to buy Elizabeth Murdoch’s company, Varallo said the firm
had produced such hit TV series as “The Office” and “Ugly
Betty.” A board committee weighed the value of those
entertainment properties in agreeing to the deal, he added.  “This isn’t a case of daddy looking out for a favored
child,” Varallo told Noble at today’s hearing.  The case is In re News Corp. Shareholder Derivative
Litigation, CA 6285, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  