-- NHL Ticket Holders Lack Interest Guarantees on Season Payments
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-09-19T16:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/nhl-ticket-holders-lack-interest-guarantees-on-season-payments.html
National Hockey League fans are at
the mercy of teams when it comes to refunds and interest on
ticket payments if games are lost to a lockout this season.  The NHL, with annual revenue of about $3 billion, is
allowing all 30 clubs to set their own refund policies,
according to Matt Majka, chief operating officer of the
 Minnesota Wild , which is applying interest toward future ticket
purchases.  That approach is opposite the one taken by the  National
Basketball Association , which ordered clubs to pay interest on
season-ticket money for the 16 games lost to a labor dispute
last season. The  National Football League  ordered its teams to
adopt a refund-only policy during last year’s lockout, which
didn’t cost any regular-season games.  “If hockey perceives itself as a major-league sport, then
I think following prevailing business standards of its
competitors makes sense,”  Paul Swangard , managing director of
the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the  University of Oregon ,
said in an e-mail. “The NBA set the standard in this case and
NHL teams should be capable of offering the same deal even if
the League doesn’t mandate it.”  The Wild won’t offer interest if customers want a refund.
They will give fans who have paid in full credit for missed
games plus 10 percent annual percentage rate interest on the
dollar value of those tickets. The credit can only be applied to
future games or subsequent season renewal.  “The decision on how to interact with fans is left to the
clubs,” Majka said in a telephone interview.  Cancel Games  The  New York Rangers  will announce their refund policy once
games are canceled, spokeswoman Stacey Escudero said via e-mail.
The  Washington Capitals , owned by  Ted Leonsis , who also controls
the NBA’s Wizards, are giving fans 1 percent interest on money
in team accounts.  A six-month certificate of deposit offers less than a 1
percent return, according to bankrate.com.  Commissioner Gary Bettman and his deputy, Bill Daly, are
the only NHL officials permitted to comment on labor matters,
spokesman John Dellapina said. Neither was immediately available
to talk about ticket money, according to Dellapina.  The NHL season is scheduled to begin on Oct. 11.  The NBA ordered clubs to pay 1 percent interest for lost
games. The  Miami Heat , champions in the NBA’s lockout-shortened
2011-12 campaign, offered season-ticket holders an option to
receive discounted playoff tickets and a 5 percent payment in
exchange for keeping renewal deposits in a team account.  Kim Stone, an executive vice president with the Heat, said
at the time that the NBA’s mandate was “just good business.”  NFL Plan  The NFL, the most-popular U.S. sport annual revenue of more
than $9 billion, allowed clubs to set their own policies on
interest for ticket payments.  NHL owners locked out players after the collective
bargaining agreement expired on Sept. 15. The owners are seeking
a reduction in the percentage of revenue paid to players, who
got 57 percent under the old contract.  The NBA also offered refunds with interest during the 204-
day lockout that ended in January 1999. That season was
shortened to 50 games from 82, the first time games that counted
were lost to labor strife.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  