-- Nigerian Naira Strengthens for Second Day After Bank Holds Rate
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-09-19T11:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/nigerian-naira-strengthens-for-second-day-after-bank-holds-rate.html
Nigeria ’s naira strengthened for a
second day and headed for its biggest gain this week after the
 central bank  kept its benchmark interest rate at a record high
to support the currency and control inflation.  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer gained 0.2
percent to trade at 157.45 a dollar as of 11:19 a.m. on the
 interbank market  in Lagos, its biggest gain on a closing basis
since Sept. 14. The naira has appreciated 3 percent this year,
the best performer among 23 currencies tracked by Bloomberg in
Africa.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  kept its key rate unchanged at
a record 12 percent yesterday to bolster the naira. The
regulator retained the amount of foreign currency banks can hold
as a percentage of their shareholders’ funds at 1 percent and
held the amount of cash as a percentage of deposits that
commercial banks must hold with the central bank at 12 percent,
Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  “The CBN maintains its objective of relative  exchange-rate 
stability, which, it argues, helps to deliver  price stability ,
and is valued by Nigerian business and foreign investors,”
Gregory Kronsten, head of economic research at FBN Capital Ltd.
in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note today. “The CBN will be
able to hold the line on the exchange rate” and keep it within
the target range of 3 percent above or below 155 a dollar at its
twice-weekly currency auctions “well into 2013,” he said.  The  inflation rate  declined to 11.7 percent in August from
12.8 percent a month earlier, the Abuja-based National Bureau of
Statistics said Sept. 16. It’s still above the central bank’s
target of under 10 percent.  Inflation Pressure  “We do not anticipate further monetary policy adjustments
this year as core inflationary pressures are likely to prevent
the CBN from cutting  interest rates  to stimulate demand-side
growth,” Celeste Fauconnier and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana,
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank, wrote in a report today.  The West African nation’s  foreign-currency reserves  rose to
a more than two-year high of $40.568 billion on Sept. 14,
according to data compiled by the central bank.  The yield on Nigeria’s 16 percent domestic bonds due June
2019 rose 25 basis points to 12.04 percent, according to
yesterday’s data on the Financial Markets Dealers Association
website. Yields on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due
January 2021 fell one basis point to 4.78 percent.  Ghana’s cedi was unchanged at 1.9025 a dollar in Accra, the
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  