-- No Tables, No Choices for Atera’s $700 Menu: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-09-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/no-tables-no-choices-for-atera-s-700-menu-ryan-sutton.html
As we approached the three-hour
mark of a 20-plus-course meal at Atera, the chef set a rock in
front of me and told me to eat it.  I already had consumed lichens, shells, embers, tendons and
charcoal, some retrieved by hand from beds of moss, hay and more
rocks.  Except for a cheese course, there are virtually no culinary
options at  Atera , the uber-naturalistic restaurant in lower
 Manhattan . Allergies are forgiven, squeamishness is not: “Atera
does not accommodate aversions,” the chef  warns .  Frequently these days, while you choose the restaurant, the
chef decides what you eat. So let’s hope you like those lichens
as much as I did; they’re seasoned with black truffles and
crisped -- earthy luxurious snack food.  The take-it-or-leave $165 tasting menu will cost you, after
wine pairings, tax and tip, just under $700 for two. That makes
Atera one of  New York ’s most expensive new restaurants since Per
Se debuted in 2004.  If anyone can justify such prices, it’s chef Matthew
Lightner, late of Mugaritz in Spain and  Castagna  in  Oregon . His
progressive American fare, sometimes resembling geological
phenomena, already navigates the border between three and four
stars.  Self Serve  Doing much of the serving himself, Lightner tells you to
eat the entire razor clam on your plate. Interesting
proposition, given that people don’t usually eat shells. But
these are made from an aerated baguette that sets off the briny
mollusks.  This all unfolds at a gray, C-shaped, 13-seat counter. You
settle into in a cushy bar stool and start things off with a
macaron.  Wait, isn’t that dessert? Not here. The cookie is made from
a beer and buttermilk gel that’s been whipped and dehydrated. In
the middle, instead of jam, sits a generous dollop of sturgeon
caviar and cream. Eat it as you once devoured an Oreo, which is
essentially what this is.  Foie gras peanuts are genius in their silkiness. Who knew
you could swallow two of the world’s richest ingredients without
a glass of milk to unstick your palate?  Hammish Fish  Swordfish belly hot smoked like a ham and sprayed with pork
fat. As you suck out the salt, the soothing oils of the fish
come through.  Cured diver scallops, cut into thin little strands, are
served just below room temperature, without any chill to mask
the mollusk’s delicate brine and sugar. Pick up the maritime
flesh with a tiny slice of juniper meringue. This is your
refined riff on chips and dip.  Order the $105 wine pairing or a couple of bottles from a
 wine list  that boasts a deep selection of half bottles starting
at $20, as well as Champagne from $68.  Sommelier Scott Cameron pours clean, crisp junmai ginjo
sake with the scallops; the rice wine lets the shellfish shine
through brilliantly. Smoked tomato ice, slightly watery, gets a
dose of sweetness from a generous dollop of sea urchin and a
punch of acidity from a sip of Bernard Remy Champagne.  Barbecued Sweetbreads  Lamb tartare, whose intoxicating musk is doubly fortified
by drippings of three-month-old lamb fat, becomes a springboard
for a light, bright Italian rose (San Giovanni, 2010). And
barbecued veal sweatbreads (vaguely undersalted) are salvaged by
a racy German Riesling (Zilliken-Forstmeister Geltz, 2007,
Spatlese).  The waiter places a bowl in front of you and says
“ramen,” albeit in a coy voice that lets you know he’s lying.
Turns out the barely firm noodles are actually squid in a
concentrated poultry broth.  Serving food that looks like one thing and tastes like
another is a common trick of modernist cuisine. You don’t really
want to eat a rock, so you’re happy that it’s almond sable
covering bergamot sorbet.  You probably wouldn’t want to eat “charcoal” either, but
it turns out to be a ball of chocolate meringue, still smoking
from a dip in liquid nitrogen. The waiter says “dried fruit,”
and you see a sorry, deflated sack on your plate. Take a bite.
It’s soft. It’s vegetal. It’s complex. What is it? A dehydrated
tomato, paired with milk ice cream, an autumnal caprese salad.  Like any long tasting menu, there are misses. If only the
“churro” was actually fried dough; the confection is just a
chewy strand of salsify. Squab is forgettable. A well-marbled
strip steak tastes only of smoke. And a tiny lobster roll (on a
meringue bun) bears none of the oceanic essence of those
available for $16 in Red Hook.  Lightner’s last course -- more “rocks” -- are just black
walnut and hazelnut truffles. Atera, like WD-50, knows its
science tricks, but knows its classics too. The four stars will
surely come one day.  Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: $165 tasting, add $105 for wine pairing.  Sound Level: Never loud. Sometimes under 70 decibels.  Date Place: At these prices, probably not the first date.  Inside Tip: Wine pairings are superb.  Special Feature: Great pork fat-basted rolls.  Back on My Own Dime: Maybe once a year.  Atera is at 77 Worth St. Information: 212-226-1444;
 http://ateranyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 