-- Norfolk Southern Falls as Profit Echoes FedEx Slowdown
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-09-20T20:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/norfolk-southern-profit-to-trail-estimates-on-volumes-correct-.html
Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  tumbled the
most in more than three years after saying quarterly profit will
fall short of analysts’ estimates as volumes dwindle at the
second-largest eastern U.S. railroad.  The shares slid 9.1 percent to $66.11 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since March 2009. The rest of the
North American industry also slumped on concern that the decline
in shipments adds to evidence that the U.S. economic recovery is
losing steam.  Norfolk Southern’s disclosure late yesterday built on  FedEx
Corp. (FDX) ’s cut in its annual earnings forecast a day earlier, when
the operator of the world’s largest cargo airline cited falling
demand and a shift to cheaper delivery services.  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  and  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  executives also
said today that they see challenging economic conditions.  “You do have some macroeconomic factors at work requiring
less demand in terms of shippers,” Robert Dye, chief economist
at Dallas-based  Comerica Inc. (CMA) , said in a telephone interview.
“That is symptomatic of a global economy that is cooling and a
U.S. economy that is still struggling to find traction.”  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the country’s biggest railroad,
slumped 3.3 percent to $120.95, and  Kansas City Southern (KSU) 
declined 2.8 percent to $76.90.  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the largest eastern
carrier, dropped 5.7 percent to $21.49.  Canadian National, that country’s biggest railroad, tumbled
4.5 percent, the most since January, to $C87.44 in Toronto.  ‘Soft Patch’  “We see there are certain markets, certain areas where
we’re in a bit of a soft patch,”  Canadian National  Chief
Financial Officer Luc Jobin said at the Citi Global Industrials
conference in Boston. “We can see it in steel, we can see it in
 iron ore .”  Volume at Norfolk Southern will decline about 2 percent in
the third quarter to 1.78 million carloads, with coal dropping
13 percent and general merchandise down 1 percent, the Norfolk,
Virginia-based railroad said at the Citi event.  “The summer drought has dramatically changed the landscape
of the U.S. grain market,” CFO John Rathbone said. The decline
in utility coal volumes will probably “begin to moderate,”
depending on the severity of winter weather and competition from
cheaper natural gas, he said.  Norfolk Southern  Quarterly profit  at Norfolk Southern will be $1.18 to $1.25
a share, according to a railroad statement, short of the $1.63-
a-share  average estimate  of 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The drop in shipments and reduced fuel-surcharge receipts will
pare revenue by $200 million, according to the Norfolk,
Virginia-based carrier, which reports earnings Oct. 23.  UPS projects short-term economic headwinds amid a decline
in manufacturing orders in Asia while the company works to
finish its acquisition of  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  in Europe, Dan Brutto,
the head of its international division, said today at a
Bloomberg Government breakfast in Washington.  Slowing economies in the U.S. and Europe have damped growth
in international trade over the past several months, creating a
drag on shipping demand and hurting expansion in China, FedEx
Chief Executive Officer  Fred Smith  said on Sept. 18.  UBS AG  downgraded  Norfolk Southern, CSX and Union Pacific
from buy to neutral and Kansas City Southern to sell before
Norfolk Southern’s announcement.  ‘Mediocre Recovery’  “The European debt crisis and related economic slowdown
combined with slower growth in Asia and a mediocre recovery in
the U.S. have hurt airfreight volumes and trucking demand,”
 Kevin Crissey , a New York-based analyst with UBS, said in a note
to clients.  “Rails have some good commodity trends, but were hit by a
massive drop in coal volumes as natural gas prices plunged and
now face a weak harvest,” as well as softening demand for
metallurgical coal with lower steel demand in China, he said.  Rail volumes historically have started to peak in the last
two weeks of August as shipments of consumer products bound for
store shelves converge with the U.S. harvest and coal for
utilities’ winter stockpiles.  Instead, the Midwest drought scorched crops, and some
electric utilities have been burning cheaper natural gas rather
than train-hauled coal. Railroads from CSX to  Warren Buffett ’s
Burlington Northern Santa Fe say they’re now bracing for muted
gains in the usual pre-holiday shipping season because of weak
consumer sentiment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  