-- NYC’s Liu Rehires Acadian as Fund Manager After 2010 Dismissal
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-19T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/nyc-s-liu-rehires-acadian-as-fund-manager-after-2010-dismissal.html
New York  City Comptroller  John Liu 
has rehired  Acadian Asset Management LLC  after dismissing the
company in 2010 for poor performance overseeing $646 million in
three pension funds.  Michael Loughran, a Liu spokesman, said the city awarded
the Boston company an $8.37 million contract several weeks ago,
without competitive bidding. Acadian will handle investments in
emerging markets, he said.  New York has five pension funds with more than $120 billion
in assets held for police, firefighters, teachers, school
administrators and civil-service employees. Liu fired Acadian,
whose investments for New York included buying Greek stocks, for
“underperformance relative to the market.”  “It’s two completely different teams, two completely
different regions of the world,” Loughran said. The hiring was
reported today by the New York Post.  Acadian was one of four companies awarded contracts in a
process called “innovative procurement,” Loughran said. The
comptroller’s office and pension-board members decided that
traditional bids often failed to attract quality firms and took
too much time, he said.  “We found that best-in-class managers weren’t responding
to our requests for proposals, limiting the talent pool we could
select from, and the traditional bidding process sometimes took
17 months to hire a manager when we needed to be nimble,”
Loughran said.  ‘More Transparency’  In 2002, a request for proposals to manage  emerging-markets 
investments drew 14 responses, Loughran said. Under the new
system, the city began the search with a list of 230 companies.  At an April 2010 Manhattan breakfast speech, Liu said
Acadian was one of six New York pension managers  he had
dismissed . His refusal to name the others led to their
disclosure four months later under a Bloomberg News request
under the state Freedom of Information Law.  Liu, a 45-year-old Democrat, has expressed interest in
running for mayor in 2013. He ran for comptroller pledging
“more transparency” in office operations by opening city
finances to more scrutiny.  Acadian managed assets in three city pension funds: for
civilian employees, police and firefighters.  From July 2007 through May 2010, the $286 million it
managed in the New York City  Employees Retirement System 
covering 300,000 civilian workers had lost 19.4 percent; its
$263 million in the  police fund  lost 17.1 percent, and the $97
million it oversaw in the  firefighters  pension also lost 17.1
percent, Liu’s office said.  The funds paid Acadian at least $7.2 million in management
fees in the period, the comptroller’s office said.  Ross Dowd, Acadian’s senior vice president and head of
global marketing, didn’t return voice mail messages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  