-- Oasis Said to Seek $244 Million for London Student Dormitories
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-09-19T05:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/oasis-said-to-seek-244-million-for-london-student-dormitories.html
Oasis Capital Bank BSC  is seeking
to raise more than 150 million pounds ($244 million) by selling
its stake in three central London student dormitories, according
to two people with knowledge of the plan.  The Bahrain-based bank hired broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) 
to sell its 75 percent stake in Prime Central London Student
Accommodation, a venture with  Unite Plc (UTG)  that owns the properties
in London’s Islington and Southwark districts, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the sale is private.  The sale process won’t start for another several weeks,
when the new academic year starts and occupancy levels in
dormitories at London’s universities are more clear, the people
said.  Pension funds and institutional investors are flocking to
student housing because of the regular, long-term rental income
they generate, powering a record 800 million pounds of property
sales in the first half.  Nobody at Oasis Capital Bank was immediately available to
comment.  The bank formed the venture in August 2009 with publicly
traded Unite, the U.K.’s largest student housing operator and
manager of the residences. The dormitories opened in 2010 and
will generate an estimated net operating income of about 12.7
million pounds in the 2012-2013 school year, according to a
marketing brochure.  Most of the students renting rooms in the dormitories that
can accommodate a total of 1,129 people are from outside the
U.K.  Two residences  have supermarkets located at street level.  PGGM NV, manager of the second-largest Dutch pension fund,
last week acquired a 60 percent stake in UPP Group Holdings 
Ltd., the U.K.’s second-largest student-housing operator, in a
deal valued at about 840 million pounds.  London is a hotspot for sales of student housing because of
its perceived haven status and the high proportion of overseas
students who study in the British capital. Four in five full-
time students aren’t housed by universities or in private halls
of residence, helping keep vacancy rates low and lifting rents,
Chicago-based Jones Lang estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in  London  at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  