-- Obesity Drugs Gain Attention on FDA Backing for Therapies
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-09-19T20:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/obesity-drugs-gain-attention-on-fda-backing-for-therapies.html
Obesity drugs are getting a lift
after years of languishing even as populations around the globe
get heavier. Rather than pharmaceutical giants, it is small
companies with an appetite for risk leading the charge.  Plagued with failures and side effects,  drug development  in
obesity slowed to a near halt in the last decade as most large
pharmaceutical companies abandoned efforts, leaving smaller
biotechnology companies to forge ahead. This year, after 13
years with no new drug approvals, the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  cleared two medicines for obesity, kick starting
what many hope will be a rejuvenation for the field.  “A few years ago we were in the darker days of obesity
where the regulatory environment was uncertain and pharma was
doubtful this would ever be a market segment,” Kevin Starr, a
partner at Boston-based venture capital firm Third Rock Ventures
LLC, said in a telephone interview. “There’s been a sea change
at the FDA in their recent approvals.”  Prospects brightened for obesity drug development this year
as the FDA signaled it would be more willing to seriously
consider drugs as a viable way to treat some forms of obesity,
calling it a “major public health concern.” Now the betting is
more approvals may follow.  Almost 36 percent of U.S. adults are  obese , a condition
that can lead to heart disease, Type 2 diabetes and stroke,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Medical costs associated with obesity are estimated to have been
$147 billion in 2008.  Early Support  Third Rock Ventures is an early backer of Zafgen Inc., a
biotechnology company in mid-stage trials of a therapy to treat
obesity. The Food and Drug Administration cleared Belviq, from
 Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  and  Eisai Co. (4523) , in June and  Vivus
Inc. (VVUS) ’s Qsymia in July, the first U.S. approvals for obesity
drugs since 1999. They were shown to help obese patients lose
about 5 to 10 percent of their body weight in clinical trials.  That’s a start, say many in the field. Still, the need for
even more new drugs remains, they said.  “The concern among clinicians is that the overall pipeline
for new drugs is very, very small,” said  Carey Lumeng , an
obesity researcher at the  University of Michigan  in Ann Arbor.
“We aren’t getting enough new ones to market.”  Drug development will be among the topics discussed when
the 30th annual meeting of the Obesity Society opens tomorrow in
San Antonio, Texas. The program will touch on all areas of
obesity research, from behavioral changes and exercise to
surgery and therapeutics.  Multiple Therapies  In past years, “the biggest focus of the obesity meeting
has been on exercise and behavior modification,” said Simos Simeonidis, an analyst with Cowen & Co., in a telephone
interview. “Those things don’t work on their own; sometimes you
have to do all of them together with drugs or surgery.”  Tom Hughes, chief executive officer of Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Zafgen, spent two decades at  Novartis AG. (NOVN) 
He’s led Zafgen since 2008, forging a battle against accepted
perceptions of obesity as a lifestyle choice -- the result of
laziness or a lack of discipline. That view has kept many out of
obesity drug development, he said.  “There are forces that keep people obese,” Hughes said in
an interview. “People are fighting their physiology.”  An obese person’s body processes food differently from a
lean person’s, Hughes said. One way is that the liver
overproduces fat molecules, which get transported back to fat
cells, or adipose tissue.  Fat Processing  Zafgen’s drug, beloranib, is designed to reset the way the body
processes fat by inhibiting an enzyme tied to the liver’s fat
production. It also changes the production of hormones that
control trafficking of fat and the use of fat as energy, Hughes
said.  Zafgen, with five full-time employees including Hughes,
uses contract researchers to run its clinical trials. Its small
size is typical of companies still willing to work on obesity
drug development, after larger companies concluded in recent
years that getting approvals for such drugs would be too long
and cumbersome a process.  Arena, based in San Diego, and Vivus, in Mountain View,
California, were both small biotechs before their drugs were
cleared. Both had market valuations of less than $1 billion at
the start of the year; now, Vivus is worth about $2.5 billion
and Arena, $2 billion.  Arena rose less than 1 percent to $9.30 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The shares have increased almost fivefold this year. Vivus
declined less than 1 percent to $24.28 and has more than doubled
this year.  Risk Takers  “It’s been the small companies that were willing to take
the risks,” Mike King, an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw, said
in a telephone interview. The approvals this year may draw some
interest from larger drugmakers, he said. Obesity “is one of
the last kind of monolithic markets that’s out there right now.
Given the numbers, you have to expect that these would be
blockbuster drugs.”  Big pharmaceutical companies would have to overcome bad
memories of recent efforts in obesity drug development to jump
back in. Safety issues tied to medicines’ effects on the heart
and brain led to withdrawals and programs being shuttered
throughout the 1990s and 2000s.  Wyeth’s Pondimin and Redux, also known as fenfluramine and
dexfenfluramine, were pulled from the market in 1997 after they
were linked to heart valve problems in patients who took them
with phentermine, a combination known as fen-phen. The
drugmaker, now owned by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , reserved more than $21
billion to settle lawsuits over the drugs.  Drug Failures  Sanofi (SAN) , the Paris-based drugmaker, stopped developing its
obesity pill Acomplia in 2008 after it was pulled from the
market in Europe for possible links to suicide and depression.
Pfizer and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  also ended obesity programs that year,
with Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, citing “likely new
regulatory requirements for approval.” All three drugs targeted
a brain receptor known to make marijuana smokers hungry. New
York-based Pfizer bought Wyeth in 2009 for $68 billion.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  pulled its diet pill, Meridia, off U.S.
shelves in October 2010 after it was tied to heart attacks and
strokes.  The two medicines approved this year were the first cleared
by the FDA since  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Xenical in 1999.  Uphill Battle  It was an uphill battle. The drugs were both rejected by
the FDA in 2010, Arena’s for concerns over cancer links and
Vivus’s for worries about birth defects and heart risks. They
were cleared this year on the condition the companies perform
post-marketing studies to monitor safety. A third drug,
Contrave, from La Jolla, California-based  Orexigen Therapeutics
Inc. (OREX) , must undergo a cardiovascular outcomes trial before it may
be approved.  Zafgen’s therapy aims to avoid those concerns. It’s
designed for severely obese patients, ones who may consider
 weight-loss  surgery. The company has completed three early-stage
trials, exposing 50 patients to the drug. In the first two,
patients had an average body mass index of about 39; obesity is
defined as 30 or greater. The newly approved drugs, Belviq and
Qsymia, are approved for patients with BMI of at least 30, or of
at least 27 with another weight-related condition such as Type 2
diabetes or hypertension.  BMI is calculated using height and weight. A 6-foot man who
weighs more than 220 pounds is considered obese using the
formula, according to the  National Institutes of Health .  ‘Starvation Diets’  Zafgen’s beloranib helped patients lose an average of 4.3
kilograms (9.5 pounds) over 25 days, compared with little change
for those taking a placebo. Patients taking the medicine also
saw declines in their triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol, contributors to  heart disease , and had their waist
circumference shrink.  “The weight loss is three to four times what you get on
other therapies,” Hughes said. “It’s roughly similar to
starvation diets.”  Zafgen has started a longer study of more patients to look
at safety and efficacy on a bigger scale. The mid-stage trial
will examine the drug’s use for 12 weeks in 120 patients, with
data expected in mid-2013.  Before this year’s approvals, Zafgen planned to seek a sale
of the company once it received longer-term data on the drug.
Now, the company may continue independently, Hughes said.  “The twin approvals reinstated a lot of confidence in our
path,” he said. Hughes said he received e-mails of
congratulations after the FDA’s announcements, even though he
wasn’t working on those programs.  More Competition  The success of the new-to-market drugs will factor into how
much interest obesity therapeutics generate, Simeonidis said.  “We will see other companies get back into it,” said
Craig Audet, head of global regulatory affairs at Arena, in a
telephone interview. “I think they will take a wait-and-see
approach.”  Large drugmakers’ efforts have turned to diabetes, with
some testing those compounds later for obesity.  Novo Nordisk
A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s largest insulin maker, is in late-stage trials
in obesity of its diabetes medicine Victoza.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,
the Indianapolis-based maker of medicines for diabetes, cancer
and depression, views obesity as “an area of interest,” CEO
 John Lechleiter  said in a July interview.  “It’s a very important area of medicine,” Lechleiter
said, noting “Lilly doesn’t have any molecules today that I can
talk about.”  Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, doesn’t
have anything listed in its pipeline for obesity, Caroline
Lappetito, a spokeswoman, said. “Obesity research is not deemed
a priority area for Merck at this time.”  Development Gap  Arena’s Audet said a “broad development gap” occurred
after Sanofi’s Acomplia was pulled from the market, prompting
other drugmakers to lose interest. Arena is looking for more
obesity compounds to bring to the market, he said.  “There are some smaller companies in Phase 1 and 2, but no
one really that far along,” he said.  Third Rock’s Starr sees that changing.  “Drug development had been paralyzed for a while because
of the lack of movement at the FDA and pharma exiting the
space,” he said. “It has changed and will continue to change.
If you fast forward five to 10 years from now, I would suspect
this could be one of the more prolific areas for drug discovery
because of the size of the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  