-- Ohio Compresser Maker Hunts for Workers Amid Skills Gap
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-09-19T15:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/ohio-compresser-maker-hunts-for-workers-amid-skills-gap.html
Ariel Corp. couldn’t find the
machinists, mechanics and maintenance workers it needed to make
natural-gas compressors, so it turned to the roads and highways
of  Ohio  for help.  The company has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars
since 2009 on an advertising campaign that included billboards
in different parts of Ohio. Its goal: to fill more than 200 jobs
in a state with an  unemployment rate  that’s averaged 9.2 percent
over the last three years, said  Kent Dubbe , vice president of
human resources at the closely held, Mount Vernon-based company.  Ariel, which calls itself the world’s largest maker of
separable reciprocating gas compressors and has sales offices in
10 countries, is willing to pay workers’ relocation costs, and
Dubbe said he challenges his staff to do “out-of-the-box
thinking” to attract good people.  “It really is unfortunate in today’s times that you have
to spend that kind of money to get the word out,” he said.  While the U.S. has struggled through 43 straight months of
unemployment exceeding 8  percent , Ariel and companies in
industries such as advanced manufacturing and health care say
they have job openings they can’t fill, forcing them to push the
boundaries to attract skilled and experienced workers.  Unfilled Jobs  There were 3.7 million U.S. job openings in July, up from
3.4 million a year earlier, according to the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics ’ Job Openings and Labor Turnover  Survey .
Stephen Rose, a research professor at the Georgetown University
Center on Education and the Workforce in Washington, estimates
that 2.2 million jobs are going unfilled because of a mismatch
between available positions and qualified workers.  Analysts cite everything from the disappearance of shop
classes in school to the pressure on students to attend college
instead of cultivating vocational skills for the difficulty in
finding workers for some manufacturing jobs. In health care,
demand for nurses and other professionals is surging as 10,000
 baby boomers  turn 65 each day,  according to  the Pew Research
Center, placing increasing pressure on the medical system.  For those and other industries, another issue is the
wariness of so many workers to change jobs or to risk moving
because of the housing market’s continued weakness.  Something Wrong  Rose is among economists who say there’s little evidence
the problem is much worse today than in the past. Yet the sheer
number of available positions at a time the economy is so weak
underscores the need to better align education and training to
ensure there are workers with the skills to fill these jobs,
said Cheryl Oldham, vice president of the Institute for a
Competitive Workforce at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  “There’s something we’re not doing right here,” Oldham
said in a telephone interview from Washington.  Former President  Bill Clinton  highlighted the issue during
his Sept. 5 speech at the Democratic National Convention in
Charlotte,  North Carolina , saying, “We have to prepare more
Americans for the new jobs that are actually going to be
created.”  Ohio Governor  John Kasich  says he wants to revamp the
state’s workforce-training programs and get businesses to
provide forecasts of jobs they expect to have so schools can
prepare students.  “If we can begin to get the community colleges, the
technical schools, the vocational schools and the four-year
schools working hand-in-hand with business, we can fix this,”
Kasich, a first-term Republican, told reporters on June 13
during a press conference in Columbus.  Skills Gap  Other governors also have focused on the issue.
Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick , a Democrat, signed a bill
on Aug. 7 that included $5 million for a  trust fund  to prepare
residents for high-demand jobs and to help “close the middle-
skills gap,” Patrick’s office said in a release.  Ohio’s economy has improved and the state’s  unemployment
rate  was 7.2 percent in July, lower than the 8.3 percent
national average that month. There were more than 188,300 online
job postings from June 14 through July 13, with more than 40
percent paying $50,000 a year or more, according to Conference
Board data reported on the state’s Ohio Means Jobs  website .  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  had the most job ads
during that time with 1,916, followed by the Cleveland Clinic
with 1,874. Registered nurses accounted for the second-most
postings among all job ads with 6,548, the website said.  The clinic needed so many registered nurses this year that
for three days during the football off-season in March, it
hosted an event at Cleveland Browns  Stadium  where about 500
nurses were screened, interviewed and hired in the same day.  Audacious Plan  The career fair attracted 1,600 attendees from across the
U.S., according to the nonprofit clinic, which says it has
treated patients from every state and more than 100 countries.
It was a way to find qualified nurses and shave time off the
hiring process, said Scott Doak, senior director of talent
acquisition.  “It was a huge, audacious idea,” Doak said. “Let’s go to
the biggest place that we can go, and let’s really broadcast out
that nursing is open for business at the Cleveland Clinic.”  The issue at the Cleveland Clinic isn’t as much the
training of available workers as the time it takes to fill
positions with a shortage of nurses and an increasing need for
health-care workers, said Joe Patrnchak, the chief human
resources officer.  The American Nurses Association doesn’t track the number of
open positions nationwide, yet it pointed to Bureau of Labor
Statistics projections that there will be 712,000 new nursing
jobs by 2020.  600,000 Positions  U.S. manufacturing companies can’t fill as many as 600,000
skilled positions because of a lack of qualified applicants,
according to a survey by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. and the
Washington-based Manufacturing Institute released in October.  IBM needs almost 3,000 U.S. information-technology workers
it hasn’t been able to hire because of a skills gap, said
spokesman Scott Cook. In response, the company is helping
schools develop curricula and released a “playbook” education
model in February for grades 9-14 aligning technology skills
with available jobs, Cook said. That followed IBM’s work with
 New York  in 2011 to open the Pathways in Technology Early
College High School in  Brooklyn , he said.  Darlene Miller, president and chief executive officer of
Permac Industries in Burnsville, Minnesota, and a member of the
President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, was so
frustrated by the inability to fill positions at her 36-employee
precision-parts-manufacturing company that she worked with the
National Association of Manufacturers and Minnesota technical
and community colleges to create Right Skills Now. It allows
individuals to earn college credit and industry certifications
in 16 weeks, followed by an internship.  Unsexy Manufacturing  The program has since been adopted in Nevada,  Michigan  and
Washington.  There’s a shortage of machinists, machinery-repair
technicians, welders and workers in other skilled trades, said
Gardner Carrick, vice president for strategic initiatives at the
Manufacturing Institute.  Why? Two generations of students have received no shop
class in school, careers in manufacturing aren’t considered
“sexy,” and students are constantly being pushed to attend
college, said Kelly Wallace, 55, director of adult workforce
education at the Career and Technology Education Center outside
of Columbus. It is an adult workforce-education center that is
part of the Ohio public university system and offers one-year
training programs.  “One of the reasons this mismatch exists is because of the
culture of ‘everyone has to have a four-year degree,’ and quite
frankly, they don’t teach this stuff at the four-year schools,”
said Wallace, who has worked at the center for almost 30 years.  Manufacturing Day  Staffing provider  Kelly Services Inc. (KELYA)  said today it is
hosting career fairs, workshops and other events throughout the
U.S. on Oct. 5 with groups including the Manufacturing Institute
as part of a “National Manufacturing Day” to highlight the
skills needed and jobs available.  “Despite stubbornly high unemployment, the manufacturing
industry is changing so rapidly that it’s struggling to find
people with the right skills,” Teresa S. Carroll, senior vice
president of Troy, Michigan-based Kelly Services, said in a
release.  The Institute for a Competitive Workforce also has
scheduled a Sept. 20 summit in Washington “to address our
nation’s skills gap crisis” with speakers including Virginia
Governor Bob McDonnell and Margaret Spellings, former U.S.
secretary of education and a senior adviser to the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce.  Selling Homes  Another reason companies are struggling is a lack of churn
in employment because many workers are reluctant to change
positions in an uncertain economy, said  Betsey Stevenson , a
former chief economist at the U.S. Labor Department and now an
associate professor of public policy at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor . Others don’t want to risk moving because
it’s often difficult to sell their homes.  A July  report  by the  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago  said
if there is a disconnect in the U.S. labor market, “it is
likely most prominent for workers in the middle of the skills
range.” Examples include electricians, dental assistants and
legal secretaries, economist Jason Faberman said in an e-mail.  “It’s certainly the case that the more business people I
talk to seriously mention that the skill levels of the
applicants aren’t quite in line with the job openings that they
have,” Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said yesterday in
response to a question after a speech in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  Excessive Qualifications  Because growth is not vibrant, businesses also are less
willing to pay to train workers than they might normally have
been, Evans said.  Jesse Rothstein, a labor economist at the University of
California-Berkeley and a former chief economist at the U.S.
Labor Department, said he has seen evidence that some employers
are requiring excessive qualifications for skilled jobs or are
setting wages lower than workers are willing or able to accept.  Ryan Costella, director of strategic initiatives at Click
Bond in Nevada, which makes adhesive-bonded fasteners for the
 aerospace industry  with 325 workers, said his company is paying
an entry-level salary of $12-to-$14 an hour and can’t fill about
10 positions even with a state jobless rate of 12 percent in
July, the highest in the U.S.  “I’m not looking for astrophysicists here,” Costella
said. “I’m looking for people who have verifiable skill sets to
read, write, do math, problem solve, communicate in teams, show
up on time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  