-- Ohio Senate Race Close as $18 Million in Ads Flood In
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-09-19T13:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/ohio-senate-race-close-as-17-million-in-ads-hammer-brown.html
Ohio  Republican Josh Mandel started
a bid to unseat U.S. Senator  Sherrod Brown  trailing by as much
as 17 percentage points in polls. He’s since racked up more
fact-checker censures for complete inaccuracy than any Ohio
politician.  That hasn’t stopped Mandel, propelled by what Brown says is
$18 million in  television advertising  by outside groups, from
clawing his way back. One poll released Sept. 13 shows Mandel
within seven points of Brown. The race is a test of the power of
super-PACs to help turn a first-term, 34-year-old state
treasurer whom a former governor calls “an empty suit” into a
contender against a political fixture.  “This wouldn’t be a race at all if it weren’t for the
millions of dollars against me from outside, undisclosed
interest groups,” Brown said in an interview Sept. 5 at the
Democratic National Convention in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .
Brown said there has been more money spent against him than any
Senate candidate.  Mandel, a youthful-looking former Marine who jokes about
being able to shave when he’s 35, said the race is essentially
tied because voters are turning away from the “ultraliberal,
hyperpartisan” Brown.  “He’s just stuck on whining, and whining and whining about
voters being educated on his record,” Mandel said in a
telephone interview.  Gaining Traction  Republicans are fighting hard to take Ohio in the
presidential and Senate races, and advertising to cast Brown’s
record in a negative light has made the race closer,  John Green ,
a University of Akron political scientist, said in a telephone
interview.  Green said his sense is that while Brown is ahead, the race
is competitive. The outcome also will be tied to the
presidential contest and which side turns out voters, he said.
Ohioans supported President  Barack Obama  in 2008 and then swept
Republicans, including Governor  John Kasich , into office in
2010.  An NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist Poll released Sept.
13 showed Brown leading Mandel 48 percent to 41 percent among
registered voters, including those leaning toward a candidate,
after Brown enjoyed a 14 percentage-point lead in the same poll
in May. Two polls in August had shown the race deadlocked.  Flooded Airwaves  Mandel’s ascent has been enabled by a deluge of
commercials.  From July 2011 through Sept. 17, there were 38,382
television ads aired in the race, according to data from New
York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Mandel has aired the most, 7,238, followed by 6,855 from
Crossroads GPS, the nonprofit group founded with help from
Republican strategist  Karl Rove , and 6,472 from the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, the largest U.S. business lobby. Brown has aired
5,633 spots.  Of the outside groups airing commercials, nine backing
Mandel have aired 79.4 percent, compared with 20.6 percent by
four organizations supporting Brown. Those include the
Washington-based Majority PAC, which supports Democratic
senators and candidates, and the  League of Conservation Voters ,
a nonprofit environmental group based in the U.S. capital.  During the 30 days that ended Sept. 17, only the Montana
Senate race between Democratic incumbent Jon Tester and
Republican Representative Denny Rehberg attracted more ads, data
show.  Gridiron Metaphor  The Ohio advertisements generally cast Brown as a liberal
who supports Obama most of the time and backed measures that
harmed business and suppressed jobs, such as the president’s
health-care overhaul.  The U.S. Chamber said yesterday it was starting its fifth
“television blitz” in Ohio, including an ad that criticizes
Brown’s votes on energy regulation and his “failed record on
energy.”  Brown, 59, a former U.S. House member elected to the Senate
in 2006, said his television budget for that campaign was $6
million. He said he expects as much as $30 million will be spent
against him with television ads, radio spots, direct-mail pieces
and even electronic billboards in Columbus, Toledo,  Cleveland 
and Dayton.  Imperiled Bird  Brown has a gravelly voice and curly hair that is sometimes
mussed. He mixes easily with union members and college
presidents and wears a lapel pin of a canary in a cage, a nod to
the canaries once use to test for toxic gases in coal mines.
It’s his symbol of the need to protect workers.  Brown, who served in Congress from 1993 to 2007 and
previously was an Ohio secretary of state and state legislator,
points to more than 200 roundtable discussions he has convened
since taking office and said, “Nobody’s done this job the way I
have and worked harder at it.”  He emphasizes his support for the federal assistance to the
 auto industry  in 2009 for buoying the state’s economy. Ohio’s
jobless rate was  7.2 percent  in July, below the national rate of
8.3 percent. Ohio’s improvement in  economic health  ranks sixth
in the U.S. from the first quarter of 2011 through the first
quarter this year, based on the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States.  Besides highlighting the advertising spending, Brown’s
campaign has issued repeated e-mails calling Mandel a liar. Of
the 23 statements by Mandel reviewed by PolitiFact, the
nonpartisan fact-checking organization, 26 percent were rated
“pants on fire,” or completely inaccurate.  Democratic Faith  “That’s frustrating that somebody can attract that kind of
outside money and continue to lie about my record, about other
things,” Brown said. “But the voters will see through it. I’m
confident of that.”  The “pants on fire” ratings included a statement Mandel
made in a March 1 news release that Brown “is one of the main
D.C. politicians responsible for Ohio jobs moving to  China ,”
which PolitiFact characterized as “Bold, yes. Accurate? No.”  When asked by  Bloomberg News  to cite a company that moved,
Mandel’s campaign replied in an e-mail that “unnecessary
federal regulations and uncertainty in the job market are two
problems created by  Washington  that have negative effects on our
economy that cause businesses to move jobs overseas.”  Mandel also declined to take a position on the auto
bailout, saying he was not in the Senate when it was approved.  Former Democratic Governor  Ted Strickland  said Mandel is
“an empty suit” and that three debates in October will help
Brown prevail.  “Josh Mandel is exactly the kind of person who should
never be in public office,” Strickland said in an interview in
Charlotte. “There is nothing there. He has no principle.”  ‘Bad Apples’  Mandel disputes the ratings from PolitiFact, a project of
the Tampa Bay Times and partner The Plain Dealer in Cleveland as
coming from “a small group of bad apples.” He calls the
Democrats’ comments about him “hogwash.”  “Sherrod Brown is desperate, and so he’s focused on making
personal attacks on me,” Mandel said.  The candidate, who keeps his hair cropped close as in his
days as a Marine, works a room by methodically shaking hands and
gives out his mobile phone number in speeches.  In a Sept. 11 speech to the Dayton Area Chamber of
Commerce, Mandel said he was inspired to join the Marine
Reserves in 2000 and to run for public office by his
grandparents, one liberated by Allied troops in  Europe  during
World War II and another who served in U.S. Army Air Corps. He
served two tours in  Iraq , according to his campaign biography.  Most Liberal  Mandel said that he won races for city council in
Lyndhurst, a Cleveland suburb, in 2003, the state legislature in
2006 and treasurer in 2010 by wearing out shoes knocking on
doors. As a U.S. senator, Mandel told the chamber group, he
would ease burdensome regulations, simplify the  tax code  and be
part of a “new generation” of leaders.  “The only way for us as citizens to change Washington is
to change the people we send there,” Mandel said in his speech,
echoing the theme of television ads he is airing.  Brown, who was named in the National Journal’s 2009 and
2010  rankings  as the “most liberal senator,” is more liberal
than the Ohio electorate, and there’s now enough money to
publicize that record, said Robert T. Bennett, chairman of the
state  Republican Party .  “Josh Mandel has introduced himself well to the Ohio voter
as being the young, energetic new voice,” Bennett said in a
telephone interview. “This is a year where longevity in
politics is not the best thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  