-- Oil at $100 No Spur Yet to Release Strategic Stockpiles
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-19T09:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/oil-at-100-no-spur-yet-to-release-strategic-stockpiles.html
Oil at $100 a barrel isn’t a
sufficient trigger for the U.S. and other crude-consuming
nations to tap emergency reserves.  West Texas Intermediate, the main U.S. oil grade, is too
narrow an indicator of global markets to prompt a release, and
policy makers will instead look for North Sea Brent to recover
to more than $120, Citigroup Inc. and Societe Generale SA said.
Gasoline is more likely to spur a decision than WTI, especially
as U.S. presidential elections approach, should  pump prices  rise
as high as $4 a gallon, from about $3.86 now, Barclays Plc said.  Speculation that central banks in the U.S. and  China  would
enact stimulus measures combined with tension over  Iran’s
nuclear program  pushed WTI to a four-month high of $100.42 on
Sept. 14. The Group of Seven nations said on Aug. 28 that
 strategic stockpiles  may be needed to curb prices. Brent plunged
6 percent on the day of the last release, in June 2011,
implemented to make up for supply lost during  Libya ’s armed
conflict.  “WTI is somewhat divorced from global market
fundamentals,” Seth Kleinman, head of energy strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  London , said by phone on Sept. 17. “Brent
trading above $120 for a few days is the green light that they
will be looking for. You’ll be hard-pressed to find a macro-
economist who’ll tell you you’re not doing some damage to the
global economy at these levels.”  Three-Minute Plunge  WTI crude traded as high as $96.17 a barrel in electronic
trading today on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, rebounding
from yesterday’s tumble to $95.29, having plunged $2.38 on Sept.
17 in a loss concentrated in three minutes of trading. Brent,
used to price more than half the world’s crude, rose as high as
$112.98 today after closing yesterday at $112.03 on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London.  Eighteen of 24 energy analysts and traders surveyed this
week said that WTI’s breach of $100 won’t provoke a release of
strategic stockpiles. The U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve, with
a capacity of 727 million barrels, is the largest stockpile of
government-owned fuel in the world.  The G-7 said on Aug. 28 it may call on the  International
Energy Agency , a 28-member group of consuming countries, to draw
on its reserves to ensure adequate supply. IEA nations made 60
million barrels of crude and refined products available on June
23 last year, to make up for halted Libyan output.  Fragile Economy  “Given the extent central banks have gone to boost growth,
it makes sense that other efforts such as a reserve release are
in the cards,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital
LLC, a New York-based energy hedge fund, and one of the six
respondents in the survey who expects a release. “The fragility
of the global economy will prove to be sufficient cover for
countries to release barrels.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday
at a briefing that “all options remain on the table” with
regard to the SPR.  The U.S. has tapped the SPR  17 times  since 1985. Four of
those were directly related to hurricane damage. The biggest
release was last year’s, when the SPR contributed 30.6 million
barrels, followed by a 17.3 million barrel sale in January 1991
tied to Operation Desert Storm, when U.S.-led forces invaded
 Iraq  to liberate  Kuwait .  High Price Concern  The IEA has repeatedly said this year that an actual supply
disruption would be needed to justify a coordinated release by
member nations. The Paris-based agency said in a Sept. 12
monthly report that inventories in industrialized levels are at
“comfortable” levels.  Still, IEA Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven told
reporters in  New Delhi  on Sept. 4 that “high prices are always
a concern, to the IEA members and also to others.”  A decision will first require “formal communication, or
high-level informal communication” between the U.S. and  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s largest crude exporter, Citigroup’s Kleinman
said.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said Sept. 10 that
global supply, demand and inventories don’t justify recent price
gains, while a Persian Gulf official who declined to be
identified said yesterday the kingdom is working to bring prices
down.  Using the strategic reserves may leave President  Barack Obama  open to criticism of influencing energy prices for
political gain before the Nov. 6 election, said  Sarah Emerson ,
managing director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . Emerson said WTI oil at $100 won’t trigger a
release.  WTI’s rally last week “has the psychological sticker of
$100 but doesn’t carry an awful lot of information,” said  Paul Horsnell , head of commodities research at Barclays.  Crude at $100 is “a small green light,” Horsnell said by
phone from London on Sept. 17. “If the national average for
gasoline reached $4 a gallon, or looks like it’s going to go
through there, that’s probably a bigger light.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  