-- Oil Drops a Fourth Day on China Manufacturing, Rising Stockpiles
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-09-20T07:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/oil-trades-near-six-week-low-as-stockpiles-rise-most-since-march.html
Oil dropped a fourth day after U.S.
stockpiles climbed the most since March, a gauge of Chinese
manufacturing shrank and Japanese exports declined, signaling
fuel demand may be easing in the world’s biggest crude users.  Futures slid as much as 1.4 percent, extending yesterday’s
3.5 percent drop in the longest losing streak since June. U.S.
oil inventories surged  8.5 million barrels  last week as  Gulf of
Mexico  production resumed after Hurricane Isaac, Energy
Department data showed yesterday. China’s manufacturing may
contract an 11th month, according to a purchasing managers index
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  Japan ’s overseas
sales fell a third month in August, the  Finance Ministry  said.  “China’s PMI is a factor for the decline,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a sales manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo  who
forecasts West Texas Intermediate crude will drop to $85 by the
end of November. “The sharp drop in  New York  time yesterday
will have an impact in Asia time and continue the weak mood.”  Oil for October delivery decreased as much as $1.32 to
$90.66 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $90.72 at 3:15 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract, which expires today, slid $3.31 yesterday to $91.98,
the lowest close since Aug. 3. The more-active November future
was at $91.05 a barrel, down 1.4 percent. Front-month prices are
8.2 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for November settlement fell 94 cents to $107.25
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It
dropped 3.4 percent to $108.19 yesterday. The front-month
European benchmark grade’s premium to the corresponding West
Texas Intermediate contract was at $16.20. It closed at $15.89
yesterday, the narrowest since July 26.  China, Japan  China ’s purchasing managers index had a preliminary reading
of 47.8, compared with a final 47.6 in August. That puts the
gauge on track for the longest run below 50, the dividing line
between expansion and contraction, in the survey’s eight-year
history. Japan’s exports fell 5.8 percent in August from a year
earlier.  The gain in U.S., crude inventories was the biggest since
March 30 and compared with a forecast increase of 1 million
barrels in a Bloomberg News survey. Stockpiles climbed to 367.6
million barrels, a six-week high. Imports advanced 15 percent to
9.85 million barrels a day and production rose 14 percent to
6.28 million a day.  “We saw that significant increase in crude inventories in
the U.S., and that’s probably because the Gulf platforms are
coming back on-stream post Isaac,” said  David Lennox , an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “There is still some
weakness in the demand side of the equation.”  Fuel Supplies  While total U.S. crude stockpiles gained, inventories at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the West Texas
contract traded on Nymex, declined for a second week by 274,000
barrels to 43.8 million, the lowest level since April.  Stockpiles of  gasoline  and of  distillate fuel , a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, declined. Refinery
operating rates rose to 88.9 percent from the previous week’s
84.7 percent as plants resumed units idled when Hurricane Isaac
made landfall on Aug. 28.  The U.S., China and Japan accounted for about 37 percent of
the world’s oil consumption last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  The global oil market is well supplied, OPEC Secretary-
General Abdalla Salem El-Badri said in a speech yesterday. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ spare production
capacity is at “comfortable levels,” and commercial
inventories “remain healthy,” Badri said at the European
Mineral Resources Conference in Leoben,  Austria , according to a
transcript on OPEC’s website.  Saudi Arabia’s oil exports fell 7 percent to 7.29 million
barrels a day in July, a month when the nation’s crude
production averaged 9.8 million a day, according to statistics
the government submitted to OPEC and posted on the Joint
Organizations Data Initiative’s website yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  