-- Oil Falls to Lowest Level in Six Weeks as Supplies Surge
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-19T20:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/oil-falls-to-one-month-low-on-forecast-u-s-supply-drop.html
Oil tumbled to a six-week low after
U.S. crude inventories surged the most since March as production
and imports rebounded from Hurricane Isaac.  Futures decreased 3.5 percent after the Energy Department
said supplies rose  8.53 million barrels  last week, more than
eight times what was projected in a Bloomberg survey. Imports
arrived at the highest rate since January and output increased.
Crude fell earlier on speculation Saudi Arabia is moving to
reduce prices.  “This is a massive build in supplies,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “We were already moving lower because of the
Saudi headlines and this number is adding to the bearish
sentiment.”  Crude oil for October delivery declined $3.31 to $91.98 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Aug. 3. It was the biggest drop since July 23.
Futures are down 6.9 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement fell $3.84, or 3.4
percent, to $108.19 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe . It was the lowest close since Aug. 2. Brent, a benchmark
for more than half of the world’s oil, has risen from $89.23 on
June 21, which was the lowest settlement since December 2010.  Crude oil inventories  rose the most since March 30 to 367.6
million barrels, a six-week high. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted an advance of 1 million. Imports of crude oil climbed
15 percent to 9.85 million barrels a day. Production advanced 14
percent to 6.28 million barrels a day.  Fuel Inventories  Stockpiles of  gasoline  and  distillate fuel , a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, declined. Refinery operating
rates rose to 88.9 percent from the previous week’s 84.7 percent
as plants restarted units idled during the hurricane.  Isaac hit  Louisiana  as a Category 1 hurricane in the last
week of August. The storm’s path through Gulf of Mexico energy
rigs and platforms closed as much as 95 percent of the region’s
oil production, according to the U.S. Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement.  Total  fuel use  decreased 0.6 percent to 18.6 million
barrels a day in the four weeks ended Sept. 14, the lowest level
since the week ended June 1.  Gasoline consumption  dropped 1.2
percent to 8.89 million barrels a day during the same period.  Saudi Arabia  is pumping about 10 million barrels a day of
crude and will produce more if customers demand it, a Persian
Gulf official with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  OPEC Price  The ideal price of crude for OPEC is $100 a barrel and
current prices are not supported by the fundamentals, the
official said, declining to be identified because he’s not
authorized to speak publicly. The oil market is well balanced
and more supply is on the way, while demand growth won’t exceed
800,000 barrels a day in 2013, the official said.  The  OPEC basket price  of 12 crudes was $110.95 a barrel
yesterday, down from $113.72 on Sept. 17.  Saudi Arabia is producing near the highest level in more
than three decades. Its output has boosted supply from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to 1.63 million
barrels a day more than the world needs this year, the group’s
Sept. 11 monthly report showed.  Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said Sept. 10 that global supply,
demand and inventories don’t justify current prices. The desert
kingdom has worked with the  United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait ,
fellow members of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, to
raise output as U.S. sanctions penalized customers buying
Iranian oil, the official said.  Four-Month High  Oil climbed to the highest level in more than four months
on Sept. 14 after the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to buy mortgage
securities bolstered economic optimism and on concern that
protests against a film seen as insulting to Islam may lead to
supply disruptions in the  Middle East  and North Africa.  “There was initial euphoria about the Fed move that sent
the market higher last week,” said  Chip Hodge , who oversees a
$9 billion natural-resource bond portfolio as senior managing
director at Manulife Asset Management in  Boston . “The economic
picture isn’t healthy enough to support prices near triple
digits.”  The Fed announced on Sept. 13 that it would make additional
purchases of debt in a third round of so-called quantitative
easing. The move followed a European Central Bank bond-buying
announcement on Sept. 6.  “The fundamentals aren’t supportive,” said  Mike Wittner ,
head of oil market research at Societe Generale SA in New York.
“Prices were getting uplift over the last couple weeks from the
EU and U.S. quantitative easing, the anti-Islamic video and
maintenance in the  North Sea . These three factors are no longer
enough to prop up the market.”  Daily exports of the four crude grades comprising the Dated
Brent benchmark will rise 24 percent in October, the biggest
monthly increase in two years, as offshore maintenance work
ends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 737,094
contracts as of 4:10 p.m. Volume totaled 545,299 contracts
yesterday, 1 percent higher than the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.61 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 