-- Oklahoma Attorney General Revises Health-Care Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/oklahoma-attorney-general-revises-health-care-lawsuit.html
President  Barack Obama ’s health
care reform can be blocked by a state constitutional amendment
in  Oklahoma  declaring residents can’t be forced to buy health
insurance, a state official said in a revised lawsuit.  Oklahoma Attorney General  Scott Pruitt , who initially filed
a legal challenge to Obama’s Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act in January 2011, asked in a revised complaint yesterday
for a federal judge to rule that the part of the law mandating
people purchase insurance or face a tax penalty is inoperative
in his state.  Oklahoma amended its constitution by popular vote in
November 2010, eight months after Obama signed the health care
law. The amendment prohibited any rule or law forcing a person,
employer or health care provider to participate in a health care
system.  “Oklahoma’s constitution has not been preempted insofar as
it protects Oklahomans from being forced to buy health
insurance,” according to the new complaint.  The U.S. Supreme Court in June upheld the U.S. Congress’s
authority to implement the law under its taxing powers while
rejecting Obama administration claims that the measure was a
valid exercise of the legislature’s ability to regulate
commerce.  Appeal Ruling  U.S. District Judge Ronald A. White in Muskogee, Oklahoma,
last year stayed progress on the Pruitt litigation while the
U.S. Supreme Court reviewed a decision by the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Atlanta in a lawsuit filed by 26 other U.S. states
and the National Federation of  Independent Business .  At Pruitt’s request, White lifted that bar on Sept. 12.  In the revised complaint, Pruitt also alleges that a new
federal regulation allowing the U.S. to establish a health
insurance exchange within the state absent a state-created
exchange is unlawful.  “Oklahoma has not established or elected to establish an
exchange and does not expect to do so,” according to the
complaint.  Tracy Schmaler , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said yesterday that she had no immediate comment on
the new Oklahoma claims.  The case is State of Oklahoma v. Sebelius, 11-cv-00030,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Oklahoma (Muskogee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  