-- Money-Market Study, Microsoft, Fannie Mae: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-19T12:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/money-market-study-microsoft-fannie-mae-compliance.html
A majority of U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission members are seeking a study of money-market
regulations after Chairman  Mary Schapiro ’s bid to advance new
rules failed last month, a person familiar with the matter said.  SEC Republican commissioners Daniel Gallagher and  Troy
Paredes , together with Democrat  Luis Aguilar , sent a letter
Sept. 17 to Schapiro and SEC Chief Economist Craig Lewis
reiterating a call for an analysis of whether certain rules
could disrupt money-market funds and short-term credit markets,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
matter isn’t public.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment
immediately.  The request for the study comes about three weeks after
Schapiro canceled a vote on staff proposals for new money-market
rules, saying that the SEC “will not act” because three of the
five commissioners didn’t support them. Schapiro, backed by the
Federal Reserve, has worked to make money funds more stable in
the wake of the collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund in September 2008, which triggered a wider run on money
funds.  Schapiro’s Aug. 22 announcement canceling the vote marked a
victory for the mutual-fund industry, which lobbied against new
rules.  Compliance Report  Australia Pension Fund Body Calls for High-Frequency Trading Ban  Australian regulators should consider banning  high-
frequency trading  in the equities market, according to  Industry
Super Network , an organization promoting the country’s $A1.3
trillion ($1.37 trillion) pension funds industry.  High-frequency trading, in which computer algorithms are
used to buy and sell stocks in fractions of a second, can
exacerbate slumps in the stock market and undermine investor
confidence, the organization said on its website. ISN represents
Australian pension funds that have about 5 million individual
members, according to its website.  Strategies that use computer algorithms to buy and sell
shares are being scrutinized globally amid concern that they can
destabilize markets and make them less equitable. The Australian
Securities & Investment Commission is considering altering rules
on market structure, which include regulations on algorithms and
high-frequency trading. Submissions for the consultation to ASIC
closed Sept. 14 and proposals are expected next month.  High-frequency and algorithmic trading has come under
scrutiny by regulators since May 6, 2010, when about $862
billion was erased from stock values in 20 minutes before share
prices recovered from the plunge. A trading malfunction at
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  last month led to a $440 million
trading loss at the market-making firm.  ASIC is currently assessing draft rules on market
structure, which include regulations on algorithms and high-
frequency trading, and will publish new rules and a regulatory
guide in October.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Microsoft Said to Face EU Antitrust Complaint on Browser Choice  European Union regulators are preparing an antitrust
complaint over  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s failure to comply with a
settlement to give users a choice of web browsers, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  There’s no set timing for the European Commission to send
the statement of objections, said the people who asked not to be
identified because the complaint isn’t public. A statement of
objections lists alleged violations of competition rules and is
a precursor to possible fines.  Microsoft has already been fined 1.68 billion euros ($2.2
billion) in EU antitrust probes, including an 899 million-euro
penalty for failing to obey an order to share data with
competitors. The Redmond, Washington-based company agreed to
offer access to rival browsers as a part of a 2009 settlement to
repair its relationship with the bloc’s regulators. It told
regulators last December that it was complying with its
commitments.  Microsoft’s press office in Brussels declined to comment
beyond a July statement in which the company expressed its
regret that the error occurred and understood that regulators
may penalize it.  The company  said  it only learned in July that it didn’t
offer its browser choice software to some 28 computers running
Windows 7 Service Pack 1, or 10 percent of the computers that
should have received it. It blamed a technical error and said it
has already started distributing a fix.  The European Commission declined to comment.  Advanced Equities Co-Founders Daubenspeck, Badger Sued by SEC  Dwight Badger and Keith Daubenspeck, the co-founders of
Advanced Equities Inc., were sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, which claims that the men misled investors
in two private-equity offerings.  Badger and Daubenspeck agreed to a settlement without
admitting or denying the claims, the commission said in an e-
mailed statement.  Fannie Mae  Audit Finds BofA Wasn’t Overpaid for Servicing Rights  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  didn’t give  Bank of America Corp.  special
consideration in agreeing to pay more than $500 million to
transfer servicing of 384,000 mortgages to firms more likely to
prevent foreclosures, a U.S. auditor said.  Still, the taxpayer-owned  company  paid more than legally
required to Bank of America and 12 other lenders when it spent
$1.5 billion for servicing rights on 1.1 million loans from 2008
to 2011, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s inspector general
said in a report released yesterday.  The transfers were part of a Fannie Mae initiative to cut
losses on mortgages at greatest risk of default. Bank of America
ultimately got $421 million in the 2011 deal because some of the
loans were paid off or refinanced by the time it was completed.  The transaction drew attention because it came after Fannie
Mae had received $1.3 billion from Bank of America to settle
claims over defaulted mortgages.  Fannie Mae, based in Washington, and smaller rival  Freddie
Mac  of McLean, Virginia, have been operating under U.S.
conservatorship since they were seized by regulators amid
soaring losses in September 2008.  The audit found Fannie Mae paid lenders more than required
in most transactions because it wanted to negotiate a smooth
transfer. Holders of the servicing rights could have tried to
sell them elsewhere if Fannie Mae offered the minimum price.  The inspector general criticized Fannie Mae’s method of
computing the value of the loans and suggested that the FHFA
should step up its scrutiny of the servicing transfer program.  Jon Greenlee, FHFA’s deputy director of enterprise
regulation, said the program was intended to help borrowers stay
in their homes, not just to save money.  The FHFA inspector general released a second audit
yesterday concluding that the agency should strengthen efforts
to ensure Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are better prepared for the
failure of the banks that sell and service loans.  For more, click here.  Volksbanken Wins EU Approval for State Aid, Restructuring Plan  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , the lender partially
nationalized by Austria, won European Union approval for
government support after it agreed to a restructuring plan that
will refocus its business.  “Under the restructuring plan, the bank will limit the
scope of its activity to its core role of providing liquidity
management services and intermediation in accessing capital
markets” to Austrian credit cooperatives, the European
Commission said in a  statement  today.  Volksbanken since 2009 received government capital
injections of 1.25 billion euros ($1.6 billion), the commission
said.  Courts  Iceland Neglected U.K., Dutch Icesave Clients, Watchdog Says  Iceland violated European Union law by failing to take
measures to ensure U.K. and Dutch depositors were compensated
for their losses from the collapse of  Landsbanki Islands hf ,
regulators told a court.  Iceland has a duty under EU law to guarantee a minimum
compensation within a time limit and how this is achieved is up
to the government,  the European Free Trade Association ’s court
was told yesterday. Neither a “force majeure,” nor financial
considerations could justify Iceland’s failure to ensure
adequate compensation, the EFTA Surveillance Authority told the
Luxembourg-based court.  The U.K. and the Netherlands ended up compensating their
citizens and are now demanding that Iceland repay the full
amount, with interest. The surveillance authority, the agency in
charge of supervising Iceland’s compliance with European rules,
sued the island in December over its failings.  Iceland rejected the authority’s arguments that it violated
EU law by not honoring $5.4 billion in depositor guarantees on
accounts held by British and Dutch savers.  Landsbanki, which had sought to attract foreign depositors
through high-yielding Internet accounts that saved it the
trouble of opening subsidiaries abroad, collapsed in October
2008 with the rest of Iceland’s debt-laden banking industry.  The case is: E-16/11, EFTA Surveillance Authority v.
Iceland.  Speeches/Written Commentary  Black Says Bank Regulators Are Still ‘Too Relaxed’  William K. Black, associate professor of economics and law
at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, said bank regulators
are still “too relaxed” four years after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Black talked to Bloomberg’s
 Kathleen Hays  and Courtney Donohoe on “The Hays Advantage” on
Bloomberg Radio on Sept. 17.  For the audio, click here.  Kelleher, Masters Seek Level Playing Field for Markets  Dennis Kelleher, chief executive officer of Better Markets,
and Michael Masters, founder of Masters Capital Management and
Better Markets, talked about a Better Markets report on the
costs of the financial crisis and recession that began in 2007,
and continued shortcomings of U.S. financial regulation.  They spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Gracie Says Officials Moving Closer to Working Bail-In Regime  Andrew Gracie, director of the Bank of England’s special
resolution unit, commenting on banking policy, said, “We are
moving closer to an operational bail-in regime. A number of
outstanding challenges remain, but these challenges are largely
surmountable.”  He made the remarks in a speech delivered Sept. 17 at a
British Bankers’ Association conference in London.  It is important, Gracie said, that “bail-in follows the
creditor hierarchy, secured claims are protected and netting
arrangements are respected. And bail-in, like the other
resolution tools, can only be used when it is necessary to do so
in pursuit of clearly defined public interest objectives.”  Dutch Say Financial Stability, Antitrust Rules Should Be Aligned  Caretaker Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager said
competition and financial stability interests should both be
sufficiently safeguarded in state aid restructuring plans.  The Netherlands will discuss the subject with the  European
Commission , also taking into account European Union proposals
for common bank supervision, he said in a letter to parliament.  Comings and Goings  FSA Warned Barclays on Diamond’s Appointment as CEO in 2010  The Financial Services Authority warned  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in
2010 that the Libor scandal could make it withdraw approval for
 Robert Diamond ’s appointment to run the bank, contradicting
Marcus Agius’s version of events.  Hector Sants, who stepped down as head of the U.K.
financial regulator in June, warned Agius the FSA could “re-
assess” Diamond’s suitability for the post after the
investigation was complete, he wrote in an internal e-mail made
public by lawmakers on Parliament’s Treasury Committee today.  Agius, who resigned as chairman of Barclays in July, had
told the panel of lawmakers that the  Libor probe  hadn’t been
raised by the FSA as a barrier to Diamond’s promotion. Diamond
quit after the London-based bank was fined a record 290 million
pounds ($470 million) for manipulating the London interbank
offered rate.  A Barclays spokesman in London declined to comment.  Citigroup Executives Leave Bank After Loan-Fraud Settlement  Two  Citigroup Inc. (C)  executives are departing after federal
prosecutors named them earlier this year in a mortgage-insurance
fraud case that resulted in a $158.3 million settlement and an
admission of wrongdoing by the bank.  Jeffery Polkinghorne, a senior risk manager at the
CitiMortgage division, is leaving after 16 years of “dedicated
service,” according to an internal memo obtained by  Bloomberg
News  and confirmed by  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for the New
York-based bank. Donald Houghtalin, a compliance officer at the
unit, has already left, he said in a phone interview. Neither
man was sued by the government.  Both were among CitiMortgage executives named in a suit
against Citigroup filed by the U.S. Justice Department earlier
this year which claimed the lender saddled taxpayers with losses
after falsely declaring defective home loans fit for a federal
insurance program. The government alleged that some bank
officials pressured other employees to change reports on faulty
loans. Citigroup paid to settle the claims in February.  Polkinghorne, who was in charge of loan quality, will
continue to work for Citigroup until the end of September,
according to the memo. He declined to comment.  The U.S. accused Citigroup of violating requirements of a
Federal Housing Administration program that allowed the bank to
decide which home loans would be federally insured against loss.
The lender, the third-biggest in the U.S., admitted to falsely
stating that some loans met FHA and U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development standards.  The U.S. joined a false-claims lawsuit filed by Sherry
Hunt, a whistle-blower and CitiMortgage quality-control vice
president. She said that executives buried her findings on
defective loans into 2012.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  