-- Only Obstacle to Immigration Bill Is Partisanship
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-19T22:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/only-obstacle-to-immigration-bill-is-partisanship.html
Congress at last appears poised to
increase the number of green cards the U.S. allots to foreign
graduates with advanced degrees in science, technology,
engineering or math. Unless partisanship kills the effort.  The House is scheduled to vote Sept. 20 on Republican
Representative  Lamar Smith ’s legislation to provide up to 55,000
green cards annually for foreign STEM students. To be eligible,
students must receive a doctorate at a U.S. institution and
agree to work for at least five years for a U.S. employer in a
designated field. Candidates with U.S. master’s degrees in
science and technology will be eligible for the green cards once
the pool of Ph.D. candidates has been exhausted.  The bill fills a  vital need . The U.S. educates thousands of
foreign students who go on to work -- and start businesses -- in
other countries. A recent  study  by the  American Enterprise
Institute  and the Partnership for a New American Economy found
that high-skills immigrants not only contribute to U.S.
productivity, but also generate jobs here. A foreign-born worker
with an advanced degree from a U.S. university creates, on
average, 2.62 American jobs.  Democratic Representative Zoe Lofgren has introduced a
rival bill that also increases green cards for foreigners with
advanced degrees in STEM fields. The main difference between the
bills is that Smith’s would end the diversity lottery for green
cards, probably resulting in a small net reduction in
immigration. Lofgren’s bill would retain the diversity lottery,
which makes green cards available to people from nations with
low rates of immigration. Her bill would also make graduates of
for-profit schools ineligible for the STEM visas.  These bills appear remarkably close in spirit and
aspiration. Except, apparently, in  Washington , where their
origins in separate partisan camps may be cause enough to
torpedo both.  Yet an easy compromise is in sight. If Smith and Lofgren
were only willing to meet halfway on reducing the diversity
green cards while still expanding the STEM visas, their other
differences could be resolved. That would give a boost not just
to the  U.S. economy  and to sound immigration policy, but also to
the promise of a functioning government in an era of sclerosis.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights:  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  what Romney got wrong on
the Middle East ;  Michael Kinsley  on  cartoon conservatives and
liberals ; Jonathan Mahler on what  football has taught Major
League Baseball ; Dean Lacy on why  Romney’s moocher myth appeals
to moocher state voters ; Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  Banana
Republic’s first expansion .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 