-- Opap Posts Record Decline on Greek Tax Hikes: Athens Mover
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-09-19T15:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/opap-drops-most-in-stoxx-600-on-greek-tax-hikes-athens-mover.html
Opap SA (OPAP) , Greece’s biggest gambling
company, dropped the most on record after it announced the
government reached agreement with the European Commission to
raise the company’s taxes.  Shares dropped 18 percent to 4.31 euros in Athens, the
biggest decline in  Europe ’s Stoxx 600 Index and Opap’s biggest
decline since at least April 2001. The stock has lost 31 percent
since Greece’s  Kathimerini newspaper  reported the EU tax talks
on Sept. 14. That left Opap with a market value of 1.37 billion
euros ($1.79 billion).  The Greek Finance Ministry reached agreement with the EU
competition regulator on taxes on games of chance, Opap said
today. Greece will receive a 30 percent royalty on gross profit
from certain games through Oct. 12, 2020. If video lottery
terminal revenue is greater than expected, the tax will be as
high as 35 percent, from 30 percent now. Winnings from Opap
games will also be taxed at a flat rate of 10 percent from Jan.
1, canceling current exemptions.  The tax hikes on consumers “will be negative for turnover
since it will reduce recycling of winnings into sales,”
Pantelakis Securities analyst Paris Mantzavras, wrote in an e-
mailed note today. The 30 percent gross-win tax extended to
Opap’s so-called “legacy” games may cut the company’s earnings
per share by as much as 40 percent, he said.  Path to Privatization  Greece ’s government, which is committed to raising 50
billion euros from state asset sales by 2020 to meet conditions
tied to two international bailouts, has to clear EU regulation
hurdles before it can move ahead with a planned sale of a 29
percent stake in Opap. The company last year extended its
monopoly on sports betting in Greece to 2030.  “Greece has reached a compromise with the European
Commission to settle pending regulatory issues for the domestic
gaming market so as to pave the way for the privatization of a
29 percent stake in Opap,” Mantzavras said.  Piraeus Securities placed its outperform stock
recommendation for Opap under review, citing the news as
“negative” for both the company’s top and bottom line,
according to an e-mailed note from Piraeus analyst John Arapoglou.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  