-- Wells Fargo, Morgan Stanley Faulted on RMBS Servicing
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-09-19T20:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/morgan-stanley-wells-fargo-challenged-on-73-billion-in-rmbs.html
A law firm that won an $8.5 billion
settlement from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  tied to faulty mortgage
bonds said  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  failed to
service $73 billion of similar securities, creating a default.  Gibbs & Bruns LLP cited at least $15 billion of Wells
Fargo’s residential mortgage-backed securities and $5 billion
from Morgan Stanley where holders have 25 percent or 50 percent
or more of the  voting rights , according to a statement today
from the Houston-based law firm. The dispute also covers $23
billion of Morgan Stanley-issued RMBS and $30 billion of Wells
Fargo’s RMBS where holders “have significant voting rights, but
less than 25 percent or 50 percent,” the firm said.  Faulty mortgages and foreclosures have cost the largest
U.S. home lenders at least $84 billion since the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and have been blamed by
regulators for discouraging banks from making new loans.  Kathy Patrick , a partner at Gibbs & Bruns, led a bondholder group that
reached a settlement in June 2011 with Bank of America covering
mortgage trusts with an original loan balance of $424 billion.  “We will review any communication we receive and respond
appropriately,” said  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo. Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman
for New York-based Morgan Stanley, declined to comment.  Minimum Level  Gibbs & Bruns represents at least 20 bondholders including
BlackRock Inc., Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Pacific
Investment Management Co., Western Asset Management Co. and TCW
Group Inc., according to two people with direct knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the information
hasn’t been made public.  Patrick’s firm said in January it was seeking information
on pools securing more than $19 billion of RMBS issued by
affiliates of Wells Fargo, which says it’s the biggest U.S.
home-mortgage lender and servicer.  Morgan Stanley also received a letter in October from the
 law firm , which said it was representing holders of at least 25
percent of voting rights in 17 trusts with more than $6 billion
in outstanding balances, according to a filing.  The percentage of holders matters because claims must meet
specific minimums before parties to mortgage-bond deals can be
declared in default. If not cured, the defaults can give
investors the right to sue bond creators, the deal’s trustees or
both. Typically, trustees must take action on their behalf.  ‘Serious Questions’  Bank of America’s  settlement  with 22 bondholders, including
BlackRock and Pimco, seeks to allow it to pay 2 percent of the
faulty bonds’ face value to avoid repurchasing the underlying
loans.  While Bank of America’s deal is awaiting court approval,
 attorneys general  from  New York  and  Delaware  have intervened to
seek more information. New York has said there are “serious
questions about the fairness and adequacy” of the accord, which
covers “a small fraction” of losses.  Morgan Stanley earlier this year  sold  its Saxon Mortgage
Services Inc. unit to Ocwen Financial Corp., exiting the
servicing business it bought before the housing market
collapsed. Mortgage servicers handle billing and collections and
oversee foreclosures when borrowers fail to pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  