-- Orioles Beat Mariners in 18 Innings to Tie Yankees Atop AL East
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-19T08:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/orioles-beat-mariners-in-18-innings-to-tie-yankees-atop-al-east.html
The  Baltimore Orioles  beat the
Seattle Mariners 4-2 in 18 innings to move into a tie for the
lead in the American League East division with the  New York
Yankees , whose game last night was postponed because of rain.  Taylor Teagarden hit a one-run single to break a 2-2 tie in
the top of the 18th inning at Safeco Field in Seattle, before
J.J. Hardy scored as  Mark Reynolds  grounded into a fielder’s
choice. Miguel Olivo hit a two-run homer in the fourth to give
the Mariners the lead and the Orioles tied it in the ninth on
Chris Davis’s two-run single.  “They do something every day that just makes me shake my
head,” Orioles manager Buck Showalter told reporters. “Just
when I think they can’t top something they do. They deserved to
win that baseball game. They found a way to get back in it.”  The 14th straight extra innings win for the Orioles gives
them an 84-64 record, while the Yankees are 83-63.  The  Oakland Athletics  (84-63) lead the Yankees and Orioles
in the wild-card standings. The top two non-division winners in
each league earn wild-card spots in the Major League Baseball
postseason.  The Athletics lost 12-2 last night to the Detroit Tigers
(78-69), who remain three games behind the White Sox (81-66) in
the AL Central after  Chicago  defeated the Kansas City Royals 3-2.  Relief Pitches  The Orioles and Mariners each used seven relief pitchers
last night. Tommy Hunter (5-8), Baltimore’s sixth reliever,
allowed one hit and struck out one in two innings for the win,
while Jim Johnson pitched the 18th inning to log his 44th save.  Lucas Luetge (2-2) gave up the final two runs on three hits
in two innings for the loss.  Last night’s game was the longest for the Mariners this
season and the longest for Orioles since they beat the Red Sox
9-6 in 17 innings on May 6 in Boston.  The longest game in Orioles history was a 7-5 win in 19
innings against the  Washington Senators  on June 4, 1967.  The first of three games between the Yankees and the
 Toronto Blue Jays  was rescheduled for 1:05 p.m. today because of
rain in the  New York  area last night.  Andy Pettitte  will make his first start in nearly three
months in the first game of the day-night double header at
Yankee Stadium.  Pettitte, 40, fractured an ankle June 27 when he was struck
by a ball hit by Cleveland’s Casey Kotchman. Left-hander
Pettitte is 3-3 with a 3.22 earned run average this season.  “I just want to go out there and pitch and hopefully give
this team a chance to win,” Pettitte told the Yankees website
last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  