-- Hot New Surplus Store Goes on Safari
-- B y   M e l   a n d   P a t r i c i a   Z i e g l e r
-- 2012-09-19T22:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/hot-new-surplus-store-goes-on-safari.html
Patricia: Mel and I gave the store
and the catalog everything we had, all day, every day of the
week. It would have been unthinkable for either of us to let the
other down.  Nonetheless, I was beginning to crumble. Not enough sleep.
Eating on the run. Too much coffee. I was getting cranky,
snapping at Mel. He was snapping back. Our fights could be loud
and fierce, although they usually evaporated quickly, leaving
both of us a bit embarrassed. Ultimately, we agreed on the big
issues, until ...  One night, driving home after a final post-midnight press
check at the printer’s on yet another catalog, I was startled by
the blast of a truck horn. I had been drifting into the oncoming
traffic on the Golden Gate Bridge, falling asleep at the wheel.
Were it not for the horn, I might have had a head-on collision.  “We have to stop the catalog,” I told Mel firmly at
breakfast the following morning.  He shook his head. “We can’t go backward,” he said.  “Well, we can’t stay where we are,” I insisted. “I’m at my
limit.”  “I know,” he said. “Our problem is that we’re going in
circles. We need to bust out, make a go for it.”  “Bust out?" I asked. "How?”  His response: “Open another store.”  “You’re not hearing me!” I got up to leave, furious. Mel
came after me.  “I do hear you,” he said. “We need to scale up so we can
get the help we need to make all this work.”  Head-Clearing  He insisted I take a few days off. It turned out all I
needed was one day, a brilliantly blue Marin County,  California ,
day. I took a head-clearing, spirit-lifting hike to the top of
Mount Tamalpais, and sat there for a while by myself.  Mel was right. We couldn’t go backward. We had to leap.
There was no other way out of our problem. I went back to work.  Mel: When Patricia said we had to shut down the catalog, I
knew that what she meant was that things had to change. We were
reaching a place where what had worked for us in getting into
business was now beginning to work against us. As much as we
loved the idea of being professional amateurs, it was wearing us
ragged.  We needed better employees who had experience in mail order
and retail. But smart and talented people did not work at the
wages we could pay.  Closing the catalog was unthinkable. The store brought us
to  Mill Valley , but the catalog took us to the world. And the
catalog was our surest moneymaker.  Here was my plan: create the best catalog yet, add another
color, and quintuple the quantity we mailed to nearly a million.
I’d been testing lists in smaller mailings, and I knew which
ones could yield the best results. Assuming that the response
held close to what we had been getting on the smaller test
mailings -- now 6 percent, more than three times the average in
the catalog business -- we would generate enough cash to open a
second store. The second store, as a third profit center, would
justify the cost of a warehouse and the extra level of
management.  Our only out-of-pocket expense would be the extra postage.
The list-rental agencies, the printer and the suppliers were by
now all agreeable to “terms.” Only the U.S. post office required
cash on the spot.  The plan worked. In less than two months, we generated the
money necessary to open a second store in  San Francisco .  Second Store  Patricia: We pinpointed the San Francisco ZIP codes with
the highest response to our catalog -- Russian Hill and Pacific
Heights. A commercial section of Polk Street sat in a valley
between them, and the rents there were reasonable.
Serendipitously, a storefront opened on one of the best possible
blocks. It was in a small building: 1,200 square feet of retail
space on the ground floor with a rented apartment upstairs. We
painted bold, black zebra stripes over both stories. Passers-by
could not ignore it.  In the large windows on either side of the entrance, I
reproduced a scene like the ones I’d been drawing for the
catalog covers: an old typewriter, binoculars and a few books on
 Africa  cluttering a weathered roll-top desk, with a safari
jacket hung over the back of the chair.  Inside, we had palm trees made of chicken wire and fabric,
papier-mache parrots and a camouflage net, hung from the ceiling
and filled with palm fronds and leaves to simulate a forest
canopy. On the floor, we painted a resin-coated creek, and built
a bridge over it to an Astroturf meadow in the back of the store
with leopard print dressing rooms.  A smiling young woman, sparkling with charm, walked in the
door.  “Are you looking for help?” she asked.  “Well, actually,” I answered, looking her over, “we’ve been
looking for someone just like you.” Randi Hoffman turned out to
be the best salesperson, then manager, we ever found.  The city store was bigger, lighter and, from Day One, way
more profitable. We supplemented the surplus with some new
merchandise found at trade shows that fit the concept: tropical-
weight wool trousers, cotton safari jackets, T-shirts and
fatigue pants, all new and in a full range of sizes. As Mel had
also planned, the new money went into the new catalog, and this
one was better than we hoped for. Sales were now booming, and we
finally began to hire more experienced employees.  Solving one problem, however, created another: We had
picked the domestic-surplus stockpiles clean. Although we filled
some gaps with the new merchandise, the company’s was built on
exotic surplus, and our survival depended on the generous
margins the surplus allowed. We had a roaring business ... with
a dwindling supply. Fortunately, Mel was already on it.  (Mel Ziegler and Patricia Ziegler are the founders of
 Banana Republic  and the Republic of Tea. This is the second in a
series of three excerpts from their new book, “ Wild Company: The
Untold Story of Banana Republic ,” which will be published Oct. 2
by  Simon & Schuster . The opinions expressed are their own. Read
 Part 1  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on an  immigration bill  everyone
can love;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  what Romney got wrong on the Middle
East ;  Michael Kinsley  on  cartoon conservatives and liberals ; 
Jonathan Mahler on what  football has taught Major League Baseball ;
Dean Lacy on why  Romney’s moocher myth appeals to moocher state
voters .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mel and Patricia Ziegler at  mel@mzpz.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  