-- House to Vote on Republican ‘Buffett Rule’ Tax Measure
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   M e g a n   H u g h e s
-- 2012-09-19T21:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/house-to-vote-on-republican-buffett-rule-tax-measure.html
Warren Buffett  has the name
Congress just can’t stop dropping.  When the billionaire said he shouldn’t pay a lower tax rate
than his secretary, President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Democrats seized on that reasoning and proposed a minimum
federal tax rate for the nation’s top earners. The catchy title
they came up with was “the Buffett rule” after the chairman of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Republicans in the U.S. House today called up a different
tax proposal with a not-so-coincidentally similar title: “The
Buffett Rule Act of 2012.” The chamber passed the measure by
voice vote.  The bill would make it easier to send extra money to the
U.S. government by adding a place on tax returns for voluntary
contributions toward paying down the national debt.  “If Warren Buffett wants to give, then H.R. 6410 allows
him to give to his heart’s content,” Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp  said during floor debate. The Michigan
Republican said the bill “makes it easy for those who want to
donate money to the Treasury for debt reduction to voluntarily
do so, without raising taxes on entrepreneurs and job
creators.”  Democrats couldn’t control the hijacking of their catch
phrase, so they settled for reminding constituents that not all
“Buffett rules” are equal.  ‘Wasting Time’  “Once again, Republicans are wasting time on legislation
that won’t accomplish anything, while they continue to protect
the wealthy at all costs,” Representative  Steny Hoyer  of
 Maryland , the second-ranking House Democrat, said in an e-mail
before the vote.  This “isn’t actually the Buffett Rule,” said Hoyer.
“This legislation allows citizens to voluntarily donate to
paying down the debt -- something which they’re already allowed
to do.”  Members of the public already can make contributions to
reduce the national debt online by  credit card , checking or
 savings accounts . They also can mail a check to the Bureau of
Public Debt. The Republican bill would add federal income tax
forms as another means for accepting donations.  The measure says federal income tax forms would include a
box alongside the following text: “By checking here, I signify
that in addition to my tax liability (if any), I would like to
donate the included payment to be used exclusively for the
purpose of paying down the national debt.”  Immediate Effect  The measure would see that each donation is deposited in
the general fund of the  U.S. Treasury  and transferred to a
special account for gifts to reduce the debt. It would take
effect starting with returns for the 2012 tax year.  For  Steve Scalise , the Louisiana Republican who authored
the legislation, the bill serves two purposes. It would make
voluntary debt-reduction contributions as easy to make as the $1
donation to the presidential campaign funds, and it lets the
House respond to Obama, who brought Buffett’s secretary,  Debbie Bosanek , to his 2012  State of the Union  address.  The president “has used Warren Buffett as the poster-child
for his class warfare scheme because Buffett complains that he
doesn’t pay enough in taxes,” Scalise said in an e-mail before
the vote.  Buffett made his remarks about what he considers unfair tax
rates in August 2011 and Obama proposed the concept of the
“Buffett rule” the following month. Scalise introduced a
previous version of his bill, with Buffett’s name as part of the
title, last October.  In the Senate, Rhode Island Democrat  Sheldon Whitehouse  is
the lead sponsor of legislation that would set a minimum 30
percent federal tax rate for households with adjusted gross
incomes of at least $2 million a year.  A procedural vote on April 16 to proceed to consideration
of the bill got 51 supporters in the Democratic-controlled
chamber, short of the 60 needed.  Implementation of the Scalise bill would increase revenue
by $135 million from 2013 through 2022, according to an estimate
released today by the nonpartisan congressional Joint Committee
on Taxation. By contrast, the Whitehouse bill’s measure would
boost revenue by $47 billion during the next decade, according
to JCT.  The bills are H.R. 3099, H.R. 6410 and S. 2230.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Hughes in Washington at 
 mhughes43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at   krizzo5@bloomberg.net  