-- Lowe’s Losing Like BHP as Foreigners Repelled
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-09-19T13:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/lowe-s-losing-like-bhp-as-foreigners-repelled-corporate-canada.html
Lowe’s Cos Inc. (LOW) ’s withdrawal of a
bid for  Rona Inc. (RON)  amid opposition from the Quebec government
threatens future foreign investment as the Canadian province
seeks funds to develop its northern natural resources.  Lowe’s withdrew its unsolicited offer for the home
improvement retailer on Sept. 17 after Rona rejected requests to
proceed with a friendly deal, the Mooresville, North Carolina-
based firm said in a statement. Rona, based in Boucherville,
Quebec, fell 12 percent, its biggest one-day loss.  The “strong political agenda” of protecting companies in
the primarily French-speaking province means investors looking
to profit from a takeover may be out of luck, said Jeff Burchell, a Toronto-based  money manager  at  Aston Hill Financial
Inc. (AHF) , which manages about C$6 billion ($6.15 billion) including
Rona shares. This poses a problem for Quebec mining exploration
and development companies, he said.  “A lot of the resource plays in  Canada  are built on the
idea of you building up the resource then selling to a
developing country,” Burchell said by telephone. “But if
that’s the story and it’s Quebec-based, I’m not buying stock in
that company.”  Lowe’s retreat comes as the federal government considers a
$15.1 billion offer for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  from Chinese state-owned firm
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and less than two years after the government quashed
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., after intense opposition from Saskatchewan
Premier Brad Wall.  Alberta View  While Alberta Premier Alison Redford has said foreign
investment is good for the oil-rich province and Potash was only
the second rejection of a foreign takeover by the federal
government in 25 years, Quebec Premier Pauline Marois has vowed
to protect companies from hostile takeovers and keep head
offices in the province.  Marois, elected to lead a minority government on Sept. 4,
pledged during the campaign to amend business laws and create a
C$10 billion “strategic investment fund” -- managed by the
Caisse de Depot et placement du Quebec, the provincial pension
 fund manager  -- to help protect homegrown companies. The Caisse,
which oversees about C$166 billion, bought shares in Rona after
the Lowe’s takeover bid, raising its share by about 2 percentage
points to 15 percent. Marois will name her cabinet at 4 p.m.
today, according to a Quebec government  statement .  Broken Deal  Sebastian van Berkom, president of Montreal-based Van
Berkom and Associates, a fund manager with C$1.8 billion in
assets, said Quebec’s reputation is at stake in the aftermath of
the broken Rona-Lowe’s deal.  “I hope that Pauline Marois and the Caisse don’t respond
by trying to save all these underperforming Quebec companies,
because then we’ll get a reputation that we’re out to save the
weak and not interested in creating wealth,” he said in a
telephone interview. ’’I would be very disappointed if  Quebec  is
perceived that way.’’  Rona has  declined  48 percent in the past five years, four
times more than the drop in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index over that period. The stock was little changed at C$11.23
at 9:53 a.m. in Toronto for a market value of C$1.36 billion,
down from Lowe’s bid of C$1.76 billion.  Julie Yenichek, a spokeswoman with Lowe’s, said the company
wouldn’t comment on specific discussions it had with Rona,
including whether management met with representatives from the
provincial government.  “We will continue to evaluate our options,” she said in a
phone interview from Mooresville.  Valerie Lamarre, a spokeswoman for Rona, said in an e-mail
the company’s focus remains on implementing its business plan.  Satisfy Shareholders  Louis Hebert, a management professor at HEC  Montreal , said
Lowe’s and other foreign companies looking for an acquisition
must satisfy shareholders as well as the provincial government,
opposition parties, and the Quebec population.  “This is probably going to have a chilling effect,”
Hebert said by telephone. “Companies that want to come here are
going to need to do their homework before they bid for a Quebec
company.”  Raymond Bachand, Quebec’s outgoing finance minister, said
he was “very happy” that Lowe’s was pulling its bid because of
Rona’s importance in the Quebec economy.  “Rona is one of our national champions,” he said in a
Sept. 17 interview on Quebec’s Argent television network.
“There are 50,000 people in Quebec who depend on Rona, whether
they work for the company or for its suppliers. We need this
head office in Quebec.”  Alcan Bought  Rona’s fate is a sensitive issue in Quebec because some
companies that were based in the province, such as aluminum
maker Alcan Inc. and Montreal Exchange Inc., were acquired in
the last decade, said  Karl Moore , a management professor at
McGill University’s Desautels Faculty of Management in Montreal.  Quebec’s opposition to the deal was “the biggest hurdle,”
he said. “There have been a number of head offices leaving
Quebec, so it’s a touchy issue that the PQ will continue to
respond to.”  Other Quebec companies such as drugstore company Jean Coutu
Group Inc. of Longueuil, Laval-based Alimentation Couche-Tard
Inc. and Montreal-based Dollarama Inc. may also be considered
strong provincial brands.  Former Premier Jean Charest unveiled the so-called Plan
Nord in May 2011, promising C$80 billion of government and
company investments by 2036 to tap mining and energy resources
in an area twice the size of  France .  Staying Away  Marois criticized the plan during the campaign for leaving
too much profit in company hands. According to its electoral
platform, the Parti Quebecois would introduce a 5 percent
minimal royalty on the gross value of all mining output, in
addition to a 30 percent tax on “super profits” from non-
renewable resources.  “If other capital providers are nervous and are staying
away, that says to a mine developer like me that projects will
be cheaper, valuations will be lower,” said Brian Tobin,
chairman of  Marret Resource Corp. (MAR) , which invests in natural
resource debt securities. “If others are nervous and the
consequence of that is a greater field for me to play on, I’m
happy with that.”  Tobin, a former premier of Newfoundland and Labrador, was
chairman of Montreal-based Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Ltd.
when the company closed a $4.9 billion deal with U.S. miner
Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. last year. He has met Marois while
in politics and called her a “pragmatic” politician.  “I expect she’ll bring the same sense of pragmatism to the
office of the premier,” he said. “I don’t see the Parti
Quebecois doing things that will mean the loss of capital or
jobs in Quebec.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  