-- P&G’s McDonald Says 40% of Time Spent Developing Leaders
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-09-19T20:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/p-g-s-mcdonald-says-40-of-time-spent-on-succession.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Chief
Executive Officer Bob McDonald said he’s spending more than a
third of his time at the world’s largest consumer-products
company on succession and leadership planning for top positions.  McDonald has been under pressure from activist investor
Bill Ackman, whom people familiar with the matter have said may
seek leadership changes at P&G after his Pershing Square Capital
took a $1.8 billion stake in P&G in July. The CEO said today at
an event in Chicago that he’s looking to promote internal
 candidates  as the company has in the past. The succession issues
are occupying about 35 percent to 40 percent of his time,
McDonald said.  “The logic is that you really want to know who’s in the
pipeline for almost any senior position,” Sydney Finkelstein,
the Steven Roth Professor of Management at Dartmouth’s  Tuck
School  of Business, said today in a telephone interview. “It’s
common to know personally, a lot about the top 500 people in
some of these companies, which is an incredible number of
people.”  P&G’s share performance has trailed competitors such as
 Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  since McDonald
took over in July 2009. The company is trying to boost sales
growth by focusing on top markets and categories and working to
save $10 billion by 2016.  Ackman has sought organizational and management changes in
other companies, including a successful effort to remove
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. CEO Fred Green this year.  P&G was little changed at $69.26 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 3.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  