-- Pacific Rubiales Buys 35% Stake in Karoon’s Brazilian Fields
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-09-19T02:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/pacific-rubiales-buys-35-stake-in-karoon-s-brazilian-fields-1-.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) ,
which operates Colombia’s largest oil field, agreed to buy a 35
percent stake in exploration blocks owned by  Karoon Gas
Australia Ltd. (KAR)  off the coast of Brazil.  Bogota-based Pacific Rubiales will pay $40 million in cash
and fund as much as $210 million in exploration costs, Mt.
Martha, Victoria-based Karoon said today in a statement. The
drilling in the Santos Basin is set to begin in mid-November,
Executive Chairman Robert Hosking said in a phone interview.  “A large amount of equity is being retained by Karoon for
the up-and-coming drilling campaign,” Hosking said. “We can
leverage off the equity in project development in the future.”  The deal with Pacific Rubiales follows the scrapping of
Karoon’s proposed initial public offering of its South American
business in November 2010. The Australian company is a partner
with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-controlled  oil company 
known as Petrobras, in the Maruja discovery.  Karoon  advanced  as much as 10.8 percent to A$5.64 in Sydney
trading, the highest since May 8. The shares were up 7.5 percent
at 12:50 p.m. local time, compared with a 0.3 percent increase
in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Karoon is targeting a potential resource of 100 million to
300 million barrels of oil in each of the three wells in Brazil,
Hosking said. It also has exploration holdings off Peru and
plans to complete a partnership deal to develop those blocks in
the first quarter of next year, he said.  Karoon is in an exploration campaign off  Australia  with
 ConocoPhillips. (COP)  Karoon in April started a five- to eight-well
drilling campaign with the Houston-based company to further
evaluate the potential of the Poseidon gas discovery in the
Browse Basin. That project targets a potential resource of 3
trillion to 15 trillion cubic feet of gas, Karoon has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  