-- Pakistan Must Pressure Taliban, Former U.S. Envoy Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-19T17:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/pakistan-must-pressure-taliban-former-u-s-envoy-says.html
Pakistan should use its leverage to
press Taliban leaders to make peace with the government in
neighboring  Afghanistan , according to the recently retired U.S.
ambassador to Afghanistan.  Ryan Crocker , who left his post as the top U.S. envoy to
Afghanistan two months ago and served as ambassador in Pakistan
from 2004 to 2007, said today by e-mail that “Pakistan has
substantial influence with Taliban leaders on its soil; for its
own sake, as well as that of Afghanistan, it should use that
influence to encourage reconciliation.”  Crocker was reacting to comments yesterday by a former
Pakistani intelligence and military chief who said the U.S. has
“unrealistic expectations” about Pakistan’s ability to bring
Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar to peace talks.  Retired General Ehsan ul Haq said in a brief interview in
 Washington  that while Pakistan fully supports Afghan peace
talks, it “can’t deliver anybody” to the negotiating table.  The Obama administration’s strategy for withdrawing almost
all U.S. combat forces by the end of 2014 calls for continuing
to fight the Taliban, seeking reconciliation with insurgents
willing to lay down their arms, and strengthening the Afghan
government and security forces. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has called the approach “Fight, Talk, Build.”  The U.S.-led  International Security Assistance Force  in
Afghanistan said this week that it was temporarily restricting
joint combat operations with Afghan troops in response to so-
called insider attacks on allied forces by their supposed Afghan
allies. It said the move was tied to the uproar over an anti-
Islamic video.  ‘Tactical Changes’  U.S. Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, sought to downplay the significance of the
move.  “They’re tactical changes in response to a changing
threat,”  Dempsey said in a speech today to the Air Force
Association’s annual conference in  Maryland .  There have been 51 coalition troops killed by Afghan allies
or infiltrators so far this year, compared with 35 last year,
according to ISAF in Kabul.  “This is about adaptability,” Dempsey said. “It’s not
about changing the objectives.”  Three senators called today for an immediate suspension in
withdrawing U.S. troops from Afghanistan.  “We are concerned that the rush to build up the Afghan
National Security Forces as quickly as possible -– so that U.S.
forces could begin withdrawing on the administration’s timetable
-– has contributed to the problem of the so-called insider
attacks,” Republicans  John McCain  of  Arizona  and  Lindsey Graham 
of  South Carolina  and independent  Joe Lieberman  of  Connecticut  
said in an e-mailed statement.  Continued Engagement  In a Sept. 17 speech at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, a Washington policy research group, Crocker
urged the U.S. and international community not to abandon
Afghanistan as foreign troops are drawn down, saying continued
engagement is essential to protect the newfound rights of women
and minorities and what he called dramatic improvements in the
quality of life.  He said that when he was posted to Afghanistan in 2002 to
reopen the U.S. embassy after the fall of the Taliban, he
arrived “without any instructions” from President  George W. Bush ’s administration about what he was meant to accomplish in
his first months there. Last year, his marching orders were
clear, he said.  Meeting Secretly  While some U.S. policy makers think the administration’s
withdrawal plans and the departure of many allied troops have
encouraged the Taliban to sit tight rather than compromise,
Crocker was a keen supporter of efforts to promote
reconciliation in his year as the U.S. ambassador to
Afghanistan.  He said he met secretly with members of insurgent groups,
including the Taliban leadership that was ousted from power in
Afghanistan after the U.S. military operation began there in
October 2001.  The Afghan Taliban are based in the Pakistani city of
Quetta, and the Haqqani insurgent network has support in the
Pakistani tribal area of North Waziristan. Both groups benefit
from ties to elements of  Pakistan ’s security forces, U.S.
intelligence officials have said.  Hunting Haqqani  Haq, who ran Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence agency
from 2001 to 2004, denied that Pakistan provides such
assistance. He said yesterday that Pakistan’s security forces
conducted several raids on the religious school and homes of the
Haqqani network’s founder in the Pakistani town of Miram Shah
from 2002 to 2004.  “He was not there; he was in Paktia, Paktika,” he said,
referring to two provinces in Afghanistan.  Haq, also a former chairman of the military’s joint chiefs
of staff, said the U.S. must take the lead in advancing the
“political track” with the Taliban.  Crocker, in his Sept. 17 speech, said it wasn’t possible to
get a comprehensive Afghan peace settlement without full
cooperation from neighboring Pakistan.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  also has sought Pakistan’s
help facilitating peace talks with the Taliban leadership, and
Pakistan has pledged to support the process.  Efforts to establish more formal talks through a Taliban
office in Qatar broke down in March over terms for a potential
swap of five Taliban detainees in Guantanamo for a U.S. soldier
believed to be held by the Haqqani group.  Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar met today in
Washington with members of the Senate intelligence committee and
told lawmakers that “Pakistan aims to have a genuine dialogue
with the U.S. on Afghanistan,” Pakistan’s embassy to the U.S.
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  