-- Partner Jumps on Bets It Will Diversify Revenue: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-09-19T15:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/partner-jumps-on-bets-it-will-diversify-revenue-tel-aviv-mover.html
Partner (PTNR)  Communications Co. surged
to the highest in almost four months on speculation  Israel ’s
second-biggest mobile phone company is close to finding ways to
diversify its revenue, potentially boosting profit.  Partner advanced 5.9 percent to 19.45 shekels, or the
equivalent of $4.98, at the Tel Aviv close, the highest since
May 21. The  New York  shares of the company based in the Israeli
city of Rosh Ha’Ayin, fell 0.5 percent to $5.085 yesterday,
snapping a five-day rally. Israel’s benchmark gauge, the TA-25
Index, gained 0.5 percent as trading resumed after a three-day
holiday.  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) , the country’s
largest fixed-line phone provider, rose 1.1 percent.  “Investors believe Partner is close to signing a wholesale
agreement which will allow it to lease  infrastructure from
Bezeq and provide fixed-line and other services, diversifying
revenues,” said Richard Gussow, a senior analyst at DS
Securities & Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  Partner’s shares have slumped 47 percent in the past year
as the government introduced regulations to boost competition
and reduce prices. Israel’s main telecommunications companies,
 Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , Partner and Bezeq, have been the  worst
performers  on the TA-25 index, respectively, in that period.
Partner is cutting jobs and seeking to enter other segments to
boost revenue, Chief Executive Officer Haim Romano said Aug. 14.  “Partner is in negotiations with Bezeq about a wholesale
service,” the company said in a statement read out over the
phone after markets closed.  Worst Over  The government wants to introduce a wholesale fixed-line
market and a fiber-to-the-home network to boost competition with
existing fixed-line operators such as Bezeq and  Hot
Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  Cellcom said last month that
efficiency measures have led to savings of 300 million shekels
($77 million) this year.  “Third-quarter results will still be tough, but investors
feel the worst may be behind for the telecommunications
sector,” Gussow said. “Once a wholesale market is in place,
then the regulator will allow Bezeq subsidiaries to work
together and allow them to cross market products and cut
costs.”  Partner’s revenue is likely to  drop 14 percent  in the three
months ending Sept. 30, according to a forecast from Bank Leumi
Le-Israel on Bloomberg. The company trades at 6.9 times
estimated earnings, compared with 10.9 times for the Israeli
benchmark. Shares of Cellcom are trading at an estimated price-
to-earnings ratio of 6.7 times, while Bezeq’s are at 6.6 times.  Cellcom advanced 2.8 percent to 31.75 shekels while Hot
gained 3.5 percent to 35.87 shekels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  