-- Penn State to Compensate Sandusky Victims, Erickson Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-19T12:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/penn-state-to-compensate-sandusky-victims-erickson-says.html
Pennsylvania State University  plans
to settle with victims of the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse scandal,
President Rodney Erickson said.  The university is working with outside lawyers and plans to
announce a process that will result in the settlement of
“ideally all” of the civil cases so that “victims will not
have to be dragged through a long litigation process,” Erickson
said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg LP’s headquarters in
 New York . The money will come from insurance policies and funds
set aside from interest on internal loans, Erickson said.  “We certainly haven’t forgotten about Mr. Sandusky’s
victims,” Erickson said. “We want to make sure that we do the
right thing in terms of providing a just outcome for them.”  The 157-year-old university has been under intense scrutiny
since the November 2011 indictment of Sandusky, a former
assistant football coach, for the sexual abuse of 10 boys over a
15-year period. Sandusky was convicted by a jury in June of 45
criminal counts. The scandal and coverup tarnished  Penn State ’s
image, and a university-commissioned investigation concluded
that fear of bad publicity and a “culture of reverence” for
the football program steered the school’s handling of the
allegations.  “It’s been a series of waves we’ve been confronted with,”
Erickson, 65, said of the post-Sandusky fallout. “Yes, that
happened and yes, we can’t forget that, but it’s about moving
on.”  Erickson’s pledge to reach settlements follows the
university’s statement after the verdict that it would establish
a forum to address victims’ concerns and possible compensation.  October Sentencing  Sandusky’s sentencing, scheduled for Oct. 9, will bring
some closure to the victims and the  State College , Pennsylvania-
based school. The case against Sandusky led to the firings of
Erickson’s predecessor,  Graham Spanier  and late football coach
 Joe Paterno , who were faulted for failing to act. Paterno died
in January.  The university is the subject of investigations by the U.S.
 Department of Education  and the U.S. Attorney in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania. It faces at least three victims’ lawsuits and in
July was fined $60 million by the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association , which stripped the football team of its wins from
1998 through 2011.  Two Penn State officials face trial in January on charges
they lied to a grand jury about a 2001 sex-abuse allegation
against Sandusky.  The $6.5 million university-commissioned probe by  Louis Freeh , a former federal judge and director of the  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation, found that school officials ignored numerous
red flags involving Sandusky for more than a decade.  Multiple Cultures  Now, 10 months after Sandusky’s indictment, the school has
changed its governance structure, implemented management
changes, created more transparency and is about to embark on a
search for a new president, Erickson and Board Chairman Karen Peetz said in the interview. It will soon resolve accreditation
issues and has no plans to suspend the football program even as
it defers capital projects to prepare for a possible decline in
revenue, Erickson said.  “There’s no one culture at Penn State,” Erickson said in
response to criticism of the football program’s prominence.
“You can’t paint Penn State with one brush.”  Penn State’s football team had an operating profit of $43.8
million in fiscal 2011 on $58.9 million in revenue, according to
school records. That profit helped fund other teams within the
athletic department, which generated $116.1 million in operating
revenue and posted a $14.8 million operating profit.  NCAA Sanctions  The team also brings about $70.2 million to state and local
businesses each year, according to an economic impact study
commissioned by the university for the 2008-2009 school year.  While Penn State avoided a total football shutdown, it was
banned from bowl games for four years and lost 20 total
scholarships annually for four seasons. The team is ineligible
to receive its share of the  Big Ten ’s bowl revenue during the
postseason ban, a total of about $13 million a year. The
athletic department is borrowing on an internal loan from the
university to pay the NCAA fine.  In 46 years as head coach, Paterno led Penn State to five
undefeated seasons, Associated Press national championships in
1982 and 1986, and 409 wins, a record at college football’s top
level. The NCAA’s ruling stripped Paterno of 111 victories,
including the 2005 Orange Bowl win over Florida State.  Facts Concealed  Paterno, Spanier, Timothy Curley, an athletic director; and
 Gary Schultz , a former vice president in charge of campus
police; knew of allegations against Sandusky dating back to 1998
and concealed critical facts to avoid negative publicity for the
school, according to the Freeh report, released in July. Lawyers
for Spanier denied the allegations, calling the report a
“blundering and indefensible indictment.”  Curley and Schultz face a trial in January on charges they
lied to a grand jury about their handling of a 2001 sex-abuse
allegation against Sandusky by a former assistant football coach
and failed to report the incident.  The school spent almost  $17 million  through June 30 on the
Sandusky crisis, including $1.6 million on legal defense for
Schultz, Curley and Spanier, according to the college. Curley
took a leave of absence two days after being charged. There’s
been no decision on his employment, Erickson said.  Sandusky, 68, spent 31 seasons as a defensive assistant
under Paterno before retiring in 1999. Prior to coaching, he was
a defensive end on the school’s football team.  During a two-week trial in June, prosecutors portrayed
Sandusky as a serial child molester who used Second Mile, the
charity he founded, to recruit his victims, befriending them
with trips to Penn State football games and money.  Insurance Battle  Many of the incidents allegedly took place in a locker room
in the Lasch Football Building on Penn State’s main campus. Some
of the victims took the witness stand to recount their dealings
with the coach at his home and on campus.  Among the pending lawsuits is a complaint filed by an
alleged victim who wasn’t part of the state’s criminal case.
Lawyers for other alleged victims have said they planned to sue
the university for negligence.  The school is battling one insurer over general liability
coverage. The  Pennsylvania  Manufacturer’s Association Insurance
Co., which sued the school in January in state court in
Philadelphia, is asking a judge to rule that it isn’t required
to pay for coverage of clams and defense costs stemming from
Sandusky’s abuse.  Penn State filed its own complaint accusing the insurer of
breaching its contract. The school has multiple policies with
other insurers from which to draw for a settlement fund,
Erickson said yesterday.  Players Transferred  Since Sandusky’s arrest, the school has struggled in its
football recruiting, and nine players have transferred since the
NCAA sanctions. The team began the 2012 season 0-2 for the first
time since 2001, losing to Ohio University and the  University of
Virginia . The Nittany Lions beat Navy 34-7 on Sept. 15.  Paid freshman acceptances in the state university system
are at 16,088, including 8,041 at the main University Park
campus, Lisa Powers, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. While
those figures are about 2 percent above last year’s totals, the
college has yet to count its official new enrollment, she said.  The Middle States Commission on Higher Education will rule
on the university’s accreditation following a site visit next
month, Erickson said. The commission notified the school last
month that its accreditation was in jeopardy.  The school is required to file reports on its compliance
with accreditation standards by Sept. 30. A ruling will be
issued after that date, Erickson said.  “I’m hoping that we’ll have that fully lifted,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  