-- Pentagon Slow to Improve Computer Defenses, Official Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-09-19T19:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/pentagon-slow-to-improve-computer-defenses-official-says.html
The Defense Department is moving
“way too slowly” to protect the U.S. from cyber attacks, the
Pentagon’s No. 2 official said today.  “We’re still vulnerable, and the pace is not adequate,”
Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said in a speech to the
Air Force Associaton’s annual conference in  Maryland . “I hope
this isn’t one of those situations where we won’t do what we
need to do until we get slammed.”  While the Pentagon has been focused on defending its own
computer networks and developing cyber weapons, it’s been
struggling to find ways to help private companies protect
themselves from cyber attacks, he said.  “That’s a little harder,” Carter said. Most computer
networks are controlled by “private entities who typically fail
to invest or under-invest in their security.”  Antitrust concerns are complicating the Pentagon’s task,
Carter said.  “When we provide information to Company A, do we have to
provide the same information to Company B?” he asked. “Can
Company A provide information to Company B, or does that violate
the antitrust laws?”  Carter said myriad questions must be resolved as the
Defense Department tries to make private  computer networks  less
vulnerable to attack.  “Should we require private industry to control its
networks, or is that the heavy hand of  government regulation ?”
he asked. “We’re working our way through all these issues, my
own view is, way too slowly.”  Increasing Attacks  Pentagon leaders agree that cyber security is an
increasingly important focus -- and area for spending -- as the
threat of cyber attacks increases.  “We’ve all got to be thinking about cyber,” U.S. Army
General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said in a separate speech to the Air Force Association today.
“It will be a game-changer.”  Still, military leaders are wrestling with how best to
organize themselves for the new threats and assess what they
need.  “This is a really fuzzy area for a lot of people,” said
General Mark Welsh, the new Air Force chief of staff, in a talk
with reporters yesterday.  “I’m just a little hesitant to commit wholeheartedly to
major resources to an area that I don’t completely understand.”  Without more clearly defined requirements, Welsh told the
Air Force Association conference, “I’m concerned it’s a black
hole.”  Information Sharing  In May, Pentagon officials predicted that as many as 1,000
defense contractors may join a voluntary effort to share
classified information on cyber threats under an expansion of a
first-ever initiative to protect computer networks.  Following a pilot program that involved 36 contractors and
three of the biggest U.S. Internet providers, the Obama
administration approved a rule letting the Pentagon enlist all
contractors and Internet providers with security clearances in
the information exchange, Eric Rosenbach, deputy assistant
secretary of defense for cyber policy, said at the time.  Cyber threats facing the U.S. defense industry and its
“unclassified  information systems  represent an unacceptable
risk of compromise of DoD information and pose an imminent
threat to U.S. national security and economic security
interests,” according to the federal rule authorizing the
expanded Department of Defense program.  Information needs to be shared because hackers, especially
in China, are accelerating efforts to penetrate computer
networks such as those of defense contractors, Rear Admiral
Samuel Cox, director of intelligence for U.S. Cyber Command,
told reporters at a conference in April.  “Chinese capabilities in computer network operations have
advanced sufficiently to pose genuine risk to U.S. military
operations in the event of a conflict,” according to a March
report by the U.S.-China Economic Security Review Commission, a
group created by Congress to monitor  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  