-- Pentagon Deputy Leader Backs Air Force Criticism of Lockheed
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-09-19T15:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/pentagon-deputy-leader-backs-air-force-criticism-of-lockheed.html
Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said he agreed with recent Air Force criticism of
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  for its management of the F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter.  “I’m with him 100 percent,” Carter said today of Air
Force Major General Christopher Bogdan, the deputy head of the
F-35 program office, who this week called its relationship with
Lockheed “the worst I’ve ever seen.”  While supporting the F-35 as “the centerpiece of tactical
air modernization,” Carter, the Defense Department’s second-
ranking official, said, “We have to control costs there.”  “To do that, we need a government-industry team that can
work together,” Carter said in a speech to the Air Force
Association meeting near  Washington . ‘  Carter’s comments add Defense Department backing to the Air
Force assessment that Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin
has been a poor partner in managing the costs of the F-35, the
Pentagon’s most expensive weapons system.  General Mark Welsh, the new Air Force chief of staff, said
yesterday that “there’s some repair work that needs to be
done” in mending the Lockheed partnership.  “We tell it straight,” Carter added today.  Lockheed spokesman Michael Rein issued a statement Sept. 17
saying the company will “remain committed to continuing our
work to solve program challenges and build on the momentum and
success we’ve achieved during the past couple of years.”  The first four F-35 contracts, for 63 planes, exceeded
their combined target cost by $1 billion, according to
congressional auditors. Negotiations on a fifth contract have
been stalled for months.  Lockheed, the world’s biggest defense contractor, fell 11
cents to $91.67 at 11:24 a.m. in  New York  trading after rising
13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  