-- Peregrine’s Wasendorf Pleads Guilty to Embezzlement, Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   W i t o s k y
-- 2012-09-19T01:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/peregrine-s-wasendorf-pleads-guilty-to-embezzlement-fraud-1-.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
founder Russell Wasendorf Sr. pleaded guilty to stealing more
than $100 million from the bankrupt commodities firm’s
customers.  Wasendorf, 64, yesterday admitted to embezzlement, mail
fraud and two counts of lying to federal regulators in an
appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge Jon Scoles in  Cedar
Rapids ,  Iowa .  Wasendorf, dressed in a prison-issue orange jumpsuit, was
handcuffed and wearing leg shackles during the hearing. He was
taken into custody after U.S. District Judge Linda Reade earlier
yesterday stayed Scoles’s ruling that Wasendorf could be
released from custody until sentencing.  In response to the judge’s direct questions, Wasendorf
replied “guilty” to each of the four counts. He made no other
comment.  The plea agreement calls for a prison sentence of as long
as 50 years. Scoles said he would recommend to Reade to accept
the plea. Reade will also set a sentencing date.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Deegan told Scoles that
Wasendorf could serve a life sentence under federal sentencing
guidelines.  Jill Johnston, Wasendorf’s lawyer, said her client could
serve 25 to 30 years if he receives reductions under the
guidelines.  Customer Funds  Wasendorf’s crimes came to light on July 9 when the founder
of Peregrine, who was also the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer, tried to kill himself by piping auto exhaust
into the passenger compartment of his car parked outside the
firm’s Cedar Falls, Iowa, headquarters.  In a written statement found with him then, Wasendorf said
he’d been stealing from the company for almost 20 years.  The  National Futures Association , an industry self-
regulator, announced the same day that about $200 million in
customer funds the firm reported was on deposit at its bank were
unaccounted for.  Federal criminal charges were filed against him under seal
two days later. He was arrested July 13.  “I have committed fraud. For this I feel constant and
intense guilt,” Wasendorf said in the confession, which he
confirmed he had written, according to an affidavit by FBI agent
William F. Langdon filed with the criminal complaint.  False Statements  “Through a scheme of using false bank statements I have
been able to embezzle millions of dollars from customer accounts
at Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,” Wasendorf said.  His 17-page plea agreement with prosecutors was signed on
Sept. 7 and made public at a bail hearing on Sept. 11.  Wasendorf was indicted last month on 31 counts of lying to
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission about how much
money the firm had in client accounts from 2010 through June of
2012. He pleaded not guilty on Aug. 17.  On Sept. 13 Scoles granted the CEO’s request to be freed on
bail after the entry of his guilty plea yesterday. Rejecting
prosecutors’ claims he might still try to commit suicide or
flee, the judge said Wasendorf could be released into the
custody of friend and pastor Linda Livingston, who had vouched
for him at the Sept. 11 hearing. Livingston was in the courtroom
yesterday for the plea.  Wasendorf also would have been required to wear an
electronic monitoring device.  ‘Serious Risk’  Deegan filed a motion hours before the plea hearing
yesterday requesting Wasendorf remain in custody, and Reade
agreed.  “There is at least a ‘serious risk’ defendant might choose
to flee rather than face the consequences of his offenses,”
Deegan wrote in his motion.  “The court is faced with the perpetrator of one of the
most lengthy and egregious frauds in the history of this
district,” Deegan wrote.  According to the plea agreement, Wasendorf started stealing
from Peregrine in the early 1990s, covering his theft by
altering statements received from the firm’s bank, then passing
them to the company’s chief financial officer and accountants.  “Defendant used the stolen money to unlawfully bolster the
apparent financial position of PGF, fund defendant’s outside
business interests and for defendant’s own personal use and
purposes,” according to the plea document.  Italian Restaurant  Among those businesses were an Italian restaurant, a
publishing company and a construction firm.  Peregrine filed for liquidation in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Chicago  on July 10, hours after the firm and Wasendorf were
accused of stealing from customers in a lawsuit filed by the
CFTC.  Liquidating trustee Ira Bodenstein has asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Carol Doyle to approve a plan to make an
interim payment of $123 million to holders of the firm’s 17,000
futures accounts.  “There will not be a 100 percent return of anybody’s
investment in Peregrine,” Bodenstein said at a Sept. 10 meeting
of creditors. “That is a certainty.”  A receiver for Wasendorf’s assets has been appointed in the
CFTC-filed suit.  Suicide Attempt  Preparing for his suicide attempt, which was interrupted
when passersby spotted him in his car, Wasendorf typed separate
notes to his son, Peregrine president Russell Wasendorf Jr., and
his wife of nine days then, Nancy Paladino.  “To my wonderful son, Russ,” he wrote, “by the time you
read this I will have taken my own life. I beg for your
forgiveness. I have written my final confession that will be
discovered with my body.”  “I know you’ll start second-guessing yourself, thinking
back on some of the subtle signals I may be up to something,”
he told his son. “Your mistake was that you trusted your
father, nothing more.”  On Sept. 14, the younger Wasendorf and his wife, Amber,
sued  U.S. Bank  NA, alleging an employee at its Cedar Falls
branch enabled his father to perpetrate his crimes by failing to
comply with CFTC account management regulations.  Wasendorf Jr.  The bank’s alleged assurances led Wasendorf Jr. and his
wife to personally guarantee loans made by the bank to his
father’s business, Wasendorf Construction LLC, owner of
Peregrine’s Cedar Falls headquarters, according to the
complaint. The younger Wasendorf now seeks to have those
guarantees voided by an Iowa state court.  “The Wasendorfs’ lawsuit is entirely without merit,” Tom Joyce, a spokesman for the bank’s parent company, Minneapolis-
based U.S. Bancorp, said in an e-mailed statement. “There is no
evidence of any employee misconduct by anyone at U.S. Bank.”  Michael Eidelman, the receiver appointed to marshal and
liquidate the older Wasendorf’s assets in the CFTC case, today
filed papers seeking permission to sell the Peregrine
headquarters and other Wasendorf Construction assets including
the Italian restaurant in  Cedar Falls .  Eidelman also asked U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer
for permission to liquidate assets owned jointly by Wasendorf
Sr. and Paladino.  “Paladino consents to the entry of this order,” the
receiver said.  ‘Love You’  In his suicide note to her, Wasendorf told his new bride,
“I love you so much and I so wanted to spend my final years
growing old with you. I am so sorry that this will not happen.”  Citing the concealment of his crimes, she has asked a
Nevada state court in  Las Vegas  to annul their June 30 marriage.
Livingston told Scoles Sept. 11 that Paladino’s filing was
motivated by the need to insulate herself from financial
liability and that she is still committed to Wasendorf.  The case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2012, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago). The regulatory case is Commodity Futures
Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
cv-5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  