-- Peugeot to Sell 75% Gefco Stake to 800 Million Euros
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-09-20T07:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/peugeot-to-sell-gefco-stake-for-eu800-million-union-says.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, agreed to sell 75 percent of the Gefco
trucking unit to OAO Russian Railways for 800 million euros
($1.04 billion) to help reduce debt.  Peugeot will also receive a special dividend of 100 million
euros from Gefco as part of the deal, the Paris-based company
said in a statement today. Final agreement with the state-owned
Russian company is still dependent on regulatory approval, and
the two sides aim to close the deal by the end of the year,
Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a Peugeot spokesman, said.  “Peugeot still burns about 100 million euros in cash per
month, so this could help them live for about eight months,”
said Xavier Caroen, a Kepler Capital Markets SA analyst with a
buy rating on the shares.  Peugeot is facing increasing pressure from ratings services
as the junk-rated  carmaker  grapples with industrywide
overcapacity in Europe and losses at its automotive division.
The automaker’s debt was lowered to three levels below
investment grade by  Fitch Ratings  yesterday.  Peugeot  dropped  as much as 10 cents, or 1.5 percent, to
6.76 euros and traded at that level as as of 9:08 a.m. in Paris.
The shares have dropped 36 percent this year, valuing the
carmaker at 2.41 billion euros.  Ratings Cuts  The two other main rating services cut the  carmaker ’s long-
term debt two levels below investment grade in July after the
manufacturer reported a 662 million-euro first-half loss at its
automaking unit. Peugeot said at the time it had burned through
200 million euros in cash per month for the last year.  Peugeot announced plans in February to sell assets,
including a stake in Gefco, to raise cash. Russian Railways
Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Yakunin  said this week that the
bid for Gefco is part of an effort to follow competitors such as
Berlin-based Deutsche Bahn AG in establishing a logistics arm
alongside train and infrastructure operations.  The 116-year-old French manufacturer plans to cut 8,000
jobs and close its factory in Aulnay on the outskirts of Paris
to reduce costs. Peugeot issued 1 billion euros in new shares
this year to investors and has sold a stake to  General Motors
Co. (GM)  to raise cash.  The deal will help Gefco grow in areas such as China, India
and  Latin America , Peugeot said in its statement. The
partnership also allow the trucking company to expand in eastern
and central  Europe , particularly in  Russia , it said. The current
Gefco management, led by CEO Luc Nadal, will not be changed and
the headquarters will remain in France.  GM Deal  Gefco, founded in 1949 by Peugeot, reported a 6.7 percent
decline in first-half revenue to 1.88 billion euros, while
operating profit dropped 56 percent to 63 million euros. Gefco
employs 10,300 people in 32 countries, according to its website.  GM and Peugeot announced an agreement on July 2 to transfer
the majority of the Detroit-based company’s logistics business
in Europe to Gefco as part of an industrial alliance the two
carmakers began setting up in February.  In addition to Peugeot and GM, other Gefco customers
include carmakers Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
and  Renault SA (RNO) ’s Dacia brand, as well as cosmetics producer
 L’Oreal SA (OR)  and appliance manufacturer Royal Philips Electronics
NV, said Pascale Van der Vliet, a spokeswoman at the unit. The
automotive industry, including suppliers, accounts for 60
percent of revenue, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  