-- Peugeot Heirs Invest in Nursing Homes as Automaker Slides
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-09-20T07:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/peugeot-heirs-invest-in-nursing-homes-as-automaker-slides.html
As  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  uses up 200
million euros ($260 million) in cash every month, the family
that founded the French automaker and can determine its fate is
getting better returns from alternative investments -- like
nursing homes.  The acquisition of 7 percent of Orpea, which operates
assisted-living facilities, is part of a diversification
strategy in the last decade that has reduced the automaker’s
share of assets in the family’s listed holding company to 35
percent from more than 90 percent in 2000.  Signs that the family is wavering in its commitment
complicates Peugeot’s efforts to reverse deepening losses that
pushed its shares this year to a 23-year low. The shift
coincides with clashes between the family over its role at the
carmaker, including Thierry Peugeot blocking his cousin Robert’s
effort to take an executive post at the automaker in 2006, two
people familiar with the matter said.  “As the number of descendants keeps growing, some of the
younger ones may become less involved in the car business and
may be tempted to leave the ship if it isn’t profitable
enough,” said Bernard Jullien, an industrial economist with
French automotive think-tank Gerpisa. “Peugeot managers are not
given enough leeway to lead the company.”  Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-largest carmaker after  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , lost 662 million euros ($860 million) at its automotive
operations in the first half. Slow to expand outside Europe,
Peugeot’s home region accounted for 76 percent of revenue last
year, compared with 65 percent at VW.  Gefco Sale  To bolster its balance sheet, the manufacturer this year
issued 1 billion euros in new shares and sold assets including
its 48-year-old Paris headquarters. The company today agreed to
sell a 75 percent stake in its Gefco trucking unit to OAO
Russian Railways for 800 million euros and a special dividend of
100 million euros. The company was lowered to three levels below
investment grade by  Fitch Ratings  yesterday.  Having rebuffed previous partnership offers, Peugeot agreed
in February to cooperate with  General Motors Co. (GM) , making the
American automaker the second-largest shareholder.  As the European auto industry descends on Peugeot’s home
town next week with the start of the Paris Motor Show, the
company will be dropped from  France ’s benchmark  CAC 40 (CAC)  index on
Sept. 24.  With the automaker faltering, Robert Peugeot has focused on
running the family’s FFP holding company, still the carmaker’s
biggest shareholder, and has diversified assets with purchases
such as the Orpea stake, household appliance maker Groupe SEB
and marketing services company DKSH.  Family Holdings  The holding company has benefited from those moves. FFP’s
stock, traded in Paris, is off by just 3.3 percent this year,
with holdings like  Orpea (ORP) , which has gained 22 percent,
offsetting the 35 percent decline in the shares of the
automaker. Peugeot  fell  as much as 1.6 percent in Paris trading
today, and was 0.4 percent lower as of 9:38 a.m. local time.  The Peugeot family currently  owns  25.4 percent of the
company’s shares through FFP and Etablissements Peugeot Freres,
another holding company that in turn controls FFP. All told, the
family controls 38.1 percent of Peugeot’s voting rights, which
means they can block decisions requiring shareholder approval.
And five family members are on Peugeot’s 14-seat  supervisory
board .  Thierry Peugeot, the carmaker’s chairman, declined to
comment for this story. At an event this month at Peugeot’s
Sochaux factory, the company’s oldest and largest assembly
plant, he walked away when asked about the role of the family in
the company. “Me, I don’t exist,” he said.  Robert Peugeot didn’t respond to requests for an interview.
In comments to French newspaper Le Figaro in March, he said  FFP (FFP) 
planned to ensure its stability, while at the same time
retaining its role as Peugeot’s anchor shareholder.  Lack of Leadership  Those aims may require further diversification beyond the
minority stakes it holds in 10 other companies and the
investments made with private equity firms. FFP reported a
first-half  net loss  of 66 million euros as profits elsewhere
only partially offset FFP’s 156 million-euro burden from
Peugeot’s losses.  The family hasn’t had clear leadership in 10 years, said
Jean-Louis Loubet, a professor at the University of Evry-Val
d’Essonne and author of a book on the Peugeot dynasty.  “The decision-making process used to be centralized in the
hands of Pierre Peugeot, the family’s strongman,” Loubet said
in an interview. “Since his death in 2002, the family
governance has become more collaborative.”  Divergent Interests  The family’s divergent views were evident when Robert
Peugeot sought a front-line role after Jean-Martin Folz stepped
down as chief executive officer in 2006. Thierry blocked the
move, arguing that tradition was to choose outside CEOs, said
two people who asked not to be identified because they wanted to
maintain good relations with the family.  Since then, Peugeot has had two CEOs, neither with  auto
industry  experience. Christian Streiff, a former Airbus
executive, lasted just over two years. Current CEO Philippe Varin is the former head of steelmaker Corus Group Ltd.  The backing of a stable, long-term shareholder can be a key
support in the auto industry, where cars require years of
development.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  was saved from collapse
in the 1960s after Herbert Quandt backed development of new
models, allowing it to fend off a takeover bid from the parent
of Mercedes-Benz. The Quandt family, BMW’s largest shareholder,
still supports the luxury-car maker. For decades, VW has been
backed by its home state of  Lower Saxony , which can block major
strategy decisions.  Incomplete Alliances  Renault SA (RNO) , which is 15 percent-owned by the French
government, expanded outside Europe by partnering with  Japan ’s
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  in 1999. The alliance has continued to push
into growth markets and agreed this year to buy 74.5 percent of
 Russia ’s dominant carmaker  OAO AvtoVAZ. (AVAZ)  Renault posted a first-
half operating profit of 482 million euros.  Peugeot’s efforts to secure partners have been less
successful. A joint venture with BMW to develop electric
powertrains and components broke down in July, and talks with
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  about an alliance were called off in
2010 because of financing concerns.  The February agreement with GM to cooperate on purchasing
and vehicle development in Europe has yet to yield concrete
results. The Detroit carmaker said in August that it may write
down the value of its 7 percent stake in Peugeot that was part
of the deal.  Given Peugeot’s woes and the family’s divided interests,
there may be little chance that the founder’s heirs will refocus
on the carmaker.  “FFP’s other investments have done well so far,” said
Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC Securities. “It now
looks more like an investment fund than a family holding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  