-- Philippines to Miss Mining Targets on Freeze, Chamber Says
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-09-19T09:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/philippines-to-miss-mining-targets-on-freeze-chamber-says-1-.html
The  Philippines  will probably miss
mining investment targets after the government stopped approving
projects and as miners prepare to question the legality of a new
rule, the head of a mining association said.  “The projected $16 billion of investments that were
supposed to occur during this administration will not happen,”
Chamber of Mines of the Philippines President Philip Romualdez
told a forum today in Manila. The Philippine  mining and oil
index  fell 0.2 percent in Manila trading, snapping a four-day
advance.  Philex Mining Corp. (PX)  fell 1 percent.  The Philippines stopped issuing new mining permits in
January 2011. An order from President  Benigno Aquino  in July
this year extended that moratorium and expanded a mining ban
until Congress passes a law giving the government a bigger share
in resource contracts.  The freeze on mining approvals has “caused an outflow” of
about 10 billion pesos ($240 million) in investments since last
year, Romualdez said.  Aquino’s order allowing the government to renegotiate the
terms of mining contracts after the first 25 years is “patently
illegal” and violates the existing mining law, Romualdez said.
The new provision effectively shortens a project’s potential
life from the maximum 50 years, he said.  Higher State Share  A renegotiation after the 25th year of a contract will
allow the government to increase its share of revenue,
Environment Secretary Ramon Paje said in a statement today.  “By establishing such areas as mineral reservations, the
mining contractors shall be paying to the government a royalty
in the amount equivalent to 5 percent of gross sales,” he said.
The current 2 percent share is disadvantageous to the government
because it doesn’t even cover the cost of the environmental
impact of mining, he said.  The government wants Congress to impose a 5 percent to 7
percent royalty on all mining projects, apart from the 2 percent
excise tax currently levied on mines in operation, Paje said in
July after Aquino’s order. Lawmakers are unlikely to pass the
measure this year, House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte said
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in  Manila  at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  