-- Porsche Wins Dismissal of Two German VW-Options Lawsuits
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-09-19T13:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/porsche-wins-dismissal-of-two-german-lawsuits-over-vw-options.html
Porsche SE won dismissal of the
first two investor suits in Germany over allegations the company
lied about its failed  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  takeover plan in 2008.
Porsche shares surged the most in nine months after the ruling.  Two press releases issued by Porsche in March 2008 didn’t
amount to “vicious behavior” that would have misled investors,
the  Braunschweig  Regional Court said today in a ruling that
dismissed the cases. The two lawsuits, which were seeking less
than 5 million euros ($6.53 million) combined, argued the 911
sports-car maker manipulated stock prices in its failed bid.  The two lawsuits are among five German cases seeking more
than 4 billion euros filed since Porsche  disclosed on Oct. 26,
2008 , that it controlled 74.1 percent of VW, partly through
options, and was seeking to acquire 75 percent and eventually a
takeover. The announcement caused VW’s stock to surge as short
sellers raced to buy shares borrowed in a bet that VW would
fall.  The judges rejected claims that two releases Porsche issued
in March 2008 constituted “vicious behavior” because they
denied Porsche sought a merger. Even if Porsche was seeking a 75
percent stake in VW “in the long run,” the company can’t be
held liable, the court said in a  statement  posted on its website
after today’s ruling.  Shares Surge  Porsche  surged  as much as 9.4 percent to 47.25 euros today,
the biggest intra-day gain since Jan. 19, and was up 8.9 percent
as of 3:15 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has climbed 14
percent this year, valuing the German company at 14.4 billion
euros.  The Porsche bid for Volkswagen was part of a failed
strategy by then-Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking that
fell apart when the financial crisis dried up the funding
to complete the takeover. Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest
automaker, agreed to buy Porsche’s car business in 2009 when its
smaller rival was close to bankruptcy.  The Porsche holding company, which is the largest VW
shareholder, still exits as a separate, publicly traded entity.  The rulings “are a positive signal,” said  Albrecht Bamler , a Porsche spokesman. “In the three additional cases,
which differ in part from those of today, we will also defend
ourselves vigorously.” Porsche has denied the allegations.  ‘0-1’  Franz Braun, the lawyer for one of the plaintiffs in the
case, said he was likely to appeal. His client, Swiss trading
company MyCapital MC SA, may be able to get additional
information to beef up the case, he said.  “In soccer, the score now would be 0-1,” said Braun, who
also represents plaintiffs in some of the larger cases. “But
the first half hasn’t even been completed.”  While the court didn’t say whether the October 2008 press
release also counted as vicious behavior, it said MyCapital
didn’t show that its trades were motivated by the statement.  Investors also can’t rely on market-manipulation rules,
which don’t allow individual civil suits, the court said.  Today’s verdict may lift some of the legal uncertainty
clouding Porsche amid concerns over possible liabilities. The
stock plummeted last month after a U.S. court rejected its bid
to dismiss a suit over the failed attempt to buy VW.  ‘Good News’  “It now looks probable that Porsche will ultimately not
have to pay anything,”  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based
Bankhaus Metzler analyst who recommends buying VW stock.
“Analysts expect penalties of between half-a-billion euros and
maybe 4 billion euros, and if there is now a sign that things
could be less serious or maybe no penalty at all, it’s certainly
good news.”  The remaining three German cases are being handled by the
same court. Hearings are likely to be scheduled next year in the
cases, which seek more than 4 billion euros.  The two companies agreed to combine in 2009 after
Stuttgart-based Porsche racked up more than 10 billion euros of
debt in its unsuccessful attempt to take over VW. Porsche
started accumulating VW shares in 2005.  Another one of today’s plaintiffs, an investor who traded
in options on  VW shares  between April and early October 2008
betting the stock would fall, was seeking 3.1 million euros in
damages, accusing Porsche of lying in March 2008 press releases
about its plans.  His attorney Christoph von Arnim said he will review the
judgment before deciding what next steps to take.  “It won’t add to the trust in the integrity of the markets
if the judges don’t find vicious behavior in such a case,” said
von Arnim. “It’s intolerable that the judges allow exploiting
of loopholes and damaging others to practically go unpunished.”  Buying Options  The investors claim they were misled by Porsche’s March
2008 statements, which denied the company planned to take over
VW, after it had already begun buying options to secure control.  A March 10, 2008, release, denying that Porsche sought 75
percent of VW, wasn’t wrong, because at the time there was no
company decision taken to acquire such a stake. The release also
didn’t “categorically” rule out such a strategy, according to
the court.  Seven months later, the option plan risked backfiring when
VW shares fell. Porsche issued an October 2008 press release in
an effort to push VW’s share price up, the MyCapital suit
claimed.  Criminal Probes  A series of lawsuits in the U.S. and  Germany  ensued when
the options strategy, the brainchild of Wiedeking and Holger Haerter, chief financial officer at the time, faltered in 2009
and nearly bankrupted the carmaker. Stuttgart prosecutors have
been investigating the executives since.  The criminal probe “solidified” suspicions Porsche didn’t
properly inform the market between 2007 and 2009 about its plan
to take control of VW, prosecutors said last year. That
investigation is continuing. Haerter and Wiedeking have denied
wrongdoing.  As part of the probe, Haerter was charged in March with
loan fraud over statements made to a bank when refinancing a 10
billion-euro loan in 2009. At the start of his trial earlier
this month, Haerter said he would prove the allegations wrong in
court.  Today’s cases are LG Braunschweig, 5 O 1110/11 and 5 O
2894/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Braunschweig via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  