-- Pro-Obama Group Using Romney’s Fundraising Comments in Ad
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-09-19T14:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/pro-obama-group-using-romney-s-fundraising-comments-in-ad.html
An independent political group
supporting President  Barack Obama  has seized on the video of
Republican  Mitt Romney ’s private conversation with donors for an
ad it’s running in six swing states.  Priorities USA Action, a so-called super political action
committee, is using Romney’s remarks in an ad that is part of a
$30 million campaign, according to  Bill Burton , co-founder of
the group.  It features footage of Romney saying that 47 percent of
Americans are dependent upon government and “believe that they
are victims.” Romney made the comments at a private fundraiser
in May, and on Sept. 17 Mother Jones magazine published a
secretly recorded video of the event.  The ad, called “Doors,” begins with a shot of a mansion,
then plays Romney’s comments, before moving to an image of a
smaller home, with a narrator asking “Victims? Behind these
doors?” It accuses Romney of planning to raise taxes by $2,000
on some middle class families to give multimillionaires a
$250,000 tax break.  The ad will run in Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Ohio, Virginia
and Wisconsin, Burton said.  In repeating the charge about a $250,000 tax break for
millionaires, made by former President  Bill Clinton  at the
Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, the ad relies on
some assumptions that haven’t been spelled out by Romney.  The nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  calculated the $250,000
tax break for people making more than $3 million based on
Romney’s plan to cap spending at 20 percent of gross domestic
product, increase defense spending, cut tax rates and eliminate
tax breaks. The center later reduced the size of the  tax cut 
when it considered other possible ways to structure the Romney
plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  