-- Prudential Said Picked as Preferred Bidder for Thanachart Assets
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-09-19T01:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/prudential-said-picked-as-preferred-bidder-for-thanachart-assets.html
Prudential Plc (PRU)  was picked as the
preferred bidder for some of Thanachart Bank Pcl’s insurance
assets, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The companies are discussing price and no agreement is
imminent, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. Reuters reported in March that
Thanachart Bank’s insurance business was valued at about $500
million.  Thanachart Bank,  part owned  by  Canada ’s  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , has also been contacted by other potential bidders and
may engage in discussions with those companies, one of the
people said. The person didn’t identify those parties.  Thanachart Bank has three insurance units -- Thanachart
Insurance Co., Thanachart Life Assurance Co. and Siam City Life
Assurance Co., which it acquired during the 2010 merger with
Siam City Bank Pcl. President and Chief Executive Officer
Somjate Moosirilert said in April the lender was considering
selling its insurance businesses.  Somjate declined to comment on the sale in a phone
interview, as did Prudential spokesman Jonathan Oliver.  Thanachart Life had assets of 20.5 billion baht ($664
million) as of December 2010, according to its website. Siam
City Life had assets of 12.2 billion baht as of Aug. 31, the
company’s website shows.  London-based Prudential, the U.K.’s biggest insurer by
market value, said in August its first-half operating profit
rose 13 percent to 1.16 billion pounds ($1.9 billion) on
earnings from Singapore and Indonesia.  Prudential’s shares have rallied  29 percent  this year as it
avoided the European sovereign debt crisis by focusing on
selling life insurance to  Asia ’s growing middle classes and
pension products to  baby boomers  in the U.S. The insurer, which
gets 80 percent of its revenue from outside the U.K., is midway
through a plan to double profit in Asia from 2009 levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  