-- Queen Lends Canalettos to Paris for Venice Jamboree
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-09-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/queen-lends-canalettos-to-paris-for-venice-jamboree.html
Truman Capote  compared Venice to
“eating an entire box of chocolate liqueurs in one go.”  To the many admirers of that intoxicating city, Paris
offers two unmissable exhibitions featuring the two greatest
painters specializing in its portrayal -- Canaletto and
Francesco Guardi.  Canaletto (1697-1768) -- or “Little Canal,” his real name
being Giovanni Antonio Canal -- wasn’t the first to realize that
topographically accurate cityscapes were big business.  Once the Grand Tour became a standard part of the education
of the English aristocracy, wealthy young gentlemen flocked to
the Continent eager to bring back souvenirs.  Joseph Smith , the British consul in Venice and himself a
collector, acted as Canaletto’s virtual agent -- to their mutual
benefit. He later sold his library and the bulk of his
collection to King George III, which explains why eight of the
50 paintings and drawings at the Musee Jacquemart-Andre come
from Windsor Castle.  In 1746, Canaletto even moved to  England  where he spent
nine years. Most of his London views and English country houses,
however, are lifeless and dull, causing rumors that he was an
impostor, not the real thing.  Canaletto worked with the aid of a camera obscura, an
apparatus which projects the image of a scene onto a sheet of
paper. We therefore can assume that he gives us an exact idea of
what  Venice  looked like 300 years ago and how far buildings have
sunk with rising  water levels .  Stark Contrast  On the other hand, it’s evident that he learned his craft
from his stage-designer father: His “vedute” (views) took
poetic liberties and dramatized reality with stark contrasts of
light and shade.  In his “capricci” (whims) he even went so far as to
combine existing with freely invented townscapes.  In this he was close to Francesco Guardi (1712-93) who was
less interested in topographical accuracy than in creating a
vibrant atmosphere.  Guardi came late to the genre: In the first half of his
career, he mostly produced altarpieces, in tandem with his
brother Gianantonio.  During his lifetime, he never achieved Canaletto’s fame and
financial success. His genius was fully appreciated only at the
end of the 19th century by a generation of connoisseurs who had
learned to look at canvases with the eyes of the Impressionists.  Canaletto’s Nephew  The exhibition at the Musee Jacquemart-Andre also includes
Canaletto’s nephew and pupil Bernardo Bellotto (1720-80) who
used his uncle’s name, a confusion that did his career no harm.  Bellotto left Venice for good when he was in his twenties
and worked at the courts of Dresden, Vienna, Munich and Warsaw.
When Warsaw was rebuilt after the ravages of World War II, his
meticulous views of the city were used as models.  The second show, at the Musee Maillol, is limited to
paintings and drawings by Canaletto, many from private
collections. The most fascinating items are his sketchbook and a
modern reproduction of his camera obscura.  “Canaletto-Guardi” at the Musee Jacquemart-Andre, which
is supported by GDF-Suez, runs through Jan. 14, 2013.
Information:  http://www.musee-jacquemart-andre.com .  “Canaletto a Venise” at the Musee Maillol runs through
Feb. 10, 2013. Information:  http://www.museemaillol.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 