-- Questcor Plunges After Aetna Limits Coverage of Drug
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-09-19T20:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/questcor-plunges-after-aetna-limits-coverage-of-drug.html
Questcor Pharmaceuticals Inc. (QCOR)  fell
the most in 20 years after insurer  Aetna Inc. (AET)  said it would
limit coverage of the company’s top-selling drug. The drugmaker
said it doesn’t expect a “material impact” from the change.  Questcor plunged 48 percent to $26.35 at the close in  New
York , its biggest one-day drop since November 1992, after word
broke of Aetna’s decision on H.P. Acthar, a treatment for
multiple sclerosis and infant seizures.  Questcor’s second-quarter sales more than doubled to $112.5
million, primarily reflecting expanded use of Acthar, the
Anaheim, California-based company said in a July 24 statement.
Aetna, the third-biggest U.S. health plan, said on its  website 
that studies suggest the drug is “medically necessary” only
for West syndrome, a condition that causes infantile spasms, and
not for indications such as multiple sclerosis that are treated
with steroids.  “Our previous position was that this was a last-resort
treatment,”  Cynthia Michener , a spokeswoman for the Hartford,
Connecticut-based insurer, said in an e-mail. “We now state
that it is not medically necessary because there is no clinical
evidence that the drug is more effective than steroids.”  Aetna generally reimburses drugs only when they’re deemed
medically necessary, Michener said. The insurer will still cover
Acthar for members who have been using the drug in the past 12
months, she said.  Questcor Response  Questcor is reviewing the decision, the drugmaker said in a
statement. Aetna has accounted for about 5 percent of shipped
prescriptions for the gel, Questcor said.  “The company does not believe that the bulletin represents
a material change in insurance coverage for Acthar,” it said in
the statement. Questcor “does not believe that the bulletin
will have a material impact on the company’s results or
operations.”  The drug accounts for most of Questcor’s sales, with
indications beyond infantile spasms representing about 90
percent of its use, said  David Amsellem , a Piper Jaffray & Co.
analyst in New York.  “Acthar basically is the company,” Amsellem said in a
telephone interview, and  investors  are worried about “what
happens if other insurers follow suit.”  ‘Tightening’ Coverage  Amsellem said he expected Aetna’s move would have little
impact on sales and was only a “tightening” of restrictions
already in place.  The coverage decision was revised on Sept. 14 and will be
reviewed again Oct. 13 based on any new clinical data, Aetna’s
Michener said.  Questcor shares have fallen 37 percent this year. Today’s
slide was the biggest for the shares since the company was
formed in 1999 from Cypros Pharmaceutical Corp.’s  acquisition  of
RiboGene Inc.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest U.S. insurer,
considers Acthar medically necessary for West syndrome in
children under 2 years old, according to a coverage  bulletin  on
the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer’s website effective Aug.
1. The gel is also covered for exacerbations of multiple
sclerosis when patients can’t use steroids.  The second-biggest insurer, Indianapolis-based WellPoint,
considers the treatment medically necessary for infantile spasms
and for conditions including multiple sclerosis when steroids
don’t work, according to a  statement  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  