-- Rabobank Sees Record Food Prices as Grain Costs Spur Meat Exits
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-09-19T12:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/rabobank-sees-record-food-prices-as-grain-costs-spur-meat-exits.html
World food prices will exceed the
all-time high set last year as droughts in the U.S.,  South
America  and  Russia  push up animal feed costs, spurring meat and
dairy farmers to cut herds, Rabobank International said.  Food prices  tracked by the  United Nations  may climb 15
percent by June 2013, surpassing the record set in February
2011, Nick Higgins, an analyst at the bank, said in a report
today. Grain and oilseed prices should “remain at elevated
levels” for at least the next 12 months to ration demand and
encourage crop farmers to boost planting, he said.  The worst U.S. drought in half a century followed dry
weather in South America in the past season, sending corn prices
to a record $8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10 on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade and soybeans to an all-time high of $17.89 a bushel on
Sept. 4. Gains in livestock have trailed rising feed costs
because slaughtering animals creates a temporary glut in meat
supplies, before output ultimately turns lower, Higgins said.  “The impact of higher grain and oilseed prices will be
significant for the animal protein and dairy sectors as they are
likely to be squeezed by higher feed costs,” Higgins said.
“The full effect of this commodity price rally and the
subsequent lower meat and milk output will be a multi-year
rebuilding of herds, which will sustain high  price levels .”  Hog Prices  Spot-market  hog  prices may rally 31 percent by the end of
June, while slaughter-ready cattle prices increase 6 percent,
Rabobank said. Grain prices may rise 3 percent by the end of
June while soybeans drop almost 16 percent as production
rebounds in South America, according to the report.  Higher food costs may be “less severe” on consumers than
the food crisis in 2008 because global shortages have affected
corn and soybean supplies more than “core food staples”
including wheat and rice, Rabobank said. The U.S. State
Department estimates that surging food costs triggered more than
60 riots worldwide from 2007 to 2009. Food prices also
contributed to unrest that toppled governments in  Egypt  and
 Tunisia  last year.  Food costs climbed to a record in February 2011, when the
UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization food-price index peaked at
237.9 points on higher prices for dairy, grains and edible oils.
The index rose 6.2 percent in July, the biggest gain since
November 2009, and was little changed last month.  “Higher prices will stall the long-term trend towards
higher animal protein diets in developing economies,” Higgins
wrote. “Rabobank expects the developing world, with its high
demand elasticity, especially to meat, to ration import demand
of grains, oilseeds and meat most heavily, leading consumption
growth to slow and even recede for a period as prices rise.”  Russia Outlook  Countries in  East Asia  or the  Middle East  may introduce
“interventionist measures” including stockpiling or bans on
exports as supplies tighten, while Russia probably won’t
restrict shipments, Higgins said. Russia, which also is
suffering from drought, may increase imports of grain from
 Kazakhstan  to offset its “rapid pace” of exports this quarter,
according to the report.  Corn prices may average $8 a bushel in the fourth quarter
in Chicago, before rising to $8.10 in the first quarter of 2013
and $8.20 in the second quarter, Rabobank estimates. Soybeans
may average $16.85 in the fourth quarter, $16 in the first
quarter and $14.50 in the second quarter. Wheat may be $8.80 in
the fourth quarter, $9 in the first quarter and $9.20 in the
second quarter, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  