-- Treasuries Recoup Most of QE3 Losses Amid Growth Concern
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-09-19T21:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/treasuries-stay-higher-as-lacker-says-job-gains-take-time.html
Treasuries rose for a third day,
recovering most of the losses posted since the  Federal Reserve 
announced more debt purchases last week, as investors bet the
 U.S. economy  faces a struggle even with additional stimulus.  The yield on the benchmark  10-year note  was almost back to
its closing level of Sept. 12, the day before the Fed announced
a third round of bond-buying in the quantitative-easing stimulus
strategy. Treasuries’ three-day climb is their longest winning
streak this month. They pared gains as risk appetite rose after
sales of existing American homes increased more than forecast.  “The euphoria from QE is waning as the economy is still
weak and investors are worried that central-bank action isn’t
enough without action on the fiscal side as well,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of government and agency
debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “We can still see more
rallying in Treasuries.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.77 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.76
percent, where it had closed on Sept. 12 before climbing to a
four-month high of 1.89 percent two days later. The price of the
1.625 percent note due in August 2022 added 10/32, or $3.13 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 21/32.  Thirty-year yields  decreased five basis points to 2.96
percent and reached as low as 2.95 percent.  Volatility Drops  Volatility fell to the lowest level since May. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings
based on options, slid to 57.5 basis points, approaching the
2012 low of 56.7 basis points reached on May 7. It touched a
high for the year of 95.4 basis points on June 15. The average
over the past decade is 100.4 basis points.  “It’s more about the Fed market purchases,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc. “It’s creating an illiquid market.”  About $257 billion in Treasuries  changed hands  today as of
5:01 p.m. in New York through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker. Daily volume reached $464 billion on Sept.
13, the most since August 2011, and averaged $262 billion over
the past five years.  Stocks gained, with the MSCI World Index erasing losses and
advancing 0.3 percent, after sales of  existing homes  in the U.S.
increased more than forecast in August. Purchases rose 7.8
percent to a 4.82 million annual rate, the most since May 2010,
National Association of Realtors data showed. A Bloomberg News
survey forecast was for a rise to 4.56 million.  Bond-Negative  “The housing numbers were negative for bonds,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker. “We have seen some profit-taking.
There’s a lot of positiveness going on in the stock market.”  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the
housing market is leading the U.S. economic recovery, which he
said hasn’t been assisted much by the Fed’s purchases of bonds.  “The housing market is on the move,” Fisher said today on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “I
question the efficacy of these large-scale asset purchases.”  The  difference in yield  between 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
traders’ outlook for consumer prices over the life of the debt
known as the break-even rate, narrowed to 2.54 percentage points
today after touching 2.73 on Sept. 14, the most since 2006. It
has averaged 2.21 percentage points this year.  TIPS Auction  The Treasury is scheduled to auction $13 billion in 10-year
TIPS tomorrow. The notes yielded negative 0.855 percent in pre-
auction trading. If it holds near that level, the sale would be
the fifth consecutive offering of the securities where investors
were willing to pay the U.S. to hold their principal.  U.S. government securities were at the most expensive level
in almost a week. The 10-year term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation, was negative 0.86 percent, the most
costly since Sept. 13. A negative reading indicates investors
are willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.
The average this year is negative 0.74 percent.  Treasuries slid for the past two weeks as the  European
Central Bank  announced on Sept. 6 a plan to purchase bonds of
troubled euro members to help contain market turmoil in the 17-
nation region and Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said Sept. 13 the
U.S. central bank will keep adding stimulus to the economy.  The Fed said it will buy $40 billion of mortgage bonds a
month to pump money into the economy and boost employment.  The U.S.  jobless rate  has been more than 8 percent for 43
months, prompting Bernanke to pledge to continue buying bonds
until the labor market improves “substantially.”  Quantitative Easing  The Fed previously purchased $2.3 trillion of assets in two
rounds of quantitative easing from 2008 to 2011 to spur growth.  The central bank also is in the process of exchanging
shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to
30 years to put downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.
It bought $1.8 billion today in U.S. securities maturing from
February 2036 to May 2042 as part of the program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  