-- Republican State AGs Resisting Cooperation With CFPB
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-09-19T21:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/republican-state-ags-resisting-cooperation-with-consumer-bureau.html
A group of Republican state
attorneys general has declined to sign cooperation agreements
with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, part of an
escalating Republican revolt against the agency that began in
the  U.S. Congress .  Richard Cordray , the agency’s director, asked all 50 states
in March to sign a memorandum of understanding designed to
protect confidential information shared among states and the
bureau. To date, only 12 states -- all but one with Democratic
attorneys general -- have signed, according to the bureau and
documents obtained in a public records request.  Oklahoma  Attorney General  Scott Pruitt  said in an interview
that he is declining to sign the agreement because of legal
objections to the law that created the consumer bureau, the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act.  “There are misgivings I have about the authority and scope
and power of the CFPB and the power granted to the director,”
Pruitt said in an interview. “Frankly, until some of those
issues are fleshed out, it is very premature for a state to
enter into an MOU.”  Four  attorneys general , led by Pruitt, plan to join an
existing lawsuit that challenges the constitutionality of Dodd-
Frank and the CFPB, according to a person briefed on the
decision. Pruitt and attorneys general from South Carolina,
Michigan and  Kansas  may become plaintiffs in the suit as soon as
tomorrow, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the decision wasn’t public.  Separation of Powers  The lawsuit in federal court in Washington was filed June
21 by State National Bank of Big Spring, Texas. The bank argues
that the structure of the consumer bureau violates the
constitutional principle of separation of powers because
Congress does not appropriate its budget, the president has
limited ability to remove its director and courts face
restrictions in reviewing its actions.  South Carolina Attorney General  Alan Wilson , told a
campaign rally last week in Greenville, South Carolina, of plans
for legal action.  “We’re going to challenge that law,” Wilson said on Sept.
14, in remarks reported by  Fox News . “We’re going take the
battle back to Washington, D.C., because community banks on Main
Street shouldn’t be choked to death so that big banks on  Wall
Street  can take our money.”  The CFPB was created by Dodd-Frank to consolidate federal
financial consumer protection authority in a single agency.
Since starting work in July 2011, it has set up a complaint
system for consumer services, proposed regulations on housing
finance and is studying areas including mandatory arbitration,
payday lending and overdraft protection.  State Cooperation  Cooperation with state attorneys general has been a
signature effort of the consumer bureau since Harvard professor
 Elizabeth Warren  began setting it up in late 2010. Warren, who
is now running for the Senate as a Democrat from Massachusetts,
touted state law enforcers as “natural partners” for the
agency because of their focus on consumer protection.  Republicans opposed creation of the bureau, and Senate
Republicans refused to confirm anyone to the position of CFPB
director. That standoff led President  Barack Obama  to install
Cordray as director on Jan. 4 using a process known as a recess
appointment.  Republican opposition to CFPB and Cordray hasn’t been
absolute.  Republican state attorneys general including Rob McKenna of
Washington, John Suthers of Colorado and Mark Shurtleff of Utah
signed an Oct. 18, 2011  letter  supporting Cordray as CFPB
director. Cordray, in response to a personal request from
Suthers, publicly promised to help AGs combat payday lenders who
dodge state laws by affiliating with Native American tribes.  Constitutionality Challenged  Pruitt of Oklahoma has spearheaded the work among attorneys
general on challenging the constitutionality of Dodd-Frank,
according to the person briefed on the lawsuit. Diane Clay, a
spokeswoman for Pruitt, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  “General Pruitt has been leading the discussion on legal
challenges to the unconstitutional provisions in Dodd-Frank for
more than a year, and will work with  South Carolina  to lead the
state litigation once plans are announced,” she said.  Michigan attorney general Bill Schuette and his counterpart
in Kansas, Derek Schmidt, will also join the lawsuit, the person
said. Schuette’s spokeswoman Joy Yearout declined to comment.
Schmidt spokesman Jeff Wagaman did not return an e-mail or phone
call seeking comment.  ‘Disdain’ for States  Pruitt, Wilson and Schuette all signed a  March 5 memo  from
the Republican State Leadership Committee, an association of
Republican state officials, that criticizes the Obama
administration’s “disdain for states, federal laws it finds
inconvenient, the Constitution and the courts.” The memo
includes Cordray’s recess appointment on a list of Obama’s
objectionable actions.  Pruitt has opposed other initiatives backed by the Obama
administration. In February, he declined to join a 49-state
settlement with five large mortgage servicers over foreclosure
practices, preferring to cut his own deal instead.  The CFPB and the  National Association of Attorneys General 
signed a “joint statement of principles” in April 2011. In a
March 6 speech, Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general, asked
states to also sign individual MOUs, and asked for a “quick 
turnaround.”  “We want to expand on what you already do so well -- and
we want you to take advantage of new resources we bring to the
arena,” Cordray said in an address to NAAG in Washington.  Agreements Tallied  More than five months later, only 10 states had signed the
memorandum: New Hampshire, New Mexico, Montana, New York,
 Vermont ,  North Carolina ,  Hawaii , Iowa, Mississippi and Nevada,
according to copies obtained on Aug. 22 under a Freedom of
Information Act request.  Since then, the  District of Columbia ,  Wyoming  and  North
Dakota  have signed such memorandums with the consumer bureau,
agency spokeswoman Moira Vahey said in an e-mail.  “We are pleased that we have a dozen agreements and
additional agreements in the works. However, this is a state-by-
state process and will take time,” Vahey said.  The purpose of the memorandum is to “preserve the
confidentiality of information the parties share,” according to
the documents. It states that any non-public “written or oral
information exchanged between the parties will be deemed
confidential.”  North Dakota attorney general Wayne Stenehjem is the only
Republican among state officials who have signed the memorandum.
Those who have declined gave differing reasons.  Greg Zoeller, the Republican attorney general of Indiana,
said the pact was “unnecessary” because his office can sign
confidentiality agreements that cover specific enforcement cases
they work on with CFPB.  Not ‘Caught On’  “I never quite understood why they wanted a common
memorandum of understanding,” Zoeller said in an interview.
“It has not really caught on well.”  At the same time, Zoeller downplayed the need for broader
challenges to the CFPB. He called potential lawsuits evidence
that the country is in a “silly season” before the election,
and said that a Republican-only lawsuit “hurts our credibility
in challenging federal laws.”  For instance, no Democratic attorneys general joined
lawsuits against the Obama health care law, Zoeller said. The
 Supreme Court  eventually ruled against them.  Other Republicans involved with state issues took a harder
line on the Obama administration and Cordray’s work.  “This effort for bipartisan cooperation with the states
has clearly failed at this point,” Chris Jankowski, president
of the Republican State Leadership Committee, said in an
interview.  The bank’s case is State National Bank of Big Spring v.
Geithner, 1:12-cv-01032, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  