-- Romney’s Most Glaring Omission on Middle East Peace
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-09-19T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/romney-s-most-glaring-omission-on-middle-east-peace.html
Here’s some good news for
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney : His barbed
observations about the Palestinians and the  Middle East  peace
process, delivered during a speech in May at a now-infamous
fundraiser, are 47 percent correct. Maybe 37 percent.  The point is, they’re not completely wrong. Which for
Romney is saying something.  In the speech, a video of which was  just released  by Mother
Jones magazine, Romney argued that 47 percent of Americans are
“victims” dependent on the government. In addition to implying
that roughly 150 million of his fellow citizens are moochers and
leeches, Romney, answering a question from the audience, said,
“The Palestinians have no interest whatsoever in establishing
peace and that the pathway to peace is almost unthinkable to
accomplish.”  He went on: “I look at the Palestinians not wanting to see
peace anyway, for political purposes, committed to the
destruction and elimination of  Israel , and these thorny issues,
and I say there’s just no way.”  The previous sentence doesn’t track very smoothly, but you
get the point. Romney was endorsing the hard line articulated by
former Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, who said “the
Arabs are the same Arabs and the sea is the same sea” -- which
is to say, the Arabs are unswervingly committed to drowning the
Jews in the Mediterranean.  Kick the Ball  What, then, should American policy be? Romney said the best
we can hope for is “some degree of stability,” while recognizing
that the problem will remain unsolved. “We live with that in
China and  Taiwan ,” he said. “All right, we have a potentially
volatile situation, but we sort of live with it, and we kick the
ball down the field and hope that ultimately, somehow, something
will happen and resolve it. We don’t go to war to try and
resolve it imminently.”  So where is Romney wrong, and where is he right?  He is wrong to speak of “the Palestinians” as a single
entity. He obviously knows that the Palestinians are divided
between two main factions: the self-styled moderates of Fatah,
which dominates the  Palestinian Authority  of the  West Bank ; and
Hamas, the Muslim Brotherhood’s Palestinian wing, which rules
the  Gaza Strip .  The West Bank and the Gaza Strip would together constitute
the state of  Palestine  as currently envisioned by international
peace processors, but the two parties are waging an intermittent
civil war, and have radically different visions about the
nature, purpose and size of their as-yet unborn state. The
Palestinian Authority is committed, it says, to a two-state
solution. Hamas is committed, it says, to the destruction of
Israel.  There is a third important group in the mix: Palestinian
refugees, and descendants of refugees, who live in  Jordan ,
Lebanon,  Syria  and other countries of the Middle East. Many of
these refugees tend to be more radical than the Palestinian
Authority but aren’t necessarily affiliated with Hamas.  But precisely because the Palestinians are so divided,
Romney is right to question the possibility of reaching a
permanent resolution to the conflict anytime soon. He is also
right to question the merit of forcing a  peace process  on the
combatants before they’re ready to talk. Israelis (and self-
aware peace negotiators) often wonder about just who would be
doing the negotiating on behalf of the Palestinians and, more to
the point, who would have the power to enforce the conditions of
a peace treaty.  Romney is also right to doubt the commitment of even some
of the more moderate Palestinians to achieving “peace,” as the
notion is typically understood -- that is, the creation of a
Palestinian state comprising the West Bank and the Gaza Strip,
with a capital in East  Jerusalem , in exchange for an end to
hostilities and a recognition of Israel.  Opportunities Wasted  The Palestinian Authority has had a number of opportunities
to move toward such a final settlement. In 2000, Yasser Arafat,
then the Palestinians’ leader, walked away from the Camp David
peace negotiations, where Israeli Prime Minister  Ehud Barak  had
made substantial concessions. More recently, Arafat’s successor,
 Mahmoud Abbas , seemed uninterested in a set of even more radical
concessions floated by Ehud Olmert when he was prime minister.  Palestinian leaders on both sides of the Hamas-Fatah split
continue to deny a Jewish connection to the land of Israel, and
most claim Jerusalem as their exclusive patrimony. Many
cultivate anti-Semitic feeling among their people and encourage
a sense of eternal grievance among the refugees.  So Romney isn’t wrong to be pessimistic about the desire of
many Palestinians for compromise.  But he neglected to mention another relevant fact:
Palestinian leaders aren’t the only ones unwilling to move
toward meaningful negotiations. The government of Israel, under
the leadership of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , has for
three years shown no interest in anything other than maintaining
the status quo.  The continued construction of settlements on the West Bank,
approved by the Netanyahu government, is meant to thwart the
emergence of a Palestinian state. New pockets of Jewish
settlements in East Jerusalem are meant to deny Palestinians a
capital in the Arab section of the city. The Netanyahu
government has said it endorses the idea of a two-state
solution, but the Palestinian state it envisions is a nonviably
small one surrounded by Jewish settlements.  Netanyahu is a smart man, and he knows that no Palestinian
leader, even the most moderate one imaginable, would ever accede
to a state that adds up to less than 100 percent of the West
Bank and the Gaza Strip. But Netanyahu is also a political
survivor, and he is playing to a base that won’t give up its
dream of a Greater Israel, and that doesn’t think Palestinians
deserve what Israelis already have.  There is no compelling reason right now to believe that a
generous offer by the Israelis would be received positively by
their Palestinian interlocutors, whoever they may be. So Romney
isn’t wrong to say the Palestinians seem uninterested in real
compromise. He just neglected to mention that the other player
in this conflict isn’t particularly interested, either.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on an  immigration bill  everyone
can love;  Michael Kinsley  on  cartoon conservatives and liberals ;
Jonathan Mahler on what  football has taught Major League Baseball ;
Dean Lacy on why  Romney’s moocher myth appeals to moocher state
voters ; Mel and Patricia Ziegler on  Banana Republic’s first
expansion .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  