-- Trulia Raises $102 Million in IPO as Home Prices Recover in U.S.
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/trulia-raises-102-million-in-ipo-as-home-prices-recover-in-u-s-.html
Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , the operator of a
residential-property listings website, raised $102 million in an
initial public offering, pricing its shares above the proposed
range as the U.S. housing market shows signs of recovery.  Trulia and existing shareholders sold 6 million shares at
$17 apiece, according to a statement yesterday. The company had
offered the shares, representing a 23 percent stake, for $14 to
$16, according to a Sept. 7 regulatory filing. San Francisco-
based Trulia will start trading today on the  New York  Stock
Exchange under the symbol TRLA.  Residential  property values  rose 0.5 percent in June from a
year earlier, the first year-over-year gain since September
2010, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in
20 U.S. cities. Trulia completed its offering after shares of
larger competitor  Zillow Inc. (Z)  have more than doubled since a
July 2011 IPO. The companies have been using applications on
smartphones and tablets to amass more users, and Trulia is
generating revenue by selling subscriptions to mobile access,
according to the filing.  Trulia’s website and mobile applications are used by more
than 20 million visitors a month, according to the company.  The IPO values Trulia at about $448 million, or 8.8 times
sales of $51 million in the 12 months through June. The company
said it had $9.46 million in cash and equivalents as of June 30.
Proceeds from the IPO will be used for working capital,
according to the filing.  Zillow Lawsuit  Zillow, the Seattle-based operator of the largest real-
estate information website, sued Trulia on Sept. 12, alleging
patent infringement over a software program for home valuations.
Trulia doesn’t comment on litigation, Ken Shuman, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail prior to the share pricing.  In a separate IPO, Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Spirit Realty
Capital Inc. (SRC)  raised $435 million, selling 29 million shares at
$15 apiece. The owner of single-tenant properties that was taken
private by investors led by Macquarie Group Ltd. in 2007 will
begin trading today on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol SRC.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG led Trulia’s IPO.
Morgan Stanley led the Spirit Realty offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  