-- Rural Pub Beats London With Michelin-Star Haggis Pasties
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-09-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/rural-pub-beats-london-with-michelin-star-haggis-pasties.html
The Pipe and Glass Inn is deep in
rural northern  England , so deep you might miss it.  It’s the countryside of my life in the early 1970s, when I
worked for British Rail surveying tickets: riding the milk train
to Hull from Doncaster, or heading past Beverley at night,
returning from the seaside town of Bridlington out of season.  In those days, lunch was a fish-paste sandwich from a
plastic bag. Dinner was haddock and mushy peas in an ill-lit
fish-and-chip shop. Luxury was the box of coffee bags I took
with me on trains. I also carried the economics textbook from
the evening classes that helped me escape to university.  My salary was 1,080 pounds ($1,750).  Things have picked up for Beverley, as well as for me. The
Pipe and Glass serves British food that is so good, it helps
erase the memories of how poor the country’s cuisine was for so
many years. The inn’s service and its beer are also commendable.  Dating back to the 15th century, it stands on the site of
an old gatehouse. Part of the current building is 17th century,
and the place feels homely, with large fireplaces, wooden tables
and chairs, and walls filled with pictures and bric-a-brac.  It was Michelin’s Pub of the Year 2012, and is the only
restaurant in East Yorkshire to hold a Michelin star. The Pipe
and Glass placed 31 in the National Restaurant Awards last year,
ahead of well-known London establishments including Scott’s,
 Marcus Wareing ,  Gordon Ramsay , River Cafe and Locanda Locatelli.  Real Ale  Chef James Mackenzie, who co-owns the Pipe and Glass with
his partner Kate, is also an aficionado of real ale and has his
own brew which is great with food. The wine list is so
inexpensive by London standards, you can drink very well without
suffering a fiscal (or physical) hangover.  Starters include a jar of Gloucester Old Spot potted pork,
with sticky apple and crackling salad, warm spelt toast, which
costs 7.97 pounds ($12.90). The soft meat oozes flavor and this
single dish shows a finely tuned balance of textures and tastes.  The same is true of the ham hock and guinea-fowl ballotine
with a scampi fritter, pease pudding and English pea shoots
(9.95 pounds.) The prawn cocktail is jumbo, even in starter
size, and so generous, a couple might share it. Indeed, all the
portions are larger than you would expect in  London .  Vegetarian options include heirloom tomato, avocado and
Wolds mozzarella salad with spiced gazpacho and basil sorbet and
black-olive flat bread. Never did I feel in less need of meat.
(There’s a separate vegetarian menu.)  Roast Loin  Having said that, I couldn’t resist some of the daily
specials on a blackboard in the bar: roast loin of deer with
buttered cavolo nero, celeriac puree, haggis pasty, for example.  Desserts are just as tempting: Ginger burnt cream with
poached rhubarb and East Yorkshire sugar cakes, for example; or
trio of apples, which features apple-and-bramble crumble, sticky
apple sponge and apple sorbet.  The recipes are in Mackenzie’s book, “ On the Menu .”  You dine looking out across a garden to fields where cows
graze and the main sound is birdsong. (Mackenzie grows many of
the herbs used in his cooking in a small patch outside his
house, next to the inn.)  It’s a picture of rural life that plays to idealized
notions of a greener, pleasanter England. Maybe some things were
better in the past, but not the food. It’s cooking of this
quality that informs my national pride in 2012.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? 30-40 pounds for three courses, plus drinks.  Sound level? About 65-70 decibels.  Inside tip? Book early or you may dine in the bar.  Special feature? Charming garden.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***.  Pipe and Glass Inn is at  West End , South Dalton, Beverley,
East Yorkshire, HU17 7PN. Information:
 http://www.pipeandglass.co.uk/  or +44-1430-810-246  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lance Esplund  on art and  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Yorkshire, England, at  rvines@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 