-- S&P Affirms Australia’s AAA Grade, Citing Economic Resilience
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-09-19T02:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/s-p-affirms-australia-s-aaa-grade-citing-economic-resilience.html
Australia’s AAA credit grade was
affirmed by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, which cited the
country’s stability, policy flexibility and economic resilience.  The nation has the ability to absorb large economic and
financial shocks, although its strengths are moderated by a
dependence on resources exports, external imbalances and high
 household debt , according to a report published in  Melbourne 
today by S&P analyst Kyran Curry. The outlook for the rating is
stable, it said.  Australia, benefiting from a mining boom fueled by demand
from emerging economies in  Asia , has avoided recession for 21
years. A dimming of  China ’s growth prospects and a plunge in
metal prices has weighed on the outlook for Australia, where
mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are delaying
expansion plans and industries such as manufacturing and tourism
are hampered by the strength of the nation’s currency.  “The Australian economy performed relatively well in the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, as mining exports and private
investment in mining and liquefied natural gas offset weaknesses
in domestic consumption and export sectors exposed to the high
Australian dollar,” Curry wrote. “Yet considerable risks
remain for Australia’s growth prospects, prosperity, and  credit
quality .”  Curry cited Australia’s dependence on trade with China as a
risk. Should demand for resources weaken, there could be
“disorderly dislocations” in the Australian economy, including
jobs and property markets.  Surplus Pledge  The federal  government  has promised to return the budget to
surplus this financial year, while the largest states are
trimming spending in response to declining tax revenues.  S&P predicted that Australia’s combined federal, state and
local government budget deficit will be 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, with the balance returning to surplus
in 2015. The ratings company expects the debt burden as a
percentage of gross domestic product to trend lower after 2013.  “ Australia ’s public finances will continue to withstand
potential adverse financial and economic shocks,” according to
S&P. “The country’s consensus in favor of prudent budgetary
policies will remain.”  The country also holds top credit scores from Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  