-- Salesforce Unveils New Cloud Products as Rivals Move In
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-09-19T20:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/salesforce-unveils-new-cloud-products-as-rivals-move-in.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  said it’s
releasing a new version of its software for tablet computers and
unifying its social-media marketing products into a single
suite, as it races to stay ahead of new market entrants.  Larger rivals  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  are moving onto
Salesforce’s turf using acquisitions, aiming to take part of the
market for business software delivered over the Internet,
estimated to be worth $49 billion -- up 25 percent from last
year -- according to a Sept. 10 Forrester Research Inc. report.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  unveiled the new
products today at the company’s Dreamforce  conference  in San
Francisco, where Salesforce is based. Benioff also plans to
outline features of a new human resources software called
Work.com, and an online storage product called Chatterbox.  “What he needs to convince investors of is that he’s got
enough market opportunity to keep growing north of 30 percent”
a year in sales, said Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP
Securities LLC in San Francisco. “He needs to enter new
markets.”  Salesforce, which sells software over the Internet instead
of as a packaged product, will offer its customer management
tools via Salesforce Touch on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and other
tablets using HTML 5, a standard that delivers richer graphics
and features over the Web. Its new Marketing Cloud software
deploys social-media tools for companies to collect and share
information, Salesforce said in a statement.  Crowded Arena  Salesforce is working to annex new areas of online software
for businesses. At the conference, which runs through Sept. 21,
Benioff plans to show how the new Marketing Cloud software
combines functions from the  acquisitions  of Radian6 Technologies
Inc. and Buddy Media Inc. into a single suite for marketing on
social-media sites such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc.  It’s also extending its Chatter business social networking
software for use in customer service scenarios and through
supply chains. In mobile applications, Salesforce is delivering
its Touch applications after a delay. Announced  a year ago  at
the last Dreamforce conference, they were due to be delivered
early this year.  In one presentation, Benioff showed how  General Electric
Co. (GE)  is outfitting jet engines and other equipment to broadcast
status updates its engineers can monitor. GE’s CEO,  Jeffrey Immelt , speaks at the conference tomorrow.  “They could have a social network around an aircraft
engine,” Benioff said. “It was an unusual idea.”  HR Push  Competition is also intensifying. Oracle, SAP and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  have been buying companies that offer business management
tools over the Web, gaining traction in an area Salesforce
pioneered.  SAP in February bought online HR software maker
SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion, and Microsoft in July
bought Yammer Inc. for $1.2 billion to gain business social
networking software. Oracle on Sept. 17 said it would buy
SelectMinds Inc., a maker of online recruiting software, for an
undisclosed amount.  Workday Inc. (WDAY) , which filed last month for its initial public
offering, recently landed a deal with Google Inc. to supply
human resources software for tens of thousands of employees at
the search engine provider.  Last month, Salesforce forecast profit for the fiscal third
quarter ending in October that missed analysts’ estimates as the
company increases sales and marketing spending.  Shares of Salesforce rose 1.1 percent to $157.98 at the
close in New York, and are up 56 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  