-- Schwarzman, Bommer, Wendi Murdoch, Soros, Princess Talal
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-09-19T16:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/schwarzman-bommer-wendi-murdoch-soros-princess-talal.html
Last night, being the fiancee of
 George Soros  meant being asked to take his picture for an
admirer.  “It looks pretty good,” Tamiko Bolton said looking into
the screen of the point-and-shoot camera belonging to a junior
staffer at the  Institute of International Education .  The couple also looked pretty good posing together at the
institute’s gala at Cipriani  Wall Street , where Soros and others
were honored for founding the Institute’s  Scholar Rescue Fund  10
years ago.  First came dinner, beef and thinly sliced potatoes.  Soros ate his in the company of Princess Ghida Talal; she
and her husband have helped more than 250 Iraqi scholars find a
safe haven in  Jordan .  Then Soros joined the other founders on stage: investor and
economist  Henry Kaufman ; Thomas A. Russo, general counsel at
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ; and Henry G. Jarecki,
chairman of Gresham Investment Management LLC and father of
Nicholas Jarecki, the director of the film “Arbitrage”
starring  Richard Gere , who bought a ticket to the gala, but did
not attend.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Vermont Democrat, gave tributes.  “I’ve often found myself in committee meetings saying,
‘Couldn’t we do at least as much as George Soros does?’”
Senator Leahy said.  Martin Buber  Soros first heard about the idea for the Scholar Rescue
Fund from Jarecki, who was inspired by the institute’s rescue in
the 1930s of intellectuals such as Martin Buber and Paul Tillich
through its Emergency Committee to Aid Displaced German
Scholars.  “I wondered if the occasions when it would be needed were
frequent enough,” Soros said. “It’s fair to say the fund has
proven me wrong. With the bloodshed in Syria, we’re on the verge
of another such occasion.”  The fund has provided aid to 467 scholars whose lives and
work have been threatened, helping them find safety as visiting
professors. Abdul Sattar Jawad, a professor of comparative
literature, left Baghdad through the fund and found a permanent
home at  Duke University .  Arabian Nights  “It’s the Harvard of the South,” he said. “I am happy to
be teaching what I like.” For his course “Arabian Nights in
the West” this semester, the reading includes “The Canterbury
Tales” and “The Decameron.”  At the lectern, Jarecki announced that he would match $3
million in new gifts made to the Scholar Rescue Fund, for a
total of $6 million. The fund has an endowment of $27 million.  “We need dissidents,” Jarecki said. “They have endured
harassment, isolation, interrogation, imprisonment, torture,
death. And they all share one trait: They just won’t shut up.”  At the exit, guests received the goody bag: a Western Union
Foundation tote containing a book by Soros -- “Financial
Turmoil in  Europe  and the  United States : Essays” -- and an
Omanhene chocolate bar made in  Ghana .  For Children  Steve Schwarzman , in a tuxedo, and his wife, Christine, in
a blue-and-white gown and matching jewelry, stepped off 42nd
Street into an expertly lit grove of trees, flanked by half a
dozen cameramen. It was the very chic step and repeat at the  New
Yorkers for Children gala  last night at Cipriani 42nd Street.  Also passing through: Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck ,
models Hilary Rhoda and Jessica White, Aerin Lauder, who has her
own beauty line, and  New Yorkers  for Children board members
Donya Bommer, in a lilac gown, and Kelly Behun Sugarman, in a
red one. There was also Wendi Murdoch, in a sequined Ashish
cocktail dress, and Alexandra Kaufmann, who works in  investor
relations  at Pershing Square Capital Management LP, in red
Versace.  “It’s fun to get to see everybody looking beautiful, but
this is about substance too,” Bommer, wife of hedge-fund
manager Scott Bommer, said. “We fill in the holes for the kids.
It’s all the things your mom and dad get you for school: a
laptop, money for books and clothes.”  In the side hall, waiters offered pigs in blankets and
little plates of risotto to about 20 young men and women who
have been in foster care and received aid from New Yorkers for
Children.  ‘Double Work’  Amara Toure, 21, had the “double work” of being in foster
care and coming from  Guinea . Martin Jack, 24, chose to be a
child-care worker after being in foster care for 13 years.  “I feel the best people out there to help kids are people
who have real experiences,” Jack said.  “I got into foster care at the age of 9,” Brian
Fleurimond, 21, said. “My mother was brutally murdered. I’ve
moved to maybe 10 different homes in the past 12 years.”  Fleurimond is studying criminal justice at the State
University of  New York ’s Genesee Community College “because the
killer of my mother never got caught,” and social work, so he
can “work with kids like me,” he said.  It was his first time attending the event, to which he wore
saddle shoes and an Armani Exchange suit he bought with earnings
from a summer job at a  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  store on the Upper
West Side.  “I’m into fashion,” he said. “That comes from people
looking at me like a foster kid. I carry myself so I don’t have
a stigma, so people don’t judge me.”  As for the event: “It’s something I’ve never seen
before,” Fleurimond said. “I’m willing to meet new people.
They may open up doors for me.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Ryan
Sutton  on dining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  