-- Schwimmer Captures Frayed, Bad Times in ‘Detroit’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-09-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/schwimmer-captures-frayed-bad-times-in-detroit-review.html
Mitt Romney  is right. He probably
shouldn’t count on votes from the two couples living on the edge
of oblivion in Lisa D’Amour’s literally searing “ Detroit .”  Set in the suburbs of a city that could be the one in the
title, “Detroit” offers plenty of backyard barbecuing among
wood-planked decks outfitted with umbrellaed patio furniture.  But the meat is the cheapest cut available. The sliding
doors don’t slide. The furniture is broken, falling apart or
just plain dangerous. Everything is collapsing and nothing is
metaphor. Even the bizarre dreams the four recount to one
another smack of ruined lives and dashed hopes.  Ben ( David Schwimmer , of “Friends”) and Mary (Amy Ryan,
“A Streetcar Named Desire”) are hosting dinner al fresco for
their new neighbors, Sharon (Sarah Sokolovic) and Kenny (Darren
Pettie). It’s a neighborhood of what used to be called starter
homes, in the days when upward mobility still had meaning for
people who could pay down a mortgage while socking away
something for the future.  Now those homes are shabby, their inhabitants unencumbered
by any hope of moving on. Ben was recently laid off from his job
hustling mortgages at a bank. Mary keeps them afloat as a
paralegal.  Worse Off  Much worse off are Kenny and Sharon, who met in rehab and
recently set up housekeeping next door in an abandoned place
owned, Sharon says, by a distant relative. They exude neediness
and speak in rehab-jargon while slowly relapsing.  They’re obviously sinister. Ben and Mary are a bit slow on
the uptake, even when the scene shifts to the other house, which
is crumbling on the outside and empty within.  The sounds of air conditioners, sirens, slamming doors and
arguing spouses float in and out of range, barely noticeable
until they’re gone, thanks to Matt Tierney’s subtle, ghostly
soundscape.  Louisa Thompson’s amazing sets give us the two homes in
different states of decrepitude with atmospheric help from  Mark
Barton ’s hazy lighting. Kaye Voyce’s costumes suggest the
different degrees of barely getting by.  As shared meals grow increasingly scary and bloody,
“Detroit” takes on a hyperrealist intensity under the
direction of Anne Kauffman (“Slowgirl”).  Things get weirder and weirder even as the performances
remain grounded.  David Schwimmer  The cast is perfectly balanced. Schwimmer has a gruff
geniality, while Ryan simmers with anger beneath a daffodil
exterior. Pettie is wiry and on edge, Sokolovic touching in her
aging hippieness. John Cullum appears in a nostalgic, if
unnecessary, postscript that tells us what we already know about
these troubled people and this plagued place.  Like Thomas Berger’s “Neighbors” (turned into a 1981
movie with John Belushi and  Dan Aykroyd ), these are folks you
probably don’t want living next door. But these days, that could
happen. “Detroit” is a horror story hitting very close to
home.  Through Oct. 7 at 416 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com 
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  technology .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 