-- Shell Leads LNG Competitors Out to Sea With Biggest Ship
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-09-20T08:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/shell-leads-lng-competitors-out-to-sea-with-biggest-ship-energy.html
For more than a decade, the world’s
biggest liquefied natural gas producers led by  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  plotted how to move their $170 billion industry onto barges
at sea to tap remote fields. Now they’re finally doing it.  Shell will forge the hull of a floating LNG plant in  South
Korea  by year-end that will be the world’s largest vessel,
weighing six times the biggest aircraft carrier, a  Nimitz-class 
warship. Some 5,000 workers will build the factory to produce
LNG off  Australia ’s northwest coast in a $13 billion project
that also will shield Shell from escalating costs it would have
to pay at the country’s onshore plants.  Rivals from Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. to GDF Suez
SA of  France  likewise want to turn gas into liquid at sea,
where many of the largest finds were made in the last decade.
It’s a generational change for a land-based industry that
started about 50 years ago in  Algeria , where Shell provided
technology for  Camel , the first commercial LNG plant. Today
those facilities typically cost at least $20 billion to build.  “We remove the need for the pipeline and use about 50
percent of the raw materials for an equivalent onshore plant,”
said Neil Gilmour, Shell’s FLNG general manager. He’s overseeing
construction of the world’s first  floating LNG  vessel, which
will be as long as the Empire State Building, for use by the
 Prelude venture  partners.  Costs for onshore LNG plants are surging in Australia as it
moves to challenge Qatar as the world’s biggest LNG exporter.
The U.K.’s  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  have
announced budget overruns at onshore projects in Australia amid
rising labor expenses, while  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is reviewing the cost
of its A$43 billion ($45 billion) Gorgon venture.  Samsung Shipyard  The Prelude vessel is being built for Shell, Europe’s
largest oil company, by Korea’s  Samsung  Heavy Industries Co. and
 Technip SA (TEC)  of France. It “will be immune to some of the onshore
cost inflation you’ve seen in other projects globally,” Gilmour
said. The Anglo-Dutch company, based in The Hague, is already
charting the next three vessels aimed at developing stranded gas
resources.  The development will broaden the LNG business, which took
off around 1959 with the help of a chemical engineer named
Cedomir “Cheddy” M.  Sliepcevich , the son of an immigrant from
Hercegovina to the U.S. He developed a process of shrinking the
fuel’s volume 600 times for shipping in tankers.  Global Demand  Demand for LNG will more than double to about 460 million
tons by 2025, according to Deutsche Bank AG forecast in August.
Floating LNG plants will supply about 3 percent of the fuel.
Customers imported about 331 billion cubic meters of LNG last
year worth about $170 billion based on an average price in
Japan, according to  BP Plc (BP/)  and LNG Japan Corp. data.  “There is no doubt about cost pressure in the country,”
Shell Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said in July.
“Because that’s being constructed in Korea and therefore we are
not exposed to the labor costs actually in Australia.”  Shell, building Prelude FLNG together with  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) ,
CPC Corp. of Taiwan and Japan’s Inpex Corp., has maintained its
cost estimate, said Tony Regan, a Tri-Zen International Ltd.
consultant in Singapore.  “We’ve had massive cost overruns in conventional projects,
and Shell has stuck with the original budget for Prelude, and I
think that’s still realistic,” Regan said.  The oil producer plans to deploy the technology beyond
Australia in Europe, Africa and the Americas. The company has
been working with Inpex to use FLNG off Indonesia and is
negotiating plans off East Timor. Prelude is due to start in
about 2017, Shell forecast last year.  Gas in Deep Water  “There is a lot of undeveloped gas in deep water in the
world,” Gilmour said. “There are several hundred trillion
cubic feet of gas that have already been found.”  Shell may lose its FLNG leadership with competitors
catching up. Petroliam Nasional, or Petronas, is moving ahead
with plans to build its first floating LNG project due to start
in 2015, after Malaysia’s state-owned oil company in June  hired 
contractors to design the plant.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  is also joining the race to build a floating
plant off Australia, Todd Creeger, the company head in the
country, said yesterday. “We aren’t building the first, but
we’re watching,” he said.  Companies such as  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and  PTT Exploration & Production
Pcl (PTTEP)  also plan floating LNG developments.  GDF Suez expects to make an  investment decision  at the end
of 2014 on whether to go ahead with its proposed Bonaparte
venture, Janet Hann, project manager, said today at a conference
in Darwin.  Decision Time  Floating LNG technology doesn’t have the same
“complexities” of onshore developments, she said. “We are
stepping across a new boundary.”  Perth-based Woodside, operator of the proposed Browse LNG
venture, may scrap a proposal to build a A$44 billion plant on
the coast of Western Australia and pick floating LNG instead,
relying on the expertise of one of its partners, Shell, Deutsche
Bank said.  That’s because the rising expense of onshore projects
“improves the cost differential in favor of FLNG,”  John Hirjee , a Melbourne-based analyst at the bank, wrote in an
August report.  “We have taken a bigger position in Browse,”  Andy Brown ,
the international director for exploration and production at
Shell, said this week in an interview in London. “We are not
the operator, so I am not in any position to say how Browse will
be developed. We are just one of the players.”  Shell’s stake in Browse provides the project with
alternatives, said  Peter Coleman , Woodside’s CEO. Woodside and
the other Browse owners, including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , are due to
decide in the first half of 2013 whether to go ahead with the
plan to develop the Browse LNG plant on land.  ‘Catbird Seat’  “We’re committed to the current process,” Coleman said in
August. “If it doesn’t work, then we’ve got options.”  BHP and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are considering floating LNG for
their Scarborough field off Western Australia, Mike Yeager,
chief executive officer of BHP’s petroleum unit, told reporters
in May. The floating platforms would eliminate the costs of
building pipelines and jetties, he said.  “It’s something we must know and we must understand,”
Yeager said. “It has to be an option.”  Shell’s technology is well-suited for Australia because of
the cost pressures and strict environmental regulations for
onshore plants, said Noelle Leonard, a FACTS Global Energy
consultant in Perth. Few onshore LNG projects may be built in
Australia after the seven under construction, she said.  “Shell is in the catbird seat,” Leonard said. “They’ve
positioned themselves very nicely with floating LNG.”  Prelude Production  Prelude will produce about 3.6 million metric tons of LNG
and 1.3 million tons of gas condensate a year. It will cost
between $10.8 billion and $12.6 billion, based on figures Shell
provided when it approved the project last year. Shell estimated
the cost at about $3 billion to $3.5 billion per million tons of
LNG a year.  By contrast,  Inpex Corp. (1605) ’s Ichthys venture, approved in
January, is estimated to cost more than $4 billion per million
tons, although it will also produce liquefied petroleum gas and
condensate. The $34 billion project, expected to have a capacity
of 8.4 million tons annually, is the most expensive in
Australia, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Gilmour declined to give any cost update, referring to
Shell’s announcement last year. The next three vessels will be
cheaper because “Shell will relentlessly drive improvement of
FLNG projects,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  