-- Software Mogul Ahn to Run in S. Korea’s Presidential Race
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-09-19T09:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/software-mogul-ahn-to-run-in-s-korea-s-presidential-race.html
Ahn Cheol Soo, founder of  South
Korea ’s biggest antivirus software maker, said he will run as an
independent in the December presidential race to succeed  Lee Myung Bak .  The founder of  Ahnlab Inc. (053800)  will challenge ruling party
candidate Park Geun Hye and the main opposition’s Moon Jae In to
be elected to a single five-year term to govern Asia’s fourth-
biggest economy, he said at a press conference today in Seoul.
Ahn said he will resign from Ahnlab’s board and if elected will
donate his stake in the company, worth more than $300 million.  “People are expressing their desire for political reform
through me,” he said in a 15-minute speech. “By running in
this presidential election, I want to fulfill their desires.”  Ahn, 50, is running second in opinion polls behind Park,
and his candidacy may hinder opposition efforts to unseat the
ruling party. He will have to confront questions about his lack
of governing experience to win voters dissatisfied with growing
income disparity and rising youth unemployment.  “Ahn and Moon will need to decide if they are going to
join forces to beat Park, whose popularity is 1.5 times theirs
and if so, then how,” said Jeong Han Wool, director of the
Center for Public Opinion Research at East  Asia  Institute in
Seoul. “If they choose to each go at it alone, they might end
up splitting the votes, boosting Park’s chances of securing
victory.”  A Sept. 10-14 poll by Seoul-based Realmeter put support for
Ahn at 24.7 percent, behind Park’s 41 percent and ahead of Moon
at 19.2 percent. The survey of 3,750 people had a margin of
error of plus or minus 1.6 percentage points.  Ahnlab Shares  Shares in Ahnlab, based in Seongnam, south of Seoul, today
rose as much as  5.2 percent  before closing down 0.1 percent at
124,900 won. Ahn’s announcement took place at 3 p.m. as the
market closed.  Ahn, a medical doctor by training, founded Ahnlab in 1995.
He currently has a 29 percent stake in the business, worth 365
billion won ($324 million), according to his spokesman, Yu Min
Yeong. The Wharton MBA holder emerged as a possible candidate
last October after the independent he backed won the Seoul
mayoral election. He has never run for or served in public
office and has never joined a political party.  “I have no political experience but I don’t know that
having a lot of it is necessarily a good thing,” Ahn said.
“While I lack direct political experience, my diverse range of
experiences in  information technology , medicine, management and
education, will be a plus, never a minus.”  Chaebol Critic  A critic of chaebols, the family-run conglomerates like the
Samsung and  Hyundai groups , Ahn called for a “new economic
model” and innovation that merges welfare and growth. In his
latest book, Ahn advocates banning conglomerates’ cross-
shareholding and limiting their investments in subsidiaries.  The ruling New Frontier Party last month nominated Park,
the never-married, eldest daughter of former dictator Park Chung Hee, who is attempting to become South Korea’s first female
president. Moon, a human-rights lawyer and one-time chief of
staff to former President Roh Moo Hyun, won his Democratic
United Party’s nomination on Sept. 16. Moon was jailed in 1975
for joining street protests against the rule of Park’s father.  While Moon said the opposition must form a coalition with
Ahn to win the presidential race, Ahn today said it was
“inappropriate” to discuss such a move at this point. He did
not comment on whether he will form a new political party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  