-- Sony to Offer Smaller PlayStation 3 for Holiday Season
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-19T09:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/sony-to-sell-smaller-playstation-3-console-for-holiday-season.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  will sell a smaller,
lighter version of the PlayStation 3 console this holiday season
as it tries to win back customers flocking to games played on
mobile devices and personal computers.  The new consoles, which have more storage capacity than
current models, will go on sale Sept. 25 in  North America  at
$249 for 250 gigabytes of storage and $299 for 500 gigabytes,
the company said today. Sony will also start the “PlayStation
Mobile” service, through which users can download games on
their smartphones and tablet computers, on Oct. 3, Andrew House,
head of the games business, said in Tokyo.  The games unit is among the focus areas listed this year by
 Kazuo Hirai , 51, who became Sony’s chief executive officer in
April and started reforming the unprofitable television
operation and cutting 10,000 jobs. The Tokyo-based company is
trying to return to profit following four straight annual  losses 
after the yen gained, the global economy slowed and consumers
switched to Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. devices.  “Sony is probably trying to lure consumers with the new
model after Nintendo released its Wii U,” said Takashi Oka, a
Tokyo-based  analyst  at TIW Inc. “Still, game-console markets
have matured in developed nations and it may be hard to
stimulate demand just by making it smaller.”  Nintendo’s Release  The Wii U, Nintendo Co.’s latest console, will go on sale
in the U.S. Nov. 18, priced from $300, the Osaka-based company
said Sept. 13. Nintendo, the world’s biggest maker of video-game
machines, said it will introduce new titles for the player, such
as “ Super Mario ” and “Call of Duty.”  The smaller PS3 will make its debut in  Europe  on Sept. 28
and in Japan on Oct. 4, Sony said.  The game-console industry faces competition from titles
played online and on smartphones from companies including Apple,
whose latest iPhone 5 is scheduled to reach stores in the U.S.
this week.  Sony is also offering titles for Android-powered devices to
extend its reach beyond users of game consoles. Its
“PlayStation Mobile” Android service, renamed in June from
“PlayStation Suite,” will be available next month in nine
nations including the U.S.,  Canada ,  Germany , Australia and
Japan, Sony said today. The service allows users to download and
play titles made by Sony and third-party developers, it said.  Makers of devices that allow the service include HTC Corp.,
Asustek Computer Inc., Sharp Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd., said
Satoshi Nakajima, a spokesman for Sony’s games unit.  Sony also said it will cut the price for its PlayStation
Portable players, by 18 percent to 13,800 yen ($175), from
tomorrow in  Japan .  Cloud Services  Sony is preparing to offer new cloud-based gaming services,
House said today. He didn’t elaborate.  The company agreed in July to acquire Gaikai Inc., a U.S.
gaming-platform company, for about $380 million. The transaction
was completed Aug. 10, Nakajima said.  Sony, which bought out a mobile-phone venture from Ericsson
AB for 1.05 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in February, plans to
draw on its skills in games to develop new smartphones and
tablet computers, Kunimasa Suzuki, an executive vice president
overseeing mobile products, said earlier this month.  Last month, the Japanese electronics maker cut its full-
year  sales target  for handheld game players, including the PS
Vita, to 12 million units from 16 million predicted three months
earlier. The company also lowered its target for TVs, compact
cameras and PCs.  The  operating loss , or sales minus the cost of goods sold
and administrative expenses, at Sony’s game unit was 3.5 billion
yen in the three months ended June 30, compared with an income
of 4.1 billion yen a year earlier, the company said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  