-- Sprint’s Stock Jumps After CEO Predicts Consolidation
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-19T21:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/sprint-s-stock-jumps-after-ceo-predicts-consolidation.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, rose the most in more than a
month after Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse said the company
would probably play a role in future consolidation.  The shares climbed 7.1 percent to $5.56 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain since Aug. 15, bolstering a stock that
had already more than doubled this year.  The industry is likely to undergo a wave of mergers and
acquisitions, said Hesse, speaking at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
investment conference today in New York. Consolidation would let
smaller U.S. wireless carriers band together to take on the two
largest competitors, Verizon Wireless and AT&T Inc.  Sprint may be in a position to buy a prepaid carrier such
as  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) ,  Jason Armstrong , a Goldman
Sachs analyst, said last week in a report.  MetroPCS shares rose 5.2 percent to $11.30 today.  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR) , the provider of a high-speed wireless network that counts
Sprint as its biggest customer and investor, also gained. Its
stock climbed 13 percent to $1.56.  There are two types of deals Sprint may encounter, Hesse
said today. One is a large-scale deal to gain significant enough
size to better challenge the two dominant competitors. The other
would be smaller and have more immediate cost benefits and
synergies, he said.  Hesse has said he wouldn’t want to enter a deal that would
be a distraction while the Overland Park, Kansas-based company
builds a new network using long-term evolution, or LTE,
technology. Sprint is trying to catch up with more extensive LTE
networks offered by Verizon and AT&T.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  