-- Stopgap Spending Measure Moves Forward in U.S. Senate
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-09-19T18:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/stopgap-spending-measure-moves-forward-in-u-s-senate.html
A stopgap budget measure funding
the U.S. government after the Oct. 1 start of the new fiscal
year may clear Congress as soon as tomorrow after it advanced in
a Senate procedural vote.  The Senate voted 76-22 today to move forward with the
measure, which would fund most government programs for the first
six months of the 2013 fiscal year. The legislation was adopted
Sept. 13 by the House, 329-91, after Republicans dropped their
demands for spending cuts in the budget proposed by House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , now the Republican
vice presidential nominee.  The measure would fund agencies at an annualized rate of
$1.047 trillion, excluding emergency spending, which would
translate to a 0.6 percent funding increase for most federal
programs until March 27, 2013. Some initiatives, including cyber
security, wildfire-suppression efforts, veterans’ disability-
benefit processing and next year’s presidential inauguration,
would receive more.  The legislation also would extend the pay freeze for
federal workers, including members of Congress.  Senate leaders have said they plan to clear the measure for
President  Barack Obama ’s signature.  The legislation, H.J.Res. 117, would end one budget fight
while lawmakers delay debate until after the Nov. 6 election on
the more contentious issues of the expiring George W. Bush-era
income tax cuts and $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts for
the next decade, set to begin in January.  The stopgap measure provides $19 billion more for the
discretionary portion of the  federal budget  than Ryan proposed
in his fiscal plan adopted by the House in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at   bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net  