-- Suffolk Fails to Score as Home of Hamptons Pays Up: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-09-19T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/suffolk-fails-to-score-as-home-of-hamptons-pays-up-muni-credit.html
New York ’s Suffolk County, home of
the Hamptons beach towns, is paying twice as big a penalty to
borrow than it did a year ago, even after budget analysts cut
its projected deficit in half.  The 86-mile (138-kilometer) stretch of eastern  Long Island ,
where billionaires  George Soros  and John Paulson own estates,
may face a $179 million gap through next year, according to the
county Budget Review Office. The August forecast, which includes
a planned nursing-home sale and expected savings on employee
health care, is down from a $400 million shortfall in March.  Investors may be dubious about the  deficit reduction 
because it relies on one-shot revenue and optimistic sales-tax
projections, said Howard Cure, director of municipal research at
New York-based Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which oversees
about $3.5 billion, including Suffolk bonds.  “They have accomplished some gains in their budget as far
as trying to get control over their overtime, lay off people,
and increase revenue, but they still have a way to go,” Cure
said in a telephone interview.  County Executive Steve Bellone, a 43-year-old Democrat,
declared a fiscal emergency in March after Suffolk’s spending
plan ended out of balance for the first time in two decades. The
worst recession since the 1930s diminished its property- and
sales-tax revenue. That has increased borrowing costs and forced
officials to cut services and payrolls in the 16th-wealthiest
U.S. county.  December Downgrade  Suffolk sold $105 million in tax-anticipation notes this
month. The one-year debt was priced to yield 0.6 percent, or
0.41 percentage point more than top-rated debt with the same
maturity, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  That was more than double the 0.15 percentage-point premium
the county paid in September 2011 on the biggest portion of its
$120 million note sale, Bloomberg data show. Three months after
that sale, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the county’s
tax-anticipation notes one level to MIG 2, the second-highest
short-term rating, citing Suffolk’s “narrowed cash position,
with the potential for further financial weakness.”  The Budget Review Office presented its shortfall
projections to Suffolk’s Budget and Finance Committee on Aug.
14, according to Gail Vizzini, the agency’s director.  More Leery  The office forecast a $232.7 million budget gap, with the
potential for it to be reduced to $179 million. The lower figure
includes adjustments under consideration such as a property-tax
increase, savings on employee health care and the sale of the
John J. Foley Skilled Nursing Facility, which was approved by
the legislature on Sept. 13.  “Analysts are now more leery of one-time fixes because
there’s not as much confidence about the economy coming back,”
Cure said. Suffolk, “for a good part of its revenue, depends on
sales taxes, which have fluctuated,” he said.  Sales levies provided about 44 percent of Suffolk’s $2.8
billion budget for 2012, Vanessa Baird-Streeter, a spokeswoman
for Bellone, said in June. The full valuation of taxable real
property in the county has declined by about $50 billion since
2008, when the financial crisis began, according to offering
documents for this month’s sale.  No Rating  Suffolk usually has two large cash borrowings a year,
according to Richard Tortora, president of Great Neck-based
Capital Markets Advisors LLC, which works with the county. For
this month’s sale, the county chose not to seek a Moody’s
rating, he said. Suffolk plans to sell $400 million in tax-
anticipation notes in December, he said.  The 0.6 percent  interest rate  on this month’s sale compares
with 1.29 percent on a seven-month deal in December, when
Moody’s lowered its rating. That means buyers still expect the
county to meet its debt-service obligations, said Michael Pietronico, who oversees $800 million of munis as chief
executive officer of Miller Tabak Asset Management in New York.
Suffolk has the fifth-highest long-term bond rating from
Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “While that is certainly punitive relative to other
issuers, overall it’s not an indication the market is concerned
about repayment,” Pietronico said. “The overall G.O. credit is
still an acceptable credit to buy for a conservative investor.”  In the broader tax-exempt market, yields on benchmark 10-
and 30-year munis declined yesterday. The interest rate on 10-
year securities fell about 0.01 percentage point to 1.78
percent, Bloomberg data show.  The one-year notes that Suffolk sold this month traded
Sept. 14 at an average yield of 0.4 percent, down from the
original 0.6 percent rate, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That’s still more than double the yield on top-rated munis
maturing in a year, the data show.  Suffolk “is certainly problematic in the near-term,”
Pietronico said. Still, “their recognition of those issues is
the beginning of correcting the financial ills that plagued the
county.”  Following are pending sales:  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY, which finances
reconstruction of the  World Trade Center site , plans to sell $2
billion of taxable revenue bonds as soon as next week, with
maturities as long as 50 years, according to a preliminary
notice of the sale. (Updated Sept. 19)  MASSACHUSETTS plans to issue $400 million of general-
obligation bonds via competitive sale as soon as Sept. 25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt will finance
capital projects in the commonwealth. (Added Sept. 19)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  