-- Sword-Bearing Islamist Signals Peril for Arab Democracies
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2012-09-20T11:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/sword-bearing-islamist-signals-peril-for-arab-spring-democracies.html
Days after publishing an article on
Salafi Muslims displacing moderate clerics from hundreds of
 Tunisia ’s mosques, Walid Mejri found a sword against his neck.  Stopped on the street by religious extremists in
Ghardimaou, 180 kilometers (112 miles) north of Tunis, he was
accused of “apostasy and atheism, fighting against Islam and
sowing discord among them,” Mejri, a writer and journalist
recalled in an interview.  “One of them lifted a sword to my face, intending to kill
me,” said Mejri, who’d recently written the “Battle of the
Mosques” in the Assarih newspaper, in which he chronicled the
installation by militants of favored clerics. “A soldier
stepped in and saved me.”  The incident is part of a simmering battle between
ultraconservative Islamists and moderate new governments in
Tunisia, Libya and Egypt. The issue has become more urgent after
protests and attacks on U.S. missions in North Africa after the
posting of an amateur anti-Islamic film. That’s offered the most
visible example yet of the challenge confronting the so-called
Arab Spring nations.  The moderate Islamist governments in Egypt and Tunisia are
“facing competition for political credibility from rival, more
radical Islamist organizations, often espousing more extreme
platforms,” said Crispin Hawes, head of the Eurasia Group’s
Middle East program.  ‘Big Problem’  President  Barack Obama  said last week that it would be “a
real big problem” if Egypt didn’t act to protect U.S. premises
and personnel. The U.S. is well placed to make its influence
felt -- it’s the largest shareholder in the  International
Monetary Fund  from which Egypt is seeking as much as $4.8
billion in loans.  Yet the new Arab democracies are reluctant to take measures
reminiscent of their autocratic predecessors just a year after
the popular uprisings that deposed their long-time leaders,
analysts say.  “The last thing they’d want to be seen as doing is being
very heavy-handed,” Said Hirsh, Middle East economist with
 Capital Economics  in  London , said by phone. Even so, if the
Salafists continue to push they may alienate society and “give
these governments some leeway in how to deal with them.” By way
of example, he pointed to the Egyptian troop deployment in Sinai
after a militant attack last month left 16 border guards dead.  It’s a delicate time for countries trying to fix economies
ravaged after last year’s uprisings. The unrest redrew the
political map in a region where authoritarian leaders had
forcibly maintained the status quo for decades.  Growth Slump  Egyptian officials are seeking the IMF loan to help bridge
a  budget deficit  that widened to 11 percent of GDP in the last
fiscal year. The economy will expand 1.5 percent this year after
1.8 percent growth in 2011. That’s down from more than 5 percent
in 2010, the year before the country’s revolt, according to IMF
 data .  The economy in Tunisia, the birthplace of the uprisings,
contracted 0.8 percent last year, from 3.1 percent in 2010. It
will expand 2.2 percent this year, according to the  IMF . The
country’s political scene is complicated by power-sharing among
a troika of rival parties.  The moderate Islamist Ennahda party dominates the
legislature, while two other secular parties control the
presidency and the prime minister’s office. Disputes have meant
inconsistent policy, as well as the firing of the central bank
chief.  Islamic Law  Mejri’s run-in in Ghardimaou followed weeks of unrest in
which Salafists attacked bars, staged demonstrations calling for
the imposition of Islamic law and attacked marches held by
actors and artists. In addition, more than 400 clerics were
driven out of their mosques by the Salafists who installed their
own sheiks, he said.  The Ennahda-headed government’s response was little more
than symbolic, said critics such as Ahmed Nejib Chebbi, the head
of the country’s secular Republican party, who was also attacked
in the town.  “The Salafis’ plan is very clear,” Chebbi said in an
interview, dubbing the extreme Islamists “the secret arm of
Ennahda.”  “They decided to target politicians and civil society
activists, aiming to terrorize them,” he said.  Prophet Film  In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood’s candidate, Mohamed Mursi, won the presidency in a race against  Hosni Mubarak ’s last
premier. Since then, Mursi has been working to reassure a
broader spectrum of Egyptians and foreign investors that he will
represent everyone equally.  The efforts have met with mixed success, particularly after
the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. Embassy in Cairo that served as
a trigger for other protests over the film denigrating Islam’s
prophet.  Mursi drew criticism at home and abroad for delaying firm
comments condemning the Cairo protests. Looking to avoid
potential violence, the Muslim Brotherhood and Salafi groups
called on Egyptians to show restraint during Sept. 14 protests
over the film, which several members of the Coptic Christian
diaspora were reportedly involved in making.  State security prosecutors said on Sept. 18 they had
referred several Copts living abroad on criminal charges
including insulting the prophet and seeking to sow sectarian
violence. Egypt’s Copts have disavowed the movie.  Oil Revenue  Libya ’s tussle with the Islamists is equally critical for
the future of a nation where oil accounts for more than 90
percent of the government revenue.  At stake for the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
Countries  member is reversing an economic tailspin that came in
tandem with the uprising that ended with Muammar Qaddafi’s
toppling and death in August 2011. That year, Libya’s economy
contracted by 61 percent, according to the  IMF .  Of the three main Arab Spring countries, Libya is the
furthest behind in its political transformation, and has
registered the most violence. Attacks on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi that U.S. and Libyan officials say appear to have been
pre-planned, led to the death of Ambassador Chris Steven and
three other Americans.  The attack highlighted the security void in a nation where
regional militias, armed from Qaddafi’s arsenals, wield greater
power than the nascent national army.  Shrines Attacked  The country’s newly elected parliament and the prime
minister it appointed are in the initial stages of forming a
Cabinet. No single party secured a majority in the legislature
following the August elections and, breaking with trends in
 Egypt  and Tunisia, the Islamists fared poorly.  Since then, several mosques and shrines belonging to Sufis
-- or Muslim mystics often seen as heretics by other Muslims --
have been attacked by militants. The new government headed by
Prime Minister Mustafa Abushagur has said a small group of
Islamists including members of Ansar al-Shariah are suspected of
being behind the consulate attack. The group has denied
involvement.  Libya has a plan to secure the nation, Abushagur said in an
interview in his Tripoli office today. Even so, the government
cannot forcibly disarm the militias that played a key role in
last year’s uprising, he said.  “Security is a top priority for the next three-to-six
months and 70 percent of our efforts are dedicated to
stabilizing Libya,” he said.  Speaking in a Sept. 15 interview, Mohammed Magariaf, the
head of Libya’s new legislature, the General National Congress,
said  that hardline groups across the region “have an ambition
to perhaps establish an Islamic state.”  That’s causing unrest, which is damaging the political
stability needed to spark an economic improvement, said Hirsch.
Populations have suffered amid the post-uprising downturn.  “If the Salafis carry on as they are, they will hurt them
even more,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  