-- U.K. May Sell Lloyds on Buybacks, Dividend, Mediobanca Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-09-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/u-k-may-sell-lloyds-on-buybacks-dividend-mediobanca-says.html
The U.K. government may sell its
stake in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  before its  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  holding through share buybacks and a special
dividend, Mediobanca SpA analysts said.  The government could be paid the dividend by London-based
Lloyds from earnings over the next eight years, and the bank
could buy some taxpayer-owned stock to minimize any loss on the
bailout, the analysts, led by  Christopher Wheeler , wrote in a
note to clients today, initiating coverage of both banks.  Shares in each bank are trading at just more than half what
the government paid for them at the height of the financial
crisis. RBS fell 2.7 percent to 267.1 pence, and Lloyds declined
2.5 percent to 38.9 pence yesterday.  “The sale will have to satisfy political requirements as
well as the usual market and commercial requirements,” the
analysts wrote. “The sales of any of the stakes below entry
price, even as a strategy of creating market tension ahead of
sales at a higher price, will attract criticism in the media and
from whichever party is in opposition.”  Lloyds may be sold before  RBS (RBS)  because the government owns
less of the bank, and the lender has said it will more quickly
ring fence its consumer bank as recommended by the Independent
Commission on Banking, Wheeler said.  The U.K. bought its 82 percent stake in RBS for an average
502 pence a share, taking into account the Edinburgh-based
bank’s recent reverse stock split, and bought Lloyds’s stock at
73.6 pence apiece for a 40 percent stake in 2008.  Lloyds’s Profits  Lloyds will have 18.5 billion pounds ($30 billion) of cash
to distribute by 2020 from profits, less equity retained to meet
new capital rules, in a base-case scenario, Wheeler estimated.
The government invested 20.3 billion pounds when it bought its
stake. Lloyds would need to seek shareholder approval to start
buying back the stake from 2015, Wheeler said.  The money could then be used to buy out RBS shareholders
and fully nationalize that bank, which could speed up paying off
the government’s 45.5 billion-pound investment, according to the
note. The government could then start selling its stake in
stages, he said.  By 2020, RBS may have 27.2 billion pounds in capital to
distribute under a base case, wrote Wheeler, who has an
underperform rating on the bank and a target price of 253 pence
for the end of fiscal year 2013. He rates Lloyds neutral, with a
target price of 39 pence.  The U.K. could start selling its stake in RBS at a loss,
 Jim O’Neil , chief executive officer of U.K. Financial
Investments Ltd., the body that manages the government’s holding
in the bank, told lawmakers on March 14. The government has also
made presentations to potential investors, including Middle
Eastern sovereign-wealth funds, about a sale, two people with
knowledge of the matter said in March. The talks are still at an
early stage, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  