-- U.K. Lawmakers Call for Moratorium on Arctic Oil & Gas Drilling
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-09-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/u-k-lawmakers-call-for-moratorium-on-arctic-oil-gas-drilling.html
Oil and gas companies including
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  should be prevented
from drilling in the Arctic until rigorous environmental
regulations are in place, a panel of U.K. lawmakers said.  Oil spill response techniques haven’t been proven to work
in Arctic conditions, the multiparty Environmental Audit
Committee said today in an e-mailed report. It proposed a halt
to drilling until stronger safeguards are in place in an effort
to avoid leaks on the scale of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo disaster in the
Gulf of Mexico in 2010.  “The infrastructure to mount a big clean-up operation is
simply not in place,” Joan Walley, a member of the opposition
 Labour Party  who chairs the committee, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The receding Arctic sea ice, which this year shrank to a
record low during the annual melt season, has spurred companies
including Shell and Cairn to explore for oil and gas in the
waters off Greenland,  Alaska  and  Russia . The British lawmakers
flagged the danger of spilled oil lingering “for decades,” and
risks to whales caused by the sound of drilling.  “Only a small fraction of oil would be recovered in the
event of a significant  oil spill  in the Arctic and it might take
decades for wildlife to recover,” the lawmakers wrote. Citing
evidence from the environmental group Greenpeace, which opposes
Arctic drilling, they said oil was still being found in the
Arctic 23 years after the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska.  With the Arctic warming at twice the pace of the rest of
the planet, sea ice in August shrank to a record with three
weeks of the annual melt season left, according to the  National
Snow and Ice Data Center  in Boulder,  Colorado . By Sept. 17, it
had receded to 3.41 million square kilometers (1.32 million
square miles), 18 percent less than the prior record from 2007.  Environmental Damage  “The retreating ice-cap is enabling greater exploitation
of the Arctic’s natural resources -- fossil fuels, minerals, and
fisheries, and opening up new major global shipping routes,”
the lawmakers said. “Such development could result in
significant environmental damage in a region already feeling the
effects of  climate change  more than the rest of the planet.”  Shell said Sep. 17 that it has abandoned plans to drill
this year into oil reservoirs in the  Chukchi Sea  off Alaska’s
north coast after a containment dome designed to cap any
potential oil spill was damaged. The company said it will still
drill so-called top holes that don’t extend down into oil
reserves.  Cairn drilled eight wells in two years through the end of
2011 in an unsuccessful attempt to find recoverable oil and gas
reserves off Greenland.  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , GDF Suez SA, Dong Energy A/S, A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S and  Statoil ASA (STL)  also hold licenses to explore off Greenland.  No Cost Estimates  Peter Velez, a global emergency response manager for Shell,
and Cairn Exploration Director Richard Heaton testified to the
lawmakers. Velez said Shell had no estimate for the cost of a
worst case oil spill in the Arctic because “we are going to do
whatever it takes to clean it up,” according to the report.
Heaton said Cairn’s position was “similar,” the lawmakers
wrote.  “We are surprised that neither has put a financial
estimate on the cost to their business of dealing with a ‘worst
case’ oil spill,” the lawmakers said. “There does need to be
public transparency to provide assurance that cost will not be a
bar on dealing with the consequences of any spills.”  Sub-Sea Blowout  The report cited earlier evidence to another parliamentary
committee that used the BP oil slick in the  Gulf of Mexico  in
2010 as evidence that the industry isn’t prepared for a sub-sea
well blowout.  The U.S. estimates more than 4 million barrels of oil
spilled into the Gulf as BP took about three months to stop the
leak. The company has set aside $38 billion for the spill,
including lawsuits and fines. It has spent $14 billion on
stopping the leak and cleaning it up.  BP, which also has interests in the Arctic, asked not to
take part in today’s inquiry, citing legal proceedings related
to the Gulf spill.  “Oil giants like Shell shouldn’t be drilling in the
fragile and pristine Arctic,” Vicky Wyatt, head of Greenpeace’s
Arctic campaign, said in an e-mailed statement. “By calling for
a halt, these members of Parliament have hit the nail on the
head. An oil spill in this unique place would be catastrophic.”  The lawmakers said a moratorium on drilling in the frozen
north should stay in place until a pan-Arctic oil spill response
standard is in place, along with regulations for a “preferably
unlimited” financial liability regime for oil and gas
operations. They said Arctic states should impose “the highest
available environmental standards” for drilling and called for
more research into spill-response methods in Arctic conditions.  “The  oil companies  should come clean and admit that
dealing with an oil spill in the icy extremes of the Arctic
would be exceptionally difficult,” Walley said. 