-- Lufthansa to Combine European Flights Into Low-Cost Unit
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-09-20T08:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/lufthansa-to-combine-european-flights-into-low-cost-unit.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest airline, will combine short-haul operations
outside its main  Frankfurt  and Munich hubs with the Germanwings
low-cost unit as part of a cost-reduction effort.  The new unit will begin operations in January and fly 18
million passengers annually, Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa
 said  yesterday. Former Chief Executive Officer  Wolfgang Mayrhuber  and former Chief Financial Officer Karl-Ludwig Kley
have been nominated to join Lufthansa’s supervisory board in
2013, with Mayrhuber becoming chairman, the airline also  said .  Lufthansa has a companywide goal of saving 1.5 billion
euros ($1.96 billion) through 2014 under a reorganization
program dubbed Score. The company is cutting 3,500 jobs in
administration and as many as 1,000 catering posts may be
eliminated. The program has already helped improve earnings,
with second-quarter operating profit increasing 28 percent to
361 million euros and exceeding analyst estimates.  “Combining our domestic German and European point-to-point
services has enormous potential to improve efficiency,” CEO
Christoph Franz said in a statement. “Our aim is to once again
fly these services profitably under the umbrella of a single
company.”  The carrier is predicting full-year operating profit in the
“mid-three-digit million-euro range,” excluding restructuring
costs of 100 million euros to 200 million euros.  Shares Gain  Lufthansa  rose  as much as 1.7 percent to 10.96 euros and
was trading up 1.4 percent at 10:05 a.m. in Frankfurt, the best
performance on  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , which declined 0.6
percent. The stock has gained 19 percent this year, valuing the
company at 5.01 billion euros.  The European short-haul strategy is “absolutely crucial,”
said Peter Oppitzhauser, a Zurich-based analyst at  Credit
Agricole  with an outperform  recommendation  on Lufthansa. Unlike
discount airlines, “they’re still a network carrier, so they
still have to feed the hubs. So what they can do is slash the
labor costs, which is what they’re trying to do.”  Mayrhuber, 65, stepped down as CEO at the end of 2010. He
is supervisory board chairman at German semiconductor maker
 Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  and serves on the board of Swiss bank
 UBS AG. (UBSN)  He will succeed Juergen Weber, who is retiring,
Lufthansa said. Kley, the 61-year-old CEO of drugmaker Merck
KGaA, will replace Klaus Schlede on the Lufthansa board.  Mayrhuber’s Acquisitions  Weber, 71, was also Mayrhuber’s direct predecessor as
Lufthansa CEO, while Schlede is another former executive. During
Mayrhuber’s term as chief from June 2003 through December 2010,
Lufthansa bought BMI, Austrian Airlines and Swiss International
Airlines, as well as stakes in  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  and
Brussels Airlines NV. Weber, Mayrhuber and Franz, 52, all
started at Lufthansa before their 31st birthdays.  Franz’s administration is “concentrating on making units
such as Austrian profitable,” rather than acquiring other
carriers, spokeswoman Claudia Lange said Sept. 17. Franz
concluded the sale of unprofitable BMI to British Airways’
parent International Consolidated Airlines Group in April.  “Their strategies as CEO certainly differ,” said  Jochen Rothenbacher , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet Bank AG who
has a reduce recommendation on Lufthansa. “But that doesn’t
mean Mayrhuber doesn’t support Franz’s current policies. That
they had different approaches is true, but the times are also
now different.”  Iberia Reorganization  Lufthansa’s operational reorganization echoes moves at
competitors.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, cut
its second-quarter operating loss by more than half to 66
million euros, aided by the introduction of a 2 billion-euro
savings plan, the Paris-based carrier said July 30. British
Airways owner IAG is planning job cuts at Spanish arm Iberia
after the Madrid-based brand caused a second-quarter group loss.  IAG CEO  Willie Walsh  has been working on a turnaround at
the Spanish business through the transfer of domestic and short-
haul flights to a new unit, Iberia Express, which aims to reduce
the break-even point with less-generous labor contracts. The
unit was profitable in June, its third full month of operations,
IAG said Aug. 3, adding that the wider Iberia restructuring plan
may lead to extra costs this year.  Lufthansa is implementing “the same process as IAG with
Iberia Express,” Credit Agricole’s Oppitzhauser said. “That’s
also related to why the cabin crew is going on strike. They want
to outsource 2,000 people to this new unit.”  Labor Dispute  Cabin crews at the German carrier walked out for three days
in August and September. A sticking point in wage negotiations
was the failure of Lufthansa to guarantee beyond next year that
flight attendants wouldn’t be transferred to cheaper contracts
at the low-cost division, the Unabhaengige Flugbegleiter
Organisation union said at the time.  The strikes, which culminated in half of Lufthansa’s
flights being canceled on Sept. 7, ended after the two parties
agreed to mediation. Hans-Adalbert Ruerup, a former adviser to
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , was appointed as the mediator
on Sept. 13.  Lufthansa plans to build a logistics center at Frankfurt
airport to replace a warehouse complex that’s more than 30 years
old, the airline  said  yesterday. Construction of the new main
building will begin in 2014, following work to prepare the site.
The facility will open in 2018.  The project reverses an investment-plan freeze that
Lufthansa’s cargo unit imposed following the imposition of a ban
at Frankfurt last October on flights between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m.,
which largely affected air-freight services.  “It is astonishing that Lufthansa complains vociferously
to the outside world about the night-flight ban, about how many
millions it is costing, how it might leave, but then says it
will invest half a billion euros in Frankfurt,” Equinet’s
Rothenbacher said. “The whole argument against the night-flight
ban now seems not to carry as much weight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  