-- Turkey Hit by Wave of Attacks as Syria Fallout Emboldens PKK
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-09-20T14:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/turkey-rocked-by-wave-of-attacks-as-syria-fallout-emboldens-pkk.html
Turkey ’s war with Kurdish militants
has entered its bloodiest phase in more than a decade, with
attacks on soldiers and police almost every day and a breakdown
in ties with neighbors that had helped to contain the threat.  On Sept. 18, an army convoy in the largely Kurdish
southeast was ambushed, leaving 10 dead. Two days earlier, eight
police were killed when a mine blew up their minibus, and the
day before four soldiers died in a similar blast. Police defused
a bomb today near the airport in Diyarbakir, the largest city in
the southeast, while the state-run Anatolia agency reported an
attack on a Netherlands-based energy company in southeast Turkey
that injured four earlier this week. The army has killed 500
members of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party or PKK since February,
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  says.  Turkey’s fraying ties with  Syria ,  Iran  and  Iraq , neighbors
with their own Kurdish minorities that have collaborated against
the PKK, offer new openings for the group. Erdogan, who had
vowed to end the Kurdish conflict, now risks presiding over an
escalation that could undermine the $800 billion economy and
encourage a backlash by Turkish nationalists.  “It certainly is the broadest PKK challenge since the late
1980s,” said  Michael Rubin , a Middle East scholar at the
 American Enterprise Institute . “With events in Syria, Iraqi
Kurdistan’s growing wealth, and tension between Iran and Turkey,
there has never been a better time for the PKK to stake its
claim.”  Backing Rebels  The Kurdish conflict has killed almost 40,000 people over
three decades, and cost more than $300 billion according to
official estimates. Fighting peaked in the first half of the
1990s and eased after the capture of PKK leader  Abdullah Ocalan ,
now in solitary confinement in a Turkish prison, in 1999.  Turkey’s relations with Syria have been hostile since
Erdogan backed the rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad,
allowing some to shelter on Turkish soil. A Turkish plane
crashed into the east Mediterranean in June after it was fired
on from Syria.  The collapse of ties gave Kurdish militants more freedom to
operate over a 911-kilometer (566-mile) border where Turkey and
Syria had previously staged joint exercises.  When Assad’s troops withdrew from parts of north Syria in
July, Kurdish groups seized control of several towns. Front-page
stories in Turkish newspapers said that the area was being
administered by the PKK. Those reports were exaggerated, Deputy
Prime Minister Besir Atalay said in an interview last week.  Bloody Handed  After a car-bomb killed nine people in the southern city of
Gaziantep last month, government ministers raised the
possibility that Syria may have collaborated with the PKK in the
attack.  The Syrian conflict has hurt Turkey’s ties with Iran, an
Assad ally. Its friendship with Iraq has been strained by the
presence in Istanbul of fugitive Vice President Tariq al- Hashimi, sentenced to death in his homeland for running death
squads, and made welcome in Turkey. Kurds control northern Iraq
and account for much of the population in nearby parts of Syria
and Iran.  Nine Turkish citizens were arrested last month on charges
of working for Iranian intelligence, Today’s Zaman newspaper
reported on Sept. 7. The suspects were also accused of relaying
positions of Turkish forces to the PKK, Today’s Zaman reported,
citing security forces.  New Process  Erdogan, speaking in the western city of Denizli on Sept.
17, said Turkish security forces would only halt operations if
the PKK, classified as a terrorist organization by the U.S. and
European Union, lays down its weapons. He promised to pursue
 economic growth  at the same time as “fighting the bloody handed
terrorist organization.”  Kurdish politicians supportive of the PKK argue that there
can only be progress if the Turkish army also halts operations.  “Both sides should pull their fingers from the trigger,
without any conditions,” Selahattin Demirtas, co-leader of the
legal Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, said this week. “If
they can do that then we can build a new negotiation process.”  His party also calls for Ocalan’s release so that he can
join in peace talks. The PKK’s commander in the field, Murat Karayilan, said this week that “the time has come” for
Ocalan’s freedom, and vowed to respond in kind to the Turkish
army’s drive against the group, according to the Kurdish Firat
news agency.  So far, the latest wave of violence hasn’t affected
financial markets, because attacks were viewed as isolated
incidents that would not threaten political stability, said  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul.  Human Capital  Turkey’s  benchmark stock index  is up 31 percent this year,
and yields on  two-year bonds  have slid more than four percentage
points, nearing a record low. While growth has eased after last
year’s 8.5 percent boom, the economy still expanded at an annual
2.9 percent rate in the second quarter.  An escalation to the level of conflict seen in the 1990s
would “threaten Turkey’s human capital,” Demir said. “Less
importantly, but unmistakably, it would weigh on fiscal balances
and jeopardize the public debt dynamics.”  Erdogan’s government has invested $30 billion in the
southeast, building hospitals, schools and airports, since
coming to power in November 2002, Atalay said at his Ankara
office. He cited an airport project in Yuksekova, a town in the
largely Kurdish region, as an example of the difficulties.
“They are burning down construction machines, harassing the
contractor there,” Atalay said.  Pipeline Attack  Militants fired on a helicopter on Sept. 15, wounding four
security personnel working for Netherlands-based NV Turkse
Perenco, which is searching for oil in the southeast, the
Anatolia agency said today, citing the company. The helicopter
came under attack as it took off from an oil exploration site in
Batman province, Anatolia said.  An attack on a pipeline in the southeast briefly cut oil
flow from northern Iraq on Sept. 16, prompting the government to
step up security, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said. The PKK has
targeted energy and construction workers, threatening investment
in the region, which has Turkey’s lowest  employment rates .  Earlier in his premiership, Erdogan raised expectations in
the southeast by removing some restrictions on the Kurdish
language in education and media, part of a promised “opening”
to a group that accounts for as much as 20 percent of Turkey’s
75 million people.  Parliamentary Immunity  In the past three years, the government has taken a tougher
line.  About 8,000 people are under arrest on charges of belonging
to the PKK’s urban arm, the Peace and Democracy Party’sDemirtas
said this week.  The government has threatened to strip some of the party’s
lawmakers of their parliamentary immunity, so that they can be
charged and jailed for being PKK supporters. One of them,
Sebahat Tuncel, was sentenced to eight years and nine months in
prison on Sept. 18, though she won’t serve the sentence unless
her immunity is lifted.  Adding to local grievances was a botched air attack in
December, which was aimed at the PKK and instead killed 34
Kurdish villagers smuggling goods from Iraq.  “Erdogan is currently indicating that he believes this can
be solved by military and security policies alone,” said Hugh
Pope, an analyst for the  International Crisis Group  in Istanbul,
which published a report on the conflict this week. “Previous
administrations have tried and failed with this strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  