-- USS Eisenhower on Gulf Alert Sees ‘No Problems’ From Iran
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-09-19T22:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/uss-eisenhower-on-gulf-alert-sees-no-problems-from-iran.html
Computer terminals glow in the
darkened Combat Direction Center of the  USS Dwight D. Eisenhower 
as they process feeds from sensors tracking any air, surface or
underwater vessel within striking range.  The center is dominated by a Ship Shelf Defense System made
by  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  that would display the first signs of an Iranian
threat, such as a Silkworm anti-ship missile, a submarine or a
swarm of fast patrol boats speeding toward the 1,092-foot-long
 aircraft carrier  and its crew of more than 6,200 men and women.  “No problems at all” have been detected so far as the
carrier and the cruiser in its strike group, the  USS Hue City ,
made three transits through the  Strait of Hormuz  since arriving
in July from its home port of Norfolk,  Virginia , Navy Commander
Steve Wyss told visitors to the carrier in the Persian Gulf.  The Eisenhower is the largest instrument of U.S. power in
the gulf, aimed at reassuring allies and keeping open the
Strait, through which as much as 20 percent of traded oil is
shipped daily, in the face of intermittent threats by  Iran  to
mine it, sink a tanker, or make other moves to close it.  “We still think it’s an international strait,” and “we
will continue to move in and out of it,” the Eisenhower’s
commander, Captain Marcus Hitchcock, told reporters on his
bridge during a Sept. 18 visit to the carrier in the middle of
the Gulf about 70 miles (113 kilometers) from Iran.  Iranian officials periodically have threatened to close the
Strait, which is 21 miles wide at its narrowest point, in
response to economic sanctions from the U.S. and allies aimed at
forcing Iran to abandon its suspected nuclear weapons program,
as well as Israeli threats to mount a military attack.  Iranian Guard  “If a war takes place in the  Persian Gulf  with one side
being the U.S. and the West, it is natural that the security of
the Strait of Hormuz will be harmed,” the commander-in-chief of
Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, Major General Mohammad Ali Jafari, said Sept. 16, according to the  Islamic Republic
News Agency . He also said that “nothing will remain” of  Israel 
if it attacks.  So far, oil markets remain unmoved by the Iranian threats.
Brent oil for November settlement fell $3.84, or 3.4 percent, to
$108.19 a barrel yesterday on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe . It was the lowest close since Aug. 2. Brent, a benchmark
for more than half of the world’s oil, has risen from $89.23 on
June 21, which was the lowest settlement since December 2010.  The Eisenhower is providing air cover for a mine-clearing
exercise in the Persian Gulf involving the U.S. and 29 other
nations. The Eisenhower alternates on duty in the Gulf with the
 USS Enterprise , which is in the  Arabian Sea  providing air
support for U.S. troops in  Afghanistan .  Frequent Dealings  For all the tension over Iran and warnings from its
officials, “we deal with the Iranian navy and Revolutionary
Guard almost on a daily basis. They are very professional
navies,” Hitchcock said. “We have not threatened. They have
not threatened.”  The message was repeated in a briefing for reporters by
Rear Admiral Michael Manazir, commander of Carrier Strike Group
8, and in a message he delivered later to the carrier’s entire
crew over the Eisenhower’s public-address system.  Should the situation turn hostile, officials said, they’re
well-trained and equipped to handle a swarming attack by some of
the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps navy’s small boats.  “Fast-attack craft -- they are small, they are
maneuverable, they carry explosives, they carry small arms,”
Manazir told reporters. “They are a threat, but we train to
that threat and we can address them with our surface ships,
helicopters, and our fixed-wing aircraft.”  Upgrading Vessels  The Navy also has accelerated delivery to the Gulf of
specialized Griffin missiles made by Waltham, Massachusetts-
based Raytheon and machine guns with laser trackers to upgrade
U.S. coastal-patrol vessels to defend against the boats.  Manazir, who served on the carrier USS Nimitz in the Gulf
and studied the U.S. Navy’s response in 1986 and 1987, when Iran
mined parts of the Gulf, said the threat “is essentially the
same.”  “What has gotten more sophisticated is the actual weapons
systems and guidance systems,” he said. “Those boats have
gotten more capable, and they’ve bought more of them or produced
more of them,” he said.  The Pentagon’s 2010 assessment of Iran’s military power
listed four midget submarines, 80 patrol craft and 18 guided
missile patrol boats under control of the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps navy. The IRGC also “controls hundreds of small
patrol boats,” it said.  Italian Speedboats  Since the 1990s, the Guard navy has purchased Italian-made
speedboats and has been making them domestically, according a
2009 report by the U.S. Office of Naval Intelligence.  It also has Chinese-built C-14 missile boats and North
Korean-made “semi-submersible” vessels that can carry two
torpedoes.  “When you have a lot of boats” they must be defended
against in a multifaceted manner because that’s “a rather
difficult threat,” Manazir told reporters. “But we train
against it. We have weapons that are effective against them, and
I think we would do just fine.”  “It’s very difficult for Iran to operate small boats in
high seas,” he said, referring to the Gulf’s sometimes heavy
seas. “Sometimes the conditions out here don’t lend themselves
to small-boat operations.”  Asked if Iran’s capabilities have made the Eisenhower more
vulnerable, Manazir said, “We provide protection around the
carrier, either carrier defenses” or “the umbrellas around
it” from the 42  Boeing Co. (BA)  F/A-18 Hornet aircraft on board and
the four vessels of the strike group.  “When we go through the Strait we are very well-
protected,” Manazir said. “I don’t think the threat changed to
the point were we say we can’t bring the carrier in here.”  “These are fairly big ships,” he said. “You start moving
an aircraft carrier 33 knots -- pretty difficult to catch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio aboard the USS Eisenhower at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  