-- Utica Shale Prospects Dim Amid Disapponting Lease Offers
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-09-19T20:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/utica-shale-prospects-dim-amid-disapponting-lease-offers.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and other
oil and natural-gas explorers in Ohio’s Utica Shale may have a
tougher time raising drilling cash from joint ventures as
investors trim offerings for stakes in undrilled fields.  PDC Energy Corp. didn’t receive a high enough bid from
would-be joint-venture partners for an interest in its Utica
holdings and will develop the acreage on its own, the Denver-
based company said today in a statement.  PDC’s failure bodes ill for Chesapeake, the U.S. gas
producer that’s searching for a joint-venture partner for its
Utica assets, touted as a discovery to rival the Eagle Ford
Shale in Texas. Chesapeake won’t get anything close to the
$15,000 an acre  Total S.A. (FP)  paid last year for a stake in some of
its Utica fields, said Neal Dingmann, an analyst at SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Inc.  “The numbers are going the wrong way,”  Mark Hanson , an
analyst at Morningstar Investment Services in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview today.  In addition to PDC and Chesapeake, the “best positioned”
explorers with Utica holdings include  Gulfport Energy Corp. (GPOR)  of
Oklahoma City,  Rex Energy Corp. (REXX)  of  State College , Pennsylvania,
and  Magnum Hunter Resources Corp. (MHR)  of Houston, Dingmann said in
an Aug. 30 note to clients.  “This indicates it’s still too early to say the Utica is
the next big thing,” Hanson said.  Best in Play  PDC held drilling rights on 45,000 acres in the Utica as of
June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. PDC
didn’t disclose the rejected bid amounts or its minimum asking
price in today’s statement. The company’s shares fell 5.9
percent to $30.99 at the close in  New York .  About half of the 45,000 acres PDC controls constitute
“the best in the play,” Dingmann said in a telephone interview
from Houston today. The company’s inability to garner a
satisfactory bid for superior holdings signals “Chesapeake is
facing a difficult position” as it seeks to raise cash to plug
a funding shortfall, he said.  Chesapeake sold a 25 percent stake in 542,000 Utica acres
for $2.03 billion on Dec. 30 to France’s Total, a per-acre price
that was more than four times the average proceeds from seven
Utica shale transactions tracked by  IHS Inc. (IHS)  from March 2011 to
September 2011.  “It’s going to be very tough for Chesapeake to get
anything close to that,” Dingmann said.  Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake,
declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  Funding Gap  Chesapeake Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  said
during a Sept. 6 conference call that the company plans to find
a joint-venture partner for some of its 1.3 million acres of
Utica leases next year. The transaction will be part of
McClendon’s effort to raise at least $4.25 billion in 2013 to
close a gap between cash flow and expenses.  Chesapeake announced $6.9 billion in asset sales last week
that included oilfields, pipelines and gas-processing plants
from Texas to Ohio. With 80 percent of its output in the form of
gas, Chesapeake has been grappling with a North American glut of
the power-plant and furnace fuel that drove prices to a 10-year
low in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  