-- Vega-Chi’s Dealerless Junk Bond Platform to Start Next Month
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-09-19T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/vega-chi-s-dealerless-junk-bond-platform-to-start-next-month.html
Vega-Chi Ltd., which operates a
trading platform in  Europe  for convertible and high-yield debt,
plans to start its U.S. junk-bond system next month.  Vega-Chi is introducing the platform on Oct. 24 with more
than 45 institutional investors as clients, the London-based
firm said today in an e-mailed statement. The company, which
bypasses traditional market makers to match buyers’ and sellers’
orders on an “exchange-like” electronic platform, had planned
to offer the service as soon as July after announcing it in May.  “Especially given the caliber of clients we’ve signed up,
we think it’s significant enough a move to make a meaningful
addition,” Constantinos Antoniades, the former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. trader who founded Vega-Chi, said in a telephone
interview. “We’ve reached the critical mass we wanted to have.
This is happening, it’s real, it’s coming to you in five
weeks.”  The effort comes as Wall Street’s biggest banks pare their
balance sheets by cutting inventories of corporate bonds to
comply with regulations that they reduce their exposure to risk.
While holdings of  corporate securities  at the primary dealers
that trade with the  Federal Reserve  have shrunk 81 percent from
their peak in 2007 to $43.8 billion as of Sept. 5, the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II index has
expanded in the same period to $1 trillion from $687 billion.  Vega-Chi, which received regulatory approval for trading as
a broker-dealer from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
in April, expects the number of participants to reach 80 within
its first three months of trading, the company said in the
statement.  Speculative-grade, or junk, debt is graded below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  