-- Virgin Asks EU Court to Overturn IAG-BMI Merger Approval
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-09-19T11:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/virgin-asks-eu-court-to-overturn-iag-bmi-merger-approval.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. is
challenging the European Union’s decision to allow British
Airways parent IAG to purchase BMI.  Virgin has asked the EU’s General Court, the 27-nation
bloc’s second-highest tribunal, to overturn the European
Commission’s approval for the deal, the Luxembourg-based EU
court’s press office said today.  IAG, formally known as  International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG) , won EU antitrust approval March 30 to purchase BMI
from  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , a move that strengthened British
Airways’ position at London’s Heathrow Airport.  Richard Branson ,
Virgin’s billionaire owner, said in April that he would
challenge the deal because it allowed British Airways “to
become even more bloated.”  While Virgin, based in Crawley,  England , plans to bid on
all 12 of the take-off and landing slots that British Airways
has been told to give up as part of the merger’s approval,
Branson said that won’t ensure adequate competition.  The court can annul regulatory approval for the deal and
require antitrust officials to re-examine it. Independent record
labels successfully appealed the EU’s 2004 approval for Sony and
Bertelsmann AG to create the Sony BNG record label at the EU
courts, forcing a second review by regulators that eventually
approved it again. Cisco Systems Inc. is currently challenging
regulators’ decision to approve Microsoft Corp.’s $8.5 billion
takeover of Skype Technologies SA.  Decisions by the General Court can be challenged at the EU
Court of Justice, the bloc’s highest court.  The case is: T-344/12 -  Virgin Atlantic Airways  v.
Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ,
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 