-- Volksbanken Wins EU Approval for State Aid, Restructuring
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-19T12:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/volksbanken-wins-eu-approval-for-state-aid-restructuring-plan.html
Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ,
the lender bailed out by Austria three times since 2008, won
European Union approval for government support after agreeing to
sell or wind down more than a third of its assets.  Volksbanken, whose decade-long, fivefold balance sheet
expansion unraveled since 2008, will focus on supporting local
cooperative banks under a plan negotiated with the EU, the
Brussels-based European Commission said in a  statement today .
The lender will stop large corporate and real estate financing
and subsidiaries not focused on the support functions.  “I welcome the bank’s objective to focus on its core
business of providing services to the local and regional”
credit cooperatives, European Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement. “Making sure that banks that
received state aid throughout the EU change their business model
will help build a healthier financial sector.”  Austria has spent about 12 billion euros ($15.6 billion) to
bail out or support its banks since 2008 and has been told by
ratings companies  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s that lenders are
the biggest risk to its sovereign creditworthiness. The Alpine
nation may miss its 2012 budget target because of additional
capital needs at nationalized banks this year.  Biggest Hole  Volksbanken is responsible for the biggest chunk of
taxpayer aid. Its Kommunalkredit unit, then co-owned by Franco-
Belgian  Dexia SA (DEXB) , was nationalized in 2008 and has since
required capital and guarantees of 2.2 billion euros.
Volksbanken itself received government capital injections of
1.25 billion euros in 2009 and 2012 and an asset guarantee of
100 million euros.  Austria  owns 43 percent of Vienna-based
Volksbanken since a second aid deal in April.  Volksbanken has carved out a segment called “non-core
business” that had 12.6 billion euros of assets at the end of
June, according to its  quarterly report . It has already sold
most of its eastern European banks, its property subsidiary,
retail lenders it owned directly and a container-leasing unit.  The next biggest hole into which the Austrian government is
pumping cash is Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, which was
nationalized in December 2009 after then-owner BayernLB withdrew
its support. Hypo Alpe has been ordered by Austrian bank
regulator FMA to raise 1.5 billion euros of fresh capital this
year and 700 million euros next year, which aren’t yet provided
for in Austria’s budget plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  