-- Yankees Win Double-Header Opener Behind Pettitte to Remain First
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-19T20:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/yankees-win-double-header-opener-behind-pettitte-to-remain-first.html
Andy Pettitte  threw five shutout
innings in his first start in 85 days as the  New York Yankees 
held off a late charge to beat the  Toronto Blue Jays  and regain
sole possession of first place in the American League East.  Pettitte, 40, allowed four hits and three walks on 75
pitches in the 4-2 victory, the first game of a double-header
today at Yankee stadium. Ichiro Suzuki, batting leadoff, was 3-
for-4 with two runs scored and made a tumbling catch in left
field for the final out in the eighth inning after the Blue Jays
had closed to 3-2.  The Yankees (84-63) are a half-game ahead of the  Baltimore
Orioles  (84-64) for the AL East lead, with both Major League
Baseball teams playing tonight. New York has played one less
game and has no off days remaining in the season.  Trailing 3-0 in the top of the eighth, the Blue Jays scored
twice and loaded the bases before New York closer  Rafael Soriano 
induced a line drive to left field. Suzuki ran in and caught the
ball, cradling it against his chest as he rolled to the ground
to end the inning.  Pettitte hadn’t pitched since June 27, when a line drive
broke his left ankle. He was given a 3-0 lead in the first
inning, and struck out three before leaving when he reached his
pitch limit.  Both Blue Jays runs were charged to  David Robertson , who
allowed four hits in two-thirds of an inning. Soriano recorded
the final four outs for his 41st save of the season.  The Yankees, who held a 10-game divisional lead on July 18,
haven’t ended a day out of first place since June 10. The
Orioles took a half-game lead in the division on Sept. 13
following a day-game victory, but New York pulled even that
night.  David Phelps is scheduled to take the mound tonight for the
Yankees against Toronto’s Ricky Romero. The Orioles are on the
road against the Seattle Mariners (70-79).  Baltimore holds the American League’s second wild card
spot, a half-game behind the  Oakland Athletics  and three games
ahead of the  Los Angeles Angels . The Orioles haven’t had a
winning record since 1997, the last time they made the playoffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  