-- Myanmar’s Aung San Suu Kyi Receives Congressional Gold Medal
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-09-20T01:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/myanmar-s-aung-san-suu-kyi-receives-congressional-gold-medal-1-.html
Myanmar’s democracy leader,  Aung San Suu Kyi , received the highest civilian award from U.S.
lawmakers, the Congressional Gold Medal, in a ceremony today in
the Capitol Rotunda.  “This is one of the most moving days of my life,” she
told a gathering of congressional leaders that also included
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and former first lady  Laura Bush . She thanked the American people for keeping her and her
nation in mind during the many years of repression in Myanmar,
also known as Burma.  Suu Kyi went from the Capitol to the White House for a
private visit with President  Barack Obama . During their meeting,
Obama reaffirmed U.S. support for political and economic change
in Myanmar while expressing admiration for Suu Kyi’s “courage,
determination and personal sacrifice” in advocating democracy,
according to a White House statement.  “The President expressed his conviction that the ongoing
process of reconciliation and reform offers the people of that
nation the opportunity to take charge of their destiny,”
according to the statement.  Shortly after she left the meeting with Obama, the Treasury
Department announced that the U.S. is lifting sanctions against
Myanmar’s President  Thein Sein  and lower house of parliament
Speaker Thura Shwe Mann in recognition of their “efforts on
behalf of reform” in the country.  ‘Moment of Joy’  When Congress voted to grant her the award in 2008, Suu Kyi
was under house arrest by a military junta in Myanmar for her
advocacy of democracy and human rights. She was released in
November 2010 after spending 15 years as a political prisoner.
She was elected to parliament this year amid reforms.  “Today is a moment of joy, a moment to honor a genuine
hero -- or heroine,” said Democratic Representative Joseph Crowley of  New York , one of the lawmakers who sponsored her
award.  She is someone who has inspired millions of others to stand
up for human rights and for justice, he said.  Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  called Suu Kyi
“my personal hero.”  Suu Kyi said yesterday she supported the easing of
sanctions as her nation moves toward more democracy. The U.S.
has been encouraging an opening of Myanmar to the world,
including business investment. The Treasury Department said in a
statement that additional sanctions may be ended “to meet
changing conditions.”  In July, Obama authorized U.S. companies to invest in
Myanmar for the first time in about 15 years after Thein Sein
freed political prisoners, allowed greater media freedom and
held peace talks with rebels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  