-- Zloty Hits Two-Week Low as Output Growth Slows Most in 34 Months
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2012-09-19T13:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/zloty-hits-two-week-low-as-output-growth-slows-most-in-34-months.html
The zloty weakened to a two-week
low after industrial output growth missed analyst forecasts,
piling more pressure on the central bank to cut  interest rates .  The Polish currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 4.1358
against the euro as of 2:37 p.m. in Warsaw, exceeding its
decline to a third day. The yield on the government’s 10-year
zloty bond was unchanged at 4.98 percent.  Industrial output increased 0.5 percent from a year earlier
in August, the slowest pace since October 2009, compared with a
5.2 percent increase in July, the  Central Statistics Office  in
Warsaw said today. That exceeded the 1.1 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 27 economists.  Poland ’s gross domestic
product expansion hit a three-year low in the second quarter as
the euro region, the country’s biggest export market, is on the
brink of recession.  “Investors are reacting to weaker-than-expected data,”
 Maciej Reluga , chief economist Bank Zachodni WBK SA, said by
phone from Warsaw. “The zloty shouldn’t weaken drastically over
the near-term unless further evidence of slowing growth unnerves
foreign investors, which seems unlikely.”  The weaker growth data “support expectations for monetary
easing and may be negative for zloty,”  Rafal Benecki , chief
economist at ING Bank Slaski SA, wrote in a research note today.  Poland’s central bank will end their next interest rate
meeting on Oct. 3. Policy makers have “re-evaluated” the
country’s economic outlook as the euro region remains in an
economic crisis, Jan Winiecki, one of 10 members of the bank’s
Monetary Policy Council, said on TVN CNBC on Sept. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  