-- ZTE, Mozilla Plan Mobile System to Compete With Android
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-19T08:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/zte-mozilla-plan-mobile-system-to-compete-with-android.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) , China’s second-biggest
maker of phone equipment, will release a new mobile operating
system with the developer of the Firefox web browser to compete
with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  The software will be available in the December quarter, ZTE
Executive Vice President He Shiyou told a briefing in Beijing
today. Closely held Mozilla Corp. makes Firefox.  ZTE is in talks with overseas carriers to offer devices
with the new operating system to reduce its reliance on Android
as it expects smartphone sales will double this year amid market
share gains in Europe,  North America , Brazil and Japan. ZTE is
expanding in mobile devices and cloud computing where  sales 
growth is faster than its traditional equipment business as the
pace of new network rollouts slows.  “We will not rely on only one operating system,” He said.  The Shenzhen-based company uses Android on about 90 percent
of its smartphones with the rest using Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
Mobile.  ZTE rose 5 percent to HK$11.26 at the close in Hong Kong
 trading . The stock has dropped 54 percent this year, while the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has gained 13 percent.  ‘Unrealistic Strategy’  The challenges confronting ZTE to build an operating system
that can compete with Android, Windows Phone or  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS
will be considerable, not the least of which is establishing a
community of developers to make games and other apps for the
devices.  As app developers are already committed to to the existing
systems, ZTE’s plan is “a very unrealistic strategy,” said
 Pierre Ferragu , a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in London.  “Operating systems follow winner-take-all rules,” Ferragu
said in an e-mail today. “How can an operating system limited
to a small, low-end manufacturer gain traction ever? It will
most likely play against ZTE as consumers want Android, or at
best be a non-event if they continue to do Android and Windows
at the same time.”  Huawei Technologies  Huawei Technologies Co., China’s biggest telephone
equipment maker, said on Sept. 12 it had no immediate plan for a
mobile operating system following a report on the Sohu.com
website that it would develop a backup to Android.  By 2015, mobile devices will account for 50 percent of
ZTE’s sales, up from 40 percent this year, He said in April.  In the second quarter, ZTE smartphone shipments in the
China market rose to third place from fourth, behind  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , and Apple Inc., market
researcher IDC said last month.  ZTE last month began sales of its first fourth-generation
handset, the Grand X LTE (T82), through  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ’s Hong
Kong unit. The Grand series of devices is intended to be ZTE’s
“high-end flagship offering,” the company said in a June
statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  