-- Maamba to Borrow $550 Million for Zambian Power Plant
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-04-11T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/maamba-to-borrow-550-million-for-zambian-power-plant.html
Maamba Collieries Ltd., the Nava
Bharat Singapore Pte Ltd. unit building Zambia’s first coal-
fired power plant in 50 years, hopes to complete $550 million in
debt financing by August, its chief financial officer said.  The company is in talks with lenders including the African
 Development Bank ,  China Development Bank ,  Standard Bank Group
Ltd. (SBK) , the CFO, V. Lakshmi Narayana, said.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  also expressed interest in funding Maamba’s
power-plant project, he said.  “We have seen a very high level of interest,” Narayana
said in an interview yesterday in Maamba, about 240 kilometers
(159 miles) southwest of the capital, Lusaka. “We received
expressions of interest almost 1.25 times more than we were
seeking to raise.”  Maamba is building a 300-megawatt power plant next to the
 coal mine  it owns in Zambia’s Southern Province, near Lake
Kariba, to cover an electricity shortage that has led to cuts in
Africa’s biggest copper producer. The company also plans to take
advantage of coal demand in the country that it says may double
over the next year.  The plant will start producing power by October 2014,
Narayana said, and the company will probably start building a
second phase at the plant in 2015 that will double capacity.  Nava Bharat owns 65 percent of Maamba, while the Zambian
government owns 35 percent through  ZCCM Investments Holdings
Plc. (ZCCM)   ABSA Group Ltd. (ASA)  is advising Maamba on its financing.  Chinese Lenders  The company is also talking to the Development Bank of
Southern Africa Ltd. and the Bank of China, Narayana said. The
group of Chinese lenders will probably provide the biggest share
of funding, he said.  Zambia has a capacity to produce about 2,000 megawatts of
power, almost all generated by hydro plants. The southern
African nation has experienced shortages as mining industry
growth outpaces the increase in electricity supplies.  While Maamba will depend on selling electricity to state-
owned power utility Zesco Ltd. for most of its profit, the
company is also considering exporting coal to the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo by rail, said Janardhan Lavu, corporate
affairs manager.  The company sells 20,000 tons to 30,0000 tons of coal
monthly to Zambian cement factories, steel plants, copper mines
and fertilizer makers. Exports to Congo could match Maamba’s
local coal sales, he said.  “There is a substantial market there,” mainly in the
copper industry, said Lavu. Local sales themselves may double by
the end of next year as new cement plants start producing, he
said.  Mining companies want to take advantage of Zambia Railways
Ltd. plans to spend $1.5 billion to resuscitate the country’s
rail network. Konkola Copper Mines this month sent its first
copper by rail from its mines in Chingola by rail to Tanzania in
five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Maamba at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  