-- Achleitner Called on to Restore ‘Peace’ at Deutsche Bank
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-11T10:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/achleitner-called-on-to-restore-peace-at-deutsche-bank.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  supervisory board
chairman  Paul Achleitner  must improve corporate governance at
Germany’s biggest bank to allow management to focus on boosting
shareholder returns, investors said.  “Ensure that Deutsche Bank can finally come to peace and
concentrate on its operating business,”  Ingo Speich , a  fund
manager  at Union Investment, said to Achleitner in a speech at a
meeting of the bank’s shareholders in Frankfurt today.
“Corporate governance needs to be examined. The past shows
there’s significant room for improvement here.”  Deutsche Bank shareholders will vote on motions originally
passed at their annual meeting in 2012 after a Frankfurt court
deemed the resolutions void because Achleitner’s predecessor,
 Clemens Boersig , curtailed an investor’s right to speak. Boersig
also came under fire at the meeting last May for his handling of
the succession of former Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann . Achleitner became chairman in June.  “You have to lead the bank to more integrity,” said Hans-
Martin Buhlmann, chairman of the Cologne, Germany-based
Association of Institutional Shareholders. “You have to create
a culture of ethics for employees and clients that makes
shareholders proud to own the stock and staff proud to have a
Deutsche Bank identity card. You are our leader for this.”  Some shareholders voiced their disapproval of Boersig, 64,
last May, with only 78 percent of investors who cast a valid
vote ratifying the supervisory board’s actions compared with 99
percent signing off on those of the management board, company
filings show.  Bank Adviser  Speich said his firm didn’t vote in favor of ratifying the
supervisory board’s actions at the meeting last year.  Achleitner, a 56-year-old Austrian, stepped down as chief
financial officer of insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  to join the bank. The
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker advised Deutsche Bank on
its $9 billion purchase of Bankers Trust Corp. in 1998, a key
step toward becoming a global investment bank.  “We don’t want the current problems to just be the tip of
the iceberg,” Speich said, without being more specific. “We
need a strong and independent supervisory board that knows the
subject matter so that Deutsche Bank’s business is led back into
an orderly path and value can be created for shareholders.”  Union Investment is Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank’s ninth-
biggest external shareholder, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund manager for Germany’s cooperative banks said
it holds about 1 percent of Deutsche Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  