-- Ackman Warns of REIT Crackdown With Rising Conversions
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-04-11T22:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/ackman-warns-of-reit-crackdown-with-rising-conversions.html
Bill Ackman , founder of Pershing
Square Capital Management LP, said rising conversions to real
estate investment  trusts  among owners of nontraditional property
may spur changes that would be harmful to the industry.  New restrictions are likely if too many landlords with
property not usually owned by REITs make the conversion, Ackman
said today at a conference at New York University’s Schack
Institute of Real Estate in Manhattan. REITs, which own such
commercial properties as office buildings, shopping centers and
warehouses, don’t pay federal income taxes.  “If you push the envelope too much, there will be a
crackdown on the REIT industry,” said Ackman, the second-
largest investor in  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , a Chicago-
based mall  REIT. (BBREIT)   Companies outside of traditional property owners are
adopting the REIT structure as investors clamor for stocks that
can deliver stable payouts yielding an average of 3.4 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Low interest rates,
meanwhile, are making alternative investments less attractive.
Landlords also are changing their status to cut taxes and gain
access to capital enjoyed by property trusts.  Geo Group Inc., a penitentiary operator, and American Tower
Corp., an owner of communications towers, are among the
companies that have converted. CBS Corp. said in January it is
planning a conversion for its billboard unit. Casino owner  Penn
National Gaming Inc. (PENN)  announced plans in November to split into
two public companies, one a REIT.  Casino Owners  The intent of the original REIT legislation wasn’t for
companies such as casino owners to become REITs, Ackman said.  In exchange for not paying federal income taxes, REITs,
whose primary income streams are from real estate, are required
by the  Internal Revenue Service  to distribute at least 90
percent of their taxable earnings to shareholders in the form of
dividends.  Passing gaming money through the tax-free structure will
invite scrutiny of traditional REITs,  Jonathan Gray ,  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ’s global head of real estate, said at today’s
conference.  Ackman said it would be “absurd” for a company such as
 Waste Management Inc. (WM)  to adopt the REIT structure. Waste
Management, the biggest U.S. trash hauler, was the subject of
speculation for a conversion in January after Credit Suisse
Group AG said investors would benefit from such a move. The
Houston-based company said at the time it had no plans to become
a REIT.  Waste Management  fell  as much as 0.9 percent after Ackman’s
comments. It closed down 0.2 percent to $39.30.  Share Gains  Gains in shares of REITs may encourage more companies to
adopt the structure, Omotayo Okusanya, a Jefferies LLC analyst,
wrote in a report yesterday. Conversions may be possible for
companies that own power plants and other energy-related assets,
as well as farms, vineyards, railroads, bridges, ports, highways
and even parking garages and cemeteries, Okusanya said.  Seven of eight companies that became REITs in the  bull
market  since March 2009 rose more after their conversions than
another industry gauge, the MSCI U.S. REIT Index, according to
Okusanya. Corrections Corp. of America, the largest U.S. owner
of prisons, was the exception.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  