-- Macy’s Seeks to Broaden Bar on Penney’s Stewart Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-11T22:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/macy-s-seeks-to-broaden-bar-on-penney-s-stewart-sales.html
Macy’s Inc. (M)  will ask a judge to
expand an injunction blocking J.C. Penney Co. from selling goods
designed by Martha Stewart’s company in certain categories even
if they don’t carry her name or trademark.  Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in  New York  is
scheduled to hear arguments tomorrow to broaden a preliminary
injunction he issued in July blocking Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. from selling goods with Stewart’s name at J.C.
Penney in categories exclusive to Macy’s, including soft home
goods and cookware.  Macy’s wants Oing to extend the injunction to cover goods
designed by Stewart’s company that don’t carry her name, which
J.C. Penney plans to sell under the name “JCP Everyday.”
Macy’s also wants Oing to declare that plastic partyware sold at
J.C. Penney under the name  “MarthaCelebrations”  violates his
injunction and should be pulled from the shelves.  Oing yesterday dismissed one of the two claims in Macy’s
suit against  Martha Stewart  Living, saying that Macy’s hadn’t
proved that the company violated a confidentiality provision of
their contract.  The judge today denied a motion by New York-based Martha
Stewart Living to dismiss the second breach-of-contract claim as
it relates to whether the company can design products for other
retailers in the exclusive categories.  No Disgorgement  The judge granted Martha Stewart Living’s motion to dismiss
a claim for damages related to disgorgement, saying that
Cincinnati-based Macy’s isn’t entitled to part of a design fee
paid to the company by J.C. Penney, which is based in Plano,
 Texas .  Oing also granted a motion to dismiss one of three claims
in the Macy’s suit against  J.C. Penney. (JCP)  The judge threw out a
claim for intentional contract interference, citing yesterday’s
confidentiality ruling. Oing said he will rule tomorrow morning
on a motion by J.C. Penney to dismiss a second claim of unfair
competition.  “MSLO’s lawyers will show that at our core MSLO is a
design house committed to designing beautiful, high-quality
products and that our contract with Macy’s permits us to license
our designs to all retailers so that consumers can buy them
wherever they shop,” Katherine Nash, a company spokeswoman,
said in a statement.  The three sides returned to court this week to resume a
trial of Macy’s lawsuits following a monthlong break, during
which mediation efforts ordered by Oing were unsuccessful. The
trial, which began Feb. 20, has featured testimony from Martha
Stewart, Macy’s Chairman  Terry Lundgren  and former J.C. Penney
Chief Executive  Ron Johnson , who was ousted the same day the
trial resumed.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million.  Home Goods  Macy’s, which has sold Martha Stewart-branded home goods
since 2007, sued her company in January 2012, saying it had the
exclusive right to sell items in certain categories including
bedding and cookware. Macy’s sued J.C. Penney about three months
later.  Lawyers for Macy’s have argued that J.C. Penney is trying
to “reap the rewards” of its work with the Martha Stewart
brand, which the chain said it rebuilt after Stewart’s release
from prison in 2005, when her products were sold at  Kmart. (SHLD)   Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands.  Martha Stewart Living also said Macy’s couldn’t have
exercised a five-year renewal option in January 2012 because of
the breach.  Johnson’s plan for the retailer was focused on a series of
shops-in-shops centered on brands including Martha Stewart and
designer  Michael Graves .  Internet Sales  Martha Stewart Living had argued that its original contract
with Macy’s allowed the company to design and sell products
within the exclusive categories as long as they were sold
through the Internet, television or any retail store branded
with the Stewart name.  During his arguments today, Eric Seiler, a lawyer for
Martha Stewart Living, told the judge “there’s not going to be
a Martha Stewart store at J.C. Penney anymore.”  Seiler was referring to the injunction that’s currently in
place, Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, said in an
e-mail.  “We are moving forward with shops for MarthaCelebrations
and other non-exclusive categories,” Avila said.  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v.  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) , 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  