-- Maduro Calls Up Maradona as Campaigning Ends for Venezuela Vote
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-04-11T20:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/maduro-calls-up-maradona-as-campaigning-ends-for-venezuela-vote.html
Venezuela ’s acting President
 Nicolas Maduro  will end his campaign today ahead of the April 14
election, calling up the support of Argentine soccer player
 Diego Maradona  at a mass rally in Caracas.  The man Hugo Chavez named as his heir shortly before his
death from cancer March 5 has already addressed a large crowd in
the western state of Zulia before traveling back to the capital.
Opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski, who lost to
Chavez by 11 percentage points in an election last October, is
due to close his campaign in the western city of Barquisimeto,
in Lara state.  Maduro, a former bus driver and union leader who served as
Chavez’s foreign minister for six years, is campaigning on a
pledge to fulfill Chavez’s desire to cement his “21st century
revolution” in  South America ’s largest oil producer. He had 55
percent against 45 percent for Capriles in a simulated vote of
1,300 people carried out April 1-5, according to a Datanalisis.
The Caracas-based pollster’s survey had a margin of error of 2.6
percent. In a March 11-13 Datanalisis poll Maduro led by 14
percentage points.  “If you ask me what I’m going to do if I win, here it
is,” Maduro said today in an interview aired on state
television, pointing at a pamphlet Chavez presented as his
government manifesto in October’s election. “I’m going to carry
out  Hugo Chavez ’s legacy.”  Burning Effigy  Maduro’s says his final rally will include Maradona. The
man named by the International Federation of Association
Football as Player of the 20th Century alongside  Brazil ’s Pele,
was a regular visitor to Caracas during Chavez’s tenure. At the
2005 Summit of the Americas held in Mar del Plata,  Argentina ,
Maradona persuaded Chavez to join 30,000 protesters who burned
an effigy of former U.S. President  George W. Bush  in objection
to his proposal for free-trade policies in the region.  Capriles’s last act of the campaign will take place in the
closely contested western state of Lara. He has criticized the
government’s handling of the economy and corruption while saying
he won’t eliminate social programs for the poor.  “I’m not going to eliminate anything that’s beneficial to
the people,” Capriles said today in comments broadcast on
Globovision. “What I am going to eliminate is the corruption of
this little group of these plugged in to the system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 