-- Afghan Withdrawal Risks U.S. Intelligence Collection
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-04-11T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/afghan-withdrawal-risks-u-s-intelligence-collection.html
The departure of most U.S. forces
from  Afghanistan  by the end of 2014 is likely to limit the
ability of intelligence agencies to collect information on
emerging threats in the region, Director of National
Intelligence James Clapper told Congress.  “Obviously it’s not going to be as robust as it is today
simply because we won’t have the presence in as many locales”
able to gather intelligence, Clapper told the House intelligence
committee yesterday.  The U.S. has 66,000 troops in the country now. The Obama
administration plans to withdraw 34,000 by February and bring
home most of the rest by the end of 2014, leaving a small force
to train and advise Afghan forces and carry out counterterrorism
efforts. The U.S. and Afghanistan are negotiating a bilateral
treaty that would allow a U.S. military presence beyond 2014.  “As the other components of our presence there, the
military and the diplomatic,” are reduced, “that in turn
affects the footprint that we will have residual in
Afghanistan,” Clapper said.  Clapper said the continued U.S. presence in Afghanistan
will depend on negotiations between the two countries.  “It’s our intent, though, to maintain -- sustain --
sufficient intelligence presence there so we can certainly
monitor any terrorist activity that would potentially pose a
nascent threat to the homeland,” Clapper said in response to a
question by Representative Mike Pompeo, a Kansas Republican.  Pompeo said in a phone interview he was concerned that the
U.S. will continue to be able to “fight the bad guys and
provide security to keep America safe.”  NATO Troops  U.S. intelligence collection efforts also may be affected
during the next two years as a bulk of the U.S. troops pack up
and leave, Pompeo said.  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, told the House Armed Services Committee yesterday that
he backed the Obama administration’s proposal to leave behind
about 8,000 to 12,000 NATO troops in Afghanistan after 2014.  In February, then-Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  discussed
with North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies in Brussels the
possibility of keeping a combined allied presence at that level.  Some U.S. military officials and members of Congress have
publicly said that 13,600 American troops and 7,000 from other
countries will be necessary.  Among those who have pressed for that big a force are
Marine General James Mattis, who retired last month as head of
the U.S. Central Command, and Marine General Joseph Dunford, the
commander of coalition forces in Afghanistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  