-- Agilent’s Shares Seen Revived With Breakup: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-04-12T20:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/agilent-s-shares-seen-revived-with-breakup-real-m-a.html
Agilent Technologies Inc. (A) , with a
valuation cheaper than 96 percent of peers, would enrich
shareholders by breaking up and focusing on its faster-growing
biological- and chemical-testing businesses.  Agilent’s  stock  has risen only 3.3 percent in the past
year, lagging behind the 30 percent surge by health-care
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and leaving its
price-earnings ratio lower than all but one competitor,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Longbow Research says
that’s due to Agilent’s electronics-testing unit, which has seen
no  sales  growth in the past decade versus an almost threefold
rise at the life sciences and chemicals business, the data show.  Jettisoning the electronics division could boost  Santa
Clara , California-based Agilent’s  value  to $52 a share, 19
percent more than yesterday’s close, according to International
Strategy & Investment Group LLC. Credit Suisse Group AG said
some investors may prefer a company focused on health care.
Agilent recently considered expanding that business through a
purchase of  Life (LIFE)  Technologies Corp.’s sequencing unit, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  “You look at Agilent and you see them investing heavily in
the life sciences area as well as the genomics area, and you
think that naturally a split would be a possibility,” Jeffrey Loo, an equity analyst at S&P, said in a telephone interview.
“If they do split off life sciences, I think the life sciences
division would get a higher multiple and, from that perspective,
unlock  shareholder value .”  HP Spinoff  Michele Drake, a spokeswoman for Agilent, didn’t respond to
phone or e-mail messages seeking comment on whether the company
would be open to a breakup.  Agilent was formed in 1999 when Hewlett-Packard Co. spun
off its testing and measurement businesses. The unit that sells
measurement products used to build and test electronics
equipment saw sales slip to $3.315 billion in fiscal 2012 from
$3.318 billion a decade earlier. At the same time, the bio-
analytical segment increased revenue to $3.14 billion from $1.13
billion in 2002.  The company’s shares closed at $43.86 yesterday, down from
a recent peak of $52.58 in 2011, giving it a price-earnings
ratio of 15.3. That’s lower than 25 of the other 26 companies
trading for more than $1 billion in the life-science equipment
industry for which price-earnings ratios are available,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today, Agilent shares rose 2 percent to $44.75, the highest
closing price in two months. It was the third-biggest gain among
53 health-care stocks in the  S&P 500 .  Volatile Sales  Agilent’s stock has been pressured as investors grapple
with valuing the company’s disparate businesses, according to
Mark Douglass, an Independence, Ohio-based analyst at Longbow.  The electronics-measurement business can be off-putting for
shareholders because its sales are volatile, he said. Annual
 revenue  at the unit has fallen in six of the past 10 years,
while yearly sales from the bio-analytical division -- which
includes both life-sciences tools and chemical analysis -- have
fallen only twice, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They’ve really done a great job of building that
business,” Douglass said of the health-care-oriented division
during a phone interview. “Investors who invest in Agilent
because of that business would rather not have electronic
measurement. I think they see it as a drag.”  Agilent itself has signaled it wants to become “more and
more of a life sciences company” through acquisitions such as
its $2.2 billion purchase of cancer-diagnostic toolmaker Dako,
said Vamil Divan, a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse.  Life Offer  Agilent expressed interest in buying Life’s next-generation
sequencing business, a person familiar with the matter said this
week. Agilent didn’t make an offer for the unit, although it
remains interested should Life opt not to sell the whole
company, said the person, who asked not to be identified as the
process is private.  Separating the life sciences divisions from the rest of the
company could attract shareholders who want to invest in a stock
that’s focused on health care, according to Divan.  “It does make it a little bit easier for  investors  to
focus on what they know and not have to worry about things they
don’t,” Divan said in a phone interview. “If they took away
the electronics side, the entire company probably would receive
a higher multiple.”  Splitting Agilent into two businesses -- with one
consisting of the electronic testing division and the other of
life sciences, chemical analysis and genomics -- would yield $52
a share in value, based on a sum-of-the-parts analysis, ISI’s
 Ross Muken  in a phone interview.  ‘Implore Management’  “The total asset trades at a discount,” the New York-
based analyst said. A breakup “would be very value-enhancing,
and we would sort of implore management to consider it.”  Still, Agilent executives may not want to sever the
divisions given the savings from integrating research and order
fulfillment, said Joshua Schachter, a  money manager  at
Sewickley, Pennsylvania-based Snow Capital Management LP.  The units are “very different, but it doesn’t mean they
can’t go underneath the same umbrella,” said Schachter, whose
firm oversees $3 billion, including Agilent shares. “There are
benefits to scale and diversification that I think Agilent is
enjoying.”  A rebound in the electronics-measurement business could
also narrow the gap between Agilent’s share price and the value
of its assets, reducing the benefits of a breakup, said Jonathan Groberg, a New York-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  Turn Around  “I don’t know if it matters to go through all of the
effort of splitting up the business if that valuation discount
is just going to disappear once the electronics-measurement
business turns around, which is historically what has
happened,” he said in phone interview. He values Agilent at $47
a share, a 7.2 percent premium following yesterday’s 3.8 percent
surge in the stock, based on the sum of its parts.  Still, even if there is a rebound, investors may prefer a
simplified company without the risk of another slump at the
electronics division, said Douglass of Longbow.  “Investors have a tough time seeing why the two together
make enough sense for Agilent to keep them,” he said. “With
uncertainty comes lower valuations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  