-- Taiwan Bond Yield Rises Most in 2 Weeks as Korea Holds Rates
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-04-11T08:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/taiwan-bond-yield-rises-most-in-2-weeks-as-korea-holds-rates.html
Taiwan’s government bonds fell,
with the  five-year  yield rising the most in two weeks, on
speculation the Bank of  Korea ’s decision to keep borrowing costs
on hold will prompt the island’s policy makers to follow suit.  Taiwan and South Korea are both export-driven economies,
with companies such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.
and  HTC Corp. (2498)  competing with neighboring Samsung Electronics Co.
for global market share for products such as mobile phones. The
local dollar strengthened for a third day as the Bank of Korea
kept its benchmark interest rate at 2.75 percent, a result
predicted by nine of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
rest expected a reduction.  “South Korea’s decision not to cut rates is helping drive
Taiwan bond yields higher,” said Stanford Chen, a fixed-income
manager at KGI Securities Co. in Taipei. “South Korea’s central
bank didn’t cut rates, showing they’re still pretty confident
about the country’s outlook.”  The yield on the 0.875 percent notes due January 2018 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 0.99 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market. That’s the biggest gain
since March 29.  Taiwan ’s currency and stocks rose after North Korea failed
to conduct a missile test. The North may detonate a nuclear
device or carry out a missile test as early as this week, the
South’s Defense Ministry said on April 8.  “The fact that North Korea didn’t strike yesterday was
comforting to the market, although the political risk remains,”
KGI Securities’ Chen said.  Forwards Market  The Taiwan dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to NT$29.98
against its U.S. counterpart, Taipei Forex Inc. prices show. The
currency was trading 0.2 percent stronger one minute before the
4 p.m. close. The central bank has sold the local currency in
the run-up to the close on most days in the past year, according
to traders who asked not to be identified.  One-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.1 percent to
NT$29.92, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts touched
NT$30.10 on April 9, the weakest level since July 27.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, fell 25 basis points to
4.03 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  overnight interbank lending  rate was little changed at
0.386 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center. The Taiex Index of shares
advanced 1 percent, the biggest gain since Jan. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Hong Kong at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  