-- Alabama Republicans Divided Over Hispanics on Immigration
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-04-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/alabama-republicans-divided-over-hispanics-on-immigration.html
As U.S. Senator  Jeff Sessions 
becomes the lead critic of a bill that would let undocumented
immigrants win citizenship, the  Republican Party  in his home
state of  Alabama  is pushing in the opposite direction.  Bill Armistead, party chairman, supports immigration
changes to appeal to Hispanic voters. Sessions has opposed a
path to citizenship for the 11 million immigrants in the U.S.
illegally, doesn’t want more guest workers and has called for
months of hearings to comb through “every aspect” of changes.  A national appeal to Hispanics is splitting Republicans who
just two years ago pushed through one of the nation’s most
punishing immigration laws. The party has controlled Alabama’s
legislature and governor’s office since the 2010 elections. Its
presidential candidate,  Mitt Romney , in November won more than
60 percent of the vote even as his national campaign foundered
when he failed to draw minority support.  “It’s a very touchy subject,” said John Como, 66, the
Republican chairman of Madison County, which abuts  Tennessee .
“We’re a nation of laws and we should act like it. We also have
to stop treating Hispanics like they don’t belong here.”  In  Washington , a bipartisan group of senators is preparing
legislation offering the undocumented a path to legal status.
Finishing details of agreements this week on issues ranging from
tougher border security to visas for foreign farmworkers, they
are aiming to unveil legislation by next week.  Senate Judiciary Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat
planning a hearing April 17, said he expects to “have
legislative language to review by the time of the hearing.”  Hispanics Targeted  Targeting Hispanic voters is the key to success, according
to a March 18 report commissioned by the  Republican National
Committee . The report called on the party to “embrace and
champion comprehensive” changes to immigration law.  In Alabama, the challenge for Republicans is appealing to
Hispanics while reassuring their own base of voters.  Undocumented workers “ought to be rounded up, hung from a
tree and shot,” said Jimmy Crain, 72, outside a hardware store
about three miles from Sessions’s home in Mobile. “The only
reform I want is to shut it down.”  Crain, a retired U.S. Forest Service worker with short
white hair, said he tends to vote Republican. The Mobile
resident said he’d oppose the effort to recruit Hispanics if it
meant creating a path to citizenship for undocumented workers.  Rocio Siddiqui, a Costa Rica native who owns a restaurant
in Mobile, said tough Republican policies make her less likely
to vote for the party’s candidates.  “I’ve been here for 23 years and still I feel like a
foreigner,” said Siddiqui, 46, as mariachi music played in the
background. “I came here the right, legal way. But they make us
feel like we’re disposable.”  Public Opinion  Nationally, a majority of Republican voters say immigrants
burden the country, while majorities of Democrats and
independents say they strengthen it, according to a survey
conducted March 13-17 by the Pew Research Center, a Washington-
based nonpartisan group.  The push from the Republican leaders -- in Alabama and
Washington -- to parlay an immigration law into Hispanic support
follows President  Barack Obama ’s re-election in November, when
the Democrat won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote, up 4
percentage points from 2008, according to exit polls.  His victory came after Republicans pushed stringent
crackdowns on immigrants to encourage them to “self deport.”  Alabama’s Laws  Alabama was one of five states that in 2011 passed laws
modeled on a 2010  Arizona  measure that was largely invalidated
by the U.S. Supreme Court. An appellate court in Atlanta ruled
that many of Alabama’s requirements also aren’t constitutional.
The law let police arrest people after traffic stops if they
couldn’t prove legal status and barred undocumented workers from
renting a room or lodging for more than one night. It also
required schools to check students’ citizenship.  The law revived memories of Alabama’s intransigence during
the civil-rights era, when governors George Wallace and  John
Patterson  fought to preserve so-called Jim Crow rules that
oppressed blacks. The immigration law was called “Juan Crow.”  Governor Robert Bentley, who signed it, hasn’t pushed new
immigration measures since November. Asked in February whether
he backed off for fear of alienating Hispanic voters, Bentley
said states adopted the laws because the federal government
wasn’t doing enough. Bentley’s spokeswoman Jennifer Ardis
declined a request to speak with the governor this week.  Sessions, 66, declined an interview through his spokesman,
 Stephen Miller . The senator wrote in a March 29 column for the
National Review website that the 7.7 percent unemployment rate
in the U.S. was too high to expand the guest worker program. He
opposed a path to citizenship in 2007, calling it “amnesty”
for undocumented residents.  Senate Plan  The bipartisan group of senators has made progress on
crucial issues in recent days: On visas for farmworkers and
other low-skilled workers, and on a commitment to improving
border security as a prerequisite for any legislation.  The senators will propose continuous surveillance of 100
percent of the U.S. border, $3 billion for the Department of
 Homeland Security  to develop a plan in six months for 90 percent
effectiveness in its patrols, and preventing any provisional
legal status for the undocumented until that plan is in place,
according to a person familiar with the talks.  The goal is achievable hurdles that tie border security
directly to any pathway to citizenship, another person familiar
with the talks said. Homeland Security could not grant green
cards for U.S. residency until an entry-exit system ensures that
visa holders leave the country when they are supposed to and a
system is in place for verifying that businesses aren’t
employing undocumented workers.  A bipartisan group in the House also is working on a plan,
and  House Democrats  plan to unveil their own plan today.  Fairness Proposed  In Alabama, Armistead, 68, is advocating a “fair” bill
that allows the undocumented to become legal.  “We have to have a consensus among the Republicans as to
how we want to approach this,” Armistead said. “We can’t be
going in multiple directions.”  Hispanics account for about 4 percent of the state’s 4.82
million people, compared with 16.7 percent across the country,
Census data show. There are no Hispanics in the state
legislature, said Frank Barragan, founder of Coastal Coalition
for Immigrant Justice, a Mobile-based community group.  Armistead is recruiting Hispanic candidates and voters. The
goal has backing from party activists, though there are
disagreements on how to accomplish it, said Jim Zeanah,
Republican chairman of Tuscaloosa County, west of Birmingham.
Zeanah said members are divided over whether to “turn a blind
eye” and provide undocumented workers citizenship.  “We may have to swallow hard,” said Zeanah, 69.  Issues Overshadowed  Chairman Freddy Ard, 58, of Shelby County, south of
Birmingham, said opposing a federal immigration overhaul would
overshadow the party’s message on social and fiscal issues.  “It clouds everything else,” said Ard, who nonetheless
opposes a path to citizenship.  The tone set in Alabama contributes to the perceptions of
Republicans nationwide, said Jerry Lathan, 56, finance chairman
of the state party and owner of a Mobile historic-preservation
business.  “This is a great opportunity for the party,” Lathan said.
“I hope Jeff finds a way to get comfortable with it in a way
that deals with our principles and deals with the issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Mobile, Alabama at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  