-- Malawi’s President Banda Accuses Madonna of Charity Blackmail
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2013-04-11T14:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/malawi-s-president-banda-accuses-madonna-of-charity-blackmail.html
Malawi’s government criticized
singer Madonna as uncouth for demanding VIP treatment on a
recent visit, an accusation the pop star blamed on political
interference from President Joyce Banda’s sister.  Madonna last week went to the southern African nation, from
which she has adopted two children and started a charity to
build schools there, called Raising Malawi. She first traveled
there in 2006 and adopted a son, and later, a daughter.  “Madonna feels that the Malawi government and its
leadership should have abandoned everything and attended to her
because she believes she is a music star-turned-benefactor who
is doing Malawi good,” according to  a statement  from State
House Press Officer Tusekele Mwanyongo.  About half of Malawi’s 15 million people live on less than
$1 a day, according to the  International Monetary Fund , while
the government relies on donor funds for 40 percent of its
budget. The country is  Africa ’s biggest exporter of burley
tobacco and Limbe Leaf Tobacco Co., unit of the U.S.-based
Universal Corp.,  Alliance One International Inc. (AOI)  and  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are among buyers there.  “I’m saddened that Malawi’s President Joyce Banda has
chosen to release lies about what we’ve accomplished, my
intentions, how I personally conducted myself while visiting
Malawi and other untruths,” Madonna said  in a statement  posted
on the website of Raising Malawi. “I will not be distracted or
discouraged by other people’s political agendas.”  ‘Deep Resistance’  Banda’s younger sister Anjimile Mtila Oponyo, an Education
Ministry official who worked for Raising Malawi, has put up
“deep resistance” to Madonna’s plans to build smaller schools
instead of a large girls’ academy as first planned, the singer
said. The initial team to build that school included Mtila
Oponyo until “major organizational problems” forced its
disbanding, Madonna said.  The singer has built 20 classrooms in Malawi instead of the
20 schools she has said, Mwanyongo said in the statement.  “The difference between a school or a classroom should be
the most obvious thing for a person demanding state courtesy to
decipher,” he said. “For her to accuse Mrs. Oponyo for
indiscretions that have clearly arisen from her personal
frustrations that her ego has not been massaged by the state is
uncouth.”  Malawi remains ready to welcome philanthropists, although
it will not tolerate “blackmail,” according to the statement.  Madonna intends to keep her “promise to the children of
Malawi” and maintain her charitable work, according the
statement from Raising Malawi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  