-- Alibaba Cautions Online Poultry Sellers on Bird Flu
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-11T05:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/alibaba-s-taobao-bans-live-poultry-trading-on-bird-flu.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and
other Chinese e-commerce sites are taking steps to protect
against the spread of bird flu as concerns rise the H7N9 variant
that’s killed nine people could spur an epidemic.  Alibaba’s e-commerce platform Taobao Marketplace said it
would shut down online trading of live poultry “under necessary
circumstances” this week. Shanghai-based Tony’s Farm and
Beijing-based www.tootoo.cn have halted the sales. Web retailer
360buy Jingdong Inc. will cut down on face-face meetings with
suppliers, and stop offering pork and poultry at its employee
cafeteria, Richard Liu, chief executive officer of Jingdong,
said in a letter to employees last week.  The H7N9 cases may become an opportunity for e-commerce
companies as fears of infection prompt more people to stay home
and shop online. A 2003 outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome helped make e-commerce popular just as it was getting
started, said Cao Lei, a director at Hangzhou-based  China  e-
Business Research Center.  “It’s an opportunity and challenge, but in a greater sense
an opportunity,” Cao said. “Consumers can cut down on
traveling and shopping, and make full use of e-commerce to solve
their daily supply needs.”  Out of the 33 H7N9 cases confirmed in China, nine have died
as of yesterday, according to the Chinese government. There’s
still no evidence that the virus is being passed from one person
to another, according to the  World Health Organization .  Outbreak Continues  Alibaba generated 4 billion package deliveries in 2012
through its two most popular e-commerce platforms last year,
Jack Ma, the company’s chief executive officer, said in
February. That accounted for 70 percent of China’s 5.7 billion
parcel and express deliveries in 2012.  Taobao this week cautioned traders of live poultry,
including chickens and ducks, to limit sales and urged them to
follow government health advisories.  “Under necessary circumstances, Taobao will fully shut
down online live poultry trading to prevent viruses from
spreading through online shopping,” the company said in a
posting on its microblog.  Alibaba doesn’t deliver packages itself. Sellers on its
platforms contract the service to companies including  China
Postal Express & Logistics Company Ltd. (CPELCLZ)  and S.F. Express Group
Co.  Alibaba will adopt appropriate measures if the bird flu
virus spreads, Chief Strategy Officer Zeng Ming said in a phone
interview April 8.  “If there is a disease outbreak, we will make a great
effort to deal with it,” Zeng said.  Jingdong, the second-largest business-to-customer seller in
China, barred employees with fever or coughs from coming to work
and has minimized employee business trips, CEO Liu said in the
letter. Jingdong has more than 30,000 employees in 360 cities.  “If the disease outbreak continues to worsen, and our
delivery brothers are unavoidably exposed to infection
possibilities, I would rather the company goes bust and stop
operations,” said Liu. “If any of our employees get infected
with the bird flu because of work, it will be a disgrace for my
whole life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  