-- Allied World Names Barclays’s Doran to Mergers Post
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-04-11T16:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/allied-world-names-barclays-s-doran-to-mergers-post.html
Allied World Assurance Company
Holdings AG (AWH) , the insurer that joined Crescent Capital Group LP
in a bet on  junk bonds , named Sarah Doran as treasurer and
senior vice president of  investor relations .  Doran will be responsible for capital management, banking
and merger-and-acquisition activity, the Zug, Switzerland-based
company said today in a statement. Doran previously worked at
London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) , where she was a director in the
financial institutions group, responsible for mergers,
divestitures and capital raising for the insurance and
reinsurance industry.  “Her extensive experience covering financial institutions
and her knowledge of the insurance market will be a valuable
asset as she works with investors and analysts,” Thomas Bradley, chief financial officer, said in the statement.  Allied World struck a deal in January to take a minority
stake in Los Angeles-based Crescent, and said last year it would
invest in MatlinPatterson. Both asset managers agreed to oversee
funds in the insurer’s  portfolio . Allied World reached an accord
in 2011 to buy reinsurer Transatlantic Holdings Inc. The deal
was terminated after other suitors emerged, and Transatlantic
was eventually acquired by Alleghany Corp.  Doran, who will be based in New York, also worked at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., where she was a vice president in the
financial institutions group, according to the statement. She
received an MBA from the Booth School of Business at the
University of Chicago and a BA from the University of  Notre
Dame , according to the statement.  She assumes the investor relations duties from Keith Lennox, who was been appointed CFO of Allied World’s reinsurance
operations, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  