-- American Realty Withdraws $6.7 Billion Cole Credit Bid
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-11T21:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/american-realty-withdraws-6-7-billion-cole-credit-bid.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP)  withdrew its $6.7 billion buyout offer for Cole Credit
Property Trust III after the company rejected the proposal and
instead completed a deal to purchase its sponsor.  Cole Credit, a Phoenix-based nontraded real estate
investment trust, declined repeated requests to discuss the
offer, making it “clear that its directors and management are
completely unwilling to explore a transaction with us,”
Nicholas Schorsch, chief executive officer of New York-based
American Realty, said today in a statement.  Cole Credit, owner of more than 900 mostly single-tenant
U.S. properties, bought its management company, Cole Holdings
Corp., on April 5, and plans to go public. Cole Holdings
oversees more than $12 billion of real estate assets for about
160,000 individual investors. The purchase gives Cole Credit fee
income from the other REITs that Cole Holdings manages.  “The economic, legal, reputational and other risks
inherent in the internalization transaction, and the CCPT III
board’s unwillingness to engage us, forces us to withdraw our
offer,” Schorsch said in the statement.  American Realty rose 3 percent to $15.97 at the close in
 New York . It had bid $12.50 a share in cash or 0.80 a share of
its common stock for each share of Cole Credit.  American Realty criticized the sponsor acquisition partly
because Cole Credit shareholders weren’t able to vote on it.  Shareholder Lawsuit  Before the deal closed, shareholders of Cole Credit had
asked a Maryland judge to block the transaction, claiming that a
vote was required for completion of the deal. Cole Credit said
that the lawsuit was “without merit.”  Cole Holdings’ sole stockholder is Christopher Cole, who is
also chairman and chief executive officer of Cole Credit.  Cole Credit said American Realty’s bid undervalued the
company and would have required unsustainable levels of debt.
The Cole Holdings acquisition will provide investors better
dividend growth through the added cash flow of new properties,
while the public offering would give them flexibility to sell
shares, Cole said April 5. The merger also will eliminate the
expense of paying Cole Holdings to manage the REIT, Cole said.  “We remain confident that we are extremely well-positioned
to drive long-term stockholder value and look forward to our
anticipated listing on the New York Stock Exchange in June 2013,
which will provide stockholders with a clear path to
liquidity,” Cole Credit said today in a statement.  Cole Credit agreed to pay Cole Holdings $20 million in cash
and 10.7 million shares of its stock upon the deal’s completion
and another 2.1 million shares after a listing on the New York
Stock Exchange, which is expected this quarter. The shares being
paid upfront are subject to a three-year lock-up period, with
one-third of the shares released each year, according to a March
6 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  