-- Man Accused of Drug Theft for China Pleads Not Guilty
-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-11T21:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/man-accused-of-drug-theft-for-china-pleads-not-guilty.html
A  Medical College of Wisconsin 
researcher accused of stealing a developmental cancer drug to
deliver it to a Chinese university pleaded not guilty to charges
of computer tampering and lying to federal agents.  Hua Jun Zhao, who was indicted by a federal grand jury on
April 9, entered his plea today before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Patricia Gorence in Milwaukee. He’s being held without bail.  Zhao, 42, was accused of economic espionage in a criminal
complaint filed on March 29. Gerald Shinneman of the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  said in an accompanying affidavit that
surveillance cameras showed Zhao to be the only person to enter
and leave a medical college office at the time three vials of
the medicinal compound vanished in February.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Ingraham today asked
Gorence to dismiss the criminal complaint while leaving
prosecutors with permission to refile those allegations at a
later date.  “This is an ongoing investigation,” Ingraham said in
court. Gorence didn’t rule on the dismissal request.  The indictment relates to Zhao’s efforts to obstruct a
probe into the theft of the compound by lying to FBI agents and
by gaining covert access to the medical college’s computer
server and trying to delete proprietary information including
research data related to the compound,  Milwaukee  U.S. Attorney
James L. Santelle said in a statement.  10 Years  The computer tampering charge carries a maximum sentence of
10 years imprisonment, while the charge of lying to a federal
agent is punishable by as long as five years in prison.  “I did not expect to see different charges than contained
in the criminal complaint, but we’re not privy to what happened
in the grand jury,” Zhao’s defense lawyer, Juval Scott, said
today in a phone interview. “We’re looking forward to getting
information from the government and starting our own
investigation.”  The missing vials, containing a powdery substance
identified only as C-25, had a value of about $8,000 according
to Shinneman’s FBI affidavit.  “The investigation has revealed that Zhao may have used
his employment and position at MCoW to illegally acquire
patented research material and taken steps to provide that
material to Zhejiang University,” Shinneman had said.  The case is U.S. v. Zhao, 13-cr-00058, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Wisconsin  (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  