-- Man. United to Offer Cash, Hernandez for Falcao: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-11T08:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/man-united-to-offer-cash-hernandez-for-falcao-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Falcao Fight  Manchester United  joined Chelsea and Manchester City in the
race to sign Atletico Madrid striker Radamel Falcao and is ready
to offer  Javier Hernandez  in a player-plus-cash deal, the  Daily
Mail reported .  United values Hernandez at 20 million pounds ($30.6 million)
and will also offer Atletico 27 million pounds in cash to meet
the 47 million-pound buyout clause in Falcao’s contract, the
newspaper added.  Rooney Doubt  United’s interest in Falcao places  Wayne Rooney ’s future
with the Premier League leader in fresh doubt, the  Daily Mirror
reported .  Paris Saint-Germain is ready to offer 30 million pounds for
the England striker, the newspaper added. Although United
manager  Alex Ferguson  has said Rooney isn’t for sale, a large
bid could see him leave, the Mirror said.  Mourinho Return?  Chelsea chairman Bruce Buck gave the clearest indication
that the club is open to the prospect of  Jose Mourinho  returning
as the team’s next permanent manager, the  Telegraph reported .  “I’m completely open-minded,” the Sun cited Buck as
saying about the possibility of Chelsea re-hiring former coaches.
“We all have some ideas, and certainly Roman Abramovich is
thinking about it. I think the real search for a manager will
begin once the season ends in the middle of May.”  Big Spender  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger is prepared to “spend big”
in the offseason to end the team’s eight-year trophy drought,
the  Sun reported , citing former Gunners vice-chairman  David Dein .  “The fact is he has to strengthen the team and I know he
will do that,” Dein, who the Sun said is Wenger’s closest
friend within soccer, was cited as saying. “He knows what he
wants and it’s just a question of identifying the right
talent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  