-- AngloGold’s Asset-Split Plan Said to Be Rebuffed by South Africa
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n ,   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-11T10:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/anglogold-s-asset-split-plan-said-to-be-rebuffed-by-south-africa.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-
biggest gold producer, had a proposal to split its South African
assets from mines elsewhere rebuffed by the country’s
government, three people familiar with the matter said.  The plan was suggested to the government by the
Johannesburg-based company after shareholders including  John Paulson , the billionaire whose hedge fund is the largest
investor in AngloGold, said the reorganization would boost the
value of its stock, the people said, declining to be identified
because the company hasn’t commented publicly on the issue.  A transfer of AngloGold assets to a new company “may well
require the minister of mineral resources’ consent,” Peter Leon, head of Africa mining and energy projects at law firm
Webber Wentzel in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Some other mining companies have tried, but not
succeeded, in obtaining the National Treasury’s consent for the
re-domiciliation of their non-South African assets.”  Paulson has estimated that spinning off the South African
mines, which account for about a third of the company’s output,
could boost the combined value of the stock by as much as 68
percent. AngloGold’s South African gold mines, among the world’s
deepest, are constrained by power shortages. Last year, the
worst mining industry violence since the end of apartheid shut
its operations for a month, resulting in higher wages.  South Africa ’s government has been critical of companies
such as  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  that have moved their headquarters
and main listings abroad, saying that investment in the country
has been cut and jobs lost.  Stock Decrease  The government doesn’t comment on specific applications,
Ismail Momoniat, a deputy director-general in the National
Treasury, said by phone from Durban today. Trevor Hattingh, a
spokesman for the Department of Mineral Resources, didn’t didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed query.  AngloGold shares on April 8 fell to an almost 4 1/2-year
low in Johannesburg. They have declined 25 percent over the last
year, the third-worst performance on an  index  of six gold
companies traded in the city.  Stewart Bailey, a New York-based spokesman for AngloGold,
declined to comment.  The company was founded in 1998 when Anglo American, then
based in Johannesburg, combined its gold assets into one entity.
AngloGold today owns 20 operations in 10 countries on four
continents, according to its website. Most of its expansion
plans are outside South Africa.  The gold producer has previously said it’s considered
splitting its assets. In February 2011 former Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Cutifani  said in an interview that a split was
being debated to boost the value of the company’s shares. In
February this year, he said that while a split was viable, it
may not be the company’s best option.  Gold Fields  AngloGold’s biggest South African rival,  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,
another mining company in which Paulson has invested, separated
most of its domestic assets last month into  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) 
while keeping development projects in Gold Fields. It announced
the plan in November.  The company has since been criticized by the ruling  African
National Congress  and labor unions for planning to cut jobs in
South Africa.  “I do not think it would be politically correct for
AngloGold to split,”  David Davis , a mining analyst at SBG
Securities in Johannesburg, said by e-mail. “The government
would not be happy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  