-- Angola Plans 6th-Biggest Africa Bourse With Value at 10% of GDP
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-04-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/angola-plans-6th-biggest-africa-bourse-with-value-at-10-of-gdp.html
Angola, Africa’s second-biggest oil
producer, expects its stock exchange to have a market value of
10 percent of gross domestic product within 18 months of its
startup, making it at least the continent’s sixth biggest.  The capitalization of the exchange, which is set to start
in 2015, would be a minimum of $11 billion based on last year’s
output of $114 billion, Archer Mangueira, president of the
 Capital Markets  Commission, said in an interview on April 10 in
Luanda, the capital. South Africa’s bourse is the continent’s
largest at $842 billion, more than double its GDP.  “There is light in the tunnel that will encourage foreign
investors to join our capital markets,” he said.  Angola is developing the market to attract investment as it
continues rebuilding after a 27-year civil war that ended in
2002. With the government forecasting economic growth of 7.1
percent this year from 7.4 percent in 2012, it’s under pressure
from volatility in the price of oil, which accounts for three-
quarters of budget revenue, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Angola ranks 157th out of 176 countries on
Transparency International’s 2012 Corruption Perceptions Index  A secondary  bond market  will start this year to help
develop a yield curve, Mangueira said. The curve is a graph that
plots returns on investment over time and can help investors
asses risk in an economy, such as the potential for default.
Debt with longer terms generally earn more for the lender than
shorter duration securities, such as Treasury bills.  Banks, Oil  “The development of a secondary market this year will give
us a reference point for corporate debt and a stock market to
follow,” said Mangueira, a 50-year-old former economic adviser
to President Jose Eduardo dos Santos. “A yield curve is very
important” for marketing securities, he said.  Angola’s largest banks, which include Banco Angolano de
Investimentos SA and Banco de Poupanca e Credito SA, as well as
mobile-phone companies Unitel SA and Movicel Telecomunicacoes
Lda., are expected to list on the exchange, Mangueira said.
Local coffee, oil and cement makers may also offer stock, he
said.  Domestic  oil companies  will raise capital from the bourse
to develop onshore concession blocks, Mangueira said. The state
oil company Sonangol EP is pushing local companies to bid on 10
Kwanza basin concession blocks near Luanda and five in the Congo
basin in the nation’s north when they are auctioned later this
year. Onshore crude oil exploration and production is less
expensive than the deepwater projects operated by companies
including  Total SA (FP) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc. (BP/)   Take Profit  The commission is working with the central bank and
Governor Jose de Lima Massano on establishing uniform  interest
rates  for  government bonds  and Treasury bills with the same
maturity, he said.  On April 8,  Dos Santos ’ cabinet, known as the Council of
Ministers, began discussing how it will allow foreign investors
to take profit out of the country without adversely affecting
exchange rates, Mangueira said. The cabinet approved several
laws to set up the legal, regulatory and technical framework for
securities trading, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  