-- Apple to Garmin Seen Poised to Extend Surge in Buybacks
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-04-11T20:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/apple-to-garmin-seen-poised-to-extend-surge-in-stock-buybacks.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Analog Devices Inc. (ADI)  and
Garmin Ltd. are among the U.S. companies with the most firepower
to extend the biggest surge in stock buybacks since the 1980s.  Apple has the highest percentage of cash to assets among 47
likely buyback candidates in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index,
followed by circuit maker Analog Devices, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Garmin, a maker of navigation devices,
led among consumer-discretionary companies on that basis.  Buyback announcements reached $208 billion in the first
three months of the year, the busiest first quarter since at
least 1985, according to Birinyi Associates Inc., the Westport,
Connecticut-based research firm founded by  Laszlo Birinyi . While
Europe’s fiscal crisis and China’s slowing economy are curbing
profit growth, the increase in buybacks signals that U.S.
companies wary of expanding operations or adding jobs are still
seeing value in their own shares.  “Companies are flush with cash and buyback authorizations
are taking off,” Rob Leiphart, an analyst at Birinyi, said in a
telephone interview. “While the economy is getting better, it
is getting better very slowly. We are still seeing layoffs.”  The surge in buybacks is occurring even with the  S&P 500 
trading at a record level, suggesting that many companies still
see further gains ahead for their stocks. And while the
purchases may divert money that could otherwise be used to
expand their businesses, companies that buy back stock may aid
investors by boosting earnings per share.  Search Criteria  In addition to examining cash and marketable securities as
a percentage of total assets, the data compiled by Bloomberg
focused on S&P 500 companies with price-to-earnings ratios lower
than the market-cap weighted average for their sectors.  The companies also had gross margins and returns on common
equity greater than zero, signaling profitability. They also
bought less than 5 percent of their shares on average over three
years, showing there’s room to start or expand buyback programs.  Financial companies, health-care providers and utilities
that may have regulatory constraints on their cash were
excluded, as was MetroPCS Communications Inc., which has agreed
to be acquired by Deutsche Telekom AG.  Information technology  companies accounted for 9 of the top
10 in cash to assets, in part reflecting their need to fund
acquisitions and research. Increased  cash flow  now may give them
the opportunity to pay for those needs and still do buybacks.  Technology Sector  Among 14 information technology companies on the list, free
cash flow per share rose 8.8 percent on average over the past 12
months, including an increase of about 29 percent for Apple.  “The technology sector certainly has a lot of excess cash
flow and will lead the way in share repurchase activity and
dividend growth,” said  David Bianco , chief U.S. equity
strategist for Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York .  Apple is under pressure from investors including  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital Inc. to put more of its $137.1
billion in cash and marketable securities to use. Greenlight is
urging Apple to issue high-yielding preferred stock to carve out
more cash for investors. Apple, whose  shares  have declined 38
percent from a Sept. 19 peak of $702.10, has said it’s
considering buybacks or a higher dividend. The stock dropped 0.3
percent to $434.33 at the close in New York.  ‘Very Cheap’  “I believe Apple is buying back stock at this level,”
said Laurence Balter, chief market strategist for Oracle
Investment Research in Fox Island, Washington. “All of the
stars are aligned: The stock is very cheap and they have the
cash.” He rates Apple as strong buy.  The iPhone maker in March 2012 authorized the repurchase of
$10 billion in shares over three years starting Sept. 30.  Apple’s cash and marketable securities led the list at 69.9
percent of assets, just ahead of Analog Devices at 69.7 percent.
Analog Devices had more than $500 million left for buybacks,
Chief Financial Officer David Zinsner told analysts in February.  “My model assumes they do buybacks in the coming
quarters,” spurred by a 14.6 percent increase in free cash flow
annually through 2014, Shawn Webster, an analyst at Macquarie
Capital USA Inc. in New York, said of Analog Devices.  Analog Devices’ shares, up 6.8 percent this year, slipped
0.4 percent to $44.90 at the close.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, and Ali Husain, a spokesman for Norwood, Massachusetts-
based Analog Devices, declined to comment.  Garmin Cash  Garmin, the maker of navigation and communications  devices ,
had cash and marketable securities of about 60 percent of
assets, ranking first on that basis among four consumer-
discretionary stocks. As a sector, cash among those companies
averaged about 23 percent of assets. Its  price-earnings ratio 
also is about 50 percent cheaper than its peers in the sector.  In February, Garmin directors authorized the repurchase of
$300 million of shares. The Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based
company declined further comment, Ted Gartner, a spokesman, said
yesterday by e-mail.  “I expect that Garmin will exercise a meaningful portion
of its approved buyback before the end of 2013,”  James Faucette , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,
said in an April 9 e-mail. He has a rating of outperform, the
equivalent of a buy, on the  shares , which have fallen about 16
percent so far this year.  Joy Global  Some of the companies on the list are just starting
buybacks. Milwaukee-based  Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , the world’s second-
largest maker of mining equipment after Caterpillar Inc., will
probably announce a repurchase plan in this year’s second half,
CEO Michael Sutherlin told analysts on a call in February.  While Sutherlin didn’t specify the likely size of the
repurchase plan, it may total $500 million to $1 billion,
according to Larry  De Maria , a New York-based analyst at William
Blair & Co. who has an outperform rating on Joy Global.  “It would obviously benefit 2014 more, but we’d see some
benefits this year too,” De Maria said in a phone interview.  Sandy McKenzie, a Joy Global spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  In the first three months of 2013, companies already
authorized 278 buybacks valued at $208.1 billion, putting them
on pace for $833 billion on an annual basis, according to
Birinyi’s Leiphart. Authorizations totaled $863 billion in 2007,
their biggest year. In the first three months of 2012, companies
authorized 210 buybacks totaling $126.6 billion, data compiled
by Birinyi show.  Actual Buybacks  Actual buybacks by S&P 500 Index members will rise to about
$450 billion this year if markets remain stable, said  Howard Silverblatt , senior index analyst at Standard & Poor’s. While
that’s up from $400 billion in 2012 it would trail a record $589
billion in 2007, the year before the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. froze credit markets and deepened the longest
recession since the Great Depression.  Record earnings and tepid U.S. economic growth predicted
for 2013 support the environment for buybacks, said Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at ConvergEx Group in New York.  Earnings by S&P 500 companies  are poised to hit a record
$111.18 a share in 2013, up from $102.94 last year, according to
Nick Raich, who studies corporate earnings trends as founder and
chief executive officer of the Earnings Scout, an independent
macroeconomic research firm based in  Cleveland .  It won’t be a steady ride toward the record, with profit
growth building throughout 2013 after a slow start. The overseas
slowdown may have triggered a 1.8 percent drop in first-quarter
earnings for the S&P 500, the first decline in more than three
years, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Slow Economy  The  U.S. economy  may expand 2 percent this year, less than
the 2.2 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of 92
economists. U.S. payrolls grew by 88,000 workers in March, the
smallest gain in nine months and less than the most-pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  For some companies, the changing conditions make investing
in their own stock a safe bet. Even billionaire  Warren Buffett ,
who once described buybacks as a cop-out for unimaginative
executives lacking other options for their money, last year
cleared the way for more repurchases at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   “The major strategy for companies to distribute money is
now buybacks,”  Charles Biderman , CEO of TrimTabs Investment
Research, said by telephone from Sausalito,  California .
“Companies have this huge amount of cash and they don’t see
demand growing. They are not hiring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at   cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net . 