-- Hardest-to-Sell Junk Lures Buyers Hooked on Fed: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-04-11T15:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/hardest-to-sell-junk-lures-buyers-hooked-on-fed-credit-markets.html
Investors are favoring the
riskiest, hardest-to-trade  junk bonds  by the most in 17 months
as confidence mounts that central banks from  Japan  to the U.S.
will prop up debt markets through year-end.  The extra yield investors demand to buy the least-traded
bonds with the lowest speculative-grade ratings instead of more
liquid securities narrowed to 1.2 percentage points on April 9,
the smallest gap since November 2011, according to  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
data. Yields on the smallest and oldest CCC rated notes
contracted by 1.9 percentage points this year, three times the
drop on yields for more active notes with comparable grades.  Bond buyers seeking to escape the financial repression
brought on by near zero interest rates are venturing deeper into
the market in search of returns. They are bidding up the debt of
companies that would otherwise be the most vulnerable to
bankruptcy had the  Federal Reserve  not injected more than $2.3
trillion into the financial system since 2008.  “People are more willing to take on less liquid names
because they’re not as worried about having to harvest or sell
them due to credit reasons,” said Jason Rosiak, head of
 portfolio management  at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Asset Management, the Pacific Life Insurance Co. affiliate that
oversees about $3.5 billion. “People’s expectations right now
are that credit fundamentals aren’t going to take a downturn any
time soon.”  Casting Fears  More than four years after the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression, investors are casting aside fears of
credit losses as they search for returns. With the Fed holding
 interest rates  between zero and 0.25 percent for a fifth year,
junk-bond yields plummeted to a record 6.35 percent yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The lowest-tier of dollar-denominated speculative-grade
bonds are outperforming the highest-rated notes by 3.5
percentage points this year as investors funnel cash into debt
with bigger cushions from losses when  U.S. Treasury yields  rise.  “The market is increasingly willing to accept less of a
premium for both age and size,” said Eric Gross, a Barclays
credit strategist in  New York . “It’s somewhat similar to when
we saw that hunt for yield in early 2010.”  Commercial Paper  Elsewhere in credit markets, the market for corporate
borrowing through  commercial paper  erased last week’s decline,
led by a surge in issuance from financial institutions. The cost
of protecting corporate debt from default in the U.S. reached
the lowest level in more than three weeks.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.1
basis point to a mid-price of 81.9 basis points as of 11:43 a.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index earlier fell to as low as 81.5, the least since March 19,
the day before traders began moving positions into a new series
that increased the cost in part by adding six months to the
contracts.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings, declined 1.8 to 108.2,
trading at the lowest intraday levels since March 18.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.47 basis point to 14 basis points.
The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 5.2 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $19.5 billion to $1.022 trillion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the Fed said today on its website. The market,
which contracted by that amount the previous week, has climbed
from $924.4 billion in the week ended Oct. 24, the lowest level
since January 2011.  Liquid Preference  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
rose for a fifth week, increasing $9 billion to $236.8 billion
outstanding, while the  amount issued by U.S.-based banks  rose
$3.6 billion to $301.6 billion, the first increase in six weeks,
according to the Fed.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  Junk-bond investors demonstrated a preference for the most-
liquid debt in the wake of the credit crisis, as dealers faced
with risk-curbing regulations reduced corporate-bond inventories
that they use to facilitate trading by 76 percent since the peak
in October 2007.  Yields on CCC rated bonds sold more than 18 months ago in
batches of $400 million or less have dropped to 8.78 percent on
April 9 from the two-year high of 14.3 percent on Oct. 5, 2011,
Barclays data show. That compares with a 7.58 percent yield on
bigger issuances sold more recently, down from 13.5 percent 18
months earlier, the data show.  “You’re seeing people willing to take on the risk of
lower-quality names,” Rosiak said.  Lowest Tier  A measure of the strength of junk-bond covenants in  North
America  written into the terms of debt agreements over the past
three months to protect investors deteriorated to a record low,
Moody’s said yesterday.  The average covenant score, in which 1 is the strongest
covenant quality and 5 the weakest, worsened for a third period
to 3.97 last month, according to Moody’s Covenant Quality Index.
While March’s single-month score of 3.76 improved from 4.17 in
February, it’s still the fifth-worst monthly score during the
past year, Moody’s said.  The lowest-tier of junk debt in the U.S. has returned 5.8
percent this year, compared with 2.2 percent on bonds with the
highest junk grades, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. While notes graded CCC gained 20.3 percent in 2012, they
lost 1.4 percent the year before, when securities in the top
junk tier of BB gained 6.1 percent, according to the data.  Great Rotation  Firms from Ares Management LLC to Pacific Investment
Management Co. are raising money for closed-end funds that may
invest in harder-to-trade debt. Ares, based in  Los Angeles , is
planning a fund that will use borrowed money to buy mostly high-
yield loans and bonds, according to a March 20 regulatory
filing.  In January, Pimco raised about $3 billion for its  Dynamic
Credit Income Fund (PCI)  that may invest all of its money in
speculative-grade debt, including notes from “stressed
issuers,” according to a Jan. 28 prospectus.  “Investors who don’t need daily liquidity can take greater
advantage of the smaller, less liquid situations which may
potentially offer greater upside,” said Hozef Arif, a senior
vice president and portfolio manager at Pimco in Newport Beach,
 California .  Japanese Demand  Speculation that an expanding economy will prompt Fed
officials to start scaling back stimulus efforts, pushing rates
higher and investors into stocks, isn’t likely to play out
anytime soon, said  Bruce Richards , chief executive officer and
co-founder of hedge-fund firm Marathon Asset Management LP.  “As an investor, if you were in the marketplace, you do
not have a lot of worry that rates will go higher,” Richards
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s Market Makers
with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “This calendar year,
while we are doing quantitative easing, while Fed Funds are
zero, I don’t think you’ll have that great rotation.”  Japanese investors are also poised to accelerate debt
purchases as that nation’s central bank plans to buy 7.5
trillion yen ($78.6 billion) of bonds a month and double the
monetary base, which includes cash in circulation, in two years,
the central bank said in  Tokyo  on April 4.  High-yield bond buyers are turning their focus to choosing
specific bonds rather than making broad wagers on a market
that’s reaped average annual gains of 21 percent since 2008,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Credit selection will be the driver of alpha in these
markets, where yield and spreads are in a narrower range,” Arif
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  