-- Argentine Opposition Lawmakers Say Prices Rose 1.5% in March
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-11T19:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/argentine-opposition-lawmakers-say-prices-rose-1-5-in-march.html
Argentina’s  consumer prices  rose
1.5 percent in March, more than in February even after
supermarkets agreed to freeze prices until June, opposition
lawmakers said today.  Consumer prices rose 24.4 percent from a year earlier,
opposition lawmaker Juan Tunessi told reporters in Buenos Aires.
Opposition lawmakers began releasing private inflation estimates
in May 2011, after the government fined private economists for
releasing their own indexes. Congress members don’t identify
economists by name to protect them from new fines.  Some retailers, including supermarkets and home appliance
stores, have agreed with the government of President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner to freeze prices since February. Still,
Argentines expect prices to rise an average 30 percent over the
next 12 months for a fifth straight month, according to a poll
by Torcuato Di Tella University released March 19.  “Forced price freezes are a time bomb,” lawmaker Eduardo Amadeo said at the news conference. “This is opening the door
to more social conflicts because unions will demand higher wages
while companies are banned from raising prices.”  Yesterday the government set a price cap on gasoline for
six months. A few hours later, YPF SA, the country’s biggest
energy company that Argentina nationalized last year, raised
prices 9 percent.  Online Prices  Price Stats Global Services,  which tracks online prices,
reported today that Argentine prices fell 0.19 percent in March
from the previous month after rising 1.1 percent in February due
to the price freeze, according to director Alberto Cavallo.  The last time consumer prices fell in South America’s
second-biggest economy was in February 2009, when they dropped
0.9 percent, amid a contracting economy, Cavallo, a professor at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and son of former
Argentine Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo, said in a telephone
interview from Cambridge.  “The government managed to control some prices in the
short term, but I don’t believe this is going to have an impact
in inflation in the long term,” Cavallo said. “Some prices
have started to show an increase and others are vanishing from
the shelves.”  According to Cavallo, the government will try to keep
prices in check until the mid-term elections in October.  Inflation estimates by private economists have been above
the official data since early 2007, when Fernandez’s husband and
predecessor, Nestor Kirchner, changed personnel at the
statistics agency known as Indec. The International Monetary
Fund has urged the government to release more reliable data and
on Feb. 1 Argentina became the first country to be censured by
the Washington-based lender for not providing accurate data.  Indec is scheduled to release March’s consumer price index
tomorrow at 4 p.m. local time.  “This Congress index has become so reliable that judges
ask us to send them reports so they can rule in lawsuits based
on this inflation,” Tunessi said. “There’s a total lack of
macroeconomic policies to address inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  