-- Marks & Spencer Posts Faster Sales Growth Than Anticipated
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-04-11T08:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/marks-spencer-sales-top-analysts-expectations-as-food-surges.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, posted the fastest quarterly
sales growth in almost two years as it offered discounts on
apparel and shoppers treated themselves to specialty food at
Easter.  Revenue at U.K. stores open at least a year rose 0.6
percent in the 13 weeks ended March 30, the London-based
retailer said in a statement today. Food revenue climbed 4
percent, topping the 2.5 percent median estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. General merchandise sales fell 3.8
percent, compared with an estimate of a 4 percent decline.  Chief Executive Officer Marc Bolland has created a new team
to revamp clothing selection as he comes under increased
pressure to revive general merchandise almost three years into
his tenure. Promotional pressure in March forced M&S to offer
more targeted discounts to keep up with rivals though the stock-
to-sales ratio was unchanged as the new management were better
at buying, the CEO told reporters on a call today.  M&S “beat the whisper number on general merchandise” of a
decline of as much as 6 percent, said Charlie Muir-Sands, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in London. Still, he reduced his
gross margin target on weak clothing sales and “increased
promotional intensity.” He has a hold rating on the stock.  Offer Speculation  M&S  shares  rose as much as 5.4 percent in London trading,
the most in over three weeks. The stock gained 3.2 percent at
9:13 a.m. local time to 396.2 pence, taking the advance to 3.6
percent this year. The stock surged on March 18 following
speculation that the Qatar Investment Authority was considering
an 8 billion-pound ($12.3 billion) offer for the company.  The retailer benefited from its avoidance of the horse-meat
scandal that has engulfed larger rivals like  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and its
popularity as a destination retailer for special occasions like
Easter, its biggest ever.  The company’s shareholders are “supportive of our
strategy,” Chief Financial Officer Alan Stewart said on the
call, and they recognize it will take time.  Bolland may have only a year to prove he can revive
Britain’s biggest clothing retailer, investors and analysts told
Bloomberg earlier this year. The CEO has pledged almost 1
billion pounds to invest in stores, products, the supply chain
and a multichannel offer and said today he’s enjoying the job,
despite pressure of M&A rumors and shareholder dissent.  Key Trends  “We can do better than this” in general merchandise,
Bolland said. The company bought more items that responded to
“key trends,” he added. Bolland is placing his faith in a new
U.K. management team, led by former food chief John Dixon. Dixon
replaced Kate Bostock as head of the general merchandise unit in
October, while former  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  CEO Belinda Earl was brought
in as style director.  The retailer was forced to offer more discounts last month
as the market had as much as 25 percent on offer, Bolland said.
The executive declined to give guidance on gross margins, which
M&S has previously said would be a much as 0.25 percentage point
ahead of last year.  Credit Suisse analyst Simon Irwin reduced his margin
forecast to a gain of 0.1 percentage point on increased
promotions and “negative mix” to lower-margin food.  The company repeated that it is “cautious” about its
outlook for the year ahead because it expects pressure on
consumers’ disposable incomes to continue throughout 2013. Last
year, the retailer lowered its sales targets to growth of 1.1
billion pounds to 1.7 billion pounds by fiscal 2014. That
compared with a previous target for revenue to grow by as much
as 2.5 billion pounds from fiscal 2011 as M&S expands
internationally and bolsters its online offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  