-- Martha Stewart Lawyer Says No Store at Penney ‘Anymore’
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-11T16:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/martha-stewart-lawyer-says-no-store-at-j-c-penney-anymore-.html
A lawyer for  Martha Stewart  Living
Omnimedia Inc. said “there’s not going to be a Martha Stewart
store at J.C. Penney anymore” during arguments over a breach-
of-contract claim brought by Macy’s Inc.  The lawyer, Eric Seiler, asked a state court judge in
 Manhattan  today to dismiss Macy’s claim, which was brought in a
dispute over whether  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  can sell some Martha
Stewart merchandise. Seiler told  New York  State Supreme Court
Justice Jeffrey Oing that the agreement with Macy’s doesn’t
prevent Martha Stewart Living from giving designs for products
in exclusive categories to others.  “We’ve not promised to give them all of our best
designs,” Seiler said.  The judge is hearing motions by the three retailers after
the conclusion of Macy’s case. If any part of the lawsuit
survives, Martha Stewart Living and J.C. Penney may be forced to
present a defense. Afterwards, the judge will deliver a verdict
in the non-jury trial.  Oing ruled yesterday that Martha Stewart Living didn’t
violate the confidentiality requirement of its Macy’s contract
by disclosing it to rival J.C. Penney. A Macy’s lawyer said the
company will appeal that decision.  CEO Testimony  The three sides returned to court this week to resume a
trial of Macy’s lawsuits following a monthlong break, during
which mediation efforts ordered by Oing were unsuccessful. The
trial, which began Feb. 20, has featured testimony from Martha Stewart, Macy’s Chairman  Terry Lundgren  and former J.C. Penney
Chief Executive  Ron Johnson , who was ousted the same day the
trial resumed.  Before today’s proceeding, Seiler declined to comment on a
New York Post report, citing a source it didn’t name, that
Johnson’s replacement at Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney, Mike Ullman, is seeking a settlement in the case.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
New York-based Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million.  Macy’s, which has sold Martha Stewart-branded home goods
since 2007, sued her company in January 2012, saying it had the
exclusive right to sell items in certain categories including
bedding and cookware. Cincinnati-based Macy’s sued J.C. Penney
about three months later.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v.  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) , 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  