-- Harvard Law School Can Learn From MOOCs
-- B y   R a j a   B o b b i l i   a n d   D a n i e l   D o k t o r i
-- 2013-04-11T22:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/harvard-law-school-can-learn-from-moocs.html
Elite universities recognize online
courses as a way to educate the masses. Harvard and the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology teamed up  to introduce  the
 nonprofit edX  in May 2012, and Stanford, Princeton,  University
of Pennsylvania  and  University of Michigan  were quick to sign on
to  Coursera  Inc., a for-profit platform, which now offers more
than 300 free courses.  We think these top institutions are missing a chance to use
the Web to reinvigorate stagnated teaching methods within their
own graduate and professional schools, most notably their law
schools.  Case study: Harvard Law School, where we are both students.  Many of our classes feature  accomplished  and  articulate 
professors lecturing for 80 minutes, three times a week.
Professors spend much of this time reviewing cases, seminal
court decisions that establish prevailing legal principles.
Although students participate by answering a series of questions
that characterize the Socratic method, classes remain anchored
to the professor. And students’ online engagement remains
anchored to Gmail and Facebook.  Online Lectures  Why not shift these lectures online, and enable students to
watch, rewind and rewatch them? Doing so would allow educators
to supplement recordings with interactive content, reserving
class for more effective engagement with professors and other
students.  With the lecture on the humdrum of the  Chapter 11
bankruptcy code  delivered on the Web, we could devote our class
time to simulating a real bankruptcy negotiation. In our
criminal-law courses, the basic review of case facts and legal
principles could be completed online, and plaintiff-students and
defendant-students could perform mock trials in the classroom.
Courses focusing on mergers and acquisitions could require
drafting contracts in a workshop setting with doctrine delivered
at home.  Harvard Law School already has proof that this more
interactive method can work on the scale of a lecture course.
Our leading negotiation workshop uses lectures sparingly; each
spring, it enrolls 120 students, with a waiting list of more
than 150. Despite such popularity, the course is rare in its
simulation-based pedagogy, treated as a “nice to have” example
of applied education. This interactive style has yet to
penetrate the “must have” theoretical courses on subjects such
as contracts, securities and evidence.  Harvard Business School  requires students to take
preparatory courses in finance and accounting online before
matriculating. Armed with this foundational knowledge, students
enter classrooms ready to engage. Class is dedicated to
analyzing, discussing and debating real-life business decisions,
with minimal time allotted for lectures on theory.  Some consider Web-based learning an inferior educational
experience, to be tolerated in the interest of cutting costs. We
aren’t proposing to substitute online learning for classroom
learning. Our proposal may even increase teaching costs, given
the additional human and technological resources required to
develop, deliver and integrate online content.  Instead, we want to augment classroom learning by
recognizing where we are not making the best use of our
resources. We could learn more if class time was used to do what
can only be done at Harvard: interact with  world-class   faculty 
and bright students. That’s our competitive advantage. We
jeopardize it by relying on a passive learning environment.  New Incentives  Of course, it’s easier to lecture and be lectured than to
constantly engage. For our model to work, incentives need to
change for both the faculty and the students.  Harvard law students currently earn 100 percent of their
grade, in most classes, from a final exam, thereby discounting
semester-long learning and elevating end-of-semester cramming.
Modifying the equation to include whole-hearted participation in
a classroom-based learning experience would encourage students
to watch lectures at home and come to class prepared to engage.  Similarly, publications and awards dominate the  Harvard Law
School  tenure process. If teaching competency formed a material
component of earning tenure, faculty would be more likely to
take advantage of the opportunities for innovation provided by
an online platform, instead of giving largely the same lecture
every year.  Web-based learning can do more than open up space for more
classroom interaction by putting lectures online. It can also
allow law schools to teach a new set of skills in a different
way.  Harvard Law School has already made significant strides in
this regard:  The Berkman Center for Internet & Society’s  H20
 initiative  has reinvented the legal textbook by creating an
open-source platform that allows students and professors to read
collaboratively, sharing questions, edits and annotations. We
think this effort should expand to become the norm.  This isn’t just about Harvard. With applications to U.S.
law schools on track to reach  a 30-year low  and a worsening job
market, even top law schools must provide students with a
clearer path to achievement after graduation. As lawyers
increasingly collaborate, negotiate and communicate online, our
education should prepare us accordingly. We can imagine students
building leadership skills by virtually climbing  Mount Everest 
(a  simulation  jointly developed by Harvard Business School
Publishing and  Forio , based on technology that came from
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology ). Or students could
improve communication skills by designing and teaching their own
curriculum through an online platform (as offered by the startup
 Skillshare ).  Innovation in teaching is a piece of Harvard Law School’s
history. As professor and dean at the school, Christopher
Columbus Langdell  introduced the case method  of teaching, using
opinions of judges to illustrate legal theory, more than 140
years ago. He brought those cases to life in the classroom
through the Socratic method. Langdell’s creation has dominated
the legal academy ever since. Today, U.S. law schools are poised
for another teaching revolution. We hope Harvard will lead the
way again.  (Raja Bobbili is a third-year law and MBA student at
Harvard. He also serves as a member of the MIT Corporation, the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology board of trustees. Daniel
Doktori is a third-year student at Harvard Law School and was
previously director of higher education for the  New York 
governor’s office. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Daniel Doktori at  ddoktori@jd13.law.harvard.edu  and Raja Bobbili
at  rbobbili@jd14.law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Zara Kessler at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  