-- Stocks Extend Four-Day Rally While Dollar, Oil Retreat
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-04-11T21:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/asian-stocks-climb-for-fourth-day-on-stimulus-won-strengthens.html
U.S. stocks extended a four-day
rally as retailers gained after reporting improving sales and
jobless claims dropped more than forecast. The dollar weakened
against most major peers as investors bet global central-bank
stimulus will bolster demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent to
1,593.37 at 4 p.m. in New York and extended this week’s gain to
2.6 percent, its best advance since the beginning of the year.
The U.S. currency was lower against 14 of 16 major peers and the
 Dollar Index  dropped 0.3 percent to trade near the lowest level
in more than a month. Crude oil slid more than 1 percent to help
lead commodities lower as the  International Energy Agency 
trimmed its forecast for global demand.  Ross Stores Inc. and Limited Brands Inc. jumped more than 4
percent to pace a rally in retailers as the S&P 500 climbed to
an intraday record for a second day. U.S. jobless claims
declined by 42,000 to 346,000 last week, unwinding a surge
caused by the Easter holiday and spring break at schools. The
fewest number of Americans in five years rated the economy as
poor, according to the Bloomberg Weekly Consumer Comfort Index.  “You really have a lack of reason to sell this market,”
Bill Schultz, chief investment officer who oversees about $1.1
billion at McQueen Ball & Associates in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
said by phone. “A lot of investors may have missed part of this
rally and they feel compelled to jump back into this market.”  Record Rally  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  climbed 1.2 percent yesterday to a record as a
report showed China’s imports grew faster than economists
forecast in March and investors speculated earnings will beat
estimates. The gauge has more than doubled from its 12-year low
in March 2009, helped by the  Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented
bond purchases and three straight years of profit growth.  Equities have risen in 2013 as individual investors made
deposits with money managers and professional speculators closed
bearish bets. A gauge of hedge-fund bullishness measuring how
much they’re betting on rising shares reached 51.6 percent
yesterday, up from 47.3 at the end of 2012, according to data
compiled by International Strategy & Investment Group.  Since the  bull market  began four years ago, the  S&P 500  has
gained 1.7 percent on average in the first two weeks after Alcoa
Inc. marked the start of the quarterly earnings season,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts predict
earnings fell 1.8 percent in the first three months of the year,
according to a Bloomberg survey on April 5. The projection
compared with an estimate for a 1.9 percent drop seen on April
1, marking the first improvement in the survey this year.
Earnings have beaten estimates every quarter since 2009.  Earnings Season  The earnings season picks up tomorrow when JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co ., the biggest  U.S. banks  by market
value, report results.  Retailers in the S&P 500 advanced 1.2 percent as a group
for the second-biggest gain among 24 industries today. Rite Aid
Corp. jumped 18 percent to $2.12, the highest closing level in
more than three years, after the drugstore chain reported its
first annual profit since 2007. Pfizer Inc., Travelers Cos. and
Verizon Communications Inc. rallied at least 1.3 percent to lead
gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which also set
another record.  Computer and software makers slumped, sending S&P 500
technology shares to the only decline among 10 groups, after IDC
said personal-computer shipments in the first quarter plunged 14
percent, the most since at least 1994, and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. downgraded Microsoft Corp. shares. Microsoft and Hewlett-
Packard Co. lost at least 4.4 percent.  Ashmore Assets  About three stocks gained for every one that declined in
the Stoxx 600.  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM) , a U.K. fund manager that
invests in  emerging markets , rallied 13 percent today, the most
in four years, as assets under management increased. Man Group
Plc, the world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund manager,
jumped 6.8 percent after regulators cut the amount of capital it
must hold.  Evraz Plc (EVR)  plunged 11 percent in London trading, the largest
drop since 2011, as Russia’s biggest steelmaker said it will pay
no final  dividend  for 2012 after a deterioration in performance
in the second half.  In European bond markets, rates on U.K. and French 10-year
debt declined about two basis points, wile Spanish and Italian
yields rose. Italy’s borrowing costs dropped at an auction of
7.17 billion euros ($9.38 billion) of bonds today as monetary
easing by Japan prompted investors to search for better returns.  Italy sold 4 billion euros of a new 2016 bond at 2.29
percent, down from the 2.48 percent on similar-maturity debt
March 13. Investors bid 1.4 times the amount of the three-year
bond offered, up from 1.28 times last month.  Yield Forecasts  Thirty-year U.S. bonds were little changed, with yields
fluctuating around 3 percent. Economists are cutting their
forecasts for how much yields will rise this year as the world’s
largest economy shows signs of slowing. Ten-year yields will be
2.25 percent by Dec. 31, based on the average forecast among
banks and securities companies surveyed by  Bloomberg News  from
April 5 to April 9. The projection dropped from this year’s high
of 2.32 percent in February, based on the monthly surveys.  The  U.S. Treasury  auctioned $13 billion in 30-year bonds
today at a lower-than-forecast yield. The notes drew a yield of
2.998 percent, compared with a forecast of 3.001 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Federal Reserve’s primary
dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
2.49, versus a 2.59 average for the previous 10 sales.  Sweden’s krona strengthened against all 16 major peers,
gaining 0.7 percent against the dollar, after a report showed
consumer prices were unchanged on an annual basis in March.  Japan Stimulus  The yen erased earlier gains versus the dollar to resume
trading near the lowest level in more than four years and the
brink of 100 per dollar, after official data showed Japanese
investors sold foreign bonds last week.  Bank of Japan  chief
Haruhiko Kuroda this week reiterated a pledge to do what’s
needed to meet an inflation target of 2 percent in two years,
bolstering speculation that central banks will keep markets
awash in cash to bolster economies.  The BOJ said last week it will buy 7.5 trillion yen ($75
billion) of bonds a month and double its monetary base in two
years, driving the 10-year yields in Asia’s second-biggest
economy to as little as 0.33 percent.  New Zealand  The  New Zealand  dollar climbed above 86 U.S. cents for the
first time in 1 1/2 years after reports showed the nation’s
manufacturing industry expanded last month and a gauge of  home
prices  advanced to a record.  Crude oil fell for the first time in four days, losing 1.2
percent to $93.51 a barrel, as the IEA predicted the weakest
fuel use in Europe since the 1980s. U.S. supply increased to a
22-year high last week, the Energy Information Administration
said yesterday. Brent oil’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
shrank below $11 as the European benchmark slumped more than
WTI.  Heating oil and gasoline also dropped at least 0.9 percent
to lead the S&P GSCI Index down 0.7 percent, even as 13 of its
24 commodities advanced. Natural gas rose 1.3 percent to a 20-
month high of $4.139 per million British thermal units after
Energy Department data showed supplies dropped more than
forecast last week.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose for a third day,
advancing 0.5 percent. Turkey’s benchmark gauge climbed 2.1
percent after Moody’s Investors Service said a peace agreement
with Kurdish militants would boost investment and enhance the
country’s creditworthiness. Benchmark gauges in Taiwan, the
Czech Republic, Poland and the  United Arab Emirates  also gained
more than 1 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa sank 1.4 percent, the biggest drop among
the world’s major equity gauges, as a report showed retail sales
unexpectedly dropped in February. Lojas Americanas SA led losses
among retailers, sinking the most since August. Oil services
provider Lupatech SA tumbled after missing a $6.79 million bond
payment. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the crude oil
producer controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , declined to a
record low.  JPMorgan Asset Management is preparing for a rebound in
emerging-market equities in the second half of this year spurred
by improved earnings.  Buying Carmakers  JPMorgan Asset is buying Korean automaker shares hurt by
investor concern that a weaker yen will limit their ability to
compete against Japanese exporters, Richard Titherington, chief
investment officer and head of emerging markets in London, said
in an interview. The company favors consumer discretionary
stocks with “very low valuations” and has its biggest
overweight position in China, he said.  The won climbed 0.5 percent against the dollar and the
Kospi index of  stocks  gained 0.7 percent. The  Bank of Korea  held
the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate at 2.75 percent today.
Eleven of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a
reduction as tensions with North Korea threaten to damp business
and consumer sentiment.  Borrowing costs in emerging markets have sank to record
lows as Japan’s unprecedented monetary easing spurs demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The average yield on developing-nation local-currency debt
tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co. has fallen 16 basis points since
April 3, the day before the Bank of Japan expanded its asset-
purchase program, to an all-time low of 5.39 percent yesterday.
Ten-year government yields dropped to levels not seen before in
Mexico, the Czech Republic, Poland and South Africa this week,
while comparable rates in South Korea and the Philippines
touched all-time lows in the past month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  