-- Australia’s Unemployment Rate Jumps to Three-Year High: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-11T03:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/australia-s-unemployment-rate-unexpectedly-rises-to-3-year-high.html
Australia ’s  unemployment rate 
climbed in March to the highest level in more than three years,
sending the local dollar and bond yields lower as traders added
to bets the central bank will resume interest rate cuts.  The jobless rate rose to 5.6 percent from 5.4 percent, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney today, the highest since
November 2009. That compares with the median estimate for
unemployment to hold steady in a Bloomberg survey of 24
economists. The number of people employed fell by 36,100, almost
five times more than economists forecast.  Today’s report adds to challenges for Prime Minister Julia Gillard, whose Labor Party is 10 percentage points behind the
opposition in public polls ahead of a Sept. 14 election. With
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden division this week announcing
further job-cut plans, the swaps market indicates the Reserve
Bank of Australia will lower borrowing costs in August.  “This should reinforce to the policy makers that the labor
market still remains soft,” said Joshua Williamson, a senior
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney who forecast jobs would
fall by 20,000. “This rounds off a week of very soft data for
Australia. It suggests that the rebalancing from the mining to
non-mining economy will not go particularly smoothly. It
reinforces the need for another cut in rates.”  The Australian dollar fell to $1.0507 at 12:55 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0537 before the data were released. Three-year
bond yields dropped to 2.81 percent, from 2.88 percent before
the jobs report.  Fragile Confidence  Traders priced in a 52 percent chance the RBA will lower
the benchmark rate to a record low 2.75 percent in August,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg. Earlier in the
week, there was a less than 50 percent chance of a reduction in
the month.  A  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  survey yesterday showed consumer
sentiment declined 5.1 percent in April, ending three months of
increases, emphasizing “how fragile  consumer confidence  has
become,” said Bill Evans, chief economist at Westpac.  Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens is forecasting a softer
labor market and slashed the overnight cash-rate target by 1.75
percentage points in the 14 months through December to 3
percent. Holden said this week it will cut about 500 jobs in
Australia, citing the local dollar’s strength, and currency
devaluations in competing markets.  Manufacturing Hub  Unemployment in the manufacturing hub of Victoria climbed
to 5.6 percent in March as the state lost 9,300 jobs, the
biggest decline among the states and territories, today’s report
showed. The jobless rate in resource-rich Queensland was
unchanged and Western Australia, also a key mining state, had a
slight increase to 4.7 percent.  The total employment decline was the biggest in 10 years
and compared with economists’ forecasts for a 7,500 fall,
according to the median of 24 estimates in Bloomberg survey.
That followed a 74,000 gain in February that was higher than
first reported and the biggest increase since July 2000.  “Last month’s figure was a little higher than we all
expected, and this sort of brings it back to reality,” said
Hans Kunnen, chief economist in Sydney at St. George Bank Ltd.
“Unemployment’s still under 6 percent. We’re better than most
places in the world.”  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today, the Bank of
 Korea  held borrowing costs unchanged for a sixth month, keeping
the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate at 2.75 percent.  Japan ’s
machine orders rose in February from the previous month while
domestic corporate goods prices fell in March from a year
earlier.  Jobless Claims  U.S. President  Barack Obama  sent a $3.8 trillion budget to
Congress yesterday calling for more tax revenue and slower
growth for Social Security benefits in a political gamble
intended to revive deficit-reduction talks. A report today will
probably show initial jobless claims fell to 360,000 in the week
ended April 6 from 385,000 in the previous period, according to
a Bloomberg survey.  Germany, France, Sweden and Ireland are due to report
inflation figures for last month.  Today’s Australia data showed the number of  full-time jobs 
declined by 7,400 in March, and part-time employment fell by
28,700. The participation rate, a measure of the labor force in
proportion to the population, dropped to 65.1 percent in March
from 65.3 percent a month earlier, it showed.  Data yesterday showed exports from  China , Australia’s
biggest trade partner, rose less than forecast in March, fueling
concerns about the outlook for trade.  China Exports  Even so, Stevens said this week that China’s  yuan  is likely
to become Asia’s dominant currency and that the region will
increasingly seek to deploy its savings within the region to tap
higher returns.  Australian industry has been squeezed by the currency’s
record stretch above parity with the U.S. dollar since it was
freely floated in 1983 that has made tourism more expensive and
exposed local manufacturers to cheaper imports. Rosella, a 117-
year-old saucemaker, announced its closure at the start of
March, leaving 70 workers without a job.  The cuts illustrate Australia’s lopsided economy, as a
mining-investment boom delivers the quickest growth in the
developed world even as it masks other weaknesses. The central
bank in February lowered its economic growth and inflation
forecasts as investment outside the mining industry remains
elusive and the strong currency contains prices.  The RBA says there are signs lower rates are gaining
traction with households.  Retail sales  had their biggest back-
to-back gain in almost four years over the first two months of
2013, data released last week showed.  “There are signs that the low level of interest rates is
having some of the expected effects and these are likely to have
further to run,” RBA Assistant Governor Christopher Kent said
at the  Bloomberg Australia Economic Summit  in Sydney yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  