-- Axa Said to Sell Life Unit to Protective for $1 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-04-11T16:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/axa-said-to-sell-life-unit-to-protective-for-1-billion.html
Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-largest
insurer, agreed to sell a U.S. unit and transfer certain
obligations to  Protective Life Corp. (PL)  for $1.06 billion (820
million euros).  Axa is selling Mony Life Insurance Co. to Birmingham,
Alabama-based Protective, which will reinsure some life
policies, the companies said today in separate statements. Axa
said it will still offer life insurance and retirement products
in the U.S. and the agreement doesn’t include the Mony
distribution network.  Axa, led by Chief Executive Officer Henri De Castries, had
been seeking a deal to sell some U.S. life obligations to free
capital. The company has sought to expand in Asia and other
 emerging markets  as a slow European economy and low bond yields
weigh on profits.  “This transaction allows us to further grow our U.S.
business where we have been achieving good momentum while
freeing up capital invested in closed portfolios to improve our
financial flexibility and enable additional investment in high-
growth markets and businesses,” de Castries said in a statement
from Paris-based Axa.  Axa  rose  1.6 percent to 13.93 euros in Paris trading. The
stock has  gained  4.3 percent this year, less than the 7.3
percent  increase  in the 28-company Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index. Protective advanced 3.3 percent to $36.77 at
12:47 p.m. in  New York .  Ratings Affirmed  The obligations Protective is assuming “are largely tied
to the regulatory closed block, set up in 1998 when Mony
demutualized,”  Standard & Poor’s  wrote in a report today
affirming the insurer’s credit ratings. “Regulatory
requirements for these closed blocks are generally conservative.
We assume that this block will perform favorably.”  Axa acquired Mony Group in 2004 for about $1.5 billion to
expand in the U.S. The Protective deal, which includes about
560,000  life-insurance  policies and 61,000 annuity contracts,
primarily transfers coverage sold prior to 2004, Axa said. After
acquiring Mony, Axa sold most insurance out of other
subsidiaries.  Protective said it will service the business it acquired
using the existing workforce and administrative platform in
Syracuse, New York. The transaction, expected to close in the
second half of the year, will probably boost Protective’s
earnings by 10 cents to 15 cents per share in 2013, and by 55
cents to 65 cents in 2014, the U.S. insurer said.  ‘Attractive’ Opportunity  “This large, high-quality, seasoned book of business
presents one of the most attractive acquisition opportunities we
have seen in many years,” Protective CEO John Johns said in a
statement.  Cigna Corp. reached a $2.2 billion deal with  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in February to cut liabilities
tied to death benefits. Sun Life Financial Inc. agreed to sell
its U.S. annuity business in a $1.35 billion deal in December as
CEO Dean Connor worked to reduce risk.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Debevoise & Plimpton LLP advised Axa,
Lauren Day, an Axa spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail.  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP advised Protective, and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP provided tax guidance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  