-- Mayor Is Seeking Space in London for Statue of Thatcher
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-11T09:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/mayor-is-seeking-space-in-london-for-statue-of-thatcher.html
Conservative London Mayor  Boris Johnson  pledged to seek a suitable location in the U.K. capital
for a statue of former Tory Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher,
who died this week.  “The mayor believes Baroness Thatcher deserves a prominent
statue in a central London location and his team will assist
with exploring suitable options,” Johnson’s office said in a
statement.  Thatcher’s death has prompted a divided reaction in the
U.K., with her Tory supporters lauding her economic reforms and
strength of character, while her political opponents have
pointed to the decline in traditional manufacturing and growing
north-south divide under her premiership. Anti-Thatcherites have
called a protest to celebrate her death for April 13 in
 Trafalgar Square  in central London, the scene of rioting in 1990
against her move to replace local-property taxes with a flat-
rate levy on every resident, known as the poll tax.  Tory Defense Secretary Philip Hammond yesterday suggested
putting a new statue of Thatcher on the spare plinth in
Trafalgar Square, in addition to one that already exists within
Parliament. Len Duvall, the leader of the opposition Labour
group on the  London Assembly , said today that would not be
“appropriate.”  “She was a significant figure, but she was a divisive
figure,” Duvall said in an e-mailed statement. “I would argue
that  Margaret Thatcher  did great harm to many people in London,
and to place a statue of her at the site of the poll-tax riots,
which symbolized just how divisive she was, would be crass
triumphalism.”  Protests ‘Childish’  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , whose Liberal Democrats
opposed Thatcherite policies, said the protests planned for two
days’ time are “childish.”  “It’s so out of keeping with the character of us as a
nation,” Clegg told LBC radio today. “I don’t think they speak
for the country at all, the people who are jumping up and down
with joy at her death.”  Commander Christine Jones, a spokeswoman for London’s
Metropolitan Police, said that in the run-up to Thatcher’s
funeral on April 17 the force “will monitor a range of
information to make sure we have the most up-to-date
intelligence picture” about possible demonstrations on the day.  “There has been much speculation about what levels of
protest may take place,” Jones said in an e-mailed statement.
“I would ask anyone who wishes to demonstrate then, or in the
coming days, to come and talk to us. The right to protest is one
that must be upheld. However, we will work to do that whilst
balancing the rights of those who wish to pay their respects and
those who wish to travel about  London  as usual.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  