-- Bain’s Sankaty Said to Start Its First Fund to Invest in CLOs
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-04-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/bain-s-sankaty-said-to-start-its-first-fund-to-invest-in-clos.html
Sankaty Advisors LLC,  the credit-
investment unit of Bain Capital LLC, started raising its first
fund focused on collateralized loan obligations, according to a
person with knowledge of the plan.  The Sankaty CLO Partners I fund raised about $160 million
after the first round and the amount can be increased to as much
as $300 million for the final close by the end of the year, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the deal is
private. The fund seeks to deliver double-digit annual returns
through investments in the equity and the junior portions of
mostly U.S. CLOs, the person said.  The new pool is Boston-based Sankaty’s latest effort to
broaden its range of credit-investment offerings as CLO issuance
grows in the U.S. and is starting to reopen in  Europe  after
investors shunned the hard-to-value structured credit following
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. Sankaty
had been investing in CLOs through its multi-strategy funds.  Ed Gascoigne-Pees, a spokesman in London for Sankaty,
declined to comment.  U.S. CLO issuance more than quadrupled to $55.4 billion in
2012 and is expected by  Wells Fargo & Co . to reach $80 billion
this year. The total return for the equity portions of U.S. CLOs
reached 46 percent in 2012, and 33 percent for BB rated notes,
according to Citigroup Inc. data.  The average spread for AAA rated portions of CLOs in the
U.S. has tightened 10 basis points this year to 120 basis
points, while the BB rated notes fell by 50 basis points to 625
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  CLOs pool high-yield loans and slice them into debt
securities of varying risk and return, typically from AAA
ratings down to B. The lowest portion, known as the so-called
equity tranche, offers the highest potential returns and the
greatest risk because investors are the first to see their
interest payouts reduced when the loans backing the CLOs
default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  