-- Bank of Korea Resists Rate-Cut Pressure Amid Threats of War
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-04-11T04:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/bank-of-korea-resists-rate-cut-pressure-as-north-threatens-war.html
The Bank of  Korea  held borrowing
costs unchanged for a sixth month, resisting pressure from the
government for a reduction even as a sliding yen hurts the
nation’s exporters and North Korea threatens war.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 2.75 percent, the central bank said
in a statement in Seoul today. Nine of 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predicted the move while the remainder forecast a
25-basis-point cut. The bank expanded a program of cheap loans
for small businesses.  Kim said that the central bank’s monetary stance is already
accommodative and in “harmony” with fiscal policy, rejecting
pressure from the government for easing to accompany a planned
stimulus package. While the Bank of Korea today pared its growth
forecast for this year to 2.6 percent from a January estimate of
2.8 percent, Kim said that Asia’s fourth-largest economy is
showing some signs of improvement.  “Economics have prevailed over politics,” said Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc. “Eyes
will now be on the supplementary budget, which is likely to be
announced next week.”  South Korea’s one-year interest-rate swap jumped six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.65 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That is the biggest increase since
Aug. 16, 2012. The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,129.60 against the
dollar as of 12:27 p.m. in  Seoul . The Kospi stock index was up
0.1 percent.  Political Pressure  Cho Won Dong, chief economic adviser to President Park Geun Hye, said last week that “it will be better” if the Bank of
Korea cuts interest rates. On March 28, the Finance Ministry
lowered its forecast for economic growth this year to 2.3
percent from December’s 3 percent estimate. The won rose about
25 percent against the yen over the past six months.  Before today’s decision, Nomura Holdings Inc. saw a 45
percent chance that the Bank of Korea would succumb to political
pressure and cut rates, giving the government “de facto
control” over monetary policy, said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong
Kong-based economist with the bank.  Today, Governor Kim said that fiscal and monetary policies
are “heading in the same direction” even when the timing is
different, adding that benefits are now flowing into the economy
from last year’s rate cuts.  Inflation Forecast  Elevated household debt and a stagnant property market are
constraints on an economy that Kim today said may continue to
grow at less than its potential rate. The yen’s weakness along
with reduced estimates for global growth were factors in paring
the forecast for gross domestic product, he said. Inflation may
be 2.3 percent this year, he added.  President Park and Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok are
preparing to roll out fiscal stimulus after the finance ministry
said yesterday that any prolonged geopolitical risks may
exacerbate economic weakness.  The possibility of a ballistic missile launch is “very
high” and “may materialize anytime from now,” South Korean
Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se told lawmakers in Seoul yesterday.
South Korean and U.S. forces upgraded their joint surveillance
“Watchcon” status by one level to monitor an imminent missile
fire, Yonhap reported, citing unnamed military officials.  South Korea’s economy has expanded less than 1 percent for
seven consecutive quarters, starting in April-June of 2011.
Gross domestic product grew 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter of
last year from the previous three months.  Reporters keen for early clues to rate decisions quizzed
Kim today on whether the color of his tie -- grey versus red or
blue on some previous occasions -- provided a signal. He said he
couldn’t comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  