-- Bank Tax Secrecy, Behavioral Economics, CEZ: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-11T12:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/bank-tax-secrecy-behavioral-economics-cez-probe-compliance.html
Luxembourg will begin the automatic
exchange of tax data in 2015, easing its bank-secrecy rules as
part of efforts to fight the financial crisis.  Luxembourg will change its rules to coordinate with policy
in the U.S. and 25 of the EU’s 27 member nations, Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker told his nation’s parliament yesterday.
Luxembourg and Austria have been holdouts in the EU’s efforts to
coordinate savings taxes and hold talks with non-EU countries.  The tax-data decision took on a “certain acuteness” after
Cypriot bailout talks roiled financial markets, the Luxembourg
Finance Ministry said in a statement. Luxembourg had been
preparing changes to its regulations for several months prior to
yesterday’s announcement, the ministry said.  Luxembourg and Austria last year vetoed negotiations over
the extension of a savings-tax agreement because of concerns
that they would be forced to give up banking-secrecy measures
that attract foreign depositors. The two countries blocked the
European Union from starting talks on updating the seven-year-
old tax accord with Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Andorra
and San Marino.  The Austrian government said yesterday that it may revise
its laws shielding information about foreign account holders. EU
finance ministers will discuss the savings-tax accord when they
meet in Dublin later this week.  Under a 2005 accord, Austria and Luxembourg withhold tax on
interest income paid to depositors from other EU states while
protecting their identities. Other EU states transfer the income
data to the depositor’s home tax authority.  Compliance Policy  Investor Missteps Studied by FCA in Quest for Better Rules  Britain’s Financial Conduct Authority will tap into
behavioral economics to bolster regulation of markets through
better knowledge of common blunders by financial consumers, such
as overconfidence in their ability to pick winning stocks.  The FCA, which replaced the Financial Services Authority on
April 1, released two reports yesterday signaling its intention
to apply the discipline to its work, including the results of
its first field study. The new regulator said that blaming
consumers for poor decisions has limits.  Regulators on both sides of the Atlantic have applied
behavioral economics to improve their understanding of people’s
financial choices. Behaviorists reject the assumptions in
conventional economics that people always choose the best option
for themselves, and study what motivates good and bad decisions.  The FCA’s research team includes former Yale and Harvard
behaviorist Stefan Hunt, while the U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau has put the field to work when writing rules
for mortgages, credit cards and payday loans. Hunt was one of
the authors of the two FCA papers released yesterday.  The first FCA paper, “Applying Behavioral Economics at the
Financial Conduct Authority,” outlined trends that regulators
can spot. Those include projection bias or the difficulty
consumers have in working out their future ability to repay
loans; and overconfidence, an “excessive belief in one’s
ability to pick winning stocks,” researchers wrote.  Recognizing such biases can help the FCA ban products that
are exploitative, or force firms to provide information that
allows consumers to make an informed choice.  Bank Regulation Shifts Risk Instead of Reducing It, Nordea Says  Efforts to regulate financial markets will transfer risk to
investors from banks instead of reducing it,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) 
said.  “The credit risk on counterparties becomes liquidity risk
through central counterparties and collateral demands,”
Nordea’s Helsinki-based Head of Research Aki Kangasharju and
Analyst Suvi Kosonen said in a report yesterday. “Central
counterparties may become too big to fail.”  Europe’s bank regulation is being tightened in the
aftermath of the global credit crunch to shatter the link
between banks and sovereigns that worsened the euro-area debt
crisis. Banks will have to amass more capital and match lending
with the funds raised on the market to ensure they can sustain
losses. Liquidity will decline, augmenting volatility and risk,
the lender said.  France to Require Companies to Disclose Overseas Units  A French legal requirement that already applies to banks to
divulge financial information for every overseas subsidiary will
be extended to all companies, President Francois Hollande said
after a cabinet meeting yesterday in Paris.  Hollande said he wants the new law, which will be presented
to the cabinet on April 24, to be extended to all European Union
countries.  Compliance Action  CEZ Settles Antitrust Probe With Pledge to Sell Power Assets  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the Czech Republic’s largest power producer,
settled a European Union antitrust probe after offering to sell
power assets to allay concerns that it shut out potential rivals
from the country’s power market.  The Brussels-based European Commission opened a probe into
CEZ because of concerns it may have prevented competitors from
entering the market by hoarding capacity in the transmission
network.  The deal announced yesterday means that CEZ will divest
about 800 megawatts to 1,000 megawatts of generation capacity,
the commission said. Under the settlement, CEZ may choose
between three divestment scenarios. These are the sale of its
Pocerady or Chvaletice plants, or Melnik III together with
Tisova, the commission said.  “We took all the necessary steps to fulfill the
commission’s demands, so we are happy that the settlement was
finally confirmed,” said Barbora Pulpanova, a spokeswoman for
CEZ.  CEZ “will carry out the sale under the supervision of a
monitoring trustee, who will verify in particular that the
transaction would not raise new competition concerns,” the EU
authority said. “The buyer will have to be approved by the
commission.”  EU Said to Push to Fine Banks Over Yen Libor and Euribor Rates  European Union regulators are pushing to fine banks before
the end of the year for attempting to fix benchmark interest
rates tied to the euro and yen currencies, two people familiar
with the investigation said.  Several banks want to resolve the antitrust probe and may
negotiate with the EU for a settlement as early as October, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the talks are in
private.  The EU is also investigating the possible rigging of Swiss
franc Libor, the EU’s antitrust chief, Joaquin Almunia, has
said. That case is less advanced than the EU’s probes into the
yen Libor, the cost of borrowing in the Japanese currency, and
Euribor rates and unlikely to be completed this year, according
to the two people.  Any settlement would include fines and an admission that
the companies violated competition rules, one of the people
said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Deutsche Bank AG,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  are among banks and brokerages that have been
quizzed by the EU about manipulation of lending rates that may
have helped them and others generate profits from derivatives
trades. Even minor tweaks to the rate by one bank would benefit
trading positions to net millions of euros in profit, one of the
people said.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
authority, said the EU’s cases are ongoing.  JPMorgan’s Dimon Says Bank Faces More Regulatory Sanctions  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which is under regulatory orders to
tighten internal controls following a record trading loss last
year, will face more sanctions in the coming months, Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said.  The bet on credit derivatives that lost more than $6.2
billion was “extremely embarrassing, opened us up to severe
criticism, damaged our reputation and resulted in litigation and
investigations that are still ongoing,” Dimon said yesterday in
a letter to shareholders. “We received regulatory orders
requiring improved performance in multiple areas, including
mortgage foreclosures, anti-money laundering procedures and
others. Unfortunately, we expect we will have more of these.”  Dimon again accepted blame on the New York-based bank’s
behalf for the mistakes and said he felt “terrible that we let
our regulators down.” The loss was “the stupidest and most
embarrassing situation I have ever been a part of.”  The comments mark a shift in tone from Dimon’s letter a
year ago, when he criticized regulators in the U.S. and abroad
for producing rules that he said threatened to impair economic
growth. JPMorgan released last year’s letter April 4, one day
before Bloomberg News first reported on market-distorting
derivatives bets by the bank’s chief investment office that
erased as much as $51 billion in shareholder value and prompted
multiple regulatory probes.  Banking regulators censured JPMorgan in January over risk-
control and anti-money laundering lapses. Last month, Senate
investigators said the firm and its leaders dodged regulators
and then misled investors as the losses escalated.  For more, click here.  KPMG Audits Before HBOS Collapse May Be Reviewed by U.K. FRC  The U.K.’s accounting regulator will consider whether to
review KPMG LLP’s audits of  HBOS Plc (LLOY)  following reports on the
bank’s collapse from the U.K. Parliament and financial watchdog.  KPMG was the auditor for HBOS before it was taken over by
London-based Lloyds Banking Group Plc in a government-backed
deal in 2008.  British lawmakers said earlier this month that three former
top executives at HBOS should be barred from working in the
finance industry. The  Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards  said former Chairman Dennis Stevenson, and ex-Chief
Executive Officers James Crosby and Andy Hornby embarked on an
aggressive expansion strategy, issued loans incompetently and
failed to understand or manage risk.  “We stand by the quality of our work at HBOS,” said Mark
Hamilton, a spokesman for KPMG in London.  The Financial Conduct Authority will publish a report into
the bank’s failure later this year.  Courts  Google Sued by Streetmap for Anti-Competitive Behavior  Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the world’s largest search engine,
was sued in London by a U.K. Internet company for promoting its
own maps over those of competitors.  Streetmap, a provider of Internet maps, filed a complaint
in London March 15, according to court records. Google’s actions
have made its products “harder to find,” the U.K.-based
company said yesterday in a statement.  Streetmap said its complaint mirrors an antitrust probe by
the European Union into whether Google favors its own services
over competitors in search results. The European Commission has
asked Mountain View, California-based Google to submit proposals
that could lead to a settlement.  A spokesman for Google declined to comment on the suit.  The case is Streetmap.eu Ltd. v. Google Inc., case no
13-1013, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  Madoff Investors Can’t Sue SEC, U.S. Appeals Court Rules  Bernard Madoff’s investors can’t sue the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission for failing to uncover his massive Ponzi
scheme, a federal appeals court ruled.  The regulator’s “regrettable inaction” is shielded by
law, the New York-based appeals panel said yesterday, upholding
a lower-court decision to dismiss suits in which investors
accused the SEC of negligence.  The three-judge panel ruled that the “discretionary
function” exception to a law permitting people to sue the U.S.
government applies in cases filed by Madoff victims.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. He is serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in North Carolina.  Howard Elisofon, a lawyer for investor Phyllis Molchatsky,
a plaintiff in the suit, had no immediate comment on yesterday’s
decision.  The case is Molchatsky v. U.S., 11-02510, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit.  Interviews/Conferences  Lockhart Says ‘Too-Big-to-Fail’ Bailouts Still a Risk  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart
spoke about financial regulation and the continued risk that
regulators would need to provide a taxpayer bailout when winding
down a failing financial institution.  Lockhart spoke at the conclusion of an Atlanta Fed
conference in Stone Mountain, Georgia.  For the audio, click here.  Rurelec Says Bolivia Nationalizations Put Off Investors  Peter Earl, chief executive officer of Rurelec Plc,
discussed the Bolivian government’s nationalization of its local
assets.  He spoke with Francine Lacqua and Guy Johnson on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Barnier Says U.S. Financial Regulations Could Be ‘Damaging’  European Union Internal Market and Services Commissioner
Michel Barnier said it would be “particularly damaging” if the
U.S. pursued financial regulation in isolation.  He made the comments in an article prepared for a
conference in Dublin yesterday.  “It would be a great concern if duplicative rules were
imposed in isolation as it would start a process of costly
replication worldwide, leading to capital and regulatory
fragmentation.”  Barnier is pushing back against proposals from the U.S.
Federal Reserve that foreign lenders organize their U.S. units
as subsidiaries and hold capital independently from their parent
firms to make it easier for U.S. regulators to seize local
assets in a crisis. The Fed is seeking views on the measures,
which Barnier has warned could drive up costs for EU banks.  He also said “intense discussions are taking place on
derivatives.” Final regulations need to match standards agreed
internationally.  Comings and Goings  RBS Said to Dismiss Derivatives Trader Weeks After Libor Fine  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  dismissed a London-based
interest-rates trader, weeks after settling with regulators over
its part in the Libor scandal, two people with knowledge of the
move said.  Simon Green, who traded derivatives tied to short-term
moves in interest rates in dollars and euros, was fired last
month, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the matter hasn’t been made public. He is the seventh individual
to be dismissed from the bank for Libor-related misconduct, one
of the people said. Officials at the Edinburgh-based lender
declined to comment.  Green, who joined RBS as a trainee in 2002, has been listed
as inactive since Feb. 26 on the U.K. regulator’s register of
approved individuals. He couldn’t be located through directory
searches and a message left with a LinkedIn account with the
same name wasn’t immediately returned.  RBS was fined $612 million by U.K. and U.S regulators on
Feb. 6 for making hundreds of attempts to rig rates including
yen, Swiss franc and U.S. dollar Libor between 2006 and 2010.  RBS said in February it had dismissed six individuals,
including two managers, following an internal probe. Eight more
left before disciplinary action could be taken, while a further
six had been “severely disciplined” or were “going through a
disciplinary process,” the bank said. Green is one of the
latter six, one of the people said. In all, 21 employees have
left, been disciplined or are facing disciplinary action over
rate-rigging.  Separately, the bank’s Japan brokerage unit head is
preparing to resign as the company faces penalties for attempts
to manipulate benchmark interest rates, said two people with
knowledge of the situation.  RBS Securities Japan Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer Ryusuke
Otani will leave the firm as soon as this week, one of the
people said, asking not to be named as the information is
private. The Financial Services Agency will announce penalties
including a business improvement order as early as tomorrow, the
people said.  The agency oversees the Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission, which on April 5 recommended action
against RBS. The unit in February pleaded guilty to wire fraud
as part of a $612 million settlement with U.K. and U.S.
authorities for rigging the London interbank offered rate, the
benchmark for at least $300 trillion of securities worldwide.  Atsuko Yoshitsugu, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for RBS, said
Otani wasn’t available to comment as he is on “compliance
leave.” Hiroshi Okada, an FSA spokesman, declined to comment.  From around mid-2006 to early 2010, an unidentified RBS
trader and his colleagues asked employees responsible for making
yen Libor submissions to change them to favor their derivatives
portfolio, the SESC said in a statement last week. The conduct
was “seriously unjust and malicious,” it said.  The Edinburgh-based lender apologized to customers
following the SESC recommendation, saying in a statement that it
will take “appropriate steps” to address the issues raised by
the regulator.  ISDA Taps Oliver Wyman to Review Swap Pricing Probed by CFTC  The  International Swaps & Derivatives Association  hired
consulting firm Oliver Wyman to make recommendations on how to
modify an interest-rate swap pricing process that is under
investigation by a U.S. regulator.  The hiring comes as Bloomberg News reported April 8 that
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission subpoenaed ICAP
Plc and as many as 15 dealers related to potential manipulation
of benchmark rate-swap measures, including the so-called ISDAfix
rates. The CFTC is investigating whether ICAP brokers colluded
with dealers who stand to profit from inaccurate quotes,
including failing to update published prices after trades occur,
one of the people familiar with the probe said. ICAP said in a
statement April 9 it maintains policies prohibiting the alleged
behavior and is cooperating with the CFTC’s wider inquiry.  Oliver Wyman, which is a unit of New York-based insurance
broker Marsh & McLennan Cos., advised the British Bankers’
Association in its review of how the London interbank offered
rate was being set amid a probe into allegations that the
benchmark was being manipulated.  A representative for Oliver Wyman didn’t return telephone
calls seeking comment. Marsh & McLennan is the largest insurance
broker by market value.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 