-- Baucus Endorses More Revenue Through Tax-Code Rewrite
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-04-11T19:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/baucus-endorses-more-revenue-through-tax-code-rewrite.html
The government should raise more
revenue through a rewrite of the U.S. tax code, said Senate
Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, staking out a position
that aligns him with President  Barack Obama  and other Democrats.  Baucus, one of four Democrats who voted against his party’s
budget in the Senate, said he’s trying to reach a “middle
ground” on a tax-code rewrite that would limit breaks and
reduce taxes for families and businesses.  “Some of the revenue raised in tax reform should also be
used to reduce the deficit,” Baucus said today at a committee
hearing in Washington.  Baucus’s position is central on the tax code because of his
position on the Finance Committee and because he is from
Montana, a state that Obama lost in November. Baucus, 71, is up
for re-election in 2014.  Baucus has been working with Representative Dave Camp of
Michigan, the Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee, on tax rewrite efforts. They wrote a joint opinion
article in the Wall Street Journal earlier this week expressing
some shared principles without discussing whether a tax rewrite
should generate fresh revenue.  Camp and other Republicans advocate revenue-neutral changes
to the tax code.  Baucus said he opposed the administration’s offer to switch
the inflation calculation for Social Security benefits to the
slower-growing chained Consumer Price Index.  Future Benefits  Slowing the increase in future benefits should be used to
shore up Social Security, not for deficit reduction, Baucus
said.  “Cutting Montana seniors’ benefits without asking the
wealthiest Americans to chip in to the Social Security trust
fund isn’t right,” he said.  Baucus said that increasing the cap on wages subject to
Social Security payroll tax -- now $113,700 -- would be
preferable.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, testifying at the hearing,
said he would be open to that idea.  Lew emphasized that Obama made the proposal on the
inflation formula “in the context of trying to reach a
bipartisan agreement” that would include higher taxes and
spending cuts.  “We’re doing something hard,” Lew told Texas Republican
John Cornyn. “And we know that revenues are going to be hard
for you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  