-- Billionaire Targets Portuguese Property Turnaround
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-11T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/billionaire-targets-portuguese-property-turnaround.html
Billionaire Nicolas Berggruen and
two Portuguese partners plan to spend as much as 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) on real estate in the country, though
they’re not expecting to make a quick return.  Berggruen, Jose Luis Pinto Basto and Miguel Pais do Amaral
will target assets such as office buildings, hotels and parking
lots, Pinto Basto said in an interview in Lisbon. The properties
may take as long as 10 years to sell at a profit, he said.  “We’re not in a hurry,” said Pinto Basto, who formed Edge
Berggruen Investments with his partners to make acquisitions.
“The thing about Nicolas is that he’s a marathon runner, not a
sprinter.”  Prices for the best Portuguese properties should stabilize
this year after falling as much as 15 percent in 2012, according
to Walter Fabrega, broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.’s head of
 capital markets  in Portugal. The government has forecast that
the economy will grow in 2014 for the first time in four years.  Berggruen, a German-American who travels the world in a
Gulfstream IV jet while living in five-star hotels, owns 50
percent of Edge Berggruen Investments. Vanessa Osorio, a
spokeswoman for Edge Group and Edge Berggruen Investments, said
he wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Portuguese banks are among those looking to sell assets.
 Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , the country’s biggest publicly traded
bank, is selling some loans made to distressed companies in the
real estate and tourism industries to private-equity funds,
Antonio Souto, a board member at Espirito Santo said on Feb. 20.
 Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) , a Portuguese lender, is selling
more than 700 repossessed properties, including offices and
warehouses with discounts of as much as 12 percent, according to
the bank’s  website .  Turnaround Plans  Edge Berggruen is focusing on deals of 200 million euros to
300 million euros and is talking to banks and state-owned
institutions with large real estate holdings, said Pinto Basto,
who is also a commercial airline pilot. “The goal is to focus
on indebted assets, pay off some of the debt and turn around
these businesses,” he said.  Tim Seconde, associate director of capital markets at
property broker CBRE Group Inc. in Portugal, said investment
levels in the country’s commercial real estate “hit rock
bottom” in 2012 as investors watched the euro-zone crisis
unfold and speculation about countries exiting the currency
increased.  ‘Doubts Continue’  “So far in 2013, we have seen doubts continue and
investment volumes will remain relatively low,” Seconde said by
e-mail. “However, there had been a notable increase in interest
from new investors and some of them will be able to take
advantage of the lack of competition and highly readjusted
pricing.”  Portuguese real estate investment declined by 38 percent in
2012 to 125 million euros, the lowest in the last decade,
according to Jones Lang. Investment in commercial property
dropped by 50 percent from the previous year, Cushman &
Wakefield Inc. Managing Partner Eric van Leuven said in January.  Political and economic uncertainty in  Portugal , meanwhile,
hasn’t abated and unemployment is the highest since at least
1998. The southern European nation was the third euro member to
seek an emergency bailout when it got 78 billion euros in 2011
following Greece and Ireland.  The country is facing new barriers to meeting aid
requirements and is promising further budget cuts after its
 Constitutional Court  last week blocked a proposal to suspend a
payment to state workers and pensioners. That risks delaying
completion of the seventh aid-plan review and reducing the
chance of international partners giving the nation more time to
pay back rescue loans.  “This is the right time to act” because valuations have
been adjusted,  Jones Lang ’s Fabrega said by e-mail. “Owners are
more evidently accepting the depreciation of their assets” and
that “presents excellent business opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  