-- Billionaire Steinmetz Sues FTI Over Soros Smear Campaign Claim
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-04-11T15:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/billionaire-steinmetz-sues-fti-over-soros-smear-campaign-claim.html
BSG Resources Ltd. , a company
controlled by Israeli billionaire Beny Steinmetz, is suing its
former communications adviser FTI Consulting LLP over what it
said was a campaign linked to  George Soros  seeking to strip BSGR
of rights to an iron ore project.  BSGR said it filed a lawsuit in a London court today that
claims that when FTI appointed former British government
minister Mark Malloch-Brown as its European chairman in 2010 the
firm was in breach of its contract because of a conflict of
interest arising from his links to Soros. The lawsuit said that
Soros, who isn’t a defendant in the case, and non-government
organizations funded by him connected to Malloch-Brown “were
(and remain) engaged in a smear campaign against BSGR.”  FTI said the claims were without merit. A voice message
left for Malloch-Brown requesting comment wasn’t returned.
Michael Vachon, a spokesman for Soros, didn’t immediately return
voice messages seeking comment.  BSGR hired FTI to “defend and protect its interests”
relating to an iron ore project in the West African nation of
 Guinea , it said in a copy of the lawsuit it provided. FTI
terminated its contract with BSGR on Nov. 12, 2012, saying in a
letter that  “circumstances have created a business conflict
which cannot be allowed to continue,” the company said in the
lawsuit.  Malloch-Brown, a former United Nations deputy secretary-
general under Kofi Annan, is on the board of Soros’  Open Society
Foundation . His relationship with the billionaire investor was
so close that “Malloch-Brown was in charge of funding the very
NGOs which were building a case against BSGR,” according to the
filing.  London Lawyers  BSGR said that Soros, 82, funded an investigation into the
company’s activities in Guinea. Soros is “determined to
ensure” that a mining license, held in a venture with  Brazil ’s
 Vale SA (VALE5) , “was withdrawn/canceled” by the government of Guinea,
according to the lawsuit, which cites internal e-mails from FTI.  “It is highly unusual for a defendant in a case to receive
notification of the ‘particulars of claim’ from a journalist,”
West Palm Beach, Florida-based FTI said in an e-mailed response
to a request for comment. “The fact that BSGR are placing this
in the media ahead of service is a demonstration of its lack of
merit.  Once served on us, we intend to defend this claim
vigorously.”  Malloch-Brown has hired Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan
LLP as his attorneys, said Richard East, co-head of the firm’s
London office. Hogan Lovells LLP is representing FTI. BSGR is
represented by Mishcon de Reya.  Seeking Damages  BSGR said in a statement last month that Guinea is
preparing to strip the venture of its rights in the country. The
venture is planning a $10 billion iron ore mine in the country
at Simandou. The dispute intensified amid a government review
into the agreements signed with mining companies.  BSGR is seeking damages “arising from a conspiracy” that
the defendants would withhold disclosure of the conflict of
interest from BSGR. It’s also declarations that alleged
defamatory statements were untrue and a declaration from FTI and
Malloch-Brown that they were engaged in an “unlawful means
conspiracy against BSGR,” the filing says.  Steinmetz’s company in November said it received a letter
from Guinea regarding an investigation into how the venture with
 Vale  obtained mining rights.  It acquired rights to part of the Simandou deposit in 2008
after Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining
company, was ordered by the government to give up a section of
its license area. Vale agreed to buy 51 percent of the project
for as much as $2.5 billion in 2010.  The case is BSG Resources v. FTI Consulting, High Court of
Justices, Queen’s  Bench Division .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  