-- Bingham, Dentons, Freshfields, Jones Day: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/bingham-dentons-freshfields-jones-day-business-of-law.html
Bingham McCutchen LLP expanded its
global intellectual property, litigation and life sciences
practices with a five-partner group from  DLA Piper  LLP.  Richard de Bodo, co-chairman of DLA Piper’s patent
litigation and life sciences practices, will serve as co-chair
of Bingham’s intellectual property and life sciences practice
groups.  The additional partners joining from DLA are Siegmund Gutman, Andrew Devkar, Olga Berson and Bruce Kuyper.  “Rich, Siegmund, Andrew, Olga and Bruce comprise a
nationally known, first-tier patent litigation team that will
immediately enhance our IP, life sciences and technology
capabilities in  California , throughout the United States and
globally,” Bingham Chairman Jay Zimmerman said in a statement.
“Their cutting-edge patent litigation practice perfectly
complements our existing IP practice as well as our Japan
practice, which includes more than 70 lawyers in  Tokyo . It’s a
strong and ideal fit.”  De Bodo litigates patent and trade secret disputes relating
to pharmaceuticals, biologics, biotechnology, electronics,
software and Internet technology. Gutman’s practice focuses on
developing and executing market exclusivity and freedom-to-
operate strategies for biologics, pharmaceutical and
biotechnology clients, the firm said.  Devkar has a computer science background and has litigated
patent cases across industries. Berson has litigated patent
cases relating to life sciences, pharmaceuticals and chemicals,
including district court cases and Section 337 actions before
the International Trade Commission. Kuyper has experience in
intellectual property litigation, principally patent
infringement litigation relating to electronics, semiconductors,
and wireless technologies, the firm said.  “We feel our biologics and electronics practice will
develop and grow at Bingham, and our clients will be very well
served,” de Bodo said in a statement. “Our Japanese clients
will benefit enormously from Bingham’s outstanding Japanese
office and practice.”  DLA Piper declined to comment on the departures.  Bingham has approximately 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in
the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Dentons Hires Six White Collar Partners From Husch Blackwell  A six-partner white collar and government investigations
team from Husch Blackwell LLP will join Dentons LLP April 15.  Stephen L. Hill Jr., a former U.S. attorney in the Western
District of  Missouri , Patrick McInerney, Lisa Krigsten, Steven
Aaron, Maxwell Carr-Howard and Angela Harse join the firm’s
 Kansas City , Missouri, office as partners, along with an
associate.  “With their vast range of experience and their deep roots
in the Midwest, this distinguished group is a valuable addition
to our Kansas City team,” John Snyder, Dentons’ Kansas City
managing partner, said in a statement.  Hill, who led Husch Blackwell’s government compliance,
investigations and litigation department, represents companies,
boards and people in investigation and litigation matters,
particularly involving securities enforcement, the firm said.  McInerney concentrates on government compliance,
investigation and litigation. Krigsten is a former federal
prosecutor who represents individuals and corporate leadership
nationally in government investigations and litigation, the firm
said.  Aaron has more than 20 years of experience representing
clients in criminal cases, business and commercial disputes,
health-care matters and government investigations. Carr-Howard
assists companies with internal investigations of potential
criminal conduct, including public and private corruption,
import/export violations and breaches of U.S. economic
sanctions. Harse concentrates in white collar criminal defense,
according to Dentons.  Dentons, a firm recently formed by the combination of SNR
Dentons, Salans and Fraser Milner Casgrain, has more than 2,500
lawyers and professionals in 79 locations in 52 countries.  Freshfields Adds Boies Schiller Partner Friedrich in Washington  Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP partner Matthew Friedrich,
formerly the acting head of the criminal division of the U.S.
 Justice Department , joined Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP as
a partner in the U.S. litigation practice in  Washington .  At Freshfields, Friedrich will focus on white collar
investigations and related litigation for public companies and
financial institutions. With his appointment, the firm has 16
partners and a total of 83 lawyers in its U.S. litigation
practice.  “Matt bolsters the Washington arm of what is now truly one
of the world’s leading international white collar defense
practices and brings us important new expertise in the fields of
national security and foreign investment,” Christopher Pugh,
the firm’s global head of litigation, said in a statement.
“With experienced investigations lawyers in the key commercial
centers of the world, we are providing our clients with seamless
global representation in complex multijurisdictional
investigations.”  Friedrich was previously an assistant attorney general for
the criminal division, where he led 740 people and handled
financial fraud, intellectual property, cybersecurity and the
review of cross-border transactions by the Committee on Foreign
Investment, the firm said.  He also served as chairman of the National Procurement
Fraud Task Force and as a member of the President’s Corporate
Fraud Task Force, the firm said. Prior to his appointment as
head of the criminal division, Friedrich was deputy chief of
staff to U.S. Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey.  Freshfields has more than 2,500 lawyers at 28 offices
worldwide.  Lateral Partner Wrap-Up:  Jones Day , Bird & Bird, Sidley  Corporate partner Philipp Grzimek will join Jones Day’s
Frankfurt office, and intellectual property partner Jakob Guhn
is joining the firm’s Dusseldorf, Germany, office. Grzimek was
previously at Hogan Lovells LLP, while Guhn joins from Field
Fisher Waterhouse. In the past 15 months, Jones Day said it has
almost doubled the number of partners in its German offices by
adding 18 lateral and up-through-the-ranks lawyers to the
partnership.  Bird & Bird LLP added Leo Fattorini to its international
aviation group as a partner in the Singapore office. He most
recently was a lawyer with Virgin Atlantic, the firm said.  Sidley Austin LLP expanded its Asia Pacific presence with
the addition of Tom Deegan to the global energy practice as a
partner in  Hong Kong . He was previously at Simmons & Simmons
LLP.  News  S&P Prosecutor’s Stalled Nomination Is Bump in Fast-Track Career  The U.S. Justice Department suit against  Standard & Poor’s 
has entered a phase where lawyers spend months arguing over
procedure, and progress is slim.  Tony West , who’s overseeing the
case, knows the feeling: His nomination to become the agency’s
No. 3 official has been blocked for half a year,  Bloomberg News ’
Phil Mattingly reports.  West has run financial-crime prosecutions, led efforts to
crack down on health-care fraud and navigated legal thickets
ranging from the rights of gay partners to Guantanamo detainees.
He once defended the “American Taliban” and raised millions
for President  Barack Obama ’s first presidential campaign.  Now, as his nomination to become associate attorney general
is held up in the  U.S. Senate  in part over a lawmaker’s
questions about his role atop the department’s civil division,
West, 47, faces a hurdle in a career that has been on the fast
track since he worked on election campaigns as a grade-schooler.  “People always said he’d be president one day -- and they
didn’t mean of the student body,” said Jude Barry, who was a
senior during West’s freshman year at Bellarmine College
Preparatory high school in  San Jose , California.  From judicial appointments and financial regulators to
cabinet officials, Senate Democrats have struggled to overcome
the scrutiny and holds that the chamber’s Republicans have
placed on Obama’s nominees. West, first nominated to move to
associate attorney general from the civil division in September
2012, hasn’t received a hearing.  Still, the “acting” tag on his title has done little to
slow his efforts at the Justice Department, which include a role
in the $5 billion civil claims against S&P, the New York-based
unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  The department, in concert with state
attorneys general from around the U.S., has alleged the company
knowingly inflated credit ratings for profit and market share.  West declined to comment for this story.  For more, click here.  Saudi Arabia Recognizes First Female Lawyer, Al-Hayat Reports  The Saudi Ministry of Justice granted a trainee lawyer
identification certificate to Arwa al-Hujaili as a step toward
obtaining a license to practice law after two to three years of
experience, the newspaper Al-Hayat reported. Any female lawyer
meeting requirements may apply for a license, Al-Hayat said,
citing the ministry.  Accounting Fraud Filings Drop With Chinese Reverse Merger Cases  Accounting class-action filings fell to 45 in 2012 from 78
the year before because of a decrease in Chinese reverse merger
cases, according to a new report from  Cornerstone Research .  Although new cases declined, accounting class-action
settlements represented more than 90 percent of settlement
dollars for securities class actions in 2012, the survey found.  “Despite the ups and downs in accounting case filings and
settlements, we continue to see that these cases are less likely
to be dismissed, take longer to resolve and make up a much
greater proportion of settlement dollars than non-accounting
cases,” Elaine Harwood, vice president of Cornerstone Research,
said in a statement.  Allegations of internal control weaknesses increased by
almost 45 percent of all settled cases in 2012 from 34 percent
in 2011, Cornerstone said. Financial-statement restatement cases
made up about one in three new cases, the survey found. Harwood
said she expected the trends to persist.  To see the survey,  click here.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  