-- Blair Warns Miliband Labour Risks Becoming Protest Party
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-11T08:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/blair-warns-miliband-labour-risks-becoming-protest-party.html
Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair, who won three general elections for Labour, warned its
current leader that resistance to austerity and welfare cuts
risk reducing it to a party of protest.  Blair told Ed Miliband that the political center ground
has not shifted in his party’s favor since the financial crisis
of 2008, highlighting the danger of returning to the dividing
lines of the 1980s, when Labour championed the status quo and
was unable to oust Margaret Thatcher’s Conservatives from power.  In an article in the Labour-supporting  New Statesman
magazine  published today, Blair rejected the argument that his
party created the financial crisis, saying the U.K.’s structural
budget deficit had been below 1 percent of gross domestic
product in the financial year that started in April 2007.
However the crisis occurred, Blair argued, “no one can get
permission to govern unless they deal with its reality.”  “The paradox of the financial crisis is that, despite
being widely held to have been caused by under-regulated
markets, it has not brought a decisive shift to the left,”
Blair wrote. “But what might happen is that the left believes
such a shift has occurred and behaves accordingly.”  “The risk, which is highly visible here in Britain, is
that the country returns to a familiar left/right battle,”
Blair wrote. “The familiarity is because such a contest
dominated the 20th century. The risk is because in the 21st
century such a contest debilitates rather than advances the
nation. This is at present crystallizing around debates over
austerity, welfare, immigration and  Europe .”  Blair said Prime Minister David Cameron’s Tories, cutting
welfare benefits and public spending to narrow the deficit, are
a party “clothing itself in the mantle of fiscal
responsibility, buttressed by moves against ‘benefit
scroungers,’ immigrants squeezing out British workers and -- of
course -- Labour profligacy.”  Labour, on the other hand, “is back as the party opposing
‘Tory cuts,’ highlighting the cruel consequences of the
Conservative policies on welfare and representing the
disadvantaged and vulnerable,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  