-- BMO Chief Will Pursue More ‘Attention-Getting’ Offers
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-04-11T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/bmo-chief-will-pursue-more-attention-getting-offers.html
Bank of Montreal , the lender whose
mortgage-rate promotion drew a rebuke from  Canada ’s finance
minister last month, plans more “attention-getting” offers to
win over customers, Chief Executive Officer William Downe said.  “We’re going to continue to look for ways to bring
products to customers that we think are good for them and good
for the bank,” Downe, 61, said yesterday in an interview in
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan after the Toronto-based bank’s annual
investor meeting. “We’re going to do it in a way that may be
attention-getting, at least in the eyes of our competition, and
that’s the way you grow your business.”  The lender’s offer of a five-year 2.99 percent mortgage
rate elicited criticism from Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who
has sought to curb household spending among Canadians. The
mortgage special ended March 28.  “We didn’t anticipate that it would provoke the reaction
that it did,” Downe said of Flaherty’s response. “It was
understood well by the market, it created traffic in the bank
and I do not believe it was in conflict with the public-policy
objectives of the government.”  Flaherty and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  have
warned that mounting  household debt  threatens the country’s
financial system and economy, which had its worst six-month
performance in the second of half of last year since the end of
the 2009 recession. The ratio of Canadian household debt to
disposable income rose to a record 165 percent at the end of
last year, according to  Statistics Canada .  Mortgage Pricing  A similar mortgage offer at  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  also
drew a response last month from Flaherty, who said he didn’t
want a “race to the bottom” on rates. Manulife  withdrew a
2.89 percent promotional rate after consulting with the
Department of Finance.  Flaherty shouldn’t interfere with mortgage pricing set by
the country’s lenders,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  CEO  Richard Waugh 
said earlier in the week.  “I understand why the finance minister is concerned about
the Canadian economy, but I just philosophically don’t think”
government should be setting product pricing, Waugh said during
an April 9 interview in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , where the bank
held its annual shareholders meeting.  The finance minister has appropriately handled the message
of his public-policy objectives, Downe said.  “The Minister of Finance should speak out and say what he
thinks, and at the same time we were clear about the quality of
the product,” Downe said. “I don’t believe there was any real
conflict between our points of view.”  Shouldn’t Interfere  Bank of Montreal is pushing to add 1 million customers a
year, building on its 12 million clients who are mainly in
Canada and the U.S.  “In Canada, we have been creating energy in the market
around things like the high-quality home mortgages we’ve been
promoting, and that’s intended to give the front line the
opportunity to build a customer base,” Downe said. “In  capital
markets , we want to be the lead manager and book runner on more
issues, we want to be the principal M&A adviser, we want to help
people with their financing and we want to help them grow their
businesses.”  Downe said the drive to add customers is a goal for all
parts of the company, including  investment banking ,  wealth
management  and the consumer-lending business.  “Personal banking in both Canada and the  United States  are
in a position they should be adding customers and doing that
faster than the growth rate of the market,” Downe said. “That
means growing share.”  Deposits, Branches  Bank of Montreal’s annual profit rose 35 percent to C$4.19
billion ($4.13 billion) for the fiscal year ended Oct. 31. The
firm’s earnings were boosted by its C$4.1 billion takeover of
Milwaukee-based Marshall & Ilsley Corp. in July 2011, which
doubled the bank’s U.S. deposits and branches.  At the bank’s annual meeting in March 2011, Downe set a
medium-term goal of generating earnings of C$1 billion a year
from personal, commercial and wealth management in the U.S.
Those businesses had generated C$184 million in 2010.  The lender’s U.S. operations are expected to meet the
bank’s financial objectives, with higher levels of internal
growth in the next three years, Downe said. The bank earned C$1
billion in the U.S. last year, he said.  “I still think personal, commercial and wealth on their
own are capable of achieving C$1 billion and capital markets is
probably going to continue to grow from where it is,” Downe
said.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  is the top  performer  among Canada’s eight-
largest banks this year, climbing 4.2 percent since January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I think the market is getting a clearer understanding of
how the pieces of the strategy tie in to the North American
footprint,” Downe said. “We talk about creating value in the
medium- and long-term and that’s reflective of a better
understanding of how these pieces will work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  