-- BOE Stimulus Dilemma Persists as Inflation Seen Higher: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J o s h u a   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-04-11T09:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/boe-stimulus-dilemma-persists-as-inflation-seen-higher-economy.html
U.K. inflation  forecasts for this
year were raised by economists as they also scaled back growth
predictions, highlighting the dilemma  Bank of England  officials
face on whether to increase stimulus.  Consumer-price increases will average 2.8 percent this
year, compared with 2.7 percent seen in March, according to the
median forecast of 41 economists in the Bloomberg monthly survey
published today. Economic growth will average 0.8 percent in
2013, compared with a previous forecast of 1 percent, the
predictions show.  Monetary Policy Committee members are split on the need to
increase bond buying to boost flagging growth, with Governor
 Mervyn King  outvoted in both February and March in his push for
more stimulus. Officials kept the target on hold this month, and
minutes showing how they voted will be released on April 17.  “Weak growth and stagnation is the picture we’re likely to
face for a while, and inflation remains above target,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London  and a former Bank
of England official. “That’s the key thing that’s holding back
further stimulus. Growth isn’t going to be bad enough to force
any MPC members to change this month, so it’s August at the
earliest.”  The survey results suggest the economy will avoid a triple-
dip recession, a view shared by the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research, which this week estimated that
gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the first quarter,
the same pace as in the three months through February.  GDP Growth  The Bloomberg survey also sees expansion of 0.1 percent in
the first quarter, less than the 0.2 percent forecast last
month. Economists predict growth will then accelerated every
three months to reach a pace of 0.4 percent in the fourth
quarter.  Inflation probably averaged 2.8 percent in the first three
months and will accelerate to 3 percent in the next two quarters
before slowing to 2.8 percent in the final three months of the
year, the survey shows.  The pound rose for a third day against the dollar, reaching
$1.5378, the highest since Feb. 20. It was trading at $1.5375 as
of 10:38 a.m. London time, up 0.3 percent from yesterday.
 Government bonds  were little changed, with the 10-year gilt
yield at 1.79 percent.  BOE Remit  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced in his
March 20 Budget that he will give King and the MPC more leeway
to meet their 2 percent inflation target amid strains in the
economy. He also asked the BOE to assess the benefits of forward
guidance for policy. King will be replaced by current  Bank of
Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  on July 1.  “I threw the towel in a month ago -- there’s no reason to
expect growth to improve,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at
Scotiabank in London. “For now, we don’t have any more
quantitative easing. They’ll probably wait until Carney.”  The central bank predicts inflation will stay above its
goal until early 2016. It accelerated to 2.8 percent in
February, and data due on April 16 will show how it fared in
March.  While King and his colleagues  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles 
voted to increase bond purchases by 25 billion pounds ($38
billion) in March, the remaining six voted for no change.
Minutes of that meeting showed the MPC majority noting that with
price growth above their 2 percent goal, there was a risk that
adding to stimulus “could lead to inflation expectations
drifting upwards.”  Miles’s View  Miles said on Sky News television yesterday that more
stimulus is the “right strategy” because growth has been
“extremely low, and the outlook is not for a rapid pickup.” He
also said he expects inflation to slow toward the BOE’s goal.  In the euro area, economists predict that  inflation  will
average 1.7 percent in 2013, compared with a previous forecast
of 1.8 percent, according to the median of 52 forecasts in the
Bloomberg survey. It shows the economy contracting 0.4 percent
this year, twice as much as previously predicted.  In  Germany , the Federal Statistics Office said today that
 inflation  was at 1.8 percent in March, unchanged from February
and in line with a preliminary estimate. The  European Central
Bank  said in its monthly bulletin, also released today, that it
will look for signs in economic data that inflation could slow
more than it currently anticipates.  Monitoring Data  “In the coming weeks, the Governing Council will monitor
very closely all incoming information on economic and monetary
developments and assess any impact on the outlook for  price
stability ,” it said, echoing President  Mario Draghi ’s April 4
policy statement. “The monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as needed.”  Data in  Greece  showed the  unemployment rate  rose to 27.2
percent in January from a revised 25.7 percent the previous
month. In  Australia , unemployment climbed in March to the
highest level in more than three years. The jobless rate there
rose to 5.6 percent from 5.4 percent, the statistics bureau said
in Sydney today.  Later in the U.S., a report will probably show initial
jobless claims fell to 360,000 in the week ended April 6 from
385,000 in the previous period, according to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Robinson in London at 
 jrobinson37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  