-- BOJ Finds Inspiration in a 1930s Iconoclast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S c h i l t z
-- 2013-04-11T17:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/boj-finds-inspiration-in-a-1930s-iconoclast.html
The  Bank of Japan  has decided to
take bold action to reverse the nation’s economic decline.  The bank’s governor,  Haruhiko Kuroda , announced a “new
dimension in monetary easing,” vowing to double the purchases
of government bonds and expand the monetary base. The BOJ also
formally adopted a previously announced two-year target of 2
percent inflation. Quantitative easing will be the bank’s core
business for the near future, a strategy that resembles the
Federal Reserve’s response to the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  The BOJ’s actions also mark a return, at least partly, to
the unorthodox efforts of Japan’s finance minister in the early
1930s, Korekiyo Takahashi, who was praised by Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  for “brilliantly rescuing Japan from the Great
Depression through reflationary policies.”  Takahashi has recently received renewed attention from
economists, historians and policy makers. In  Japan , the number
of popular publications on him suggests a Takahashi following. A
biography by Richard Smethurst, “From Foot Soldier to Finance
Minister: Takahashi Korekiyo, Japan’s Keynes,” became an
academic hit when it was published in Japanese in 2010.  Japanese Dress  The Takahashi revival is reinforced by his “Japanese-
ness.” His amiable mien earned him the affectionate nickname of
“Daruma,” a reference to the pot-bellied Buddhist deity and
symbol of good luck. He was often photographed in traditional
dress in a Japanese setting, in stark contrast with his
Anglophile and unpopular predecessor, Inoue Junnosuke, whose
Western gold-standard orthodoxy has been blamed for bringing the
Great Depression to Japan. (Junnosuke was almost always
photographed in Western business attire.)  Takahashi didn’t have an easy task. After the return to the
gold standard at the prewar par, the country endured two years
of deflation of more than 10 percent. The U.K. was the first
country to abandon the gold standard altogether, but, as  Barry Eichengreen  points out in “Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard
and the Great Depression, 1919-1939,” Japan may have been the
first country to abandon the ethos of the gold standard. (For
the U.K., abandoning gold was initially presented as an
expedient in a time of crisis.)  Anticipating John  Maynard Keynes ’s later indictment of the
gold standard as a barbarous relic, Takahashi’s policies
radically defied the liquidationist orthodoxy of the time. After
depreciating the yen, he also abolished the fiducial limit set
for the issuance of BOJ notes. He then embarked on a program of
fiscal expansion and further decreased the official  discount
rate . One of the central elements of his policies was the
“undertaking system,” or “hikiuke,” which required the BOJ
to purchase low-interest  government bonds  to make up for the
difference between expenditure and income.  Nonetheless, it is difficult to disentangle the individual
pieces of Takahashi’s brew of expansionary  exchange-rate ,
monetary and fiscal policies, let alone to isolate the effects
of each of these ingredients on the economy in the 1930s.  Some argue that the easy monetary policy kick-started the
recovery. Others claim that ﬁscal stimulus was the key.
Recently, economic historians Masahiko Shibamoto and Masato
Shizume  asserted  that changes in the exchange rate were the
biggest contributor to the economic recovery in Japan during the
Great Depression; fiscal policy played a minor role, if any.  Changing Expectations  It would seem that today’s BOJ leaders have studied the
research by Shibamoto and Shizume, because the bank’s new
 approach  is squarely in the realm of long-term monetary policy,
not fiscal or short-term policy. For example, the former asset-
purchase program through open-market operations is terminated
altogether. The focus is now entirely on expanding the monetary
base and lowering the real  interest rate , thus increasing the
marginal cost of holding on to money. The aim of the program is
“to drastically change the expectations of markets and economic
entities.”  That the BOJ is serious about its intentions is also
underlined by its decision to give up some autonomy. As in
Takahashi’s day, fiscal and monetary authorities are now
required to cooperate. This helps curb the  deflation bias  that
is typical of independent central banks, and gives further
credibility to the BOJ’s efforts to shift market participants’
expectations.  Even so, the 21st century isn’t the 1930s. Will a
“commitment to irresponsibility” by the BOJ work in this
context of increased financial complexity? The Japanese are
often accused of waging currency wars, and foreign investors may
be alarmed at the erosion of central-bank independence, which is
perceived as leading to unimpeded deficit spending by the
government.  We have been here before. The same arguments were advanced
by the central bankers of the world in the 1930s, and they
ultimately found themselves on the wrong side of history.  (Michael Schiltz is an associate professor at the Institute
for Advanced Studies on  Asia ,  University of Tokyo . He is the
author of “The Money Doctors From Japan: Finance, Imperialism,
and the Building of the Yen Bloc, 1895-1937.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this post:
Michael Schiltz at  michael.schiltz@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  