-- Boom-Bust Vietnam Beats Emerging Stocks on State Role Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-12T09:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/boom-bust-vietnam-beats-emerging-stocks-as-state-considers-role.html
Vietnam , the world’s most volatile
 stock market  since 2009, is leading developing-nation gains this
year as the Communist government slows inflation and considers
easing its grip on the economy.  The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  posted more 20 percent  swings  than
every major equity market in the past four years as policy
makers grappled with consumer prices, currency devaluations and
bad bank loans. Their efforts helped cut  inflation  to 6.6
percent in March from 23 percent in 2011 and produced the first
annual trade  surplus  since 1992.  Now the government is preparing to remove bad debt from
lenders, ease restrictions on foreign  ownership  of listed
businesses and change the constitution to limit the “leading
role” of state companies that comprise about a third of gross
domestic product. The VN Index rose 22 percent this year through
yesterday, the most among equity gauges in 47 frontier and
 emerging markets . After adjusting for volatility, the measure
had the 16th-biggest gain, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’s an attempt to move beyond just re-establishing
macroeconomic stability and get seriously into addressing the
root causes of the instability,” said Dominic Scriven, who co-
founded Ho Chi Minh City-based Dragon Capital in 1994 and now
oversees about $1.1 billion as the firm’s chief executive
officer. “The government itself has identified these problems
in allocation of capital, problems in the banking sector and
problems in the state-owned enterprises.”  Bull Market  The VN Index fell 1.9 percent to 494.27 today. Its advance
this year compares with the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s (SPX)  14
percent gain. The U.S.-listed Market Vectors Vietnam  exchange-
traded fund , which tracks the Southeast Asian nation’s shares,
rallied 12 percent. The BofA Merrill Lynch US Treasury Index
rose 0.2 percent in the period, while the S&P GSCI Spot Index of
24 raw materials fell 2.3 percent.  The Vietnam measure produced a risk-adjusted return of
about 1 percent after dividing this year’s gain by the index
volatility reading of 24. The gauge has posted 11 swings of at
least 20 percent since 2009, a threshold that signals bull and
bear markets. It took the S&P 500 three decades to record the
same amount of volatility, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings Outlook  Vietnam’s government is reviving confidence after the
economy expanded at the slowest  pace  since 1999 last year and
Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating by one
level to B2, five steps below investment grade, in September on
rising nonperforming loans at banks. The Communist Party
apologized to the nation for “big mistakes” in an Oct. 15
statement by General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong that was
broadcast on state radio and television.  Interest rate cuts by Vietnam’s central bank will help
boost economic growth to 5.6 percent this year from 5 percent in
2012, according to a Bloomberg News survey of three economists.
The expanding workforce and Vietnam’s appeal as a manufacturing
hub will spur long-term growth, Andrew Brudenell, whose $125
million HSBC GIF - Frontier Markets fund has advanced 23 percent
during the past year, said by phone from London April 2.  Vietnam’s $44 billion stock market trades for about 11
times estimated earnings, the lowest level in  Southeast Asia. (MXSO) 
Profits at VN Index companies are projected to rise 25 percent
in 12 months, compared with a 17 percent gain for both the  MSCI
Frontier Markets Index (MXFM)  and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
according to more than 12,000 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mobius Overweight  “Vietnam is going to have more upside, with corrections
along the way,” Mark Mobius, whose $1.7 billion Templeton
Frontier Markets Fund returned 15 percent in the past year, said
in a March 28 interview in  Singapore . “Everything in Vietnam is
now pretty cheap, even though they’ve run up quite a lot. There
are lots of opportunities.”  Foreign investors have purchased a net $195 million of
Vietnam shares in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Mobius, whose holdings in the country are about twice as big as
its weighting in the MSCI frontier index, said he favors shares
of rubber, bank, health-care and dairy companies.  Vietnam’s stock-market  swings  began with a surge in credit
growth in 2009 that boosted the money supply by 26 percent,
according to State Bank of Vietnam figures. While the jump in
borrowing helped spur economic growth of as much as 6.8 percent
after the global financial crisis, it also fueled inflation and
left some state-owned companies unable to repay debt. Vietnam
Shipbuilding Industry Group, the Hanoi-based company known as
Vinashin, defaulted on a $600 million loan in December 2010.  Dong Tumbles  The dong weakened more than 20 percent from its 2008 high
against the dollar through February 2011, while inflation jumped
to an annual rate of 23 percent in August 2011. The central bank
responded by raising its refinancing rate to 15 percent two
months later, matching the highest level on record, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nonperforming loans were about 6 percent of outstanding
debt as of Feb. 28, according to Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the
Government Office. The government’s NPL estimate may be too low
and an actual rate of as much as 20 percent “would not be a
surprise,” Matt Hildebrandt, an economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Singapore, wrote in a report e-mailed April 9.  China , the
biggest developing economy, has an NPL ratio of about 1 percent,
according to the nation’s central bank.  Rate Cuts  Vietnam’s economy is showing signs of improving health.
Inflation slowed to a six-month low in March and exports climbed
at a 20 percent pace in the first quarter. The dong has been
stable at about 20,900 per dollar, while the yield on benchmark
five-year local-currency bonds fell to a five-year low of 8.19
percent April 10.  “The economy is entering into a more stable growth
phase,” Tran Thi Kim Cuong, who helps oversee about $342
million as the head of equities at Manulife Asset Management’s
Vietnam Unit, said in a March 29 e-mail.  The central bank may cut policy interest rates by 0.5
percentage point this quarter and next, after reducing the
refinancing rate to 8 percent last month, said Alan Pham, who
helps oversee about $1.5 billion as the Ho Chi Minh City-based
chief economist at VinaCapital Group.  The Communist Party, which has ruled over a reunified
Vietnam since 1976, released a draft of the revised constitution
for public feedback in January. The document removes language
stipulating that the state will “assume the leading role” in
the economy. The draft also indirectly acknowledges the private
sector.  SOE Overhaul  “This may be a high-level, existential repositioning of
the role of the state in the economy,” Dragon Capital’s Scriven
said in a March 28 phone interview.  The government plans to start a pilot program to raise the
49 percent foreign ownership limit for some companies, the State
Securities Commission said in January.  Policy makers will propose overhauling state-owned
enterprises by June, Deputy Finance Minister Truong Chi Trung
said in a Feb. 1 interview in Hanoi. Vietnam Airlines, the
national carrier, has selected banks to manage an initial public
offering, Chief Executive Officer Pham Ngoc Minh said by phone
April 9, without giving a time frame for the sale.  The government will decide at the end of April whether to
set up an asset management company to take over bad debt from
lenders, Dam, chairman of the Government Office, said March 29.  Army Loyalty  Other parts of Vietnam’s economy are languishing. Retail
sales growth slowed to 11.7 percent in the first quarter from
21.8 percent a year earlier, the General Statistics Office said
on March 27.  Some portions of the proposed constitution have spurred
concern that the Communist Party is seeking broader scope to
curb political dissent and bolster control of the military.  Civil rights can be limited “for reasons of national
defense, national security, public order, social security, moral
health of the community,” according to a new clause in the
revised document. The armed forces owe loyalty “to the
Communist Party of Vietnam, the homeland and the people,” the
revision says. The existing version excludes the party.  Seventy-two intellectuals and former government officials
produced an alternative draft constitution in January that calls
for an end to Vietnam’s one-party system. The draft received
more than 12,000 signatures via an online campaign.  Following Nigeria  “The changes in the constitution strive to form a
constitution that reflects the common expectation and will of
the Vietnamese people,” Luong Thanh Nghi, a spokesman at the
Foreign Affairs Ministry, said in an e-mailed reply to questions
yesterday. “Gathering public comments on the constitutional
draft has been and will continue to be done with a democratic
and transparent spirit. Every citizen has a right to comment on
the draft.”  Vietnam’s market swings may persist even if the government
delivers on its pledges, said Hans-Henrik Skov, who oversees
about $275 million in frontier markets as a money manager at
BankInvest in Copenhagen.  He cited parallels with Nigeria, which formed an asset
management company to buy bad debt from banks in November 2010.
Nigeria’s stock  index  dropped 16 percent in 2011, before
rallying 35 percent last year and another 20 percent in 2013.  “It won’t be a one-way street,” Skov, whose BI New
Emerging Markets Equities fund has returned about 34 percent
during the past 12 months, said in a March 28 phone interview.  Wage Advantage  Consumer stocks such as Ho Chi Minh City-based  Vietnam
Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co. (VNM) , the nation’s biggest milk
producer, will prove good bets despite market volatility, Skov
said. Vinamilk, as the company is known, has surged 45 percent
this year and is trading at 16 times estimated 2013 earnings,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with an average
of 22 times for global peers.  Sixty percent of Vietnam’s 90 million people were under the
age of 35 as of 2011, according to the General Office for
Population Family Planning. The country is luring manufacturers
as more people move to cities from the countryside and labor
costs rise at a slower pace than in China.  Wages for Vietnamese production workers climbed about 160
percent in the past decade to $1.20 an hour, compared with 340
percent in China, analysts at New York-based Citigroup Inc.
wrote in a March 5 report.  Foreign direct investment pledged to Vietnam during the
first quarter increased 64 percent from a year earlier to $6
billion, according to the General Statistics Office. Suwon,
South Korea-based  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest
maker of mobile phones, won approval for a $2 billion
manufacturing plant.  ‘Good Base’  The gains in Vietnam stocks will probably continue as
valuations remain low relative to regional peers, Desmond Sheehy, who oversees about $300 million of Vietnam investments
at Duxton Asset Management in Singapore, said by phone April 2.  The firm favors shares of Vinamilk and FPT Corp., Vietnam’s
biggest listed telecommunications and software company. FPT has
climbed 11 percent this year and trades for 6.1 times estimated
2013 earnings, versus an average multiple of 16 for global
peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The VN Index’s forward price-earnings multiple of 11
compares with 13 for  Thailand ’s  SET Index (SET)  and 20 for the
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index. (PCOMP)   “This is a good base for a further rally,” Sheehy, Duxton
Asset’s chief investment officer, said in an April 2 phone
interview. “The economy every year seems to solve two problems
for every new problem it creates, and in that way it keeps
getting better.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  