-- CA Technologies Sues AppDynamics Over IT Patents
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-11T18:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/ca-technologies-sues-appdynamics-over-it-patents.html
CA Technologies (CA) , a maker of
software for managing  information technology , filed a patent
infringement suit against AppDynamics Inc., a company started by
a former CA Inc. employee.  AppDynamics’ founder, Jyoti Bansal, previously worked at CA
on developing products related to the three IT patents,
Islandia, New York-based CA said in a complaint made public
today in  Central Islip , New York, federal court.  AppDynamics, a San Francisco-based provider of application
performance-management software for the entertainment, retail
and gambling industries, has “actual knowledge of the patents-
in-suit and hasn’t ceased its infringing activities,” CA said
in its complaint.  CA, the world’s sixth-largest maker of infrastructure
software by market share, acquired the patents when it  bought 
Wily Technology in 2006 for $375 million, according to the
company. Bansal formerly “led the design and architecture for
several products” at Wily and founded AppDynamics in 2008,
according to the San Francisco company’s  website .  In November, CA sued San Francisco-based New Relic Inc.,
also asserting that it had infringed patents obtained through
the acquisition of Wily. New Relic was founded by Lewis Cirne,
formerly a senior Wily executive, according to CA. That suit is
pending.  Greg Howard, a spokesman for AppDynamics, said in an e-mail
that the company hasn’t received the official paperwork.  Protected Property  “We do strongly believe” AppDynamics doesn’t infringe
upon any protected intellectual property, he said.  “We encourage our competitors to compete in the
marketplace on the basis of their technology and not engage in
frivolous lawsuits,” he said.  CA spokeswoman Jennifer L. Hallahan said in an e-mail today
that the company is a “recognized leader” in the application
performance-management market and has invested heavily in
development.  “We are committed to taking the steps necessary to protect
our intellectual property and our investment,” she said. “We
are unwilling to allow others to infringe on our patents in
order to introduce competing offerings.”  The case is CA Inc. v. AppDynamics Inc., 2:13-cv-2111, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, at
   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  