-- California Loses Bid to Cancel Prison Inmate Reductions
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/california-loses-bid-to-cancel-prison-inmate-reductions.html
California  was ordered to reduce
its prison population to 137 percent of capacity by the end of
the year by federal judges who denied Governor Jerry Brown’s
request to cancel court-mandated cuts because of improvements to
inmate-care programs.  The evidence “fails to demonstrate a significant or
unanticipated change in circumstances” and the state hasn’t
come up with a sustainable remedy to fix the quality of the
prison system, given that 9,500 more prisoners will be housed
when California eliminates an out-of-state prisoner program, the
three-judge panel said in a ruling yesterday.  Federal judges stripped California of control of its prison
health-care system in 2006 after inmates filed a legal challenge
to its quality. The judges ordered the state to cut its prison
population to 137 percent of capacity from 175 percent, saying
overcrowding was a cause of the inadequate care. The U.S.
Supreme Court upheld that order in May 2011.  California’s prisons remain at about 150 percent capacity,
above the ceiling set by the courts.  The panel ordered the state to submit within 21 days a plan
to carry out the order and a list of measures that could be
taken to make the cuts, including an estimate of the number of
prisoners who would be released as a result.  The California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation
was reviewing the ruling, Jeffrey Callison, a spokesman for the
department, said yesterday. Callison declined to immediately
comment on it.  California has a prison population of 197,963, including
those housed out of state, the state said in an April 3 report.  The case is Plata v. Brown, 01-01351, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  