-- Camp Says Obama Made Positive First Step on Entitlements
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-04-11T15:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/camp-says-obama-made-positive-first-step-on-entitlements.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposal
to change the formula for calculating cost-of-living increases
for Social Security is a “positive step forward,” House Ways
and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  said.  Still, a “grand bargain” that would require entitlement
program cuts to reduce the  budget deficit  probably won’t happen
because “they haven’t worked very well” in the past, the
Michigan Republican said, recalling the 2011 failure of a
special committee set up by Congress to strike such a deal.  “I just don’t think that is how you really build consensus
in the Congress to move something,” he said at a breakfast
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor today in  Washington .  Obama, in an effort to restart efforts to forge a
bipartisan compromise on deficit reduction, proposed in his 2014
budget plan released yesterday that a formula known as the
“chained CPI” be used to calculate cost-of-living increases
for  Social Security  and other entitlement programs. Changing the
formula for calculating the cost-of-living index will help
“make programs like Social Security and Medicare sustainable
for future generations.”  “It is a positive step that the president put chained CPI
in his budget,” Camp told reporters. Like changing this
formula, other changes to entitlements must begin with areas
that Republicans and Democrats agree on, he said.  ‘Down Payment’  “There is a potential to make a down payment” on deficit
reduction and reducing entitlement costs, Camp said. Republicans
and Democrats should start from areas of agreement on
entitlement programs, such as the cost-of-living formula change
and realigning the two major Medicare programs, he said.  Camp said there is “commonality” on combining Medicare
Part A for hospitalization and Part B for doctor’s visits. House
Republican Leader  Eric Cantor  has proposed such a realignment of
Medicare so that beneficiaries pay one premium for both
programs. Democrats such as  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland  have
said they are receptive to combining the two.  Lawmakers should “start with areas where there has been
some common ground,” Camp said. “Clearly chained CPI and
combining A and B on Medicare is a start.”  On taxes, Camp also praised the president for moving toward
his current position on openness to a  tax code  overhaul.
“Initially he was not supportive of tax reform of any kind, he
has made some positive steps,” Camp said.  Camp cited the president’s proposal for a revenue-neutral
rewrite of the corporate part of the tax code, which would set a
28 percent tax rate for most companies and 25 percent for
manufacturers.  Position ‘Evolved’  “The president’s position has evolved on that, I am
pleased because he was not initially for revenue-neutral
corporate reform,” Camp said.  Still, Camp rejected Obama’s proposal in the 2014 budget
plan, known as the Buffett Rule, to impose a 30 percent minimum
tax on top-earning households. The proposal is named for
billionaire investor  Warren Buffett .  “I don’t think revenue is the issue, we really need to get
the kind of revenue we get from growth” by curtailing tax
breaks to lower individual rates, he said.  Related News and Information:
Obama Leans on High Earners for More Taxes in 2014 Budget  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  