-- Canadian Dollar Reaches 7-Week High on Demand for Riskier Assets
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-11T21:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/canadian-dollar-reaches-7-week-high-on-commodity-linked-demand.html
The Canadian dollar reached its
highest level in seven weeks against its U.S. counterpart as
appetite for risk assets outweighed the deteriorating economic
outlook in the commodity-exporting nation.  The currency strengthened as a report showed a 0.2 percent
February gain in new  home prices , up from a 0.1 percent rise the
month before. Slowing growth is prompting economists to cut
forecasts on two-year  government bonds  the most in more than a
year as they push out projections for  Bank of Canada  interest-
rate increases, according to a Bloomberg survey. U.S. stocks
rose for a fourth day as U.S. jobless claims dropped more than
forecast. The currencies of  Canada ’s commodity-exporting peers,
 Australia  and  New Zealand , rose as lending in  China  expanded
more than analysts projected.  “We have a lot of bad news baked into Canada, but we don’t
have a lot of good news, so I think we’ve already seen the bad-
news story play out in terms of what’s been priced in,” said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , by phone from Toronto. “There are a lot of things that
should end up supporting the Canadian dollar as we get into next
year and even late this year, that’s everything from a housing
market that doesn’t collapse as some people feel to oil pricing
that’s already turned much more favorably for the Canadian
economy.”  Market Prices  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.4 percent to
C$1.0105 per U.S. dollar at 5:03 p.m. in Toronto. It earlier
touched C$1.0084 per U.S. dollar, its strongest level since Feb.
18. One loonie buys 98.92 U.S. cents.  The last time the Canadian dollar closed below parity with
the greenback was Feb. 7.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  bonds  rose, pushing the yield
down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.78
percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 rose 21
cents to C$97.40.  Futures of crude oil, the country’s largest export, fell
1.2 percent to $93.48 per barrel and the discount Canada faces
for its heavy crude oil to the North American benchmark was
$13.75, almost its  narrowest  since October. Refinery shutdowns
and lack of infrastructure for bringing the oil to market caused
the discount to widen to a record $42.50 on Dec. 14.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks rose 0.4
percent with stronger-than-forecast economic data from both the
U.S. and China.  China Trends  March new  local-currency lending  in China was 1.06 trillion
 yuan  ($171 billion), the People’s Bank of China said today in
Beijing. That compares with the 900 billion yuan median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 34 economists and 620 billion yuan
in February. M2, China’s broadest measure of  money supply , rose
15.7 percent, compared with the median forecast for 14.6
percent.  Jobless claims in the U.S. decreased by 42,000 to 346,000
in the week ended April 6, from a revised 388,000, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
forecast of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
drop to 360,000.  “All of those things generally have kept the equity
markets well bid and that positive-risk background is typically
dollar negative, which is Canadian-dollar positive,” said  Adam Cole ,  head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada in London.  Canada’s new home price index was boosted by the largest
gain in Calgary in almost six years. Prices in the Alberta city
grew 1 percent from January, the most since May 2007, because of
higher labor and material costs,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. Prices in Regina, Saskatchewan, rose 1.4 percent.  Japan Policy  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, who took his post
in March, said April 4 the central bank will double monthly bond
buying to 7.5 trillion yen ($76 billion), while suspending a cap
on holdings, helping to drive the currency to its lowest versus
the  U.S. dollar  since 2009.  “I think you’re seeing some investor flows into Canada and
out of some problematic areas, so money’s probably coming out of
 Japan  and we have seen some come out of  Europe , so the Canadian
dollar is benefiting,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director
of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto.  Options traders were paying less to insure against a
decline in the loonie against the U.S. dollar. The three-month
so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell to 0.99 percent after
reaching 1.015 percent April 8, its highest point in three
weeks. Risk reversals measure the premium on options contracts
to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do
the opposite.  Rates Outlook  The yield on Sept. 2013 bankers’ acceptances contracts, a
barometer of short-term  interest rates , has fallen five basis
points since the beginning of February, indicating traders are
paring bets on higher interest rates.  The Canadian dollar has gained 0.4 percent in the past
month against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has
fallen 1.2 percent while other currencies of commodity exporting
nations, the Australian and New Zealand dollars, have gained 1
percent and 3.6 percent respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  