-- Canada February New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-04-11T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/canada-february-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for February released by
Statistics Canada.  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.2% in February,
following a 0.1% increase in January, and similar increases over
the second half of 2012.  Calgary was the top contributor to the advance in February,
up 1.0% from January. This was the largest month-over-month
increase in that region since May 2007. Builders indicated that
increases in material and labour costs were the main reasons for
higher prices.  The largest monthly price advance in February occurred in
Regina (+1.4%), where builders reported increased operating
costs and a shortage of developed land. In Halifax, prices rose
0.9% from January, with builders citing higher costs for
materials, labour and developed land as the primary reasons.
These price increases were the largest for both regions since
February 2012.  New housing prices declined 0.2% in Ottawa-Gatineau for the
second month in a row, while prices decreased 0.1% in St. John’s.
Builders cited market conditions as the reason for reduced
prices in both regions.  In February, prices were unchanged in the combined
metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa following six
consecutive months of increases. Prices were also unchanged in
eight other metropolitan regions surveyed.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 2.1% in the 12
months to February, following a 2.2% increase in the previous
month.  The main contributor to the advance was the combined
metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa, where the year-over-
year increase in the contractors’ selling prices was 3.7% in
February, compared with 5.8% over the same period in 2012.
Annual price increases in this region have been decelerating
since October 2012, despite a slight acceleration in January.  For the third consecutive month, Winnipeg recorded the
largest year-over-year price movement in Canada. Prices were up
5.5% compared with February 2012; however, this increase was
down slightly from the 5.9% annual rise observed in January. The
advance was largely due to the increased cost of developed land
in this metropolitan area.  In Calgary, annual prices rose 4.3% and have been
accelerating for the past five months. Other significant year-
over-year increases occurred in St. Catharines‒Niagara and in
Halifax (both up 2.7%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 4 posted 12-
month price declines in February. The largest annual decreases
continued to be in British Columbia, where new housing prices in
Victoria were down 2.2% and prices in Vancouver declined 0.6%.
Vancouver and Victoria have not seen annual increases in new
home prices since September 2011 and September 2008,
respectively.  Note to readers  The New Housing Price Index measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax (GST) or the Harmonized Sales Tax
(HST).  The provincial government of British Columbia introduced
legislation on May 14, 2012, announcing the return to a
provincial sales tax on April 1, 2013. From April 1, 2012, until
March 31, 2013, there are new housing transitional rebates in
place. After the transition is complete, the provincial sales
tax on building materials in British Columbia will be embedded
in contractors’ selling prices of new houses. These changes will
be reflected in the New Housing Price Index as reported by
respondents.  Effective April 1, 2013, in Prince Edward Island, the
federal 5% GST is combined with a reduced 9% provincial tax to
create a single 14% HST. Previously, only the GST (5%) was
applied to new homes. Under the new rules, the tax applied to
the purchase of a new home will be 14%.  The indexes are not subject to revision and are not
seasonally adjusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  