-- Chelsea Advances in Europa League as Tottenham, Newcastle Ousted
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-11T23:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/chelsea-advances-in-europa-league-as-tottenham-newcastle-ousted.html
Chelsea advanced to the Europa
League soccer semifinals after losing 3-2 at Rubin Kazan, as
Tottenham was ousted in a penalty shootout and Newcastle exited
following a draw.  Chelsea’s defeat in Moscow last night gave it a 5-4 win
over the two-match quarterfinal. The Blues, who won the elite
Champions league last season, will be joined by Benfica and
first-time semifinalists Basel and Fenerbahce in today’s draw.  Basel beat Tottenham 4-1 on penalties in  Switzerland  after
the clubs played to a second straight 2-2 draw. Newcastle lost
4-2 on aggregate to Benfica following a 1-1 home draw and
Fenerbahce’s 1-1 tie at Lazio gave it a 3-1 series win.  Chelsea dropped into the second-tier Europa League after
becoming the first European Cup titleholder to exit in the
Champions League group stage.  “People talk it down at different times but when we get
out there we’re very professional,” Blues midfielder  Frank Lampard  told ESPN. “We want to get to the final.”  The two-match semifinals will be played April 25 and May 2,
with the championship game scheduled for May 15 in Amsterdam.  Bebras Natcho’s penalty kick with 15 minutes remaining gave
Rubin Kazan the home win last night.  Fernando Torres  and Victor Moses scored for Chelsea, while Ivan Marcano and Gokdeniz
Karadeniz got the other goals for Rubin.  Spurs Misses  Tottenham’s run in the Europa League ended in penalty kicks
as Basel goalkeeper Yann Sommer stopped the  London  team’s first
attempt from  Tom Huddlestone  and Emmanuel Adebayor sent his shot
over goal. Spurs got to the shootout even after playing extra
time with 10 men after defender Jan Vertonghen was red-carded in
the 90th minute.  “We are very sorry to go out,” Tottenham coach Andre Villas-Boas, who won the Europa League with Porto in 2011, told
ITV. “We had high ambitions for this competition.”  Basel’s Fabian Schar, Marco Streller, Fabian Frei and
Marcelo Diaz all converted in the shootout.  Clint Dempsey  scored twice for Spurs in regulation,
including an 83rd-minute equalizer after goals by Mohamed Salah
and Aleksandar Dragovic put Basel 2-1 up. Vertonghen was ejected
for a foul on Streller as the only man back.  Needing to overturn a two-goal deficit from the first match
in  Portugal , Newcastle could only manage a home draw with
Benfica. Papiss Cisse put the Magpies ahead in the 71st minute
before Eduardo Salvio scored for Benfica in stoppage time as
Newcastle sought a second that would have sent it through on the
away-goals tiebreaker.  ‘Credible Fashion’  “We have gained experience from this run,” said Newcastle
manager  Alan Pardew . “We have been out of  Europe  for a while,
but we have put ourselves back on the stage in a credible
fashion and now we want to get more of it.”  Fenerbahce extended its unbeaten away run in this season’s
Europa League with a draw in  Rome . The Turkish club has won four
and drawn two away from Istanbul.  Lazio had a 20-5 advantage in shots, though only managed
one goal from Senad Lulic in the 60th minute. Caner Erkin scored
with Fenerbahce’s only shot on target in the 73rd minute.  The draw for the Champions League semifinals will also take
place today in Nyon, Switzerland, with two teams each from Spain
and Germany. Record nine-time winner Real Madrid is joined by
four-time winners Barcelona and Bayern Munich, along with 1997
champion  Borussia Dortmund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 