-- Chesapeake Loses Bid to See River Birch E-Mails
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-11T15:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/chesapeake-loses-bid-to-see-river-birch-e-mails.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  lost a
court bid to force hedge fund River Birch Capital LLC to turn
over e-mails explaining why it bought the gas company’s 2019
notes that were later called early at 100 cents on the dollar.  River Birch’s motive for buying the bonds as late as
February are irrelevant to Chesapeake’s lawsuit against  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. , the trustee for the notes, U.S. District
Judge Paul Engelmayer ruled today in  Manhattan .  The gas company claims its early redemption of $1.3 billion
of the notes on March 15 met a deadline to avoid paying
bondholders $400 million in extra “make whole” interest.  “The bias or motive of River Birch or Bank of  New York 
Mellon is irrelevant,” Engelmayer said. “The case doesn’t
really turn on Bank of New York’s state of mind” and will
instead be decided based on the meaning of the March 15 deadline
in the indenture paperwork for the notes, he said.  Bank of New York Mellon initially agreed with Chesapeake in
February that the early redemption would meet a deadline for the
second-biggest natural gas producer in the U.S. to redeem the
notes six years early at par. The trustee changed its position
after River Birch argued Chesapeake had started the process at
least a month too late. River Birch wasn’t sued in the case.  Related Documents  Chesapeake had argued in an April 8 letter to the court
that River Birch and Bank of New York Mellon should have turned
over the e-mails as part of the pre-trial exchange of
information. Engelmayer said today that the bank should speed up
its process for turning over some related documents.  Engelmayer also ordered Chesapeake to turn over to him a
sample of as many as 1,000 e-mails that Bank of New York Mellon
believes may show the gas company was also uncertain about the
meaning of the deadline and sought a way out of missing it.  Since the documents involve “privileged” communications
between Chesapeake and its lawyers, Engelmayer said he would
review them in private before ruling whether the bank should
have access to them to help its defense of the lawsuit.  Chesapeake contends the March 15 deadline stated in the
indenture was for the notice of early redemption to be sent to
noteholders, while BNY Mellon claims the call would need to be
formally completed by that date.  BNY Mellon, based in New York, and Chesapeake are scheduled
to face off at trial beginning April 23 over the Oklahoma City-
based gas producer’s claim that it made the call on time.  Engelmayer said today he would try to rule on the case by
May 9, citing concern that he doesn’t have any authority to
block the early call from being formally executed in mid-May
regardless of who wins the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  