-- Chidambaram to Woo U.S. Money in Race to Finance Record Deficit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-04-11T18:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/chidambaram-to-woo-u-s-money-in-race-to-finance-record-deficit.html
By the end of this month, Indian
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram will have completed a
tour of the world’s biggest financial centers as he seeks
investors for Asia’s No. 3 economy. He has no time to lose.  The steepest foreign-direct-investment drop in more than a
decade has increased  India ’s reliance on more volatile stock and
bond inflows to plug a record current-account deficit. Such a
shift is exposing the economy to disruption and currency swings
if short-term investors pull out, according to central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao.  Chidambaram, due to meet pension and sovereign-wealth funds
in a tour of U.S. and Canadian cities starting April 15, is
striving to boost demand for Indian assets after similar trips
to Hong Kong,  Singapore  and  Europe  earlier this year. The
government estimates  growth  has slowed to a decade low as
foreign direct investment slid 20 percent to $30.8 billion in
the April-to-January period, set for the biggest 12-month fall
since the fiscal year through March 2002.  “Financing the current-account deficit is a challenge,
particularly if recent signs of reduced global risk appetite
develop further,” said  Richard Iley , the chief economist for
Asia at BNP Paribas SA in Hong Kong. The imbalance in the widest
measure of trade along with stubborn inflation leave the Reserve
Bank of India little room for more interest-rate cuts to boost
expansion, he said.  Deficit Swells  India’s current-account  deficit  swelled to $32.6 billion in
the quarter ended Dec. 31, or 6.7 percent of gross domestic
product, stoked by gold and oil imports and subdued exports. The
shortfall has weighed on the rupee, which has depreciated 5.6
percent against the dollar in the past year, the second-biggest
decline in a basket of 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
behind the yen. It gained 0.1 percent to 54.525.  Chidambaram, a Harvard Business School graduate and third-
time finance minister, has already criss-crossed two continents
and five cities in less than three months to pitch India as an
investment destination. In January, the 67-year-old politician
flew to Hong Kong on an Air India overnight flight to meet
investors the next morning, abandoning his trademark starched
white shirt and veshti, a traditional Tamil attire draped like a
sarong, for a suit and tie for his engagements.  The minister, who oversaw a record expansion as finance
chief from 2004 to 2008, took on the task of reviving an economy
hampered by elevated inflation, infrastructure shortfalls, a
slumping rupee and the threat of a credit-rating downgrade to
junk status when he regained the job last year.  1991 Crisis  He is under pressure to prevent a recurrence of the 1991
financing crisis, which prompted India to pledge gold as
collateral for a loan from the International Monetary Fund after
foreign reserves slid. The country devalued the rupee then,
tackled government monopolies, cut tax rates and let foreign
companies take majority stakes in sectors including automobiles
and pharmaceuticals to rescue the economy.  The present-day current-account deficit has led the nation
to change policies since September by easing curbs and levies on
capital inflows. Subbarao said this month the imbalance in the
widest measure of trade isn’t “sustainable,” exceeds the
desired level of 2.5 percent of GDP and is “worrying” as it
comes amid slowing economic growth.  The shortfall is estimated at about 5 percent of GDP in the
year ended March 31, 2013, according to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Reliance on more volatile stock and bond inflows to
finance a deficit estimated at $93 billion in 2012-13 is growing,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Temperamental Flows  “Growing reliance on temperamental flows will keep the
economy vulnerable to bouts of shifts in risk sentiment and keep
the rupee under pressure,” said Radhika Rao, a Singapore-based
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “The other worry is
moderating foreign-exchange reserves and declining import
cover,” which has halved to seven months from the peak of 15
months in 2002-04, she said.  India’s  short-term debt , including investments in
government bonds and trade credits, made up 24.4 percent of
total external debt at the end of Dec. 31, 2012, the biggest
proportion since at least the financial year through March 1991,
according to government data. The ratio was 22.6 percent in the
2011-12 annual period.  Foreign portfolio investment rose to $8.6 billion in the
three months to Dec. 31, compared with $1.8 billion a year
earlier, according to RBI  estimates . FDI in the same period fell
to $2.5 billion from $5 billion. External commercial borrowings
by companies rose to $3.1 billion from net repayments a year
earlier.  FDI Falls  In contrast, foreign direct investment declined to $30.8
billion in the ten months through January from $38.3 billion in
the same period a year earlier, according to government data,
without taking into account any revisions to previously reported
numbers.  To stem the decline, Chidambaram has cut a levy on overseas
corporate debt, reduced energy subsidies and allowed more
foreign investment in industries including aviation and retail.
India in January raised a limit on foreign investment in bonds
by $10 billion to $75 billion.  India’s bond risk has fallen since mid-September, when the
government began unveiling policies to jumpstart growth. The
cost to insure the debt of State Bank of India, considered a
proxy for the sovereign by some investors, for five years
against non-payment using credit-default swaps has declined 64
basis points since Sept. 13 to 205, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.  Lot at Stake  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year government bonds has
slid 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 7.9 percent
in the same period.  Chidambaram kicks off his roadshow in Toronto with a
meeting with pension funds on April 15 followed by investors and
sovereign wealth funds in  Boston  and New York later next week.
Chidambaram traveled to Singapore, Hong Kong,  Frankfurt  and
 London  in January, promising investors fiscal prudence ahead of
his Feb. 28 budget. He also visited  Japan  this month.  “There’s a lot at stake since the pitch to get investments
has to be credible and no doubt the minister has a good story to
sell,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, an economist at the National
Institute of Public Finance and Policy in New Delhi. “The visit
comes at a time when there is a crisis of confidence in most
 emerging markets , not just India.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  