-- China’s Bird Flu Deaths Rise to 10 as Web Users Held for Rumors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-11T11:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/china-s-bird-flu-deaths-rise-to-10-as-web-users-held-for-rumors.html
China ’s death toll from the  H7N9
bird flu  rose to ten as the number of infections increased to 38
and authorities detained eight people for spreading rumors about
the virus.  The latest fatality was a 74-year-old man who died in
Shanghai today, the city government announced on its  official
microblog . He was one of three new H7N9 infections confirmed in
China’s financial hub today. Another two cases were reported in
the neighboring province of Jiangsu, according to the National
Health and Family Planning Commission.  China has said it has enough flu medication to fight the
outbreak, and the government is also preparing a vaccine that it
expects will be ready within seven months, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported today. A gene mutation known to help
influenza resist Tamiflu was found in the first of three H7N9
bird-flu patient specimens in China, sequence data show.  Police also detained eight people in the provinces of
Zhejiang, Shaanxi, Gansu and Liaoning for spreading rumors on
the Internet about the H7N9 virus, Xinhua reported today, citing
local authorities. They are being detained for up to ten days
for fabricating posts, causing panic among some web users and
local residents, according to the report.  In  Shanghai , the 74-year-old man who died was hospitalized
on April 5 after falling sick on March 31. The city’s two other
new infections were an 83-year-old woman who became ill on April
2 and a 68-year-old man who fell ill on April 4. Both are in
stable condition, the city said.  Jiangsu’s  two new cases  were a 31-year-old hotel chef from
the city of Yangzhou who fell ill on March 31 and a 56-year-old
teacher from the city of Suzhou who fell sick April 3. Both men
are in critical condition, the national health agency reported.  Shanghai has accounted for six of the bird flu fatalities
in China and 18 of the infections. Confirmed H7N9 cases have
only been reported in the city and the provinces of Jiangsu,
Zhejiang and Anhui.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  