-- China Lending Tops Forecasts While Adding to Financial Risks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-11T04:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/china-s-march-new-local-currency-loans-m2-growth-top-forecasts.html
China ’s  new yuan loans  and money
supply exceeded analyst estimates last month, aiding the
nation’s recovery from the slowest growth in 13 years while
adding to financial risks that may presage tighter credit.  New local-currency lending in March was 1.06 trillion  yuan 
($171 billion), the  People’s Bank of China  said today in Beijing.
That compares with the 900 billion yuan median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 34 economists and 620 billion yuan in
February. M2, China’s broadest measure of money supply, rose
15.7 percent, compared with the median forecast for 14.6 percent.  New Premier Li Keqiang is trying to keep credit flowing to
sustain an economic rebound without creating asset bubbles or
excessive risks in the banking system. While  inflation  eased
more than forecast last month, Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut the
nation’s long-term local-currency debt rating this week, citing
dangers to financial stability.  “China’s monetary policy makers are in a tough position to
balance short-term growth stability, market worries and long-
term economic health,” said Lu Ting, Hong Kong-based chief
economist for  Greater China  at Bank of America Corp.  While growth momentum is “not strong” and “external
conditions are still volatile,” the data “could once again
trigger fears on CPI inflation, property bubbles, government
debt, shadow banking and then monetary tightening,” Lu said in
a note today, referring to the consumer price  index. (SHCOMP)   Financial Stocks  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks, which
rose as much as 0.4 percent after the data, was 0.1 percent
higher at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break. Industrial Bank Co.
led a gauge of financial companies to the steepest gain among 10
industry groups in the CSI 300 Index.  Economic growth probably accelerated in the first quarter
to 8 percent from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 38 economists before data
due April 15. Gross domestic product rose 7.9 percent in the
last three months of 2012, the first pickup in two years.  Aggregate financing , a broader measure of credit that
includes non-bank lending such as trust loans, bond and stock
sales, was 2.54 trillion yuan in March, close to a record,
compared with the median analyst estimate of 1.8 trillion yuan.  The increase in China’s reserves, the world’s largest,
“will put more upward pressure on the yuan,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior strategist with Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong
Kong . The currency touched 6.1923 per dollar yesterday, the
strongest level since the government unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Record Reserves  China’s  foreign exchange reserves  rose to a record $3.44
trillion at the end of March from $3.31 trillion in December.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for $3.36 trillion.  For the first quarter, aggregate financing surged about 58
percent from a year earlier to 6.16 trillion yuan, according to
central bank data. New local-currency loans in the first three
months were 2.76 trillion yuan, the most for a first quarter
since the global financial crisis, and 12 percent higher than
the same period last year.  Money-supply  growth exceeded the
government’s 2013 target of 13 percent.  “Concerns have been growing about China’s credit situation,
primarily linked to the shadow-banking system, with Fitch’s
recent downgrade of China’s credit rating tying into these
fears,” Hu Yifan, chief economist at Haitong Securities Co. in
Hong Kong, said in a note today. These concerns “are an
impediment to a more proactive monetary policy,” she said.  Total Credit  Fitch on April 9 lowered its assessment of China’s long-
term yuan debt by one step to A+, the fifth-highest grade,
saying there are increasing financial-stability risks given the
lack of transparency in the increased borrowing by local
governments. It estimated total credit in the economy, including
forms of so-called shadow banking, may have reached 198 percent
of GDP at the end of 2012, up from 125 percent four years
earlier.  The National Bureau of Statistics is scheduled to publish
first-quarter GDP and fixed-asset investment as well as March
readings of  industrial output  and retail sales on April 15.
Exports rose less than forecast for the first time in four
months, customs data showed yesterday.  There is a “dichotomy between strong credit data and weak
demand in the real economy,” said Tao Dong, head of Asia
economics excluding  Japan  at Credit Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong.
While credit data accelerated, “economic activities in the real
economy were flattish, in some cases moderating,” he said.  Money Inflows  Inflows of so-called hot money may have persisted in
February, as the central bank and financial institutions  bought 
a net 295.4 billion yuan of foreign currency after purchasing
683.7 billion yuan in January, PBOC data showed yesterday.  Bank of America’s Lu estimated there could be about $100
billion of “unexplained” foreign-exchange inflows in the first
quarter, reversing a capital outflow of $60 billion in the
previous period.  “March may mark the peak of easy credit conditions,” said
Yao Wei, a China economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.
Various tightening measures on housing and shadow banking will
“bite from here onwards,” she said.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and
Fion Li in Hong Kong. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  