-- China’s March Passenger Vehicle Sales Gain 13% on Discounts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-11T07:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/china-s-march-passenger-vehicle-sales-gain-13-on-discounts.html
China ’s passenger-vehicle sales
rose 13 percent in March as steeper discounts spurred car demand
in the world’s biggest auto market.  Wholesale deliveries of cars, multipurpose and sport-
utility vehicles, climbed to 1.59 million units in March,
according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.
That compared with the median estimate of 1.6 million units by
three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Automakers and dealers stepped up incentives to help boost
sales in March, according to Xu Yue, executive vice president of
China Yongda Automobiles Services Holdings Ltd. Bigger
promotions came after average stockpiles climbed at the end of
February, according to data from the auto association.  “March is the end of a quarter so there is usually
pressure on reducing inventory,” Lin Huaibin, Shanghai-based
analyst at researcher IHS Automotive.  Total sales of vehicles, including buses and trucks, rose
11 percent to 2.04 million units last month, the association
said.  Automakers including  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  and BYD
Co. said they are optimistic about auto demand this year with
the new government leadership in place.  “We are confident” about this year’s growth, Lawrence Ang, executive director at Geely said on March 20 in Hong Kong.
“China’s overall economy will be improved from last year with
the new government’s stimulus policies” and help spur vehicle
demand.  Foreign Brands  Total vehicle sales in the first quarter rose 13 percent to
5.42 million units, the association said. Auto sales in the
quarter gained 17 percent to 4.42 million units.  Commercial vehicles sales also improved by 2.5 percent last
month to 449,600 units, along with truck sales going up 3.2
percent to 320,300 deliveries.  GM, the biggest foreign automaker in China, posted a 9.6
percent increase in its deliveries in the first quarter, led by
demand for its Buick vehicles and Wuling microvans.  The Detroit-based automaker, vying with  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  for
the lead among foreign automakers in the world’s largest auto
market, won buyers from Japanese brands. A dispute over islands
in the East China Sea between  Japan  and China escalated and
triggered a consumer backlash against Toyota Motor Corp., Nissan
Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. All three Japanese carmakers
reported a decline in China sales in the first quarter.  China’s average inventory levels at auto dealers climbed to
2.01 months worth of sales as of the end of February, versus 1.1
months in January, according to the dealer association.  Among the more than 1,000 dealers surveyed, 46 percent of
them saw vehicles prices falling in March, compared with 6.2
percent of them in February, according to the dealer
association.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  