-- China Developer Joins Signature in $1.5 Billion U.S. Project
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-04-11T09:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/china-firm-joins-signature-in-1-5-billion-california-project.html
Signature Development Corp.  and a
Chinese real estate firm will build an all-equity $1.5 billion
housing project along the Oakland,  California , waterfront as
residential property values rise in the San Francisco region.  The project will consist of 3,100 housing units, 200,000
square feet of offices and shops, and 30 acres of parks and open
space along Oakland’s estuary, Signature President Michael
Ghielmetti said in a phone interview from Beijing, where he is
accompanying California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. on a trade
mission. Ghielmetti declined to give details of the equity split.  “This massive influx of Chinese investment will put
thousands of Californians to work and dramatically improve
Oakland’s waterfront,” Brown, a former Oakland mayor, said in a
statement announcing the development. “This project is just one
example of what’s possible when business leaders in two of the
world’s most dynamic regions connect.”  Signature’s Chinese partner is Beijing-based Zarsion
Holdings Group Co., which has built 60 million square feet of
largely housing projects in  China , Ghielmetti said. The Oakland
development doesn’t need a construction loan, and the agreement
with Zarsion was completed in the last three months, he said.
Closely held Signature, based in Oakland, has built more than
12,000 residences in San Francisco, San Jose and  Sacramento .  ‘Big Potential’  “The Bay area has a big potential of development,”
Zarsion said in an e-mail. “The project is near the waterfront,
while Chinese people consider water as fortune. We are
optimistic about the area and the project.”  The project, Zarsion’s first investment outside China, will
target buyers including Chinese nationals, the company said
adding that it plans more investment in the U.S.  Dubbed Brooklyn Basin, the Oakland project will sit on 65
acres and include more than one mile of waterfront trails along
the estuary. The site is bounded by the Embarcadero, Oak Street,
9th Street, with the estuary on the west side, Ghielmetti said.  Home prices in Alameda County rose 26 percent in February
from a year earlier to a median $372,000, DataQuick Inc. said
March 14. All nine counties in the San Francisco Bay Area showed
double-digit appreciation, with Napa up 30 percent, San Mateo up
29 percent and Santa Clara up 28 percent, the San Diego-based
research firm said. San Francisco rose 12 percent to $700,500.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  