-- China Customs Official Apologizes for Incorrect Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-12T01:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/china-customs-official-apologizes-for-incorrect-investment-data.html
A Chinese government spokesman said
he gave incorrect and “groundless” investment data sourced
from the Internet at a briefing this week, underscoring concern
that official numbers may not be credible.  Zheng Yuesheng, spokesman and head of the statistics
department at the Beijing-based General Administration of
Customs, said  in a statement  yesterday that he “expresses deep
apologies” for citing unconfirmed figures from online sources
he didn’t identify.  Zheng was referring to remarks he made at a customs
administration press conference on April 10 where he also
acknowledged concerns that China’s  export  data may be overstated.
During the briefing, held to discuss March and first-quarter
trade figures, Zheng said the nation’s top economic-planning
agency had approved about 7 trillion  yuan  ($1.1 trillion) of
investment projects in the fourth quarter of 2012, including new
roads, railroads and airports.  He gave the figure when discussing the improvement in
first-quarter trade to illustrate the recovery in China’s
economic growth.  “The information was sourced from relevant reports on the
Internet, which were groundless and must be corrected,” Zheng
said in a seven-line statement on the agency’s website.  Customs Investigation  China’s exports rose 10 percent in March from a year
earlier, increasing less than forecast for the first time in
four months, while shipments  to Hong Kong  jumped 92.9 percent,
which researcher IHS Inc. said was the most in 18 years.  Zheng acknowledged that the practice of false trade
declarations exists and said the agency is investigating the
issue. At the same time, he stood by the customs
administration’s data and said differences between China’s
reported exports to Hong Kong and the city’s data for imports
from the mainland stem from different statistical methods.  Gains in overseas shipments exceeded forecasts by at least
7.5 percentage points in December, January and February, the
first time that’s happened in three straight months in the eight
years Bloomberg has compiled analyst  estimates  for the data.  The unprecedented run of better-than-forecast export growth
prompted skepticism of the data at banks including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Nomura Holdings Inc., casting doubt on the
strength of the recovery.  Inflating Shipments  Overstated exports would mean China is failing to get the
boost from global demand that the data suggest as the new
government under Premier Li Keqiang seeks to sustain an economic
 rebound .  Theories include companies inflating the value of shipments
to bring money into China, according to Nomura, and exporting
the same goods twice as local governments seek to boost data,
Goldman Sachs says.  Exports fell to major partners in March including the U.S.,
European Union, Japan, South Korea and Canada. The main
exception was shipments to Hong Kong, which rose to $48.4
billion, accounting for 27 percent of total exports. Sales to
Taiwan rose 44.9 percent, while Taiwan this week reported a 1.2
percent decline in imports from China.  “The breakdown of exports by destination veers towards the
absurd,” IHS economists Xianfang Ren and Alistair Thornton said
in a note April 10. “There is plenty of anecdotal evidence to
suggest that exporters are faking orders” and using a practice
to obtain export-tax rebates, IHS said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  