-- CIBC Agrees to Buy Atlantic Trust for $210 Million
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-04-11T21:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/cibc-agrees-to-buy-atlantic-trust-for-210-million.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ,
Canada’s fifth-biggest bank, agreed to buy Atlantic Trust
Private Wealth Management from  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  for $210 million to
expand its wealth-management business in the U.S.  “Atlantic Trust offers a very attractive entry point for
CIBC into the U.S. private wealth-management segment,” Victor Dodig, group head of wealth management for the Toronto-based
bank, said today in an interview. “This is a growth platform.”  Atlantic Trust manages about $20 billion in assets on
behalf of clients through 12 U.S. cities, CIBC said in a
statement. The firm provides advisory services to wealthy
individuals, families, foundations and endowments and employs
about 235 people.  CIBC has sought to expand its wealth-management unit by
acquisitions, including its takeover of MFS McLean Budden’s
private wealth business in August and its $848 million purchase
of a 41 percent stake in American Century Investments in 2011.
The lender has said it wants wealth management to represent 15
percent of the company’s earnings, up from about 9 percent in
2012.  “CIBC is now well-placed to continue growing in the two
important wealth segments that we’re most interested in: asset
management and private wealth management,” Dodig said.  CIBC seeks “gradual acquisitions of moderate size” to
expand its wealth management business, Chief Executive Officer
Gerald McCaughey said at a Jan. 8 banking conference. Dodig said
he wants to expand the unit internally while also watching for
additional takeovers.  ‘Radar On’  “We want to keep our radar on for opportunities that would
fit, that would make sense from a shareholder standpoint and
would make a cultural fit over the medium term with the
organization, to get more scale with the business,” Dodig said.  The takeover is expected to close in the second half of the
year and will add to earnings in fiscal 2014, CIBC said. The
transaction may reduce the bank’s Basel III Common Equity Tier 1
ratio by about 20 basis points as at Jan. 31.  “Over time this is going to make an important contribution
because the U.S. is an attractive market: it accounts for 40
percent of high-net-worth households globally, and that segment
is growing at a 50 percent higher rate than the rest of the
market in the U.S.,” Dodig said.  The sale will reduce Invesco’s annual earnings by about 5
cents a share, Chief Financial Officer Loren Starr said today in
a conference call with analysts. The company intends to use the
money raised to repurchase its own stock, offsetting the
dilution of earnings by 3 cents a share, Starr said.  The sale allows for “improved allocation of capital and
resources, and for growth in our core investment business,”
Starr said.  Atlanta-based Invesco managed $687.7 billion in assets as
of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  