-- Coeure Says ECB Limited in What It Can Do for Smaller Companies
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-11T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/coeure-says-ecb-limited-in-what-it-can-do-for-smaller-companies.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said there are limits on what the ECB
can do to help small and medium-sized companies gain access to
bank loans.  “The ECB does not have a magic wand,” Coeure said today
in Dublin, according to a speech text provided by the ECB. “The
central bank cannot compensate for a shortage or misallocation
of equity. That is something that has to be addressed, in one
form or the other, by other stakeholders.”  ECB President Mario Draghi said on April 4 he’s looking at
“both standard and non-standard measures” to stimulate growth
and help the 17-nation euro economy exit its recession. While
policy makers are examining what they can do to encourage banks
to lend to so-called SMEs, they have yet to come up with a plan,
officials familiar with the deliberations said last week.  Coeure said SMEs are “the backbone of the euro-area
economy,” employing around three-quarters of the region’s
workers and generating some 60 percent of economic growth.  It is “to some extent inevitable that credit sources for
small firms tend to dry up more rapidly than for large companies
during economic downturns, thereby disrupting the business and
investment activities of these firms to a greater extent,” he
said. “This has indeed been the case during the crisis in the
euro area.”  While the ECB has taken “exceptional monetary policy
actions” during the crisis, financial fragmentation is still
hindering the transmission of its interest rates, Coeure said.  SMEs were paying on average around 160 basis points more
than large companies for loans in the six months through
January, he said, adding there was “a substantial divergence
across euro-area countries.”  “The spread was around 50 basis points for SMEs in Austria
and  Belgium , but 261 in Spain and 174 in Ireland,” Coeure said.
“Between 2003 and 2008, the same spread was 84 basis points in
the euro area, 79 basis points in Spain and 44 basis points in
Ireland.”  The ECB’s non-standard measures “have proved to be
effective in alleviating bank funding constraints, containing
the risks of a disorderly bank deleveraging process,” he said.
“However, they have proved to be of limited effectiveness in
stressed countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  