-- The End of Washington Gridlock?
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2013-04-11T22:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/congress-s-notorious-b-i-g-agenda.html
That sound you’re hearing may be
the cracking of gridlock in Washington.  Bipartisan bills on three of the big issues of 2013 -- the
budget, immigration and guns -- could pass Congress this spring.
If the B.I.G. agenda goes through, the public will cheer,
providing incentives for politicians to do more. It would also
go some way toward rescuing our system from being the
embarrassment it is now.  The key to getting anything done is the combination of an
inside game (cutting deals behind closed doors) and an outside
game (rallying supporters, running blistering ads).  This week, Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia 
and Republican Senator  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania showed
Washington how to legislate on  guns . Both have “A” grades from
the  National Rifle Association  (Manchin was even shown firing a
rifle in a 2010 campaign ad) but enough sense to know that
requiring comprehensive background checks before gun purchases
is an idea whose time has come. More than 90 percent of the
public supports background checks; the NRA did, too, back in
1999.  The deal won the enthusiastic support of President  Barack Obama  and  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  (the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News ).
It had the backing of enough conservatives to defeat an
attempted filibuster; the Senate voted 68 to 31 to begin debate
next week on a measure that would expand background checks to
the 40 percent of gun sales that are unregulated.  Senate Passage  The measure has a good chance of passage in the Senate.
That would be a serious setback for Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky. When you threaten a filibuster and lose,
the next threat is less potent, which means diminished power to
obstruct down the road.  Pessimists say background checks will fail in the House,
where the NRA has a near-stranglehold on the Republican
majority. But that fails to account for the new order of battle.
Supporters of  background checks  have put a couple dozen swing
district House members on notice: If you oppose this bill,
winning your primary against a Republican extremist won’t mean
much because you’ll be in deep trouble in the general election.  To paraphrase Samuel Johnson, nothing so concentrates the
mind as the prospect of millions of dollars of ads featuring the
parents of slain Newtown,  Connecticut , children denouncing you.  After the background-check bill becomes law, get ready for
comprehensive immigration reform. It probably won’t face a
filibuster or sustained opposition, even from the most right-
wing Republicans.  That’s because elections have consequences. All Republicans
now know that they must do a better job of reaching out to
Hispanics or they will go the way of the Whig Party.  It helps that the national climate is favorable for reform.
The fever of U.S. nativism spikes from time to time before
subsiding. Right now, it happens to be in check.  After the bipartisan “Gang of Eight” in the Senate bangs
out a compromise between labor and business, McConnell, despite
his fears of a Tea Party challenge for his seat in 2014, will
have little room to maneuver. And when the bill goes to the
House, where no filibusters are allowed, Democrats (who will
almost all vote aye) need only about a dozen Republican votes to
win.  2014 Budget  The hardest nut to crack may be the budget, though there
was progress on that front this week, too.  Republicans were sure that Obama was a Paleolithic Democrat
who would never touch entitlements. He called their bluff in his
budget by proposing $230 billion in savings by recalculating the
way cost-of-living adjustments are assessed for entitlement
programs, by using the chained  consumer price index .  Predictably, progressives denounced the idea. The more
intriguing reaction was from the right.  First, Representative Greg Walden of Oregon, who leads the
Republicans’ 2014 campaign efforts, told  CNN  that Obama was
“going after seniors.” This aroused Democratic fears that
Republicans would once again pander to the elderly, as they did
in 2010 by airing misleading ads saying that Obama was cutting
Medicare by $500 billion to pay for the Affordable Care Act.  But the politics of entitlements are changing. Even as
Walden’s view was endorsed by  Bill O’Reilly  on  Fox News , former
Representative  Chris Chocola , president of the influential Club
for Growth, asked Walden to “clarify” his opposition to chained
CPI, which is politician-speak for “retract it now.”  “Greg Walden doesn’t seriously oppose even the most modest
of reforms to  Social Security , right?” Chocola asked. “With
nearly $100 trillion in unfunded liabilities, the last thing
Republicans should attack the Democrats for is for making the
most minor reforms to our entitlement programs.”  Republican confusion on entitlements gives Obama an opening
for a divide-and-conquer strategy. By making the budget and
entitlement debate more fluid -- less dependent on whether House
Speaker  John Boehner  can hold his caucus -- the president now
has more options for finding a “good bargain,” if not a “grand”
one, either in the next few weeks or when the  debt ceiling  has
to be raised again later in the year.  Budget. Immigration. Guns. The Notorious B.I.G. agenda
could very well become law in 2013, defying our expectations for
political paralysis once again.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 