-- Congress Starting Bipartisan Postal Talks, Carper Says
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-04-11T17:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/congress-starting-bipartisan-postal-talks-carper-says.html
 Congressional leaders will begin
negotiating next week on bipartisan legislation to overhaul the
U.S.  Postal Service , toward a goal of sending President  Barack Obama  a bill by August, a Senate committee chairman said.  Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, said he’s optimistic an
agreement can be reached, with the Postal Service’s mounting
financial troubles becoming obvious to the public.  “I think it’s eminently doable,” Carper, chairman of the
Senate  Homeland Security  and Governmental Affairs Committee
said, said in an interview today.  He said the group includes Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma ,
the top Republican on his committee; House Government Reform and
Oversight Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, and Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , that
panel’s top Democrat. Issa’s committee will hold a hearing on
the future of the Postal Service April 17.  Carper disclosed the talks a day after the Postal Service’s
board said the service doesn’t have legal authority to end
Saturday mail delivery without authorization from Congress and
must halt plans to take that step in August.  The Postal Service is losing about $25 million a day even
after cutting 25,000 jobs this year, and the board’s decision
left it with few cost-saving options short of a congressional
overhaul. The service said it would save $2 billion a year by
delivering only packages on Saturdays.  The pressure is on Congress to allow changes in the
service’s business model before it runs out of cash, which
management has said will happen temporarily in October.  Racing Clock  Without being able to cut back to five delivery days from
six, the Postal Service will take its board’s advice and ask its
employee unions to renegotiate multiyear contracts, consider
asking regulators for an emergency rate increase and cut
administrative costs, Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe said in
an interview. He said he broached the notion of renegotiating
union contracts with labor leaders yesterday.  “They know we’re in a fix in terms of our operating
costs,” Donahoe said. “I’m hoping they’ll at least entertain
the idea.”  The service’s two largest unions questioned the need to
reopen their contracts, which don’t allow career employees to be
fired without cause, saying they made concessions when those
agreements were negotiated. The service, which lost $15.9
billion last year, estimated it would save $2 billion annually
by ending Saturday mail deliveries.  Leadership Needed  “The board’s call to reopen and renegotiate the postal
labor contracts is yet another sign that the Postal Service
needs new executive leadership,” Fredric Rolando, the president
of the National Association of Letter Carriers, said in a
statement. “Asking the NALC to renegotiate a contract that was
just settled in January is insulting and unnecessary.”  The reduction in the service’s workforce this year is
almost equal to the employment of  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the maker of
Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels toy cars. The service is down to
about 497,000 career workers after offering buyouts. Still,
that’s barely helped stanch the cash drain posed by operations.  Members of the American Postal Workers Union have already
compromised, Sally Davidow, a spokeswoman for the union, said in
an interview. They believe cuts should come from other places.  “The Postal Service saved $3.8 billion on account of
compromises that the APWU made during negotiations,” she said.
“APWU members have done their part.”  The service and its unions have asked Congress to relax a
requirement to pay about $5.5 billion a year to the  U.S.
Treasury  for future retiree health-care costs, an expense they
say accounts for most of the service’s financial losses. With
barely enough cash to pay labor expenses, the service defaulted
on the past two years’ payments.  Senate Measure  The postal board’s decision on Saturday mail delivery
“calls for us to act with some urgency,” Cummings said
yesterday in an interview. “We need to get comprehensive
legislation done.”  Carper said last year’s Senate-passed bill is a framework
for next week’s negotiations.  The measure would have authorized the Postal Service to
provide non-postal products and services and revise benefit
payment obligations. The bill also would have made it more
difficult for management to close facilities and delayed a
reduction to five-day mail delivery for at least two years.  Authority to end Saturday delivery was included in a
measure last year from Issa, whose panel oversees the service,
that wasn’t voted on by the House. It was left out of the
Senate-passed postal bill.  Congress first required mail deliveries six days a week in
1981. Lawmakers have authority over the service because it gets
an appropriation to reimburse it for mail the law mandates it
must process for free. Yet Congress provides less than 0.1
percent of the service’s annual budget.  GAO Opinion  The postal board’s action yesterday followed a Government
Accountability Office opinion last month saying the service
lacks the authority to stop delivering on Saturdays.  Donahoe has said he relied on a new interpretation of a law
governing the service and the government’s temporary funding
status to declare he didn’t need Congress’s permission to cut
back delivery days to five a week.  Commercial customers are happy to have greater certainty to
plan mailings for later this year, said Jerry Cerasale, senior
vice president of government affairs for the Direct Marketing
Association, based in  New York .  The association doesn’t have an opinion on cutting Saturday
delivery because its members don’t agree, he said, suggesting
closing facilities as a way to cut costs.  “The Postal Service still has excess capacity; a lot of
processing plants that are going to be scheduled to close,”
Cerasale said. “They can speed that up and get a lot of
capacity out of the system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  