-- Copper Falls for Second Day on Speculation Fed May Curb Stimulus
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-04-11T09:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/copper-falls-for-second-day-on-speculation-fed-may-curb-stimulus.html
Copper fell for a second day in
 London  on speculation the Federal Reserve may curb monetary
stimulus aimed at stoking economic growth in the U.S., the
world’s second-biggest consumer of the metal.  Some Fed officials said the central bank should begin
tapering stimulus in 2013 and stop it by year-end, minutes of a
March policy meeting released yesterday showed. The Fed is
buying $85 billion of debt a month. The meeting took place about
two weeks before government figures showed payroll growth in the
U.S. was the weakest in nine months in March.  “An end to bond-buying would eventually be bad for metals,
as it means a strong dollar,” David Wilson, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in London, said by e-mail. Gains by the currency
sap demand for commodities as an alternative investment.  Copper for delivery in three months slid 0.4 percent to
$7,541 a metric ton by 10:13 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Prices rose 3 percent in the week’s first two sessions, helped
by buying to close out bets on a declining market. Copper for
delivery in May fell 0.4 percent to $3.4045 a pound on the Comex
in New York.  Today’s retreat is “a counter-reaction to the short-
covering seen during the last couple of days,” Ole Hansen, head
of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said by e-
mail. “Industrial metals should take comfort from the relative
hawkish tone, as it indicates the belief that growth eventually
will be strong enough not to rely on continued asset
purchasing,” he said of the Fed minutes.  Figures tomorrow will show U.S. retail sales stagnated in
March after four months of gains, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME, up 84 percent this
year to the highest since September 2003, expanded for a 38th
session in 39 to 590,175 tons, daily exchange figures showed.
Orders to take the metal from warehouses dropped 0.6 percent to
156,000 tons after more than doubling in eight sessions.  Aluminum, tin, lead and zinc fell in London. Nickel rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  