-- DiaGenic Climbs Most in Three Weeks on Canada Patent: Oslo Mover
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-04-11T13:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/diagenic-climbs-most-in-three-weeks-on-canada-patent-oslo-mover.html
DiaGenic ASA (DIAG) , a Norwegian company
developing tests to diagnose illnesses such as  Alzheimer’s
disease , rose the most in more than three weeks in Oslo after
saying a patent application had been approved in  Canada .  The Oslo-based company gained as much as 9.7 percent, the
most since March 18, and traded  4.8 percent higher  at 0.65
kroner as of 2:50 p.m. local time. About 4.3 million shares have
been traded so far today, more than 30 times the average daily
volume during the last three months.  DiaGenic’s patent claims cover the use of a set of blood
gene sequences that are essential for the diagnosis of illnesses
such as Alzheimer’s Disease, the company said in a statement
today. Once granted, the patent will be valid until 2023.  DiaGenic has a “very thorough intellectual-property
protection strategy and today is just one of the supporting
examples,” Norne Securities analyst Jonas Peciulis said in an
e-mailed reply to questions.  DiaGenic has developed gene-expression technology that uses
blood samples to help researchers find patterns, or unique
genetic fingerprints, which characterize a specific disease. The
method helps detect illnesses including  breast cancer  and
Alzheimer’s, the sixth-largest cause of death in the U.S.,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association .  While the news is positive, the main triggers for the share
this year will be European marketing approval for DiaGenic’s new
versions of its Alzheimer’s disease tests, subsequent marketing
efforts and the results of a joint clinical study with GE
Healthcare, a unit of  General Electric Co. (GE) , Peciulis said. Norne
has a buy rating on DiaGenic with a 1.1 krone price estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  