-- Dogan Holding Seeks Acquisitions in Media, Energy, E-Commerce
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-04-11T13:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/dogan-holding-seeks-acquisitions-in-media-energy-e-commerce.html
Dogan Sirketler Grubu Holding AS (DOHOL) ,
the owner of the media company that runs CNN Turk, said it plans
acquisitions in Turkey and abroad to build business in energy,
media and e-commerce.  “Several acquisition works are progressing at the same
time in media and energy so it’s difficult to tell which one
will be the first,” Chairwoman Begumhan Dogan Faralyali said
today in an interview. “Even in Turkey we have significant room
for organic growth for media business.”  Dogan Holding, which owns  Dogan Yayin Holding AS (DYHOL) , Turkey’s
biggest media company and operator of CNN Turk with  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) , sold its stake in the country’s biggest fuel retailer,
Petrol Ofisi AS, to OMV AG two years ago. It’s now considering
assets in online and “traditional media” in countries in
eastern Europe and the  Middle East , Faralyali said.  The chairwoman spoke after Chief Executive Officer Yahya Uzdiyen said the parent company is aiming for 20 percent sales
growth this year, excluding acquisitions. Dogan Holding’s
revenue rose 10 percent to 3.16 billion liras ($1.77 billion)
last year.  Dogan Holding  gained  as much as 4.6 percent to 1.13 liras
in Istanbul, the highest intraday price since March 13. The
stock was up 3.7 percent at 3:53 p.m.  Dogan is also preparing to bid in a government auction for
operational rights to national lottery company Milli Piyango,
Uzdiyen said at a news conference in Istanbul today. Dogan is in
talks with a “foreign strategic company” for a possible joint
bid, he said.  Profit Returns  The holding company returned to profit after a loss in 2011
due to the payment of back taxes. The  finance ministry  acted
after company founder  Aydin Dogan  clashed with Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  over allegations in his newspapers that the
government had financial links in Germany with Islamic charity
Deniz Feneri, whose officials were convicted of fraud. The
original fine was reduced through court cases and a government
tax restructuring plan.  The company’s energy unit, Dogan Enerji AS, plans to
increase production and bid in the government’s auctions to sell
 power plants , Uzdiyen said. Dogan Enerji started test production
at a well in Northern Iraq in which it has a 20 percent stake
and is seeking new exploration licenses in Yemen and other
countries with partners.  DNO International ASA (DNO)  is the main
stakeholder in the Iraq venture.  “We get about 70 percent of our sales from media units but
we want to increase the stake of energy and other businesses to
about 50 percent in near future from 30 percent now,” Uzdiyen
said.  Dogan Holding will make investments of more than 400
million liras this year, excluding possible acquisitions, after
925 million liras last year, the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 