-- DreamWorks Animation Acquires Troll Rights From Dam Family
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-12T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/dreamworks-animation-acquires-troll-rights-from-dam-family.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
independent film studio, acquired rights to the iconic Troll
dolls from the Dam family and company, the latest purchase to
bolster its character roster.  DreamWorks Animation also named Shawn Dennis head of brand
development to oversee the property, the Glendale, California-
based studio said yesterday in a statement. Terms of the
acquisition weren’t disclosed.  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Katzenberg is acquiring
rights to characters and stories for films, television and
merchandise. Last year, DreamWorks Animation bought Classic
Media for $155 million, gaining vintage TV characters including
Casper the Friendly Ghost and Rocky & Bullwinkle.  “Trolls is a brand with over 50 years of deep heritage and
we are thrilled to bring this iconic, multi-generational
property to DreamWorks Animation,” Ann Daly, chief operating
officer, said in the statement.   The deal makes DreamWorks Animation the worldwide licensor
for Trolls merchandise, with the exception of Scandinavia, where
Dam Things continues to hold rights. A Trolls film, in
development before the acquisition, is scheduled for release in
2015, according to the Internet Movie Database.  Dennis most recently was a senior vice president at
American Girl and held branding and marketing posts at  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
and the National Football League, the company said.  DreamWorks Animation  rose  0.6 percent to $19.62 yesterday
in New York. The shares have gained 18 percent this year.  The company’s latest theatrical release, “The Croods,” is
the third top-grossing film in domestic revenue this year, with
ticket sales of $128.3 million, according to Box Office Mojo, an
industry researcher. Worldwide sales for the film total $335.4
million after four weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  