-- Does Congress Have a Clue on Insider Trading?
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-04-11T22:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/the-hysteria-over-inside-information.html
Justin Simon was an obscure
research analyst in  Washington  at a small broker-dealer named
 Height Securities LLC  when he scored an amazing scoop last week.  In a 75-word note to clients on April 1, Simon predicted
the government would increase certain pay rates for health
insurers that had been scheduled for cuts. He didn’t say where
he got this idea, only that he believed it would happen. And it
seemed to be more than a guess. The headline on his report said:
“FLASH -- Medicare Advantage Rates.”  Simon was proven right when the government released its
decision later that day after stock markets had closed. By then,
the shares of some insurers had soared, including those of
 Humana Inc. (HUM)  and  Health Net Inc. (HNT) , which Simon had cited favorably
in his report.  When financial journalists break news like this for their
paying customers, they get praised as market movers. Simon and
his firm instead have gotten lots of headaches.  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  this week sent Height
Securities a  letter  asking for lots of documents and  demanding 
to know how Simon got his information -- as if the senator would
try bullying a major newspaper or television network this way.
News organizations that should be kicking themselves for getting
scooped have  spotlighted  Height as an example of what’s wrong
with the so-called political-intelligence industry. The
insinuation is there must be something untoward about a person
with a broker’s license doing what beat reporters do routinely.  No Signs  There has been no sign that Simon or his firm violated any
confidentiality obligations, engaged in  insider trading , paid
bribes, or otherwise did anything improper. Maybe someone told
Simon something without permission, but that wouldn’t be the
analyst’s problem. Journalists get stories all the time by
sweet-talking people into blabbing things they shouldn’t.
There’s nothing wrong with that.  (Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, also has  requested  documents from the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, including a  list  of people who
had advance notice of the agency’s rate decision.)  As for “ political intelligence ,” this is a fancy term for
information that is obtained by reading things or talking to
people. Likewise, a “political intelligence  professional ” is
someone with a phone, a notepad and access to federal employees.
Grassley says these outside snoops should have to register with
the government, and he wants new laws requiring it. An exception
might be made for someone who is a “representative of the
media,” whatever that’s supposed to mean.  District of Columbia 
maitre d’s, bartenders, barbers and taxi-cab drivers had better
watch out the next time they trade  gossip  for bigger gratuities.  “When a political intelligence professional is paid to
gather inside information from congressional or agency sources
that can be used to make investment decisions, that professional
should have to register and disclose his or her activities to
the public,” Grassley  said  April 4 in a joint statement with
U.S. Representative Louise Slaughter, a  New York  Democrat.  The word “activities” looks especially creepy. If someone
gets valuable information in a legal way, isn’t barred from
trading on it, and isn’t obligated to keep it confidential, it’s
none of the government’s business what that person does with it.
Sell it, whisper it, buy stocks, do nothing, whatever. Grassley
touts his plan as a step toward transparency, akin to lobbyist
registrations. It’s more like a government  invasion of privacy. 
This is about controlling citizens, not protecting them. You
have to wonder if it would survive a constitutional challenge.  Already Registered  Besides, Simon and Height Securities are already registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. Anyone can go to the regulators’
 websites  and find detailed  reports  about Simon and the firm.  “Height Securities is an SEC-registered broker-dealer and
not a lobbying or political-consulting firm,” Andrew Parmentier, one of Height’s managing partners and founders, said
in an e-mail to  Bloomberg News . “We issue research reports in
accordance with a comprehensive regulatory regime. We are highly
confident our April 1 report was based on good research,
conducted in accordance with this regulatory regime. We look
forward to demonstrating this to  Senator Grassley .”  The people most affected by new rules would be everyone
else deemed to be in the political-intelligence trade -- a large
universe that includes everyone from law firms and consultants,
to researchers for public-pension plans and  hedge funds , or even
Washington socialites trying to make a few bucks on the side.  This isn’t Grassley’s first attempt at such a requirement.
Last year, Congress passed something called the  Stop Trading on
Congressional Knowledge Act , which promised to crack down on
insider trading among the legislative set, although there’s
little reason to believe it will change much of anything.
Grassley  wanted  to mandate disclosure of political-intelligence
activities, but his proposal was stripped from the bill at the
last minute. And thank goodness. The government has enough
information about what all of us do on our own time.  As for Justin Simon, he should have a bright future as an
enterprising journalist if things don’t work out for him as a
stock analyst.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  