-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for April (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2013-04-11T08:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-april-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s April monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 4 April to keep the
key ECB interest rates unchanged. HICP inflation rates have
declined further, as anticipated, and price developments over
the medium term should remain contained. Monetary and loan
dynamics remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro
area continue to be firmly anchored in line with the Governing
Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to,
2% over the medium term. At the same time, weak economic
activity has extended into the early part of the year and a
gradual recovery is projected for the second half of this year,
subject to downside risks. Against this overall background the
monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as
needed. In the coming weeks, the Governing Council will monitor
very closely all incoming information on economic and monetary
developments and assess any impact on the outlook for  price
stability . It is essential for governments to intensify the
implementation of structural reforms at national level and to
strengthen euro area governance, including the implementation of
the banking union. They should also build on progress made in
fiscal consolidation and proceed with financial sector
restructuring.  The Governing Council is also closely monitoring money market
conditions and their potential impact on the monetary policy
stance and its transmission to the economy. As stated on
previous occasions, the Governing Council will continue with
fixed rate tender procedures with full allotment for as long as
necessary. Regarding the economic analysis, the outcome for real
GDP in the fourth quarter of 2012 was weak, with Eurostat’s
second estimate indicating a contraction of 0.6% quarter on
quarter. The decline was largely due to a fall in domestic
demand but also reflected a drop in exports. Recent data and
indicators confirm that the economic weakness extended into the
early part of the year. Looking forward, euro area export growth
should benefit from a recovery in global demand and the monetary
policy stance should contribute to support domestic demand.  Furthermore, the improvements in financial markets seen since
last summer should ﻿work their way through to the real economy,
notwithstanding recent uncertainties. Together, this should help
stabilise euro area economic activity and lead to a gradual
recovery in the second part of the year. At the same time,
necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and private
sectors, and the associated tight credit conditions, will
continue to weigh on economic activity.  This economic outlook for the euro area remains subject to
downside risks. The risks include the possibility of even weaker
than expected domestic demand and slow or insufficient
implementation of structural reforms in the euro area. These
factors have the potential to dampen the improvement in
confidence and thereby delay the recovery.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 1.7% in March 2013, down from 1.8% in February.
The ongoing decline in annual inflation rates mainly reflects
the energy component of the  price index . Looking ahead, price
developments over the medium term should remain contained in an
environment of weak economic activity in the euro area.
Inflation expectations are firmly anchored and in line with
price stability over the medium to long term. Risks to the
outlook for price developments continue to be broadly balanced
over the medium term, with upside risks relating to stronger
than expected increases in administered prices and indirect
taxes, as well as higher  oil prices , and downside risks stemming
from weaker economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth
rate of M3 moderated to 3.1% in February, down from 3.5% in
January. The annual growth rate of the narrow monetary aggregate,
M1, increased to 7.0% in February, from 6.6% in January. At the
same time, MFI deposits in a number of stressed countries
strengthened further in February.  The annual growth rate of loans (adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) to non-financial corporations and households
remained broadly unchanged in February, at -1.4% and 0.4%
respectively. To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect
the current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk
and the ongoing ﻿adjustment of financial and non-financial sector
balance sheets. At the same time, available information on non-
financial corporates’ access to financing indicates tight credit
conditions, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises
in several euro area countries.  In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential
that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets is reduced
further and the resilience of banks strengthened where needed.
However, considerable progress has been made since last summer
in improving the funding situation of banks, in strengthening
the domestic deposit base in stressed countries and in reducing
reliance on the Eurosystem as reflected in repayments of the
three-year LTROs. Further decisive steps for establishing a
banking union will help to accomplish this objective. In
particular, in the light of recent experience, the Governing
Council must emphasise that the future Single Supervisory
Mechanism and a Single Resolution Mechanism are crucial elements
for moving towards re-integrating the banking system and
therefore require swift implementation.  To sum up, taking into account the Governing Council’s decision
of 4 April, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  As regards fiscal policies, euro area countries should build on
their efforts to reduce government budget deficits and continue
to implement structural reforms, thereby mutually reinforcing
fiscal sustainability and economic growth. Fiscal policy
strategies need to be complemented by growth-enhancing
structural reforms. Such reforms should be ambitious and broad-
ranging, encompassing product markets, including network
industries, labour markets and the modernisation of public
administration. To support employment, wage-setting should
become more flexible and better aligned with productivity. These
reforms will help countries in their efforts to regain
competitiveness, set the foundations for sustainable growth and
support the return of macroeconomic confidence.  ﻿This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article provides a descriptive summary of the main
stylised facts in the first wave of the Eurosystem Household
Finance and Consumption Survey. It focuses on the distribution
of household liabilities and indicators of financial pressure
and examines household assets and the distribution of net wealth
in the euro area. The second article explains the Basel III
liquidity requirements and outlines the features that are of
particular relevance for the Eurosystem. Furthermore, it
illustrates why the liquidity standards are relevant for central
banks, discussing in detail the relationship between liquidity
standards and monetary policy operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  