-- Egypt Seen by U.S. Overestimating Wheat Crop as Currency Weakens
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-04-11T20:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/egypt-seen-by-u-s-overestimating-wheat-crop-as-currency-weakens.html
Wheat supplies in  Egypt , the
world’s biggest importer, may shrink as a fuel shortage leaves
grain output below a government forecast and the weakening local
currency erodes imports, a U.S. report showed.  Stockpiles the North African country will fall to 3.02
million metric tons by June 30, 2014, down 21 percent from a
year-earlier estimate, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
Foreign Agricultural Service said in an  report  posted on its
website April 9. Egypt will produce 8.7 million tons in the year
that starts July 1, less than the 9.5 million forecast by Egypt,
according to the FAS. Foreign-exchange reserves are down 63
percent to $13.5 billion since January 2011, report showed.  Egypt has sought emergency aid and loans to help shore up
the finances of the Arab world’s most-populous nation as
investment and tourism declined amid the turmoil that followed
the 2011 uprising that led to the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak .
Egypt’s wheat imports have dried up as its currency plunged. It
will be difficult or impossible for the country to raise enough
money for purchases, leaving less to make government-subsidized
baladi bread, according to the USDA report.  “As far as bread prices -- I imagine they’ll go higher,
and it’s really a roll of the dice what that means
politically,” said Matt Ammermann, a London-based analyst at
INTL FCStone, in a telephone interview. “They’ll need to get
back their means to import wheat. That’s the easiest way to
avoid any political unrest.”  Wheat futures for July delivery rose less than 0.1 percent
to close at $7.0325 a bushel today on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade. Milling wheat on NYSE Liffe in Paris fell 0.1 percent to
231.75 euros ($303.92) a metric ton.  Currency Reserves  Egypt’s foreign-exchange reserves dropped from $36 billion
when the revolution started more than two years ago as the
government sought to maintain the value of the Egyptian pound,
according to the USDA report. The currency has plummeted 11
percent against the dollar since the end of November.  Qatar pledged another $3 billion in aid to Egypt yesterday,
extending the lifeline for Islamist President Mohamed Mursi
after repeated delays in loan talks with the International
Monetary Fund. Qatar has already provided Egypt with $5 billion
in deposits and grants.  Egypt’s state-grain buyer has halted imports for 2012-2013
at 3.4 million tons, leaving it with 1.8 million tons less than
a year earlier, FAS analysts Mohamed Hamza and Mariano Beillard
said in their report. The agriculture ministry’s forecast of 5
million tons of wheat procurement from local farmers is
unrealistic, the analysts said. Instead, the government may buy
3 million to 3.2 million, they said. Egypt is focusing on local
growers, which allows the importer to set terms to sellers,
Supply Minister Bassem Oda said earlier this week.  Unknown Move  One “major near-term unknown” is how bakers will move the
600,000 to 700,000 tons of wheat from the countryside to the
cities, where it is milled, the FAS said.  While the Agriculture Ministry in early March said it was
assessing how to prioritize diesel use for wheat production, the
USDA analysts predicted the lack of available fuel will cause
“bottlenecks” and “shortages” in June or July. With little
wheat being imported until August, after the Russian and
Ukrainian harvests, more domestic grain will need to be moved to
millers, according to the report.  “There are growing concerns among producers, traders and
industry experts alike that the lack of diesel fuel availability
may affect the 2013-14 crop harvesting and its distribution,”
the FAS analysts said in their report. “The government has
attempted to dispel diesel-fuel supply fears, communicating
reassurances that sufficient fuel for irrigation and harvesting
equipment will be allocated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  