-- Egypt’s Islamic Leader Turns to Twitter as Unrest Mounts
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-04-11T12:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/egypt-s-islamist-president-turns-to-twitter-as-unrest-mounts.html
President Mohamed Mursi, in an
unprecedented step by an Egyptian leader, invited his country to
an unfettered give-and-take, turning to Twitter to try to build
a bridge with youths unhappy with his government.  Mursi’s office gave Egyptians a 30-minute window to pose
direct questions to him -- an offer that netted a slew of
complaints, compliments, advice and more than a few pointed jabs
at the way he and his government are running the country.  In a series of posts today, the Egyptian leader addressed a
range of questions, stressing it was now the time to “work and
to unite Egypt’s sons, not open wounds.”  Mursi’s comments on his official  Twitter  account marked his
latest push to contain growing polarization in the country. The
man who billed himself, upon his election in June, as a leader
for all Egyptians has come under mounting fire from  youth
activists and other critics frustrated that their lives haven’t
improved since the 2011 revolution.  Some accuse him of promoting the agenda of the Muslim
Brotherhood that fielded him for office at their expense.  That theme came through in the Twitter talk.  “Which is more important to you, Egypt or the
Brotherhood?” posted @ElSayedSalih.  Mired in Turmoil  Since longtime leader  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted in 2011,
Egypt has been mired in turmoil, relying on aid from allies to
stem the plunge in foreign reserves, which are more than 60
percent below December 2010 levels. The government is trying to
secure a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan and the
currency has plunged against the dollar, stoking inflationary
fears.  Mursi, responding to a question about  inflation  and
increasing dollar costs, said the government has an economic
plan, although exchange rate stability needs “some patience and
a lot of work.”  The question-and answer session on Twitter was remarkable
in Egypt for its candor. Mursi has pledged to uphold freedoms,
though rights groups have accused him of targeting the media.
His government recently provoked an uproar by ordering the
arrest of a popular satirist for allegedly insulting him and
Islam.  Complaints Dropped  Yesterday, the president’s office said he ordered his legal
staff to drop its complaints against journalists accused of
publishing rumors. Cases in criminal court filed by individuals
weren’t covered by the decree.  Not all the comments on Twitter addressed momentous matters
of state. One person asked whether he and his wife had agreed on
what kind of ceramic floor tiles to use and which version of the
“Planet of the Apes” films he watched. Mursi, in an interview
with Time magazine, had mentioned the film.  The Egyptian leader told his audience he was working
“night and day” on the rolling blackouts that have been
plaguing  Egypt  well before the sweltering summer months, as a
result of fuel shortages.  His audience wasn’t left wanting.  “OK, so if the power goes out at 9, what should we do, or
has Your Excellency issued instructions that the lights stay on
from 9 to 9:30,” asked Mohammed Hameed, in a post on Mursi’s
official Facebook page.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  