-- Einhorn Push for Apple Cash Drives Structured Note Sales Rebound
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-04-11T15:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/einhorn-push-for-apple-cash-drives-structured-note-sales-rebound.html
Banks sold the most U.S. structured
notes tied to the price of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares last month since
December as the company said it would announce plans for its
growing pile of cash.  Investors bought $102.2 million of the securities in 16
offerings, about three times as much as the $34.4 million in
February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock
gained 0.3 percent in March after dropping for five straight
months.  Expectations that Apple will return some of its $137.1
billion in cash to shareholders rose last month after increasing
pressure from investors, most notably Greenlight Capital Inc.
President David Einhorn.  Tim Cook , Apple’s chief executive
officer, said in February that he is in “very, very active”
talks about what to do with the company’s surplus.  “With the fall in growth expectations and the increased
discussion of dividends, it started to potentially attract a
different, value-focused investor base,” said Walter Piecyk, an
analyst at BTIG LLC in New York. He raised his recommendation on
the stock to “buy” from “neutral” last month, with a 12-
month target price of $540.  Apple shares have dropped almost 40 percent from their
Sept. 19 high last year, to $435.69 yesterday. The Cupertino,
California-based company  plans  to release its earnings report
for its second fiscal quarter on April 23.  Biggest Sale  The largest offering tied to Apple last month was $40.2
million of one-year notes issued by  Royal Bank of Canada. (RY)  The
securities, sold March 28, yield 8.5 percent a year and pay an
additional 5.61 percent if the stock rises at least 8.5 percent,
according to a  prospectus  filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Bank of America Corp. distributed the
notes, which RBC initially valued at 97.4 cents on the dollar,
for a 1.75 percent fee.  Kait Conetta, a spokeswoman for the Canadian bank in New
York, declined to comment.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  