-- Telecom Italia Says Hutchison Wants Control in M&A Plan
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-04-12T07:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/telecom-italia-says-hutchison-wants-control-in-3g-merger.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , which received
approval from its board to pursue a possible merger with
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Italian business, said billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s company would want control of any combined entity.  Any transaction will likely be held “via contribution in
kind or merger,” subject to Hutchison acquiring a stake in
Telecom Italia to “become the leading shareholder of the
company,” Milan-based Telecom Italia said in a statement after
a board meeting yesterday.  A deal would combine  Italy ’s biggest wireless carrier with
the No. 4, Hutchison’s 3 Italia, which is valued at about 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion) based on its reported earnings and
 multiples  of publicly traded European carriers. An entry by Hong
Kong-based Hutchison as shareholder could unravel a six-year
pact at Telco SpA, whose investors  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and  Mediobanca SpA (MB) 
together hold 22.4 percent of Italy’s former phone monopoly.  “If Hutchison takes control, investors such as Telefonica
will probably have to sell their stake or at least reconsider
their position,” said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based
strategist at FGA/MG Valores. “The entrance of a powerful
investor such as Hutchison Whampoa through a potential merger
would help Telecom Italia solve part of the problems.”  Debt Concern  Representatives at Telefonica, Mediobanca, Generali and
Intesa Sanpaolo declined to comment.  “Contacts between Telecom Italia SpA and 3 Italia SpA on
possible business combinations are still preliminary and
exploratory,” Hutchison said in a statement.  For Hutchison, Asia’s biggest investor in European wireless
networks, Telecom Italia’s high net debt -- which reached 28.3
billion euros at the end of 2012 adjusted for some items -- is a
concern, a person familiar with the matter has said, asking not
to be identified because the deliberations are private. Telecom
Italia has a market value of 11.5 billion euros.  The carrier’s board designated Chief Executive Officer
Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  to lead a panel to explore the feasibility of a
business merger with Hutchison. Other members include
Telefonica’s Julio Linares, Elio Cosimo Catania from Intesa
Sanpaolo, Gabriele Galateri from Generali and independent
director Luigi Zingales.  They will verify “within a short time the company’s
interest in carrying on such a transaction,” Telecom Italia
said in its statement yesterday.  Stake Writedown  The fact that Bernabe won’t be leading the talks by himself
and will be flanked by other directors is a signal that some
investors aren’t satisfied with his performance, two people
familiar with the matter said. At the same time, some Telco
investors are skeptical so far about a merger because no
business plan has been presented, one of the people said.  Telecom Italia shares rose 4.5 percent to 64 cents at 9:28
a.m. in Milan. That’s still about half of the 1.20 euro per-
share valuation by Telco investors after they wrote down their
stake this year.  The stock dropped to 53.6 cents on April 3, the lowest
level since August 1997. It has gained 14 percent since
Bloomberg News reported April 4 the Hutchison discussions
scheduled for today’s board meeting.  Hutchison fell 0.9 percent to HK$81.45 in Hong Kong.  Fixed-Line Spinoff  Directors also discussed a proposed spinoff of Telecom
Italia’s fixed-line network, valued at at least 13 billion euros
by Telecom Italia’s second-largest  shareholder  Findim Group.
State lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA may acquire a stake
in it, a person familiar with the matter said in December.  Hutchison held discussions in 2010 over a sale of its
wireless business to Telecom Italia and the talks didn’t result
in a deal because of differences in valuation, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time. A bid last year by
Hutchison for Eircom Group, Ireland’s biggest phone company, was
rejected. Hutchison’s Three division also sells services in the
U.K.,  Sweden ,  Denmark  and  Austria .  “There’s certainly a rationale for Hutchison to pay a
control premium,” said James Britton, a London-based analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “However, I still struggle to believe this
will get done unless the government paves the way for Hutchison
to get involved and the political mandate is far from clear in
today’s Italy.”  Political Gridlock  Italy has faced political gridlock since elections in
February failed to produce a clear winner. The Democratic Party
led by Pier Luigi Bersani fell short of winning both houses of
Parliament in the elections and he was unsuccessful in his first
attempt to form a government.  There’s little chance of progress in forming a government
before a new president is elected to replace Giorgio Napolitano,
whose seven-year term ends in mid-May.  Telecom Italia is selling assets and cutting jobs as it
looks for ways to reduce debt and raise money for investments.
Last December, its board rejected an offer by Egyptian
billionaire Naguib Sawiris to buy new Telecom Italia shares for
at least 2 billion euros.  Franco Lombardi, the head of Asati, a minority shareholder
group, said a deal would make sense only if Hutchison makes a
major investment. “If not and they would only replace financial
investors such as Intesa Sanpaolo and Mediobanca, we will
oppose,” he said.  Another sticking point for a potential Hutchison deal may
be tax losses accrued to 3 Italia, said Fidentiis Equities SA
analyst James McKenzie, who values them at 9 billion euros.  “For a share for share transaction, we believe that a 2
billion-euro valuation” would be “approximately fair” for 3
Italia, he wrote in a note. “Upside could come if Telecom
Italia is in a position to reclaim tax losses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  