-- Emerging Stocks Rise on Technology Rally as Brazil Falls
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-11T21:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/emerging-stocks-rise-on-china-loan-growth-taiwan-semiconductor.html
Emerging stocks rose a third day,
led by technology companies, as a drop in U.S. jobless claims
sparked optimism about the global economy. Brazil’s Bovespa
index tumbled the most among the world’s major equity gauges.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the largest
contract producer of chips, jumped the most in more than four
months in Taipei. Turkish stocks climbed and bond yields fell as
Moody’s Investors Service said a peace agreement with Kurdish
militants would enhance the country’s creditworthiness. Brazil’s
Bovespa slumped 1.4 percent, snapping a four-day rally, after a
disappointing retail sales report. Phone carrier Oi SA tumbled
to the lowest price since 1999 in  Sao Paulo .  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,029.22 in New York, adding 2.2 percent in three days. Stocks
gained as data showed applications for  unemployment benefits  in
the U.S. fell more than forecast last week, easing concern the
labor market was taking a turn for the worse.  The jobless claims number “is giving people a lot of
comfort that the  U.S. economy  won’t experience a second quarter
slowdown,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of  asset
allocation  for ING Investment Management which oversees $170
billion, said by phone. “The news flow has been more positive.
You’re seeing risk-taking happening across the globe.”  A measure of technology shares in the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  added 1.8 percent today. The emerging-markets gauge
slipped 2.5 percent this year, trailing an 9.3 percent increase
in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country stocks. The
emerging-markets measure trades at 10.7 times 12-month projected
profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 14.2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.1 percent to $42.53. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 2.5 percent to 17.23.  The Bovespa index fell the most in dollar terms among 94
major global stock measures tracked by Bloomberg as a report
showing retail sales unexpectedly dropped in February rekindled
concern that  Brazil ’s economic recovery will falter. Oi slumped
4.4 percent to the lowest since April 1999.  The Mexican IPC Index gained 0.1 percent. Desarrolladora
Homex SAB, the nation’s biggest homebuilder by sales, tumbled to
the lowest on record as the announcement of a bridge loan today
added to speculation that it’s strapped for cash.  Turkish stocks rose for the first time in three days after
the statement was released, while benchmark sovereign bond
yields continued their rally for a second day and the lira
gained. The nation’s Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index jumped
2.1 percent, the most in a month.  Russian Shares  Russian shares tumbled to a November low, falling 10
percent from the highest level this year, as OAO Gazprom slumped
and crude oil, the country’s main export earner, sank. The Micex
Index retreated 1.7 percent.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  surged 1.4 percent, its steepest
advance since Jan. 18. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in
 Hong Kong  rose 0.1 percent, while the Shanghai Composite Index
of domestic shares fell 0.3 percent. Thailand’s SET Index rose
1.8 percent. Taiwan Semiconductor advanced 3.3 percent, the most
since November. Airports of Thailand Pcl.  jumped  7.1 percent,
the most on the emerging-markets gauge.  South Korea’s bonds fell, spurring the biggest increase in
five-year yields since May 2009, after the central bank
unexpectedly refrained from cutting borrowing costs. The won
rose the most in more than two weeks.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 281 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  