-- Emerging Bond Yields Hit Record Lows as Japan Adds Stimulus
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-04-11T21:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/emerging-bond-yields-hit-record-lows-as-japan-unleashes-stimulus.html
Borrowing costs in emerging markets
sank to record lows as  Japan ’s unprecedented monetary easing
spurs demand for higher-yielding assets.  The  average yield  on developing-nation local-currency debt
tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co. has fallen 16 basis points since
April 3, the day before the  Bank of Japan  expanded its asset-
purchase program, to an all-time low of 5.39 percent yesterday.
Ten-year government yields dropped to levels not seen before in
Mexico, the Czech Republic, Poland and  South Africa  this week,
while comparable rates in South Korea and the  Philippines 
touched all-time lows in the past month.  The BOJ said last week it will buy 7.5 trillion yen ($75
billion) of bonds a month and double its monetary base in two
years, driving the yen to a four-year low and 10-year yields in
 Asia ’s second-biggest economy to as little as 0.33 percent.
Notes due in a decade pay 9.62 percent in  Brazil , 7.9 percent in
India and 6.78 percent in Russia. The JPMorgan GBI-EM Global
Diversified Composite Index has returned 10 percent in yen terms
over the past five days, the steepest gain since April 2009.  “With the depreciating yen, funds will continue to flow
into emerging markets to take advantage of their higher yields
and growth,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a specially appointed fellow
at the Japan Center for  Economic Research  in  Tokyo . “Demand
seems to be quite strong for countries like Turkey and Mexico
that have solid economic outlooks.”  Japanese Money  Japanese money managers boosted ownership of Mexican peso-
denominated notes by 34 percent to 216 billion yen in the first
two months of this year, and Turkish lira debt by 28 percent to
127 billion yen, according to the  Investment Trusts Association 
of Japan. Holdings of South Africa’s rand bonds rose 4.4 percent
to 100.2 billion yen, Thai baht-denominated securities increased
17 percent to 22.6 billion yen and Philippine peso notes climbed
5.9 percent to 19 billion yen.  The BOJ has joined global central banks in easing monetary
policy to revive growth. The U.S. Federal Reserve is buying $85
billion of government and mortgage debt a month, while the
 European Central Bank  is considering using both standard and
non-standard policy tools to stimulate the economy.  “If you combine what the Fed and the BOJ are doing, you
are talking about $160 billion a month of reserves being
injected into the system,” Steven Englander, a currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in a phone
interview. “That’s close to $2 trillion a year. The money has
to go somewhere. There’s a desperate search out there to get
yields.”  Falling Yields  U.S. 10-year Treasury notes yield 1.79 percent, while
similar-maturity German bunds yield 1.3 percent.  The yield on South Africa’s 7.75 percent debt due February
2023 dropped 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, this
week to 6.52 percent, while that for Mexico’s 6.5 percent notes
maturing in June 2022 fell 11 basis points to 4.68 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Philippine 10-year  yield  reached 3.29 percent April 1,
the least since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1998, and
was steady today at 3.53 percent. South Korea’s five-year notes
hit an all-time low of 2.51 percent March 28 and jumped 20 basis
points today to 2.78 percent, the biggest increase since May
2009, after the central bank refrained from cutting its
benchmark  interest rate .  Weakening Yen  The Japanese currency has weakened against all 25 emerging-
market counterparts tracked by Bloomberg this year and touched
99.88 per dollar yesterday, the lowest level since April 2009.
It traded at 99.68 at 5:12 p.m. in New York.  Depreciation boosts returns on overseas investments for
yen-based investors. The yen has plunged 21 percent against the
dollar in the past six months, the most among 32 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Yen-based investors will earn 12 percent on Argentine peso
assets including interest income by the end of this year, 7.3
percent from India’s rupee and 7.2 percent from those
denominated in South Korea’s won, based on the median estimates
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Iceland’s krona led gains
among 25 emerging-market currencies with a 24 percent advance
against the yen, followed by the Mexican peso at 22 percent, the
Thai baht’s 21 percent and the Brazilian real’s 19 percent.  ‘Top Choices’  Investors now demand a  premium  of 282 basis points to hold
emerging-market sovereign bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries, down
from 355 basis points a year ago, JPMorgan data show.  “Funds are flowing into  emerging markets  as Japan steps up
loosening,” Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange
analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd., said by phone today.
“Japanese bond yields are so low that some of the funds might
leave Japan for higher-yielding assets, and emerging markets are
the top choices” for them, he said.  Asian emerging-market bonds that are perceived to be less
risky than those of some of the largest developing nations will
attract more global investments, according to Western Asset
Management, which oversaw $462 billion of assets as of Dec. 31.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting sovereign debt
cost 94 basis points yesterday for  Thailand , 82 for South Korea
and 100 for the Philippines, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements. Similar contracts are at 117 basis points for
Brazil and 154 for South Africa.  Developing Asia will expand 7.1 percent in 2013, compared
with 2.4 percent growth in central and eastern Europe and 3.6
percent in Latin America, the  International Monetary Fund 
estimated in January. Japan’s gross domestic product may rise
1.2 percent this year, according to the IMF.  “Asian bonds now offer a high-quality investment
alternative that wasn’t available a decade ago,” Chia-liang Lian, Singapore-based head of  investment management  for Asia
excluding Japan at  Western Asset , said in  Hong Kong  yesterday.
“Sustained flows into Asia and other emerging-market debt can
co-exist with the upswing in general  market sentiment .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  