-- Employer Health Coverage in U.S. on 10-Year Decline
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-04-11T14:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/employer-health-coverage-in-u-s-on-10-year-slide-study-finds.html
The share of Americans who get
health benefits through work dropped to 60 percent in 2011,
continuing a decade-long slide that highlights the challenges
facing President  Barack Obama ’s insurance overhaul.  U.S. employers provided coverage for 159 million people in
2011, 12 million fewer than in 2000, according to a study
released today by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The  report 
blamed the decline on the total number of jobs available as well
as insurance premiums that have more than doubled in some cases.  “Everyone’s costs have increased dramatically,” Risa Lavizzo-Mourey, president of the Princeton, New Jersey-based
foundation, said in a statement. “Higher costs naturally
translate into fewer employers offering insurance coverage, and
fewer employees accepting it, even when it is offered.”  Obama’s Affordable Care Act, passed in 2010, is expected to
boost coverage in the U.S. by 27 million people this decade,
according to congressional projections, even as employer-
sponsored insurance continues to shrink. The law penalizes
businesses that don’t offer affordable insurance and offers
subsidies for small employers. It also imposes taxes and
regulations that may increase the cost for some.  So far, the legislation’s main effect has been to increase
coverage for young adults, said  Julie Sonier , a University of
Minnesota researcher who helped prepare the report. The act
allows children to stay on a parents’ health plan to age 26.  Insurance Mandate  Beyond that, it’s too early to measure the law’s impact on
employers, Sonier said in a phone interview from  Minneapolis .
Most of its major provisions don’t take effect until next year,
she said, including a mandate that all Americans obtain coverage
or pay a penalty.  Nationally, the share of private-sector employers offering
coverage fell to about 52 percent in 2011 from 59 percent in
2000, according to the study. Insurance costs increased during
the time period, with the average premium for a single employee
doubling to $5,081. The average family premium rose 125 percent
to $14,447, the report found.  Employee take-up of benefits dropped over the study period
as well, to 76 percent from 82 percent, researchers said.  Insurance rates varied widely from state to state,
according to the report. Michigan, Indiana and South Carolina
saw the steepest declines in employer-backed coverage, at about
15 percentage points each. Alaska, Massachusetts and North
Dakota were the only states with stable rates, the report found.
No state saw an increase.  The report is based on data from the U.S. Census and other
surveys and sponsored by the foundation, a research and advocacy
group that promotes health coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  