-- JPMorgan Analysts Say Big Investment Banks Are ‘Uninvestable’
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-04-11T19:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/lenders-may-have-to-split-securities-businesses-jpmorgan-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank by assets and the top investment bank by fees, is
questioning the so-called universal bank model’s future.  Top-tier investment banks are “uninvestable at this point
with a risk of spinoff from universal banks,” JPMorgan analysts
led by London-based Kian Abouhossein wrote in a research note
today. They cited potential rule changes and curbs on capital
and funding.  Investors should avoid  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , once the
world’s most profitable securities firm, and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Germany’s largest bank, because of pressure on earnings and the
unknown impact of new regulations, according to the report. Both
firms rank among the biggest sales and trading rivals for New
York-based JPMorgan, which isn’t mentioned in the report. The
bank is scheduled to report first-quarter results tomorrow.  Instead, the analysts favor  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s first and second-largest banks, and New York-
based Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s biggest brokerage,
because of their restructuring potential and ability to release
capital.  Investment-banking revenue will continue at 2005 and 2006
levels and will be led by fixed-income, currencies and
commodities, which will account for half of the industry’s sales
by 2015, JPMorgan’s analysts said.  Second-tier operators in that business, including  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , Credit Suisse, UBS and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, will have to restructure further because they lack scale,
the analysts wrote. Goldman Sachs,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Deutsche Bank,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  should gain market
share, according to the note.  Key Gauge  Investment-banking revenue won’t be the main driver of
return on equity, a key measure of profitability, and 2015 sales
are expected to remain 31 percent below the 2009 peak, the
analysts wrote.  The Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. and the Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive II in  Europe  may lead to a drop in
projected return on equity in 2015 to 9.6 percent from an
estimated 15 percent, the analysts wrote. The largest impact may
be on the FICC industry, according to JPMorgan.  In a worst-case scenario, if regulators were to require
local funding for local operations, universal banks with leading
investment banks may have to restructure and spin off their
securities businesses so they can tap funding as stand-alone
businesses, the analysts wrote.  “The viability of running a global Tier 1 IB business as
part of a universal banking business is starting to be put in
question,” the analysts wrote, referring to the investment
banking business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  