-- Henderson Targets Raising $100 Million for Global Property Fund
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-04-11T00:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/henderson-targets-raising-100-million-for-global-property-fund.html
Henderson Global  Partners, which
manages $2.3 billion in property stocks, is targeting to raise
as much as $100 million this year for a new fund that will
invest in real estate investment trusts around the world.  The  money manager  expects to raise at least $50 million
this year for the Henderson Global Property Income Fund
domiciled in  Singapore , said Patrick Sumner, head of property
equities at Henderson. The company is targeting retail investors
in the island state for the fund, he said.  Real estate investment trusts have outperformed global
equities and government bonds over the past three years,
according to  Henderson Global . Global REITs returned 30 percent
annually in the four years since 2009, compared with a 6.3
percent return by bonds and 20 percent gain in equities
worldwide, data compiled by Henderson showed.  “REITs have an extremely competitive cost of capital,”
London-based Sumner said in an interview in Singapore on April 9.
“Both equity and debt is the lowest in the modern history of
REITs and this gives them an enormous competitive advantage
against the other investors in the sector, be it private equity
or institutional investors.”  Investments in the U.S. make up about 44 percent of the
property fund, followed by Singapore at 23 percent, Sumner said.
The rest are spread across  Europe ,  Canada  and other parts of the
Asia-Pacific region, he said.  ‘Most Attractive’  Revenue from U.S. REITs is growing as the economy recovers
stronger than people had expected, Sumner said. The  U.S. economy 
could grow 2.5 percent this year compared with earlier forecasts
of growth between 1.5 percent and 2 percent, he said.  The spread of as much as 4.5 percentage points from the
city’s bond yields make the REITs in the city state an
attractive investment, Sumner said. The fact that they are also
tax free make them “the most attractive REIT structure in the
world,” he added.  Singapore’s  property trusts  were the second-best performers
in  Asia  in the past year and the biggest fundraisers in the
city’s initial public offering market in the same period.  The REITs raised S$3.4 billion ($2.7 billion), or 68
percent, of the S$5 billion of stock sold in Singapore IPOs in
the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
biggest share sale was the S$1.6 billion raised by  Mapletree (MAGIC) 
Greater China Commercial Trust, a REIT that owns assets
including the Festival Walk shopping mall in  Hong Kong  and an
office complex in Beijing.  The measure tracking REITs in Singapore rose 37 percent in
2012 and has gained 8.6 percent so far this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed.  Sumner forecasts Singapore REITs to return about 10 percent
to 12 percent this year and targets the Henderson fund to pay
out about 5 percent to 6 percent on a quarterly basis, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  