-- EPA Nominee McCarthy Vows ‘Common Sense’ Actions on Climate
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-04-11T17:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/epa-nominee-mccarthy-vows-common-sense-actions-on-climate-1-.html
Gina McCarthy, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency,
vowed “common sense” steps to tackle  climate change , and said
those actions can be taken without undermining the economy.  McCarthy called global warming “one of the greatest
challenges of our generation,” in testimony to the Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee. She said it’s led to
costly investments by cities and towns to counter the effects.  “The economic exposure associated with climate change is
quite large,” McCarthy, 58, said at a hearing on her
nomination. “We believe we have opportunities in mitigating
 greenhouse gases  in the future.”  Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming Republican countered that
Congress had rejected climate-change legislation, and the EPA
was acting to circumvent “the will of the American people.”  McCarthy, if confirmed, would take over an agency that
Republicans have criticized over pollution limits that they say
will cost jobs and hurt the economy. The Republican-led House
passed legislation last year to reverse a series of EPA rules.
At the same time EPA is central to enacting Obama’s pledge to
counter the carbon-dioxide emissions scientists blame for
causing global warming.  2.7 Million  McCarthy is assistant administrator for air pollution, an
office that has proposed a regulation that would bar
construction of coal-fired power plants that lack carbon-capture
technology. McCarthy said the agency is now weighing more than
2.7 million comments on this proposal and will soon issue its
final regulation.  Republicans such as Senator  David Vitter  of Louisiana also
pressed McCarthy on what they said are lapses the agency had in
providing information to the public and Congress over the past
four years. They say that former administrator  Lisa Jackson  used
an alias e-mail address in order to try to avoid public
disclosure.  Democrat  Barbara Boxer  of California, the head of the
committee, said an alias was used by other EPA administrators as
well in order to cope with a flood of outside e-mails.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  