-- Tepco Faces Decision to Dump Radioactive Water in Pacific
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-04-12T02:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/tepco-faces-decision-to-dump-radioactive-water-in-pacific-ocean.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
discovery of leaks in water storage pits at the wrecked
Fukushima atomic station raises the risk the utility will be
forced to dump radioactive water in the Pacific Ocean.  Leaks were found in three of seven pits in the past week,
reducing the options for moving contaminated water from
basements of reactor buildings. Water in the basements is from
the months after the earthquake and tsunami disabled the plant
two years ago, when disaster teams used hose pipes and pumps to
try and cool the reactors.  While the company has since built a makeshift sealed
cooling system, underground water is breaching basement walls at
a rate of about 400 tons a day and becoming contaminated,
according to Tepco’s estimate. With Japan’s rainy season
approaching, contaminated water levels are likely to increase at
the plant 220 kilometers (137 miles) northeast of Tokyo.  Reducing radiation levels in the water and pouring it into
the sea is one of two options the utility has, said Kazuhiko Kudo, a research professor of nuclear engineering at  Kyushu
University . The other option is “to keep building above-ground
storage tanks,” said Kudo. That’s a fight Tepco can’t win
without stopping the underground water pouring into the
basements, Kudo said.  “It is like a well. No matter how much water you draw from
a well, underground water keeps seeping into the well,” said
Kudo, who also served on a safety advisory board for the
Fukushima plant after the disaster for the now defunct Nuclear
and Industrial Safety Agency.  Not Ruled Out  Officials at the utility known as Tepco, including
President Naomi Hirose, have said the company won’t “easily”
release radiated water into the ocean, indicating it’s not
ruling out the possibility if it runs out of storage.  The utility plans to have 450,000 tons of above-ground tank
capacity by the end of September and 700,000 tons by mid-2015,
 Japan ’s trade ministry said in a statement today.  “It’s obvious Tepco cannot keep storing water forever as
it increases by 400 tons a day,” said Hideyuki Ban, co-director
of the antinuclear group Citizens’ Nuclear Information Center.
That’s why the company won’t rule out discharge into the sea,
Ban said in a telephone interview.  Tepco has had leaks of radioactive water at the plant
before. In April last year, it said as much as 12 tons of
radioactive water had leaked from a pipe and may have poured
into the sea. That followed a leak at the same pipeline 11 days
earlier.  Radiation Amount?  Yesterday, Tepco reported another leak of radiated water,
this time from a pipe.  Reports differ on how much radiation escaped from the
Fukushima plant, with Tepco in May last year estimating it was
about 17 percent of that released from the 1986 nuclear accident
at Chernobyl.  In October 2011, the  Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics
journal  estimated the radiation released at about 42 percent of
Chernobyl and that most of it fell into the North  Pacific Ocean .
In the same month, the Institute for Radiological Protection and
Nuclear Safety, which is funded by the French government, said
the Fukushima plant was responsible for the biggest discharge of
radioactive material into the ocean in history.  Next month, the United Nations Scientific Committee on the
Effects of Atomic Radiation, or UNSCEAR, is expected to  issue 
the first global and independent assessment of the Fukushima
nuclear accident, including how much radiation was released and
where it went, according to its website.  Fishermen Fear  Human exposure to radiation at moderate to high levels can
lead to cancers, such as leukemia, according to UNSCEAR.  Pacific bluefin tuna caught off  San Diego  in August 2011
was found to contain radioactive cesium 10 times higher than
fish seized in previous years, researchers including Daniel
Madigan and Nicholas Fisher said last May. The radiation levels,
which the group said don’t pose a danger to public health, are
expected to decline over time, they said in a study at the time.  Fishermen fear more people would hesitate to buy fish and
shellfish caught off Fukushima if Tepco again releases
radioactive water into the ocean, said Kenji Nakada, an official
at the Fukushima Prefectural Federation of Fisheries Co-
operative Associations.  “We are against the release of water even if Tepco cleans
contaminated water” by removing radioactive substances, Nakada
said in an phone interview. “Any release of water that has been
used for cooling is not acceptable.”  Special Committee  On March 30, Tepco started test runs of equipment that the
operator says can remove 62 kinds of radioactive substances.
Still, the purification system called ALPS can’t remove tritium,
a hydrogen isotope. The water processing system has also had
problems and was temporarily halted last week because of
incorrect operation.  The government will set up a special committee to discuss
measures to help Tepco deal with radioactive water at Dai-Ichi,
the trade and industry ministry said in a statement today.  An extended period of time may be needed to come up with
measures to stop the influx of underground water and remove
radioactive tritium, Yojiro Hatakeyama, director of the trade
ministry’s nuclear energy policy planning division, told
reporters in  Tokyo  today.  “When we reach a stage where the water contains no
radioactive substances after removing tritium, we will properly
handle it,” Hatakeyama said. “We haven’t decided whether
the water will be released into the sea after that.”  Leaking Pits  Currently, about 280,000 tons of highly radioactive water
is stored at the Fukushima plant, according to Tepco’s latest
data. That’s enough to fill about 112 Olympic-sized swimming
pools, according to Bloomberg News calculations.  To store the water, Tepco dug underground pits lined with
three layers of waterproof sheet to prevent seepage into the
surrounding soil, according to the utility.  The same method is used in industrial waste disposal, said
Koji Kumagai, a geotechnical engineering professor at the
Hachinohe Institute of Technology.  A design flaw is unlikely to have caused the leaks as the
method is used around the world, Kumagai said in an phone
interview. “The question is whether Tepco properly inspected
equipment and carried out tests before pouring radioactive water
into the pits.”  Rainy Season  Tepco is still investigating the cause of leaks, President
Hirose told reporters on April 10. The operator plans to keep
using one of the underground pits that is leaking as it doesn’t
have enough additional space, he said.  More above-ground  storage tanks  are scheduled to be built
by the end of next month to transfer radioactive water from the
leaking pits before Japan’s rainy season begins, Hirose said.
The rainy season, which typically runs from June to July in
Japan, would cause an increase in underground water flowing into
the basements of plant buildings, he said.  “Regardless of whether we had the leaks, we will properly
manage the issue and never easily discharge contaminated water
into the sea,” Hirose said. “We will employ all available
means to manage it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  