-- Merkel’s Coalition to Gain Majority in Cyprus Vote, Barthle Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-04-11T14:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/merkel-s-coalition-to-gain-majority-in-cyprus-vote-barthle-says.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  can count
on gaining the support of a majority of her coalition lawmakers
next week when the German parliament votes on rescue loans for
Cyprus, said a senior lawmaker from her party.  Norbert Barthle , the  Christian Democratic Union ’s budget
spokesman, said that aid proposals and terms for Cyprus set out
in a draft accord mirror his party’s stance on financial help.
That will help Merkel’s CDU and her Free Democratic coalition
partner, which together have 330 members of the 620-seat lower
house, to pass the legislation without the need of opposition
votes, he said.  “Looking at the documents, it would appear our position is
to be found there in the draft accord,” Barthle said today in a
phone interview from his electoral district near Stuttgart in
southwestern  Germany . “I expect therefore that we will gain our
own coalition majority in support of the aid as it stands.”  Merkel failed to muster the symbolic “Chancellor’s
majority” in a parliamentary vote in November on easing the aid
terms for  Greece , forcing her to rely on opposition support to
pass the measure. Her case for aiding Cyprus was made easier
after European officials pushed down the cost to taxpayers by
demanding bank restructurings and compelling depositors to
contribute in return for an international bailout of 10 billion
euros ($13 billion).  Cyprus’s financing needs, including the cost of bank
restructuring, redeeming debt and budget outlays, are 23 billion
euros over the next three years, the European Commission said in
the draft report. Cyprus will contribute 13 billion euros-worth
of measures including tax increases.  Pending approval by governments and legislatures, Cyprus
may gain initial aid of as much as 2 billion euros before May
31, according to the European Stability Mechanism.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  