-- MetroPCS’s Largest Shareholder Paulson Backs Sweetened Bid
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-04-11T20:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/metropcs-s-largest-investor-paulson-backs-sweetened-merger-bid.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) ’s
largest shareholder, Paulson & Co., said it now supports a
merger with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA Inc. after the
offer was revised yesterday to include less debt.  Deutsche Telekom sweetened the terms of the October merger
proposal in an effort to placate shareholders such as Paulson,
who had opposed to original bid. In what it called a “best and
final offer,” Deutsche Telekom cut the amount of debt it’s
imposing on the combined company by $3.8 billion. The Bonn-based
company also lowered the  interest rate  it plans to charge on the
loan by half a percentage point.  “While Paulson needs to review the revised proxy statement
before making a final decision, Paulson intends to vote for the
merger as restructured,” the firm, founded by billionaire  John Paulson , said today in a statement.  The transaction had faced opposition from investor-advisory
firms and several of MetroPCS’s largest shareholders, who were
concerned the new company would be loaded with too much debt.
MetroPCS agreed yesterday to delay a vote on the transaction to
April 24 to evaluate the new terms, which would cut the loans to
$11.2 billion from $15 billion. Investors in the Richardson,
Texas-based company had been scheduled to meet tomorrow.  “This puts the new company under less pressure and gives
them more strategic flexibility,” said  Jonathan Chaplin , an
analyst with New Street Research LLP in  New York . With less of a
debt burden, the new company can more easily afford to make
network investments and acquire more wireless airwaves, he said.  Longer Lockup  Deutsche Telekom also extended the lockup period during
which it’s barred from publicly selling shares in the combined
company. The time frame will now be 18 months, up from six. That
may reassure investors that the German company doesn’t plan to
cut and run.  Deutsche Telekom has an “enduring commitment” to the U.S.
market, Philipp Kornstaedt, a company spokesman, said today. The
extended lockup period underlines this pledge, he said.  The merger would combine the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S.
wireless carriers, creating a stronger competitor to market
leaders  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc. MetroPCS investors will
still get $1.5 billion of  cash  and a 26 percent stake in the new
entity, terms that are unchanged from the October proposal,
Deutsche Telekom said in its statement.  Cost Savings  “This improved offer underlines Deutsche Telekom’s
commitment to establishing a new, stronger competitor in the
U.S. mobile communications market,” the company said. It
reiterated a prediction that the merger will generate cost
savings of $6 billion to $7 billion.  Deutsche Telekom shares climbed 2 percent to 8.79 euros in
 Frankfurt , reaching the highest price in two months. MetroPCS
shares fell 2.2 percent to $11.31 at the close in New York.  P. Schoenfeld Asset Management, the  MetroPCS investor  that
led the fight against the original deal, said it plans to drop
its opposition to the merger.  While Deutsche Telekom’s new proposal didn’t address all of
its concerns, “these revised terms are the best available
alternative for PCS shareholders at this time,” the New York-
based firm said today in a statement.  Deutsche Telekom had previously sought to charge an
interest rate of about 7 percent -- an excessively high amount,
P. Schoenfeld Asset Management had argued.  Roy Behren, another MetroPCS investor who had balked at the
previous terms, praised Deutsche Telekom’s latest proposal. He
co-manages the $4.7 billion  Merger Fund (MERFX)  at Westchester Capital
in Valhalla, New York.  ‘Excellent Development’  “This is an excellent development,” said Behren, whose
firm filed a lawsuit last month against MetroPCS, seeking a
court order from a federal judge to delay the vote. “We look
forward to reviewing the full proposal.”  Support for the original deal faltered last month when
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and Glass, Lewis & Co. -
- two influential investor-advisory firms -- criticized the
terms of the merger. The certainty of the vote was in question
given the stalemate between the two largest shareholders. While
Paulson & Co. opposed the offer, No. 2 shareholder Madison
Dearborn Partners LLC was in favor of it.  By improving the terms, Deutsche Telekom is seeking to
avoid a replay of T-Mobile’s failed deal in 2011, when AT&T
walked away from a takeover after facing regulatory scrutiny.  New Strategy  T-Mobile is struggling with subscriber losses and has
fallen behind rivals in embracing long-term evolution, or LTE, a
faster network technology. To win back market share, T-Mobile
CEO John Legere is touting its lower prices and a new
installment-plan approach to buying phones.  T-Mobile will begin offering  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone tomorrow
for the first time, becoming the last major U.S. carrier to get
the device.  The combination of T-Mobile and MetroPCS would create a
company with 42.3 million customers. The deal moved a step
closer to completion on March 12, when both the Federal
Communications Commission and the  Justice Department  approved
the combination. The following week, the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S. approved the transaction.  The sweetened offer should help seal the deal, New Street
Research’s Chaplin said.  “I think this is enough,” he said. “They reduced the
debt by enough to make this a better deal for MetroPCS
shareholders than remaining independent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  