-- EU May Adjust ECB Oversight Plan to Meet German Concern
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-11T17:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/eu-may-adjust-ecb-oversight-plan-to-meet-german-concern.html
The European Union may amend plans
to hand the European Central Bank oversight powers so that
lawmakers have a stronger role in removing the vice chairman of
its bank supervisor board.  Under proposals made by Ireland, which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, the ECB would have to respond to calls
from governments or the European Parliament for the vice
chairman to be removed, according to a document obtained by
Bloomberg News. The ECB could answer questions from the
Parliament verbally or in writing, under the proposals.  Ireland drafted the changes in response to German concerns
that the ECB’s bank supervision arm would lack democratic
scrutiny and wouldn’t be fully separate from the central bank’s
setting of monetary policy.  Irish officials in Dublin told reporters they expect the
single supervisor negotiations to conclude next week, after
making technical changes.  Germany  believes that the current
legal basis of the single supervisory mechanism is sound, said
one official, representing the Irish EU presidency.  The supervision legislation may also include a
“declaration” that they would “consider constructively” any
proposals for treaty change related to the ECB’s new role, the
document said. The Irish official said Germany would like to lay
the groundwork for further efforts to reinforce separation
between the ECB’s bank oversight and monetary policy roles.  Under a draft deal on the legislation brokered last month,
the vice chairman of the ECB’s bank supervision committee would
be drawn from the six members of its Executive Board. The
amendments proposed by Ireland include that governments and the
parliament could vote to remove the vice chairman of the
oversight committee once he or she had already been fired from
the Executive Board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Dublin at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Dublin at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  