-- Euro Area Needs Common Fund for Failing Banks, Barnier Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-11T17:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/euro-area-needs-common-fund-for-failing-banks-barnier-says.html
Michel Barnier, the European
Union’s financial services chief, said that euro area nations
should put in place a “common resolution fund” as a backstop
to efforts to wind down or restructure failing banks.  The fund should cover the euro area and other nations that
sign up their banks for oversight by the European Central Bank,
Barnier said in prepared remarks for a speech in Dublin.
“Common financial backstops” are needed, he said.  “From a European perspective, it would make sense and be
both more coherent and effective, for those countries which
belong to the banking union to establish a common resolution
fund,” he said, in reference to efforts by the euro area to
centralize oversight of lenders.  EU leaders have called for the setting up of a central
authority to handle large bank failures in the euro area in a
bid to untangle the solvency of governments and lenders. Barnier
has said that he will seek to present a draft law in June, with
this dependant on how fast legislators advance in adopting a
related proposal on failing banks that was published last year.  Barnier said that he would oppose attempts by some
governments to dilute this earlier proposal by giving national
regulators flexibility to decide which bank creditors should
face forced losses in a crisis.  “We need to have one set of common, predictable rules,”
he said. “Authorities need some flexibility. But national
discretion must be limited and properly framed,” he said.  Creditor Writedowns  Under European Commission proposals from last year,
regulators would be empowered to impose creditor writedowns at
failing banks from 2018.  Barnier said today that he could back German and ECB calls
for an earlier start date, on condition that progress is made in
setting up the single resolution authority and fund.  “In order to avoid fragmentation in the Single Market, all
parts of the banking union must be in place,” he said. “This
includes agreement on the complete tool-kit of resolution tools.
And most importantly, common financial backstops.”  Barnier said the plans would be discussed at a meeting of
finance ministers and central bank governors that begins
tomorrow in Dublin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Dublin via 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  