-- European Nations Outside Euro Lead Social-Progress Index
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-04-11T14:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/european-nations-outside-euro-lead-social-progress-index.html
Sweden , the U.K. and Switzerland
took the top three positions in  a gauge of 50 countries  assessed
on wellbeing as measured by social and environmental indicators.  The European countries, none of which are members of the
continent’s single currency, led the list that was created by
Harvard Business School Professor Michael E. Porter and released
today in  Washington . Canada, Germany and the U.S. were the next
three, followed by Australia, Japan, France and Spain.  The index seeks to assess countries on indicators that
don’t include economic criteria, and the researchers chose a
sample of nations that represent three-quarters of the world’s
population. China, the world’s most populous country, was listed
32 -- just after Jordan -- while India, the second-most
populous, was at no. 43, one place ahead of  Senegal .  “Social progress depends on the policy choices,
investments and implementation capabilities of multiple
stakeholders -- government, civil society, and business,”
according to the text of the report. “By informing and
motivating those stakeholders to work together and develop a
more holistic approach to development, we are confident that
social progress will accelerate.”  Of the 50 countries in the index, the seven lowest are all
in  Africa , with Ethiopia at the bottom. The next lowest were
Nigeria, Uganda,  Mozambique ,  Rwanda  and Kenya.  Porter, a Washington-based research group called the Social
Progress Imperative, and economists at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology assessed the countries on three
criteria: basic human needs, social infrastructure, and
opportunity. They used data from the World Bank, the World
Health Organization and the Economist Intelligence Unit.  The report is “only the first step,” said Brizio Biondi-
Morra, chairman of the Social Progress Imperative. “It is a
starting hypothesis for debate and empirical examination. The
real benefits of this project will come as the model is tested
over time, to yield robust and practical lessons for
changemakers of all sectors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  