-- Teva to Reduce Manufacturing Footprint, Chief Levin Says
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-04-11T16:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/teva-to-reduce-manufacturing-footprint-chief-levin-says.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
is reducing manufacturing operations as part of a cost-cutting
effort, though most of the savings under the plan will come from
lowering procurement expenses, Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin said.  Teva, the world’s biggest generic-drug maker, has set a
goal of lowering expenses by as much as $2 billion over five
years to increase long-term profitability. The plan may lead to
job losses in Israel, where Teva is the largest company by
market value, Ronny Gal, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said last month.  “Some parts of manufacturing will be affected but this is
not the major thrust of this,” Levin said today in an interview
at the company’s headquarters in Petach Tikva. “It’s mainly
going to come from procurement. That is where you will see the
major impact.”  Levin outlined the cost-saving plans in a briefing for
investors Dec. 11 without identifying locations where plants or
jobs may be at risk. The company said most of the savings would
come from streamlining operations after a string of
multibillion-dollar deals, including the 2010 $4.9 billion
acquisition of Ratiopharm GmbH, based in Ulm, Germany, led to
inefficiencies.  Teva said in February it would sell a plant in Irvine,
California, that makes injectable drugs.  Political Backlash  “We already started to diminish our manufacturing
footprint,” Levin, who was named CEO last year, said in the
interview. “That hasn’t changed our productivity except to
improve it. As you look at the way we are doing this, we are
doing a very structured program. This program is not designed in
a simplistic way.”  Teva’s American depositary receipts rose 0.8 percent to
$39.34 at 12:10 p.m. in New York. The ADRs have lost 8.4 percent
in the past 12 months including reinvested dividends, compared
with a 33 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index. The stock sells for 7.5 times estimated earnings, the
lowest multiple among the world’s 20 biggest drug companies.  The prospect of job cuts in Israel has added to a political
backlash against Teva there, as some officials say the company
doesn’t pay enough in taxes. Shelly Yacimovich, leader of the
opposition Labor Party, asked the Finance Ministry to
investigate Teva’s tax payments. At the end of 2012 about 16
percent of Teva’s 45,948 employees were based in Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  