-- Evraz to Consider Sale of Czech Steel Unit After Weak Demand
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-04-11T10:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/evraz-to-consider-sale-of-czech-steel-unit-after-weak-demand.html
Evraz Plc (EVR) ,  Russia ’s largest
steelmaker by output, will study the potential sale of its
lossmaking Czech unit where some operations were idled earlier
this month because of weak demand.  “We are considering different options regarding the
plant,” Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Frolov  said today on
a conference call with reporters. The company could put a
permanent halt to crude steel production at the Ostrava-based
plant and only keep steel-rolling facilities operating, or sell
the unit, he said.  Evraz is reviewing the future of the plant after recording
a $308 million net loss for 2012 and scrapping the final
dividend. It bought a stake in Vitkovice for $285 million in
2005 after beating out rivals including Mittal Steel.  Full-year revenue dropped 10 percent to $14.7 billion,
while earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization plunged 31 percent to $2 billion on weaker demand
and lower prices, the company said in a statement. The
steelmaker canceled its second-half dividend.  The stock slumped by a record 16 percent in London trading
and was 9 percent lower at 190.90 pence as of 10:40 a.m. local
time. The shares have slumped 46 percent in the past year.  “Evraz plunged on investors’ groundless anticipation of
dividends, while the results are in line with the consensus,”
Dmitry Kolomytsyn, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said by phone.  The steelmaker recognized a $83 million loss on the
reclassification of its “underperforming” Evraz Vitkovice
Steel SA and South African  Highveld Steel (EHS)  & Vanadium Ltd. units
as assets for sale. The company agreed to sell 85 percent of
Highveld to Nemascore (Pty) Ltd., a black-owned South African
company, for $320 million last month.  Evraz will decide on the first-half dividend later this
year depending on the situation in the steel market, Frolov
said. “It’s too early to speak about special dividends after
the sale of Highveld, as the deal is in the early stage,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  