-- Lew Attacked in Senate for Obama Social Security Plan
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-04-11T21:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/lew-says-cutting-spending-too-deeply-may-hurt-fragile-recovery.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew came under fire from Republicans and Democrats in the Senate
over the Obama administration’s proposal to slow cost-of-living
increases for people who receive  Social Security  benefits.  “Any reform of Social Security should be for the solvency
of the program, not deficit reduction,” Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , Democrat of  Montana , said in a
hearing today in Washington.  A linchpin of President  Barack Obama ’s $3.77 trillion
budget is a proposal to switch to the so-called chained Consumer
 Price Index  to calculate cost-of-living adjustments on Social
Security, veterans’ pensions and tax brackets. Democrats say the
plan will hurt retirees, while Republicans say it doesn’t go far
enough to control spending.  “Overall Social Security spending over the next 10 years
is virtually the same as it would be absent any of his
proposals,” Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on
the panel, said in his opening statement. “This budget contains
no substantive changes to Social Security.”  The proposed change would increase Social Security benefits
more slowly and raise premiums for higher-income Medicare
beneficiaries. Obama is putting those measures in his budget in
exchange for more  taxes  on the wealthiest Americans to reduce
U.S  budget deficits .  Lew said switching to the chained  Consumer Price Index 
isn’t the administration’s “first choice of policy.”  Heard Clearly  “We’ve been through two and a half years of negotiations
where at every stage of the negotiations we’ve heard clearly
that one of the things that will have to be in any deal, we’re
told by Republican leaders, is chained CPI,” Lew, previously
Obama’s chief of staff, told senators. “The president agreed to
it, for the reasons that he wanted to deal and because it can be
justified technically.”  Lew said the change wouldn’t cut benefits. It would make
them grow more slowly than using the current inflation measure,
accounting for the fact that people switch to cheaper
substitutes when prices of some goods go up. He also said the
proposal would only be accepted by the administration with a
provision protecting those with minimal benefits.  The tone of the Senate hearing differed from the one before
the House Ways and Means Committee earlier today, where Lew
focused on explaining tax changes and talked about the
opportunities for the parties to work together to eliminate
“special provisions” and lower tax rates. One overarching
issue is that Obama’s budget includes $1 trillion more in
revenue than Republicans want over the next decade.  ‘Legitimate Disagreement’  “That’s a legitimate disagreement,” Lew said. “We’re
going to have to work our way through that.”  Representative  Dave Camp , a Republican from  Michigan  and
chairman of the Ways and Means committee, said Obama’s proposal
doesn’t go far enough in rewriting the  tax code  and raises
revenue that isn’t needed. Camp said he is willing to work with
Lew and Obama on rewriting the tax system.  “The American people can do better than what the
president’s proposing here,” Camp said.  Camp said a tax rewrite that doesn’t change individual
taxes significantly isn’t sufficient. The administration has
expressed interest in considering corporations and businesses
that pay taxes through their owners’ individual returns
together. The administration has been less specific about making
fundamental changes to individual taxation.  Obama’s plan calls for capping top earners’ tax breaks,
increasing estate taxes and raising taxes on private-equity
managers’ carried interest. It also includes a change to the
inflation gauge for benefits and tax brackets that would raise
$100 billion in  tax revenue , which Lew said Obama would consider
as part of a broader deficit-reduction deal that has been
elusive.  Reducing Rates  Republicans say any revenue from eliminating tax breaks
should be used to reduce rates.  “I think there’s a path forward,” said Representative
 Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican. “I don’t think we ought to
close loopholes so the government can spend more.”  Obama’s budget sent to Congress yesterday is part of an
attempt intended to revive deficit-reduction talks.  Lew said the budget is based on a “conviction that an
agreement is within our reach,” and “there is a path to a
bipartisan agreement that moves the country forward.”  The president is proposing to replace across-the-board
budget cuts known as sequestration with what White House budget
officials say is $1.8 trillion in additional deficit reduction
over 10 years that includes collecting more taxes from the
wealthy and trimming some federal programs.  Lew said cutting spending too severely would hurt the
nation’s economic recovery and expressed confidence lawmakers
can reach a bipartisan agreement.  He rejected Republican efforts to balance the budget within
10 years, saying that families and governments are different.  “If you try to get there too fast,” he said, “you do
more damage to the economy and you end up making less progress,
not more progress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  