-- Ex-CDR Financial Employees Get Jail for Muni Bid-Rigging
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-11T22:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/ex-cdr-financial-employees-get-jail-for-muni-bid-rigging.html
Three former employees of CDR
Financial Products Inc. who cooperated with the government’s
investigation into municipal bond bid-rigging were given prison
terms ranging from six months to 18 months.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer Jr. today sentenced CDR’s
former chief financial officer Z. Stewart Wolmark, ex-vice
president Evan Zarefsky and former employee Matthew Rothman in
separate hearings in  Manhattan  federal court. Wolmark got 18
months in prison, Zarefsky eight and Rothman six.  CDR was hired by public entities that issue municipal bonds
to act as their broker and conduct a competitive bidding process
for investing bond proceeds, according to prosecutors. Instead,
some employees of Beverly Hills, California-based CDR took
kickbacks for running sham auctions, prosecutors said.  CDR and another of its former chief executive officers,
David Rubin, pleaded guilty in the bid-rigging scheme in
December 2011. Rubin is scheduled to be sentenced June 28.  Prosecutors said Rubin took kickbacks for running sham
auctions for investments. He faces as long as 35 years in prison
and a fine of as much as $1.5 million, the U.S. said. CDR could
be fined as much as $101 million. The fines may be increased to
twice the amount gained from the crime or double the loss to
victims, the government said.  Illegal Activity  Bank of America Corp.,   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG, (UBSN)   Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  have all acknowledged that
former employees engaged in illegal activity in connection with
municipal bond bidding.  In August, former UBS AG managing director and two former
colleagues were convicted of bid-rigging. Former CDR employee
Douglas Goldberg, who has also pleaded guilty, testified in
Ghavami’s trial that the UBS municipal derivatives group paid
CDR 10 to 15 times in exchange for help with rigging bids.  Three former General Electric Co. bankers, Dominick
Carollo, Steven Goldberg and Peter Grimm, were found guilty in
May of conspiracy to commit fraud by manipulating actions for
municipal bond investment deals.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin/Chambers, Dunhill Insurance
Services Inc., 09-cr-01058, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  