-- Ex-KPMG Partner London Will Plead Guilty, Lawyer Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/ex-kpmg-partner-london-will-plead-guilty-lawyer-says.html
Scott  London , the former KPMG LLP
partner who led the firm’s audit practice in  Los Angeles  and was
charged with passing inside tips to a friend, will plead guilty,
his lawyer said.  London, 50, was charged by federal prosecutors in Los
Angeles with passing inside information about  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  and
Skechers USA Inc. in exchange for cash, jewelry and concert
tickets. Harland Braun, London’s lawyer, said after his client’s
initial court appearance yesterday that he expects him to plead
guilty at his arraignment set for May 17.  London’s tips included discussions of rumors that Herbalife
would go private, according to a criminal complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Los Angeles. London told his
friend Bryan Shaw, who cooperated with investigators, about the
rumor in a recorded phone calls in February, according to the
complaint.  “That is going to be where you make a ton of money,”
London told Shaw, 52, according to the complaint. “What you do
is you start just buying in small blocks, right, so it doesn’t
draw attention, you know, then it doesn’t look unusual at all.”  London, of Agoura Hills,  California , is charged with one
count of conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  through  insider
trading . He is accused of giving confidential information about
KPMG clients over several years to Shaw, who used the tips to
make trades that generated more than $1 million dollars in
illegal proceeds, prosecutors said.  Trust Betrayed  “Mr. London chose to betray the trust placed in him as a
financial auditor and to tip the trading scales for the benefit
of insiders like himself,” U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in
Los Angeles said in a statement yesterday.  From late 2010 to March 2013, London gave Shaw confidential
tips about earnings announcements by KPMG clients, including
Herbalife, Skechers and  Deckers Outdoor Corp. (DECK) , according to the
U.S. attorney’s statement.  London also tipped Shaw about impending mergers involving
former KPMG clients RSC Holdings Inc. and Pacific Capital
Bancorp, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in a
separate statement.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Charles Eick in Los Angeles yesterday
ordered London, who hadn’t been arrested, to post bail of
$150,000. Eick also required London to surrender his passport
and barred him from having any contact with Shaw.  If convicted, London faces a prison term of as long as five
years, prosecutors said. Braun said he hoped London could avoid
jail without saying what sentence he would be seeking.  ‘Never Dreamed’  London’s honesty after the scheme was discovered avoided a
possible investigation of hundreds of audits done at KPMG and
even possibly a stock market crash, Braun said. London “never
dreamed” Shaw made as much as he did from the information he
gave him, Braun said.  The SEC filed a civil lawsuit yesterday against London and
Shaw in federal court in Los Angeles. Shaw, of Lake Sherwood,
California, made more than $1.2 million in illicit profits,
according to the complaint.  Nathan Hochman , Shaw’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment on the allegations. Shaw hasn’t been
charged by prosecutors.  Herbalife rose 2.9 percent to $38.28 yesterday in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, climbing as much as 7.7
percent during the session.  Herbalife doesn’t comment on rumors in the marketplace,
Barb Henderson, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Herbalife Earnings  On Feb. 19, Shaw called London and they discussed whether
Shaw should buy Herbalife shares ahead of the company’s earnings
release after the close of the market later that day, an FBI
agent said in affidavit supporting the criminal complaint.  London advised Shaw “to take a pass on this one,” saying
that hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman  was driving down Herbalife’s
share price, according to the affidavit. London and Shaw
discussed how billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s purchase of a
block of Herbalife shares had caused the stock to jump.  London then mentioned rumors that had been spread about
Herbalife going private, according to the affidavit.  Icahn reported a 13 percent stake in Herbalife on Feb. 14
and said he would seek talks with the nutritional supplements
company. Strategic alternatives for Cayman Islands-based
Herbalife may include taking it private, he said in an  SEC
filing .  London and Shaw first met at a country club and were close
friends and golfing partners, the SEC said in its statement.
London said that he wanted to help Shaw when his friend’s
family-owned jewelry business began faltering in the economic
downturn, according to the SEC.  In exchange for the tips, Shaw gave London tens of
thousands of dollars in cash, prosecutors said. The exchanges
typically took place on a side street near Shaw’s office,
prosecutors said.  Options Profit  Shaw made $450,000 in profit from Herbalife  call options 
ahead of the company’s May 2, 2011, earnings announcement, when
the stock rose about $6 after the company reported record
earnings and raised its forecast, prosecutors said.  Shaw said in a February interview with federal prosecutors
that he paid London about 10 percent of his profit from trades
in cash and jewelry. Shaw also bought London expensive meals and
spent as much as $45,000 on concert tickets, including to  Bruce Springsteen , for himself and London.  In 2011, Shaw gave London a $12,000 Rolex Daytona
Cosmograph watch in exchange for information about a particular
KPMG client, prosecutors said.  Following his Feb. 8 interview with investigators, Shaw
voluntarily began to cooperate with the government and record
in-person meetings with London and telephone calls, according to
the affidavit. The FBI directed Shaw not to trade in Herbalife
and other stocks he discussed with London, according to the
filing.  ‘Criminal Consequences’  “Over the past several months, I have fully cooperated
with the FBI, the SEC, and the  U.S. Department of Justice  in
their ongoing investigation of this matter,” Shaw said in an
April 10 statement. “I expect that my actions will result in
significant civil and criminal consequences, but I realize that
this is the painful price I will pay for my transgressions.”  Braun told reporters yesterday that some of the information
Shaw provided to the FBI according to the affidavit was
“bogus,” including that Shaw spent $25,000 to $45,000 on
concert tickets.  CEO ‘Appalled’  KPMG  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Veihmeyer
said in a statement yesterday that the audit firm will bring
legal action against London.  “I was appalled to learn of the additional details about
Scott London’s extraordinary breach of fiduciary duties to our
clients, KPMG and the  capital markets ,” Veihmeyer said.  We
unequivocally condemn his actions, and deeply regret the impact
that his violations of trust and the law have had on our clients
and our people.’’  KPMG has resigned as independent auditor for Herbalife and
Skechers, two companies for which London was the lead partner.
The firm said in the statement it had no reason to believe the
companies’ financial statements were materially misstated.  The case is U.S. v. London, 13-mj-01058, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. London, 13-02558,
U.S. District Court, Central District California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  