-- Ex-KPMG Partner London Charged With Trading Tips for Cash
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-11T20:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/ex-kpmg-partner-london-charged-with-insider-trading.html
Ex-KPMG LLP partner Scott  London ,
who led the firm’s audit practice in  Los Angeles , was charged
with passing inside tips about  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  and Skechers USA
Inc. in exchange for cash, jewelry and concert tickets.  London’s tips included discussions of rumors that Herbalife
would go private, according to a criminal complaint filed today
in federal court in Los Angeles. London told his friend, Bryan
Shaw, about the rumor in a recorded phone call, according to the
complaint.  “That is going to be where you make a ton of money,”
London told Shaw, according to the complaint. “What you do is
you start just buying in small blocks, right, so it doesn’t draw
attention, you know, then it doesn’t look unusual at all.”  London, 50, of Agoura Hills,  California , is charged with
one count of conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  through
 insider trading , federal prosecutors said today in a statement.
London provided confidential information about KPMG clients to
Shaw over several years that Shaw used to make trades that
generated more than $1 million dollars in illegal proceeds,
prosecutors said.  Trust Betrayed  “Mr. London chose to betray the trust placed in him as a
financial auditor and to tip the trading scales for the benefit
of insiders like himself,” U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in
Los Angeles said in the statement.  From late 2010 to March 2013, London gave Shaw confidential
tips about earnings announcements by KPMG clients, including
Herbalife, Skechers and  Deckers Outdoor Corp. (DECK) , according to the
statement.  Harland Braun, London’s lawyer, and  Nathan Hochman , Shaw’s
lawyer, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on the
allegations. Shaw hasn’t been charged by prosecutors.  London is expected to appear in federal court in Los
Angeles today, prosecutors said. If convicted, he faces a prison
term of as long as five years, prosecutors said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said today in a
statement that it sued London and Shaw in federal court in Los
Angeles.  Herbalife rose 2.9 percent to $38.28 today in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite  trading , climbing as much as
7.7 percent during the session.  Herbalife doesn’t comment on rumors in the marketplace,
Barb Henderson, a company spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  Herbalife Rumor  On Feb. 19, Shaw called London and they discussed whether
Shaw should buy Herbalife shares ahead of the company’s earnings
release after the close of the market later that day, an FBI
agent said in affidavit supporting the criminal complaint.  London advised Shaw “to take a pass on this one,” saying
that hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman  was driving down Herbalife’s
share price, according to the affidavit. London and Shaw
discussed how billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s purchase of a
block of Herbalife shares had caused the stock to jump.  London then mentioned rumors that had been spread about
Herbalife going private, according to the affidavit.  Icahn, reported a 13 percent stake in Herbalife on Feb. 14
and said he would seek talks with the nutritional supplements
company. Strategic alternatives for Cayman Islands-based
Herbalife may include taking it private, he said in an  SEC
filing .  Golfing Partners  London and Shaw first met at a country club and were close
friends and golfing partners, the SEC said in a statement.
London said that he wanted to help Shaw when his friend’s
family-owned jewelry business began faltering in the economic
downturn, according to the SEC.  In exchange for the tips, Shaw gave London tens of thousands
of dollars in cash, prosecutors said. The exchanges typically
took place on a side street near Shaw’s office, prosecutors
said.  Shaw made $450,000 in profits from Herbalife call options
ahead of the company’s May 2, 2011, earnings announcement, when
the stock rose about $6 after the company reported record
earnings and raised its forecast, prosecutors said.  Shaw said in a February interview with federal prosecutors
that he paid London about 10 percent of his profit from trades
in cash and jewelry. Shaw also bought London expensive meals and
spent as much as $45,000 on concert tickets, including to  Bruce Springsteen , for himself and London.  $12,000 Rolex  In 2011, Shaw gave London a $12,000 Rolex Daytona
Cosmograph watch in exchange for information about a particular
KPMG client, prosecutors said.  Following his Feb. 8 interview with investigators, Shaw
voluntarily began to cooperate with the government and record
in-person meetings with London and telephone calls, according to
the affidavit. The FBI directed Shaw not to trade in Herbalife,
according to the filing.  “Over the past several months, I have fully cooperated
with the FBI, the SEC, and the  U.S. Department of Justice  in
their ongoing investigation of this matter,” Shaw said in a
statement yesterday. “I expect that my actions will result in
significant civil and criminal consequences, but I realize that
this is the painful price I will pay for my transgressions.”  Seth Oster, a spokesman for  KPMG  in Montvale,  New Jersey ,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
complaint against London.  The case is U.S. v. London, 13-mj-01058, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. London, 13-02558,
U.S. District Court, Central District California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  