-- Texhong Markets Dollar Bonds as Junk Yields Drop to Six-Week Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-11T03:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/texhong-markets-dollar-bonds-as-junk-yields-drop-to-six-week-low.html
Texhong Textile Group Ltd. (2678)  is
marketing dollar-denominated bonds after borrowing costs for
Asian high-yield issuers fell to a six-week low. Debt risk in
the region decreased.  The Shanghai-based fabric manufacturer is planning to sell
January 2019 notes at a yield of about 7.25 percent, a person
familiar with the matter said. The securities have a provisional
Ba3 rating by Moody’s Investors Service, three steps below
investment grade, according to an April 5 statement from the
risk assessor. State Bank of  India , the nation’s largest lender
by assets, is marketing five-year bonds rated Baa2 by Moody’s at
about 275 basis points more than Treasuries, a second person
said.  Texhong’s offering is the second high-yield sale from Asia
in the U.S. currency this week after Shanghai-based developer
CIFI Holdings Group Co. raised $275 million on April 8, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Borrowing costs for the region’s
riskier issuers fell to  5.62 percent  yesterday, the lowest since
Feb. 27, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Lower funding costs and economic recovery have encouraged
high-yield issuers to sell dollar debt, said Michele Barlow,
Hong Kong-based head of Asia-Pacific credit and convertible
bonds research at Bank of America Corp. “In February we revised
up our issuance forecast for high-yield corporates on the back
of the strong supply in January.”  Asian speculative-grade offerings, rated lower than BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings or the equivalent Baa3 by
Moody’s, surged to a record $14.5 billion in the first quarter,
Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  fell 2 basis points to 116 basis points
as of 8:25 a.m. in Hong Kong, Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. prices show. The gauge is set for its lowest close
since before the current series began trading on March 20,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index slid 3 basis points to
111.5 as of 10:17 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. prices. The benchmark is poised for its biggest daily
decline since April 2, based on data from CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped 3.5 to 90.5 as of
9:31 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices. The
measure was last lower in November 2010, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  