-- Mexico Feb. Industrial Output Unexpectedly Falls Most Since 2009
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-04-11T16:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/mexico-feb-industrial-output-unexpectedly-falls-most-since-2009.html
Mexico ’s February industrial
production fell by the most since November 2009, supporting the
central bank’s decision to cut interest rates last month as
consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in 15 months.  Output dropped 1.2 percent from a year earlier, more than
forecast by all 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, whose
median estimate was an increase of 0.9 percent. Manufacturing
contracted 0.9 percent and construction fell 2.3 percent, the
national statistics institute said on its website today.  “Risks of observing less growth than expected have
definitely risen” after today’s report, Gabriel Lozano, chief
Mexico economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in an e-mailed
message. “We’ve been flagging a poor 1Q for several weeks.”  The central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest
rate by half a point to a record low 4 percent on March 8 as
growth slowed and inflation remained within the target range.
Since then, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said there
are signs growth is moderating, while consumer prices jumped
0.73 percent last month, pushing annual inflation above the
target range.  Mexico’s economic growth will slow to 3.6 percent this year
as expansion in the U.S., Mexico’s largest trading partner, dips
to 2 percent from last year’s 2.2 percent, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. JPMorgan is reviewing its 3.6
percent growth projection for this year to see if it should be
lowered, Lozano said today.  Moderating Growth  Industrial activity rose 0.5 percent in February from the
previous month, compared with the 1.0 percent median estimate of
six economists, the statistics agency said today.  Growth has moderated recently as domestic demand shows
signs of weakening, although the economy is expected to pick up
in the second half of the year, Carstens said yesterday in a
speech to the Senate in Mexico City.  Carstens also forecast that inflation would probably fall
back within the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target
range in the second half of the year. Annual inflation
accelerated in March to 4.25 percent from 3.55 percent in
February.  The peso strengthened 0.3 percent to 12.0694 per dollar at
10:20 a.m. in Mexico City, the strongest since August 2011. The
currency has soared 5.4 percent this year, the most of all 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as investors search for
yields amid global monetary easing and speculation increases
President Enrique Pena Nieto will pass energy and tax overhauls
to boost growth.  Yields on peso-denominated fixed-rate government bonds
maturing in 2024 fell two basis points to 4.73 percent, a record
low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 