-- Facebook’s CEO Forms Group to Push for Immigration Overhaul
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-04-11T20:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/facebook-s-zuckerberg-forms-group-to-push-for-immigration-reform.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  announced the creation of an advocacy
group called Fwd.us to lobby for immigration changes, higher
academic standards and investments in scientific research.  The group is backed by technology entrepreneurs and
investors, including John Doerr at venture-capital firm Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers and LinkedIn Corp. Chairman Reid Hoffman, according to the Fwd.us site. The organization has
offices in Silicon Valley and Washington.  The move injects Zuckerberg, 28, into a contentious debate
over immigration policy. Congress is discussing whether to open
a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented
immigrants already in the country, even as some lawmakers call
for stricter border control. Fwd.us  supports  helping
undocumented workers become citizens and is calling for an
increase in H-1B visas, a program favored by the technology
industry that let skilled guest workers come to the U.S.  “My great-grandparents came through Ellis Island,”
Zuckerberg said in  a Washington Post opinion column  announcing
the move. “My grandfathers were a mailman and a police officer.
My parents are doctors. I started a company. None of this could
have happened without a welcoming immigration policy, a great
education system and the world’s leading scientific community
that created the Internet.”  Zuckerberg’s Politics  Zuckerberg, co-founder of the world’s largest social-
networking website, has expanded his role in politics over the
past two years. In February, the billionaire welcomed New Jersey
Governor Chris Christie to his California home for Zuckerberg’s
first political fundraiser. He hosted President  Barack Obama  at
a town-hall meeting at  Facebook ’s headquarters in 2011,
appearing with Obama on stage as he fielded questions.  The new group’s president is Joe Green, who founded Causes,
a fundraising service, and co-founded NationBuilder, which helps
groups and politicians organize online support. Major
 contributors  to Fwd.us include Yahoo! Inc. CEO Marissa Mayer,
Google Inc. Chairman Eric Schmidt, Netflix Inc. CEO Reed Hastings, and Andrew Mason, co-founder and former CEO of Groupon
Inc.  Rob Jesmer, former executive director of the National
Republican Senatorial Committee, is Fwd.us’s campaign manager,
according to a statement from the organization.  ‘Simple, Effective’  As part of its platform, the group calls for providing law
enforcement with tools for helping secure the U.S. border, along
with an employment-verification system that is “simple and
effective.” The group supports changes to the immigration
system to “better strengthen the American economy and American
families.”  Zuckerberg’s foray may not change the playing field on the
immigration debate in Washington, said Roy Beck, president of
 NumbersUSA , an Arlington, Virginia-based advocacy group that
works to reduce immigration.  “The tech companies have been lobbying like crazy for a
decade,” Beck said in an interview. “Every member of Congress
already knows the tech companies have money to throw around in
their campaigns, and that the tech companies want more foreign
workers.”  Fwd.us encourages visitors to its site to take action by
posting a message to the website of Menlo Park, California-based
Facebook or to  Twitter Inc. , a microblogging service.  “We will work with members of Congress from both parties,
the administration and state and local officials,” Zuckerberg
wrote in the column. “We will use online and offline advocacy
tools to build support for policy changes, and we will strongly
support those willing to take the tough stands necessary to
promote these policies in  Washington .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  