-- Fannie Mae Regulator Extends HARP Refinance Program Through 2015
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-04-11T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/fannie-mae-regulator-extends-harp-refinance-program-through-2015.html
Borrowers with mortgages backed by
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  or  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  will have until the end of 2015 to
obtain new loans under the Home Affordable Refinance Program,
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  said today.  HARP previously was scheduled to expire at the end of 2013.
The program allows borrowers to cut their loan payments by
refinancing at lower interest rates even if they are stuck in
homes that have lost value.  More than 2.2 million borrowers have used the program so
far. To qualify, homeowners must be current on their payments
and have loans originated before June 1, 2009.  HARP is “a useful tool for reducing risk,” FHFA Acting
Director Edward J. DeMarco said in a statement. “We are
extending the program so more underwater borrowers can benefit
from lower interest rates.”  The FHFA will soon begin a marketing campaign to expand the
program’s reach, DeMarco said in the statement.  There may be as many as 2 million eligible borrowers who
haven’t taken advantage of HARP, according to analysts at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  HARP loans began to surge last year and now account for
almost a third of all refinancing applications, according to the
 Mortgage Bankers Association . Nearly 1.1 million borrowers used
HARP last year alone, equaling the 1.1 million in the first
three years of the program combined.  FHFA data show that servicers are offering HARP loans to a
growing number of the riskiest borrowers. About a quarter of
HARP loans have gone to borrowers who owe more than their
properties are worth. In January, nearly half of HARP
refinancings were for such underwater borrowers.  Higher Margins  HARP has become more popular among lenders as margins
shrink on traditional loans. HARP borrowers are less sensitive
to higher rates and fees than homeowners who have other options.  Also, securities containing HARP loans bring higher yields
because borrowers are less likely to refinance again, preserving
the value of the investment.  President  Barack Obama  has made expanding the reach of HARP
a centerpiece of his housing policy, calling for Congress in his
Feb. 12  State of the Union  address to pass a bill making the
program more attractive to lenders. Senate Democrats Barbara Boxer of  California  and Robert Menendez of New Jersey introduced
a bill in February that would implement the president’s request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  