-- Fed’s Plosser Calls for Cuts to QE in Next Few Months
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-04-11T20:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/fed-s-plosser-calls-for-cuts-to-qe-in-next-few-months.html
Philadelphia Federal Reserve
President  Charles Plosser  said the Fed should begin scaling back
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases in the next “few
months” barring a slump in the economy.  “Unless something really dire happens between now and
then, I think beginning to taper sometime within the next few
meetings would be perfectly consistent with my view and with my
outlook for the economy,” Plosser said today in an interview
with Bloomberg Television’s Susan Li in Hong Kong, referring to
coming meetings by policy makers. A cut in the record stimulus
should start “in just a few months’ time.”  Several Fed officials favored cutting back bond purchases
this year and halting the record stimulus by year-end, according
to minutes of the March 19-20 meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  released yesterday. The FOMC pledged after its meeting
to press on with asset purchases until the labor market improves
“substantially.”  “A few members felt that the risks and costs of purchases,
along with the improved outlook since last fall, would likely
make a reduction in the  pace of purchases  appropriate around
midyear, with purchases ending later this year,” according to
the minutes.  The FOMC last met before an April 5 government report
showed the U.S. added 88,000 jobs in March, the slowest payroll
growth in nine months.  Press On  Seven central bank officials voiced support last week for
the FOMC pledge to press on with asset purchases. The officials,
commenting in speeches and interviews, include five who hold a
vote on the FOMC: Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , Governor  Daniel Tarullo , Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , St. Louis’s  James Bullard  and  Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren .  Plosser said that the jobs report didn’t change his view
about the need to curtail bond buying.  “One month’s number is not enough for me to change my
forecast,” Plosser said of the payrolls report. “We all get
too hung up sometimes on just what the most recent number is,
and I think it’s very dangerous to focus too much on one
number.”  The  unemployment rate  fell to 7.6 percent, a four-year low,
due to people leaving the  labor force  entirely. The labor force
participation rate dropped to 63.3 percent, the lowest since
1979.  “If I saw several more months of very weak job reports, it
would obviously give me pause, because my forecast would not be
looking very good at that point,” Plosser, 64, said in the
interview.  Tapering QE  Referring to any tapering of bond purchases, Plosser said,
“we may want to reduce it some and let it run for a while and
then reduce it some more. So there are many different strategies
to pursue, but it’s important that we have that conversation,
that we talk about those things.”  The FOMC is scheduled to gather in two-day meetings
beginning on April 30, June 18 and July 30.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent today to a
record close of 1,593.37, while the yield on the benchmark 10-
year Treasury note fell to 1.79 percent from 1.8 percent
yesterday.  In a speech earlier today in  Hong Kong , Plosser said he
expects the economy to grow 3 percent this year and next and the
jobless rate to decline to 6.5 percent by the end of 2014.  The prediction indicates Plosser is more optimistic than
economists in a Bloomberg survey who forecast growth of 2
percent this year and 2.7 percent in 2014.  The Philadelphia Fed chief in 2011 dissented from two
decisions to increase monetary stimulus. He said he also opposed
the decision last year to begin a third round of asset
purchases. Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with
Plosser scheduled to vote again next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
 Susan Li  in Hong Kong at 
 Sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  