-- Finland Urges EU to Clarify Bail-In Rules After Cyprus
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-04-12T08:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/finland-urges-eu-to-clarify-bail-in-rules-after-cyprus.html
Bank of  Finland  Deputy Governor
Pentti Hakkarainen is urging  Europe ’s policy makers to come up
with a more predictable crisis-management rulebook after
Cyprus’s bank creditor bail-in confused investors.  “We need good rules that are ex-ante and harmonized as
widely as possible,” Hakkarainen said in an interview at his
office in Helsinki on April 10. This should apply “at least in
the euro area, and preferably within the European Union, so that
when we do take action, everyone already knows what the order is
in which creditors take part.”  As Europe’s three-year-old debt crisis claims its fifth
nation, investors have watched policy makers invent rules along
the way in an effort to deal with the turmoil. Losses forced on
holders of Greek debt in February 2012 weren’t extended to
securities held by the  European Central Bank . Financial markets
were left wondering again at last month’s decision to levy a tax
on deposits in Cypriot banks that was later amended to leave out
insured deposits.  The Cyprus bail-in of depositors with funds exceeding the
EU deposit-guarantee limit of 100,000 euros ($131,000) “can’t
be the template” for possible future sovereign rescues
“because situations were different,” Hakkarainen said,
reiterating comments by ECB President  Mario Draghi .  Break Link  Europe is trying to break the link between banks and
sovereigns after their interdependence exacerbated the region’s
debt crisis. The new rules mean banks will have to amass more
capital and match lending with funds raised on the market to
help them withstand losses.  “There is a general perception that deposits under the
deposit guarantee should have a better position,” said
Hakkarainen, who bears responsibility for matters relating to
financial market stability at the Bank of Finland. “Whether
deposits exceeding the guarantee should have a better position
than bondholders is a much harder question. Whatever the order
is, it will impact markets, and that’s why everyone needs to
know this as soon as possible.”  European leaders are working toward a June timetable to set
minimum standards for individual deposit guarantee plans at the
27  member states . The deposit-insurance standards are on hold
while the EU concentrates on parallel proposals to spell out
which investors will absorb losses when a bank fails, also due
in June. That’s due to be followed by plans for expanding the
EU’s financial watchdogs’ toolkit with a way to wind down
insolvent lenders.  Harmonized Rules  “Deposit guarantees should be further harmonized within
the EU with regards to what they cover, how they’re funded and
to what amount,” Hakkarainen said. “The idea at the current
juncture is to harmonize national rules rather than create an
EU-wide scheme.”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
last night he would oppose attempts by some governments to
dilute his plan to let regulators impose creditor writedowns at
failing banks by 2018. Some governments have sought to give
national authorities flexibility to decide which bank creditors
should face forced losses in a crisis.  “We need to have one set of common, predictable rules,”
Barnier said in prepared remarks for a speech in Dublin last
night. “Authorities need some flexibility. But national
discretion must be limited and properly framed.”  The ECB will encompass a joint mechanism to supervise the
roughly 6,000 banks in 17 euro members to ensure adequate
oversight for cross-border operations. The  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  also requires that banks amass higher risk
buffers and match lending and borrowing maturities more closely.  Quick Decisions  “It’s extremely important to create a resolution mechanism
for financial institutions that allows quick decision-making,”
Hakkarainen said. “The normal bankruptcy or reorganization
proceedings aren’t suitable to financial institutions.” The
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , which insures deposits
and winds down failing banks in the U.S., is an example of what
is needed in Europe, he said.  “While we’re in the resolution and bail-in phase, it has
to be done by civil servants,” Hakkarainen said. “It shouldn’t
become political. If public funds need to be used for propping
up a bank that would otherwise fail, that needs to be a
political decision.”  European Commission data show the bloc’s governments have
injected 1.7 trillion euros into their banking systems since
2008 as the fates of nations depended on the survival of their
financial industries.  “The better the mechanism is designed, the smaller the
bailout need becomes,” Hakkarainen said. “Adequate risk
buffers and adequate amounts of bail-in-able items. The
financial crisis taught us that that’s needed.”  In the future, he said, “resolution and bail-in in the
industry should be the rule, bailout the rare exception.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  