-- Fitch Unheeded as CNPC Wins Record-Low Dollar Cost
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-11T04:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/fitch-unheeded-as-cnpc-wins-record-low-dollar-cost.html
China ’s largest oil company raised
dollars at the lowest-ever cost for an issuer from the nation in
a sign of investor confidence on the same day Fitch Ratings Ltd.
cut the sovereign credit rating.  China National Petroleum Corp. sold $2 billion of notes on
April 9 in three tranches that each had record-low coupons,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The state-owned energy
producer paid 3.4 percent on its 10-year notes, below the 4.18
percent average yield for energy companies in all  emerging
markets , according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The yuan climbed to a 19-year high yesterday, 10-year yuan
government bond yields fell to a six-month low and China’s bond
risk fell for a third day on signs Premier  Li Keqiang  is gaining
control over the overall economy and addressing local-government
debt. Fitch’s decision to lower the local-currency debt rating
to match the international rank of A+ wasn’t based on any new
information, according to Western Asset Management.  “We are aware there are structural issues in China that
need to be fixed,” Chia-liang Lian, Singapore-based head of
 investment management  for  Asia  excluding  Japan  at the  money
manager , which oversaw $462 billion of assets on Dec. 31, said
in Hong Kong yesterday. “I feel comfort that there is a high
degree of pragmatism and ability to understand how the market
works and what should be done and what should not be done for
the Chinese economy for the longer term.”  Record Coupons  CNPC sold $750 million of three-year notes at a 1.45
percent coupon, $500 million five-year securities at 1.95
percent and $750 million of 10-year bonds at 3.4 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sale is the largest
by a company in Asia outside of Japan this year, the data show.  Fitch rated the long-term foreign-currency debt of the oil
producer at A+, the same grade that it assigns to the
government’s international notes. The company had  total debt  of
505.3 billion  yuan  ($81.5 billion) as of the end of 2011,
compared with revenue of 2.1 trillion yuan, according to
Bloomberg-compiled data.  “It’s probably the best proxy out there for the Chinese
government,” said James Hubbard, head of Asia oil and gas
research at Macquarie Group. “They’re never going to let it
enter any kind of financial distress. The leadership views
keeping control of the oil industry as a vitally important part
of China’s security.”  China, the world’s largest energy consumer, is promoting a
“going out” policy to encourage its companies to invest and
secure energy supplies abroad, as they build businesses that can
compete with global rivals.  Economic Growth  The world’s second-biggest economy is forecast to expand
8.1 percent this year, up from 7.8 percent in 2012, according to
the median estimate of 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That
compares with 1.9 percent for the U.S. and 2.35 percent for
nations globally. Inflation eased to 2.1 percent in March from a
year earlier, compared with 3.2 percent in February.  The yuan climbed yesterday to 6.1923 per dollar, the
strongest level since the government unified official and market
rates at the end of 1993. It was at 6.1967 per dollar as of
10:09 a.m. in  Shanghai  today, prices from the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System show.  Yields on China’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell 1
basis point to a six-month low at 3.47 percent yesterday.  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment with
credit-default swaps fell 2 basis points to 69.5 basis points
yesterday, according to data provider CMA.  Bond Returns  CNPC’s success in the international  bond market  comes as
the nation’s dollar-denominated notes have returned 12.4 percent
in the past year, as near-zero policy interest rates in the
U.S.,  Europe  and Japan encourage investors to lock in higher-
yielding investments in emerging markets. The returns compare
with 12.8 percent for securities in  India , 7.9 percent for debt
in  Indonesia  and 9.3 percent for bonds in the currency sold in
the region as a whole, the data show.  Some investors have taken a more cautious view of local-
government debt in China. Fitch cited rising risks related to
the lack of transparency in the increased borrowing of
localities, in an e-mailed statement on April 9. It estimates
total credit in  China’s economy , including various forms of so-
called shadow banking, may have reached 198 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of 2012, up from 125 percent four
years earlier.  Local Debt  “More attention should be paid to the pace of credit
expansion through other channels, which is already alarmingly
high,” Wang Qinwei, an economist at  Capital Economics , wrote in
a note. “This concern was reflected in Tuesday’s move by
Fitch.”  Financing vehicles for the localities, which have invested
in roads, sewage works and ports, face greater risk of default,
Moody’s Investors Service said in March. The nation is still
dealing with the fallout from 17.6 trillion yuan of stimulus
that was plowed into the economy between 2009 and 2010 to
insulate it from the global financial crisis. Former Finance
Minister Xiang Huaicheng said on April 6 that local governments
in the country may have 20 trillion yuan of debt, almost double
an official audit figure.  China’s banking regulator has told lenders to limit
investments of client funds in debt that isn’t publicly traded
and to isolate such risks from their operations. Such
investments can’t exceed 35 percent of all funds raised from the
sale of wealth management products, or 4 percent of the lender’s
total assets at the end of the previous year, the China Banking
Regulatory Commission said.  Muted Reaction  The reaction to Fitch’s move, which highlighted these
concerns, was limited in domestic markets because local
participants “still see China as a safe asset,” said David Lai, investment director at Eastspring Investments, the Asia
management arm of Prudential Plc, which managed $94.4 billion as
of Dec. 31, 2012. It was also muted in international markets
because “China’s external debt position is pretty
comfortable,” he said.  Fitch cited China’s  foreign reserves , more than $3.3
trillion at the end of last year compared with sovereign foreign
currency-denominated debt of $34 billion, as a supportive factor
for its  credit rating .  The day after Fitch’s announcement, China State Grid Corp.,
the nation’s largest electricity distributor, said it would sell
10 billion yuan of one-year bonds on April 17, according to a
statement posted on the Shanghai Clearing House website.  Texhong Textile Group Ltd. (2678) , the Shanghai-based fabric
producer, is planning a dollar offering, according to a company
statement on the Hong Kong stock exchange on April 5.  Global investors are using inexpensive funds at home, as
central banks pump money into the financial system, to finance
investments overseas that promise higher returns.  Bank of Japan (8301) 
officials said April 4 the central bank will increase its
monthly bond purchases to 7.5 trillion yen ($75 billion).  “After the BOJ announcement, demand for high-quality
corporate credit has increased,” said Angus Hui, a fixed-income
 fund manager  at Schroder Investment Management Ltd. in  Hong
Kong . “Investment-grade bond transactions that are priced with
some value on the table should attract strong appetite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  