-- Fonterra Milk Supply Tumbles on Worst N.Z. Drought in 30 Years
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-04-11T02:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/fonterra-milk-supply-tumbles-on-worst-n-z-drought-in-30-years.html
Milk supplies in New Zealand, the
biggest dairy exporter, dropped for a second month in March as
the country’s most widespread drought in at least three decades
curbed production and boosted prices to a record, according to
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG)   Milk collection slumped 16.3 percent last month from a year
earlier and declined 2.3 percent in February, Auckland-based
Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy shipper, said in a statement
today, without providing details. Collections were 2.8 percent
ahead of a year earlier in the 10 months to March 31 at 1.3
million kilograms of milk solids, it said.  A drought across the entire North Island may cost NZ$2
billion ($1.7 billion) as the conditions threaten economic
growth, the government estimates. Fonterra said last month that
growth in milk volumes may be unchanged this year as drought
curbs output. New Zealand may receive near-normal rainfall
through June, after March rain was about 20 percent of normal in
some parts of the North Island, according to the National
Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research.  “ Rain  has now been received in most regions over the past
two weeks but is largely either too little, too late, or both to
impact the current milk flows,” Rabobank International said in
an e-mailed report today. “It will be welcomed to allow some
action to renew pastures.”  Whole-milk powder surged 92 percent this year to a record
$5,998 a metric ton on April 2, according to Fonterra. Class-III
milk futures have surged 6.4 percent on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange this month on expectations that buyers will seek to
import more from the U.S. as output in New Zealand slows.  Wholesale demand for milk powder could eventually fall off
if “prices remain at this level or possibly even higher for a
longer period of time,” Fonterra Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings said March 27, adding that there were no signs of that
happening yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  