-- Gain for Highest Earners Helps Bolster U.S. Consumer Confidence
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-11T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/gain-for-highest-earners-helps-bolster-u-s-consumer-confidence.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers was
little changed last week as gains for top earners helped
overcome growing pessimism at the other end of the income scale.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was at minus 34 in the
period ended April 7 compared with minus 34.1 the prior week.
Those earning more than $100,000 were the most optimistic since
late 2010, while households earning less than $15,000 were the
most pessimistic in three months.  Record  stock prices  and the rebound in housing may be
helping support sentiment for the more well-off Americans.
Conversely, the increase in the payroll tax and higher gasoline
prices at the start of the year, combined with a slowdown in
hiring, may be taking a toll on those of more modest means and
the unemployed, indicating growth will cool.  “Consumer sentiment, like the  U.S. economy  in the current
quarter, continues to move sideways, as lower-income cohorts
show signs of strain,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Investors should expect
the risk of further deterioration in overall sentiment as the
impact of sequestration takes hold in coming weeks.”  Another report today showed applications for  unemployment
benefits  plunged last week, unwinding a surged caused by the
Easter holiday and spring break at schools.  Jobless claims 
decreased by 42,000 to 346,000 in the week ended April 6,
according to the Labor Department in Washington.  Holiday Swings  Holidays such as Easter that fall on different weeks from
year to year make it difficult to smooth out swings in the data,
leading to increased volatility, the Labor Department said as
the numbers were released to the press. Waning firings, a sign
employers are retaining workers to meet sales, help to lay the
ground for the hiring gains needed to sustain  consumer spending ,
the biggest part of the economy.  Stocks were little changed after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rallied to a record yesterday. The  S&P 500  fell 0.1
percent to 1,586.71 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index has held within a 0.5-
point range for the past month.  The measure assessing Americans’ views on the current  state
of the economy  climbed to minus 58.7 from minus 60.6. The share
of consumers giving the economy the worst rating of “poor”
fell to 32 percent last week, down nine points over the past
month and the smallest since early 2008.  The  buying-climate  index improved to minus 40.3 from minus
40.7 the prior week. Thirty percent said it was a good time to
buy things that they want or need, unchanged from last week.  Personal Finances  By contrast, the gauge of  personal finances  fell to minus
2.9, its lowest level since Jan. 27, from minus 0.9.  Americans may be feeling the pinch of the increase in the
 payroll tax . The levy that funds  Social Security  reverted at the
start of the year to its 2010 level of 6.2 percent from 4.2
percent. Workers earning $50,000 take home about $83 less a
month.  The job outlook may also have harmed sentiment. While
 unemployment  fell to 7.6 percent in March, the economy added
88,000 jobs, the smallest gain in nine months and less than the
most pessimistic projection in a Bloomberg economist survey,
Labor Department data showed last week.  Meantime,  rising stocks  and an improving housing market
may have helped attitudes. The S&P 500 has  gained  11.3 percent
this year through yesterday, when it closed at a record high of
1,587.73.  Housing Recovery  Household wealth is also getting a boost from the recovery
in residential real estate.  Home prices  rose 10.2 percent in the
12 months through February, the biggest increase in almost seven
years, according to  Irvine , California-based CoreLogic Inc.  The crosscurrents may be widening the fissure between
demographic groups. Confidence for households earning $100,000
or more climbed 7 points to 12.6 last week, its highest since
October 2010.  “We feel good about the consumer in 2013,” Karen M.
Hoguet, chief financial officer of Macy’s Inc., said at a March
13 investor conference. “Every indication we’re seeing is that
he and she are doing fine, still buying.”  At the same time, confidence slumped among those earning
less than $15,000 for a third week after rising throughout
March. The gauge dropped 10.8 points to minus 60.3, the lowest
reading since Jan. 13.  Confidence among those not employed fell to its lowest
level in five months.  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) ’s President and Chief Operating
Officer Andrew H. Madsen acknowledged in an April 4 presentation
that the picture wasn’t all positive.  Wage Growth  “Maybe they’re still unemployed, maybe their wages aren’t
growing the way they want them to grow, but there’s a large
group of consumers who are more financially constrained than
they would like and can’t go out as often,” he said. Darden’s
brands include  Olive Garden  and Red Lobster.  There was also a regional bias to underlying changes in
sentiment. Southerners were the most upbeat since late October,
while Westerners were the most pessimistic since September.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate. The percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  If you’d like to receive a copy of the comfort results on a
weekly basis, please contact  BloombergNewsPR@bloomberg.com   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  