-- German Stocks Climb as U.S. Unemployment Claims Decline
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-04-11T15:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/german-stocks-advance-before-u-s-jobless-claims-data.html
German stocks  advanced for a second
day, as a report showed applications for  unemployment benefits 
in the U.S. fell more than forecast last week.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  climbed 1.6 percent after
Baader Bank AG recommended that investors buy the shares.  Adidas
AG (ADS)  gained 1.8 percent. ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s biggest
steelmaker, fell to its lowest price since July after Russian
peer Evraz Plc refrained from announcing a final dividend.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 0.8 percent to 7,871.63 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt. The benchmark surged 2.3 percent
yesterday, the most since March 5, as Chinese imports beat
forecasts amid investor expectations that central banks will
continue stimulus measures. The broader HDAX Index also gained
0.8 percent today.  “We saw yesterday very aggressive short covering and we
are seeing some follow-through from that today which can create
a big squeeze in markets, particularly in periods of relative
illiquidity,” Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head of research at Charles
Stanley Group Plc in London, said in a telephone interview. “It
is easy to ascribe an improvement in the markets to a hope that
we will pull through this soft patch to a promised land.”  U.S. jobless claims decreased by 42,000 to 346,000 in the
week ended April 6, from a revised 388,000, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The  median  forecast of 49
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a drop to 360,000.  ECB Report  The  European Central Bank  said today it will look for signs
in economic data that inflation could slow more than it
currently anticipates.  “In the coming weeks, the Governing Council will monitor
very closely all incoming information on economic and monetary
developments and assess any impact on the outlook for  price
stability ,” the ECB said in its monthly bulletin. “The
monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as
needed.”  BMW added 1.6 percent to 69.03 euros after Baader Bank
resumed coverage of the shares with a buy rating, saying new
products and growth in  China  will offset increased competition
in  Europe .  Adidas climbed 1.8 percent to 79.33 euros for a second day
of gains. The world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker lost
5.6 percent from April 3 to April 9.  Deutsche Telekom AG advanced 2 percent to 8.78 euros after
it sweetened the debt terms of an October proposal to merge its
T-Mobile USA unit with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)   Debt Cut  Deutsche Telekom cut the amount of debt it’s imposing on
the combined company by $3.8 billion, according to a statement
from the Bonn-based company yesterday. The carrier also lowered
the  interest rate  it plans to charge on the loan by half a
percentage point.  Deutsche Lufthansa SA, Germany’s largest airline, rose 1.8
percent to 14.65 euros, following a gauge of European travel and
leisure stocks higher. IAG SA Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh , who led the company’s creation via a merger of British
Airways and Spain’s Iberia, said he favors a further bout of
consolidation to boost revenue while paring costs.  ThyssenKrupp fell 1.5 percent to 14.20 euros. Salzgitter
AG, the country’s second-biggest steelmaker, slid 1.9 percent to
31.05 euros.  Evraz, Russia’s largest steelmaker, tumbled in London after
its board of directors refrained from announcing a final
dividend, citing deteriorating market environment and a weaker
second-half performance.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 14 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  