-- German, U.K. Ministers Urge Support For Carbon Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-04-11T18:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/german-u-k-ministers-urge-support-for-carbon-fix.html
Six environment and climate chiefs,
including German Environment Minister Peter Altmaier and U.K.
Energy and Climate Secretary  Ed Davey , pressed European Union
lawmakers to back a rescue plan for the world’s biggest carbon
market, as divisions persist before a key vote.  The European Parliament is to decide April 16 on the future
of a measure to enable delaying the sale of some permits in the
EU’s 54 billion-euro ($70.8 billion) emissions trading system.
The plan, designed to bolster prices in the cap-and-trade
program by temporarily alleviating oversupply, has divided
Parliament, governments and industry.  “We’re struggling to explain to honorable members of the
European Parliament how important it is to provide a signal we
so badly need in order to make ETS more effective and to
increase its attractiveness worldwide,” Altmaier told a
conference in Berlin today.  Prices in the EU carbon market, the primary tool of the 27-
nation bloc’s climate policy, sank to a record low in January
amid a record glut of permits caused by an economic slowdown and
concern that the European Commission’s emergency fix may be
rejected. In a letter to EU lawmakers today, Altmaier, Davey and
ministers from  France ,  Italy ,  Denmark  and  Sweden  called on
Parliament to clear the way for the rescue plan for the
Emissions Trading System, or ETS.  ETS Role  “ If the ETS lost its central role in Europe, member
states would possibly introduce more unilateral measures for
climate protection in order to incentivize sustainable
investments in their industries and to enforce their national
climate targets,” they said. “This would lead to new
competitive distortions in Europe.”  The plan consists of a change to the EU emissions trading
law, which Parliament is to vote on next week, and a separate
measure to postpone the sale of 900 million allowances from
2013-2015 to 2019-2020 in a process known as backloading.  “My message to the MEPs who are thinking how to vote next
week is if you want to vote for green growth, if you want to
vote for a future strong European economy, you vote for the
backloading proposal,” Davey told the conference. “Not to vote
is actually a real backward step for the European economy.”  Clean Technologies  At stake is the price of emissions in the ETS, which
according to the commission and analysts including Mark Lewis at
Deutsche Bank AG fails to encourage investment in clean
technologies after slumping 77 percent in the past three years.
The cost of pollution will decline further should the Parliament
reject the market rescue plan, UBS AG has said.  To be implemented, the backloading strategy needs support
from the EU assembly and a qualified-majority backing from
national governments in a weighted-ballot system that favors
larger nations.  Germany , which as Europe’s biggest economy has
29 out of 345 votes in the EU, is split over whether to support
the market fix, which pits Altmaier against Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler.  Countries including the Netherlands, Spain and  Belgium  have
voiced support for the commission’s plan, aimed to be a short-
term measure to curb oversupply before the EU agrees on a deeper
overhaul. The program imposes pollution caps on about 12,000
installations owned by power companies and manufacturers from
steel producers to refineries.  ‘Getting There’  To win support from member states the backloading proposal
needs 255 votes and governments are “getting there,” Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in an interview in Brussels
last month. Opponents of the proposed market fix, led by Poland
with 27 votes, need 91 ballots to form a blocking minority.
Abstentions in EU decisions effectively count as votes against.  Germany has no formal deadline for deciding about its
position on backloading. Should the rescue plan pass in the
European Parliament, representatives of the assembly and
national governments will start talks about the final wording of
the emissions trading law amendment. The German government
should make a decision on the measure in “near future” so that
it has an official stance in negotiations after the Parliament
vote, according to Urban Rid, director general at the
 Environment Ministry .  Germany may abstain in any vote on the issue in Europe if
Altmaier and Roesler fail to reach an agreement, the  Economy
Ministry  has said.  “The ETS is a free market system that works and shouldn’t
be interfered with,” Roesler, who leads Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Free Democratic Party junior coalition partner, said in
a statement in Ankara. “Any interference would be a burden to
the industry.”  Permits for Delivery  EU permits for delivery in December closed 1.2 percent up
at 4.35 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Exchange in
 London . They fell to as low as 2.81 euros in January, when the
Parliament’s industry committee issued a non-binding opinion on
backloading. In the run-up to the plenary decision on the
commission’s proposal, a majority of Christian Democrats in the
assembly are against the rescue plan, while most Social
Democrats have signaled they will vote in favor.  “We need to do our homework and we need to strengthen
emissions trading in  Europe ,” said Altmaier, a Christian
Democrat like Merkel. “Backloading can’t solve all the existing
problems. But it has become an issue of highly symbolic
importance. It has become an issue of our willingness, of our
commitment, of our dedication.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  