-- Gillard Says 2013-14 Budget Allows Scope for RBA Rate Cuts
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-11T23:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/gillard-says-2013-14-budget-allows-scope-for-rba-rate-reductions.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said that her government’s “tight” fiscal stance
leaves room for the central bank to cut  interest rates  as
manufacturers try to cope with sustained currency strength.  “I don’t think our current fiscal position in any way
reduces the scope” for the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  to lower
borrowing costs, Gillard, 51, said in an interview yesterday in
her office in Sydney, the nation’s business capital. “We are
keeping a limit on expenditure” and will move to a surplus over
time, she said ahead of the May 14 annual budget release.  The government will champion initiatives to help industrial
companies strengthen innovation and productivity in the face of
a “new normal” strong  exchange rate , the prime minister said.
While Australia’s so-called two-speed economy has left the
mining sector propelling growth, in time a swelling Asian middle
class will allow the nation to diversify, she said.  “Our success as a resources economy, as an economy that’s
emerged from the global financial crisis strong, has meant that
our Australian dollar has been very high,” Gillard said hours
after meeting with business leaders advising the government on
its 2014 presidency of the Group of 20 nations. “This is the
new normal and it’s putting pressure on businesses in areas like
manufacturing.”  Dollar Surge  Australia’s dollar has appreciated 75 percent against its
U.S. counterpart since late October 2008. It retreated as much
as 0.2 percent today after Gillard’s comments were published,
and traded at $1.0545 at 9:17 a.m. in Sydney.  A government report yesterday showed the nation’s jobless
rate unexpectedly rose to a three-year high of 5.6 percent. The
report, showing that employers cut payrolls by 36,100 in March
after a 74,000 increase in February, came days after  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden division said it will cut about 500
positions in Australia. Holden said the strong local dollar and
currency devaluations in competing markets had made operations
in the nation among the most expensive in the world.  Gillard said “inevitably there’s volatility in monthly
figures,” when asked about yesterday’s employment data. “But
we’ve created 50,000 jobs since the start of this year, we’ve
created 100,000 in the last 12 months, we’ve created almost
900,000 in the time since we’ve been in office during the worst
global economic circumstances since the Great Depression.”  Traders priced in a 54 percent chance the RBA will lower
the benchmark rate to a record low of 2.75 percent in August,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg. Earlier in the
week, there was a less than 50 percent chance of a reduction.  Growth Dampers  Australia’s exchange rate, a deceleration in resource
investment from a peak this year, and tightening of  government
spending  are likely to hurt growth in 2013, central bank
Assistant Governor Christopher Kent told the  Bloomberg Australia
Economic Summit  April 10. The RBA in February predicted a
“below trend” increase of 2.5 percent for gross domestic
product in 2013, down from an estimate of around 2.75 percent in
November.  The national budget fell a further A$4.6 billion ($4.85
billion) into deficit in the first four weeks of 2013, taking
the total shortfall to A$26.8 billion for the first seven months
of the financial year, according to Treasury figures released by
the government March 15. Just three week earlier, Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  predicted a reduction in revenue would add just A$2
billion to the deficit in January.  Budget Outlook  In its October mid-year review, the government forecast a
budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months through June.
It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal year.  Gillard is campaigning to reverse a 10 percentage-point gap
in opinion polls behind a political opposition led by  Tony Abbott  in the run-up to national elections on Sept. 14. Abbott
has attacked the government over busting its budget pledge, with
his Shadow Treasurer  Joe Hockey  two days ago predicting the
deficit will be worse than anticipated.  “We’re now getting less revenue per unit of GDP than any
time since the nation emerged in the 1990s from a recession,”
Gillard said. Policymakers will nonetheless maintain focus on
education and training programs key to diversifying the economy,
she said.  With the strong currency, “if you did nothing and just let
it do its work in the economy, you could wake up in a few years’
time with an economy that had whole segments of it hollowed
out.”  China’s Urbanization  Gillard said  China ’s urbanization will continue to drive
Australian exports. As the Asian nation’s middle class grows,
her country stands to benefit from demand for non-resource
exports including processed foods, tourism, and financial and
legal services.  Direct trading between the  yuan  and Australia’s dollar
reached A$250 million on its first day, Gillard said after
returning from a visit to China. The volume reflects the
economic benefits of the accord announced this week she said.
The Australian dollar follows the greenback and the yen in being
able to be traded directly with the yuan.  “For most of my life people have thought about our
location in the world as a net disadvantage because we were
remote from the moneyed people of  Europe  and even from the
U.S.,” Gillard said. “Now, our location in the world is a huge
advantage as the world’s biggest middle class takes shape.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  