-- Ginnie Mae Mulls Consequences Tied to Having Two Types of Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-04-11T13:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/ginnie-mae-mulls-consequences-tied-to-having-two-types-of-bonds.html
Ginnie Mae, the U.S.-owned
corporation that guarantees almost $1.4 trillion of mortgage
bonds, is seeking input on the potential issues created by it
backing two main types of single-family securities, according to
John Getchis, its head of capital markets.  Ginnie Mae sent questionnaires to Wall Street dealers this
week as it considers steps to address any damage to the
liquidity of its bonds that might stem from having both the
Ginnie Mae I and II securities, Getchis said in a telephone
interview. It also plans to hold discussions with issuers and
investors in coming weeks, he said.  The agency wants to “ascertain the merits of the various
options and also to see what might be the unintended
consequences,” Getchis said. Types of moves it may consider
include consolidating its products or seeking changes to  rules 
set by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
that govern which debt can be used to satisfy forward contracts
in the so-called To-Be-Announced market, he said.  The existence of two types of Ginnie Mae securities splits
trading activity in a mortgage-bond market also broken up into
notes carrying a series of different coupons. The Federal
Reserve, as part of its $85 billion of monthly bond buying meant
to stimulate the economy, has been acquiring many of those with
the lowest coupons, which will stop being made when rates rise.  Trading Volume  Less trading volume in specific debt often reduces its
value by hampering liquidity, or how easily investors can buy or
sell at quoted prices. Traders and investors may also seek to
exploit low volumes by entering contracts to receive bonds while
acquiring much of the supply.  Ginnie Mae, formally named the  Government National Mortgage
Association , guarantees bonds mainly filled with home loans
insured by the  Federal Housing Administration  or Department of
Veterans Affairs. It backed the first bonds in the modern
mortgage securities market in 1970.  Lenders’ creation of Ginnie II securities, which were
introduced in 1983, have dwarfed their use of Ginnie Is in
recent years. Ginnie II single-family issuance totaled $31.8
billion in February, compared with $6.9 billion for Ginnie I
pools, according to a March 18 agency  statement .  Ginnie IIs  differ  from Ginnie Is in a number of ways,
including the admissibility of mortgages from multiple lenders.
Ginnie IIs also have a smaller minimum servicing fee, giving
issuers more flexibility over which coupon bonds they choose for
their loans. Additionally, Ginnie IIs package as little as
$250,000 of single-family debt, compared with $1 million for
Ginnie Is.  Ginnie IIs represented 63 percent of the agency’s $1.38
trillion of outstanding bonds in February, compared with 47
percent of its $1.12 trillion in securities two years earlier,
according to  data  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  