-- GM CEO Meets Merkel as Two Sides Bury Past Differences
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   J a s p e r
-- 2013-04-11T20:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/gm-ceo-meets-merkel-as-two-sides-bury-past-differences.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson met with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to
discuss the automaker’s Opel unit as the two sides worked to
move past a dispute over a failed effort to sell the division.  GM, the world’s second-largest carmaker, said yesterday it
plans to invest 4 billion euros ($5.25 billion) in European
operations through 2016 as it adds models to increase market
share and restore profit in the region.  “The chancellor welcomes yesterday’s announcement of the
investment program,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman,
said in a statement today. “She is convinced of the innovative
capacity of the Opel workers.”  GM in 2009 backed out of a deal brokered by Merkel’s
government to sell Opel to  Magna International Inc. (MG)  The next
year, her government turned down a request from the American
automaker for aid to reorganize its German operations. Akerson
has been in  Germany  this week, publicly voicing his support for
the struggling division.  The new spending will focus on developing 23 vehicles and
13 engines to reach a goal of breaking even in  Europe  by mid-
decade, Akerson said at a press conference yesterday, following
a rare meeting of the U.S. company’s board at Opel’s
headquarters in Ruesselsheim.  ‘Great Strides’  “Our goal is to get it to break-even by mid-decade and
we’ve made great strides in that arena -- you’ll hopefully read
about it soon, this year, next,” Akerson said today during a
presentation at the  London School  of Economics.  “We are not
quitting, tenacity pays off.”  GM’s European business, which consists primarily of Opel
and Vauxhall in the U.K., has accumulated losses of $18 billion
since 1999. Detroit-based GM’s earnings-revival strategy for the
region includes the new models, partly in cooperation with
French carmaker  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , as well as spending cuts
through measures such as shutting Opel’s car factory in Bochum,
Germany.  Efforts by the GM brands to become profitable have been
hampered by a European car market that’s set to shrink for a
sixth consecutive year in 2013. Opel’s first-quarter sales in
Germany fell 16 percent from a year earlier, outpacing an
industrywide drop of 13 percent, with the contraction
accelerating to 17 percent in March, according to the country’s
 Federal Motor Vehicle Office .  The carmaker hired Karl-Thomas Neumann, formerly head of
Chinese operations at German carmaker  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , to become
head of the European operations and CEO of Opel in March.  GM rose 4.8 percent, the most in more than three months, to
$29.72 at the close in New York. The shares have gained 3.1
percent this year, trailing the S&P 500 Index’s 12 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Helsinki at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net  