-- Google Joins Andreessen, Kleiner in Spurring Wearable-Tech Apps
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/google-joins-andreessen-kleiner-in-spurring-wearable-tech-apps.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  has called on venture
capital heavyweights Andreessen Horowitz and Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers to spur creation of software for Google Glass,
its wearable mobile-computing devices that resemble spectacles.  The search giant’s venture arm is joining with the Silicon
Valley venture firms to share information about software
startups seeking funds to build Google Glass apps, the companies
said in a press briefing yesterday at Google’s Mountain View,
 California , headquarters.  The investor coalition, called the  Glass Collective , is
betting that wearable computers will grow into a platform for
third-party software developers the same way Apple Inc.’s mobile
devices fueled the formation of thousands of mobile-app makers.
The VCs will jointly fund startups that dream up new uses for
Google Glass in areas such as entertainment, education and
health care.  “The creativity that can be applied against this is
basically unbound,” said  Marc Andreessen , the Web pioneer and
co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz. “There’s hundreds of
thousands of things people are going to be able to do.”  The three investors will use capital from existing funds to
support the project and don’t intend to create a new fund or
invite other VCs to join, Google Ventures Managing Partner  Bill
Maris  said at the event.  Google Glass has already gained support from large mobile-
app developers, including Path Inc. and Twitter Inc., which have
begun looking at ways to adapt their services to the new
technology, Kleiner Perkins General Partner  John Doerr  said.  ‘Amplified Reality’  “This could well be more than another platform,” said
Doerr, whose firm invested in Path and Twitter. “This could be
a whole new way of appreciating the world. It’s amplified
reality.”  Google plans this month to start shipping Glass Explorer
Edition, early versions of the glasses designed to let
developers tinker with new applications, the company said.  The Glass Collective plans to back app makers even though
there isn’t yet a business model for such software, Andreessen
said.  “At some point, it would be nice to build apps for Glass
that you can charge for,” he said. “That’s not a
precondition” to investing, he added.  Bloomberg LP, parent of  Bloomberg News , is an investor in
Andreessen Horowitz.  Zombies, Education  When asked about apps they’d like to see on Google Glass,
the investors showed different interests. Maris said he would
like to see science programs. Doerr saw a need for more visual
online-education apps. Andreessen said he wanted a zombie game.  Sergey Brin , the Google co-founder who strode into
yesterday’s meeting sweaty from a bike ride, said he’d like an
app that monitors his  heart rate  while he rides.  Extolling the benefits of Google Glass in February, Brin
said that standing upright and summoning information to the eyes
is a more elegant use of the body than “rubbing a featureless
piece of glass.” Hunching over a smartphone while walking
about, he said, is “emasculating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  