-- Google Formalizes Settlement Offer to EU in Antitrust Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-04-11T15:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/google-formalizes-settlement-offer-to-eu-in-antitrust-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  submitted a formal set
of remedies to the European Union that will soon be shown to
rivals and customers as part of settlement talks to end a two-
year  probe  into claims its search results discriminate against
competitors.  The EU’s goal is to “secure legally binding commitments”
from Google as part of the settlement negotiations, EU
Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia told reporters in
Washington today. European users should have the “widest
possible choice in search,” he said. A settlement would allow
the Mountain View, California-based company to avoid possible
fines for abusing its dominance.  “Google has a lot more market power in Europe than in the
U.S., more than 90 percent,” Almunia said. “To avoid abuse we
need to guarantee that users of the search engine have a choice
and that search results have the highest possible quality.”  The European Commission is investigating Google’s search
business and its rivals have made nearly weekly entreaties to
the EU regulator to take action. Google at the end of January
submitted an initial offer to settle the antitrust probe after
Almunia asked it to address allegations that it promotes its own
specialist search-services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and has agreements with websites and software
developers that stifle competition in the advertising industry.  Market Test  “In the last few weeks, the commission completed its
preliminary assessment formally setting out its concerns,”
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, said by e-mail. “On
this basis, Google then made a formal submission of commitments
to the commission. We are now preparing the launch of a market
test to seek feedback from market players, including
complainants, on these commitment proposals.”  Almunia said he wants to resolve the Google probe by the
end of the year and won’t make a decision on whether the
proposals are acceptable until he’s had them market tested.  “We continue to work cooperatively” with the commission,
said Al Verney, a spokesman for the company in Brussels.  The U.S. ended an investigation into Google’s search
business in January, saying there was no evidence that the
company’s actions harmed consumers.  Almunia also said today he hasn’t yet decided whether an
investigation of the use of patent injunctions by Google’s
Motorola Mobility unit may also be settled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  