-- Grand Jury Indicts Man Accused of Drug Theft for China
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2013-04-11T17:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/grand-jury-indicts-man-accused-of-drug-theft-for-china.html
A  Medical College of Wisconsin 
researcher accused of stealing a developmental cancer drug to
deliver it to a Chinese university was indicted by a U.S. grand
jury for computer tampering and lying to federal agents.  Hua Jun Zhao is scheduled to be arraigned today in federal
court, Dean Puschnig, a spokesman for  Milwaukee  U.S. Attorney
James L. Santelle, said by phone today.  Zhao was accused of economic espionage in a criminal
complaint filed on March 29. Gerald Shinneman of the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  said in an accompanying affidavit that
surveillance cameras showed Zhao to be the only person to enter
and leave a medical college office at the time three vials of
the drug vanished in February.  “I did not expect to see different charges than contained
in the criminal complaint, but we’re not privy to what happened
in the grand jury,” Zhao’s defense lawyer, Juval Scott, said
today in a phone interview. “We’re looking forward to getting
information from the government and starting our own
investigation.”  Scott said her client will enter a plea of not guilty this
afternoon. She said prosecutors might return to the grand jury
to seek other charges.  The vials, containing a powdery patented substance
identified only as C-25, had a value of about $8,000 according
to the FBI affidavit.  Zhejiang University  “The investigation has revealed that Zhao may have used
his employment and position at MCoW to illegally acquire
patented research material and taken steps to provide that
material to Zhejiang University,” Shinneman said.  The grand jury indictment was returned on April 9 and
posted on the federal court’s electronic docket yesterday.  In it, Zhao is accused of knowingly initiating a computer
program, code and command that “intentionally caused and
attempted to cause damage” to a medical college computer. That
crime is punishable by as long as 10 years in prison.  He’s also charged with lying to the FBI in the course of
its investigation of the drug’s disappearance about whether he
had gained access to a college computer and deleted files
related to the missing compound. That crime is punishable by as
long as five years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Zhao, 13-cr-00058, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Wisconsin  (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at  fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 