-- Grant Thornton Wins Dismissal of 10-Year-Old Parmalat Case
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   W i l l i a m   R o c h e l l e
-- 2013-04-11T15:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/grant-thornton-wins-dismissal-of-10-year-old-parmalat-case-1-.html
Grant Thornton  LLP won dismissal of
a lawsuit alleging accounting malpractice related to the 2003
bankruptcy of  Parmalat SpA. (PLT)   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge John Darrah granted a summary
judgment to the Chicago-based accounting firm in an order
entered April 9 in Chicago district court. After a 10-year legal
history involving several changes of venue, Darrah said he would
retain jurisdiction over the case, and rule in favor of Grant
Thornton for the same reason a prior court had.  “These cases have remained unresolved for nearly ten
years, and it is unlikely that a remand back to state court will
result in more timely dispositions of the cases,” Darrah wrote.  Parmalat, the Italian diary giant sought protection from
creditors in December 2003 after an accounting scandal. It
completed its Italian reorganization in October 2005, giving
bondholders 50 percent of the new stock while Italian and
foreign banks received 30 percent.  In a parallel bankruptcy in the U.S., Parmalat’s foreign
representative Dr.  Enrico Bondi  sued Grant Thornton in Illinois
state court, alleging accounting malpractice, negligent
misrepresentation, and civil conspiracy. The suit was
transferred to federal district court in  New York .  Willing Participant  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in Manhattan dismissed the
suits in September 2009 based on a defense known as the in pari
delicto doctrine. Under the theory, no one can sue to recover
damages from a fraud in which it was a willing participant.  Kaplan dismissed the suit on what’s known as a motion for
summary judgment. Bondi had appealed, contending there was no
definitive ruling on whether Illinois law would impose the in
pari delicto defense on a bankruptcy trustee.  Grant Thornton asked the federal district court in Chicago
to dismiss the suit rather than send it to state court.  “Grant Thornton’s motion to retain jurisdiction and enter
judgment is granted,” Darrah wrote.  Parmalat, based in Collecchio,  Italy , disclosed more than
14 billion euros ($20.1 billion) of debt when it filed for
bankruptcy, about eight times the amount reported by its former
management.  The case is Bondi v. Grant Thornton International, 04-6031,
U.S. District Court, Northern District Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York bankruptcy court at 
1459 or  tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  