-- Greece’s Unemployment Rate Increased to Record High in January
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-04-11T10:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/greece-s-unemployment-rate-increased-to-record-high-in-january.html
Greece ’s  unemployment rate 
increased to a record in January as the country’s economic
downturn entered a sixth year.  The seasonally adjusted rate rose to 27.2 percent from a
revised 25.7 percent in December, the Athens-based Hellenic
Statistical Authority said in an e-mailed statement today.
That’s the highest level since the agency began publishing
monthly data in 2004.  Greece is in another year of a recession amplified by
austerity measures linked to bailouts from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund . Gross domestic product
shrank 6.4 percent in 2012 and the European Commission forecasts
it will contract 4.4 percent this year. A Finance Ministry
official on April 8 forecast a 4.5 percent drop in GDP in 2013.  “We’ll continue to have a deteriorating trend in the labor
market, although the pace of deterioration is lower compared to
the first half of the previous year,” said  Nicholas Magginas ,
an economist at  National Bank of Greece SA  in Athens. “We’re
not expecting more solid signs of improvement until the second
quarter of this year, when tourism activity is expected to
provide more support to the labor market.”  Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said in February that
pre-bookings for the tourism season in the Greece were “very
good,” and a Finance Ministry official said this week that
tourism is expected to offset the impact of Cyprus’s banking
crisis.  The jobless rate for Greeks aged 15 to 24 was 59.3 percent,
while the total female unemployment rate was 31.4 percent. The
region with the highest unemployment rate was Epirus-western
Macedonia, with 29.2 percent joblessness.  The statistics agency started releasing the unemployment
rate on a seasonally adjusted basis from January’s 2012 data.
The figures are subject to revision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in  Athens  at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  