-- Grifols Jumps as Exane Expects Increase in Plasma Pricing
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-04-11T11:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/grifols-jumps-as-exane-expects-increase-in-plasma-pricing.html
Grifols SA (GRF) ,  Europe ’s largest maker
of blood-plasma products, jumped the most in six months after
Exane BNP Paribas said the global market for protein therapies
derived from the material will expand in the next two years.  Grifols rose as much as 4.9 percent to 28.71 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since Oct. 5, and was trading up 4.5
percent at 1:43 p.m. in Madrid in the biggest gain on the 35-
stock  Stoxx 600 Health Care Index. (SXDP)  Volume was 68 percent of the
three-month daily average.  Prices charged by the top three plasma-therapy makers have
increased as much as 4 percent for the second year in a row in
the U.S. as capacity use for the products is expected to reach a
10-year high of as much as 90 percent through 2015, Julien Dormois, a Paris-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in a
report. Dormois, who has an outperform recommendation on
Barcelona-based Grifols, raised his stock-price estimate by 21
percent to 35 euros.  CSL Plasma Inc.,  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  and Grifols
control almost 70 percent of the plasma market, and “we see
strong upside” from accelerating industrywide growth, Dormois
wrote yesterday. “Pricing power is back.”  Grifols purchased North-Carolina based plasma collector
Talecris Biotherapeutics Holdings Corp. in June 2011 to expand
in the $7 billion U.S. market for blood-based infusions, used to
treat rare and life-threatening conditions.  The U.S. accounted for  64 percent  of Grifols’s revenue last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Grifols owns 150
plasma donation centers in the country, where the company
collected 5.8 million liters of plasma in 2012, the Exane
analyst said. The Talecris unit offers average prices of as much
as  $200 a month  to blood donors, according to the division’s
website.  Plasma is the clear, liquid portion of blood which contains
a large number of proteins, particularly those responsible for
blood clotting and protecting the body from infections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in  Madrid  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  