-- Guinea-Bissau’s Ruler Slams Rumors of Working With Ex-Navy Boss
-- B y   C a r a m o   C a s s a m a   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-04-11T16:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/guinea-bissau-s-ruler-slams-rumors-of-working-with-ex-navy-boss.html
Guinea-Bissau’s interim ruler,
Serifo Nhamadjo, said he had no dealings with a former navy boss
arrested in the U.S. on allegations of cocaine smuggling.  There are false rumors circulating about Nhamadjo’s
involvement with Jose Bubo Na Tchuto, the presidency said in an
e-mailed statement today in the capital, Bissau. Nhamadjo is
“above any suspicion” of having collaborated with the former
navy chief, it said.  The military appointed Nhamadjo leader of the former
Portuguese colony after an April 2012 coup that thwarted
scheduled elections. The European Union doesn’t recognize
Nhamadjo as interim president of the West African country and
has called for a vote to be held this year.  Trafficking of drugs through Guinea-Bissau by South
American gangs seeking to reach  Europe  and other parts of the
world “increased significantly and has reached alarming
proportions,” the Human Rights League of Guinea-Bissau said in
February.  Na Tchuto was arrested on April 2 in an undercover
operation off the coast of West  Africa  by officials of the U.S.
Drug Enforcement Administration. He’ll face charges of
conspiring to import narcotics into the U.S., according to the
website of the  Justice Department .  The United Nations special envoy to Guinea-Bissau, Jose Ramos-Horta, said the country is facing an “existential threat,
as a state, as a nation,” according to his website.  Ramos-Horta urged political leaders to agree on a schedule
for voter registration and organize elections before the end of
the year.  The coup ousted acting President Raimundo Pereira and Prime
Minister Carlos Gomes Junior, who was front-runner in elections
that were due within days. Both are now in exile.  Since independence from  Portugal  in 1974, Guinea-Bissau has
faced three coups, including the 2009 assassination of a
president. The nation of 1.6 million is Africa’s second-biggest
cashew-nut grower.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caramo Cassama in Johannesburg at 
 ccassam@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  