-- Gundlach Sees Falling Yields Curtailing Bond Deposits
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2013-04-11T17:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/gundlach-sees-falling-yields-curtailing-bond-deposits.html
Jeffrey Gundlach, manager of the
top-ranked  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) , said shrinking
bond-market returns may prompt investors to stop piling into
fixed-income funds as soon as this year.  “If bond yields stay where they are, we’re getting to a
place by the end of July where the 12-month trailing return is
just over 1 percent,” Gundlach, whose Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine Capital LP managed $56 billion as of March 31, said
in an interview, referring to broad fixed-income benchmarks.
“There will be a rethinking of bond allocations.”  Investment strategists are predicting an end to the three-
decade rally in bonds as benchmark interest rates hover near
zero for a fifth year and stock markets rally. Ray Dalio,
founder of Bridgewater Associates LP, the world’s biggest hedge-
fund manager, said in January that 2013 will be a “game
changer” as investors reallocate money away from low-yielding
deposits.  Gundlach, who correctly predicted the subprime mortgage
crisis in 2007 and last year told investors to bet against  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  shares before they started falling, said while he expects
investors to lose some enthusiasm for bonds, that doesn’t mean
they’ll pour the money into equities.  “People keep talking about this idiotic ‘great rotation’
thing, but I think the question of what people are going to do
with their money gets harder by the day,” Gundlach said. “Will
bond flows fall? I think the answer is yes.”  Top Returns  Equity funds had their best first quarter this year since
2006, attracting an estimated $67 billion through March,
according to the Investment Company Institute. So far, there’s
no evidence that the deposits have come at the expense of bond
mutual funds, which received an estimated $72 billion.  Gundlach has been a beneficiary of investor appetite for
top-performing bond funds. His DoubleLine Total Return fund has
grown to $40 billion since its 2010 inception. The fund  advanced
an annual 12 percent  to beat 99 percent of peers over the past
three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund had its three-year anniversary on April 6, the
point at which many large institutions consider investments in
mutual funds.  Gundlach, who is speaking to investors today at the  New
York  Yacht Club, said last year he may limit new money into the
fund when it reaches about $50 billion. He said in the interview
that a slowdown in demand may make that move unnecessary.  ‘Market Forces’  “The good news is that market forces will line up with
great serendipity with the fund’s capacity,” Gundlach said. “I
don’t think we will be adding $2 billion a month, so we’ll be at
$40 billion to $50 billion and it may happen without us having
to do anything.”  The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index, among the most widely
used fixed-income benchmarks by fund managers seeking to measure
performance, advanced 0.5 percent this year through April 9. The
average intermediate-term bond fund in the U.S. rose 0.3 percent
in the three months ended March 31, the worst first-quarter
performance since 2009, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in
Chicago.  The U.S. Federal Reserve won’t stop its bond purchases to
stimulate the economy, known as quantitative easing, any time
soon, Gundlach said today at the New York Yacht Club, without
giving a time frame. The program is helping the stock and bond
markets, and is also helping ease budget deficits.  Quantitative Easing  “I don’t expect QE to stop,” Gundlach said.  It is possible that investors will still be interested in
top-performing bond funds as declining yields in the market make
passive investing unattractive, Gundlach said. Unlike active
managers, who aim to beat indexes using security selection,
index-tracking products such as exchange-traded funds mimic
broad market benchmarks.  Gundlach co-founded DoubleLine in December 2009 after he
was fired from TCW Group Inc. over a dispute. Gundlach was
joined by Philip Barach, now DoubleLine’s president, and more
than 40 people from TCW including corporate-bond specialist
Bonnie Baha and emerging-market debt manager Luz Padilla.  At TCW, Gundlach managed the top-performing  TCW Total
Return Bond Fund (TGLMX) , which at its peak was less than one-third the
size of the DoubleLine fund. The $9.3 billion TCW Total Return
fund, now managed by a team led by Tad Rivelle, has advanced an
annual 9.2 percent over the past three years, ahead of 97
percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shorting Apple  A former drummer in a rock band with a passion for art,
Gundlach’s investment picks over the past year included natural
gas, gemstones and stocks. He made his recommendation to invest
in natural gas in April 2012 after the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Natural Gas Index had fallen 59 percent over the past three
years. Since then, the index has almost doubled.  Gundlach also recommended betting on a decline in Apple
shares as the “short of a lifetime.” Apple shares have
declined 31 percent in the past year.  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  fell as much as 2.75 percent
today after Gundlach recommended shorting the stock. Chipotle
looks “vulnerable” after recent gains, Gundlach said, without
giving a price target.  In a short sale, an investor borrows a security and sells
it, in anticipation that the price will fall and the security
can be repurchased later at a lower cost.  Stock Expansion  DoubleLine is expanding into stocks as Gundlach expects
bond returns to trail equity markets over the next decade or so.
He said in September that equities were a superior investment to
bonds as an inflation hedge and that he was seeking to diversify
and broaden the firm. He also said at the time that equities
wouldn’t repeat the poor performance they had from 2000 to 2010.  DoubleLine hired two stock fund managers, Brendt Stallings
and Husam Nazer, from TCW in January and opened a small-cap
stock fund this month.  “It’s extraordinarily unlikely that one will have another
lost decade” for equities, Gundlach said during a conference
call on April 1. “We all need to hope, anyway, that over a 10
to 15 year viewpoint, equities outperform bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  