-- Microsoft Drops on Goldman Says PC Share Falling
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-04-11T20:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/microsoft-drops-on-goldman-sachs-sell-recommendation.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  tumbled the most in
more than a year after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the
software maker is struggling with slack personal-computer sales
and its push into consumer devices has failed to gain traction.  In a note to investors today, Heather Bellini, a New York-
based analyst at Goldman Sachs, recommended that investors sell
the stock. She downgraded the shares from a neutral rating.
Since yesterday, at least two other  analysts  have also reduced
their ratings on shares of the world’s largest software company,
based in Redmond, Washington.  Lackluster corporate demand for Microsoft’s new Windows 8
operating system helped send PC shipments plummeting 14 percent
worldwide in the first quarter, according to IDC, making it the
worst quarter since the researcher starting tracking sales.
Consumers are also increasingly opting to forgo PCs in favor of
smartphones and tablet machines, markets where Microsoft’s
offerings are selling poorly.  “The company faces critical secular challenges given the
deteriorating PC demand backdrop,” Bellini wrote. Financial
results will “gradually deteriorate unless Microsoft
successfully repositions itself as a more meaningful participant
in the new era of consumer compute.”  Microsoft  fell  4.4 percent to $28.94 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since August 2011. The stock has
advanced 8.3 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  More Downgrades  Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., and
Stephen Turner, an analyst at Hilliard Lyons, both downgraded
Microsoft to neutral from buy.  “PCs are a mature market in the enterprise space and in
gradual decline,” wrote Sherlund, who first started covering
Microsoft in 1986, in a note yesterday. “In the consumer space
half the market does not need Office, so they don’t need Windows
and don’t need Microsoft.”  Surface, Microsoft’s tablet computer, has also fallen short
of analysts’ projections since it went on sale on Oct. 26.
Microsoft had sold about 1.5 million of the devices, its first-
ever computer hardware product, through the first quarter,
people with knowledge of the company’s sales said last month.
That missed the 2 million in sales that UBS AG analyst Brent Thill had predicted for the December quarter alone.  Bellini is the only analyst who recommends selling the
stock among those who report their ratings on Microsoft to
Bloomberg.  PC Slump  PC unit shipments fell to 76.3 million in the first
quarter, a bigger drop than the 7.7 percent decline IDC had
forecast, the researcher said yesterday. The drop was the
steepest since IDC began tracking shipments in 1994.  The last time global shipments experienced a double-digit
percentage decline was in the third quarter of 2001, when the
market was wrecked by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the
technology bubble’s burst.  Gartner Inc., another market-research firm, said PC
shipments declined 11 percent in the first quarter to 79.2
million units. Quarterly global shipments fell below 80 million
machines for the first since 2009, Gartner said. IDC and Gartner
both reported that PC shipments fell in the U.S., Europe and
Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  