-- IEA Cuts Oil-Demand Forecast Because of European Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-11T15:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/iea-cuts-oil-demand-forecast-because-of-european-demand.html
The  International Energy Agency 
reduced its forecasts for global oil demand in 2013 for a third
consecutive month, predicting the weakest consumption in  Europe 
in almost three decades.  The IEA cut its estimate by 45,000 barrels a day,
predicting that world consumption will increase by a “subdued”
795,000 barrels a day, or 0.9 percent, to 90.58 million barrels
a day this year. European demand will slump by 330,000 barrels a
day. Still, an imminent recovery in refinery operations after
maintenance and political threats to supply mean “it may be too
early to call a  bear market ,” the IEA said.  “Europe remains by far the worst affected of all the large
oil consumption regions, as the ravages of the bleak
macroeconomic backdrop continues to take its toll,” the Paris-
based group said in its monthly oil market report.  Brent futures have dropped 12 percent from this year’s
intraday peak, trading at about $105 a barrel in London today,
as the euro area struggles to move beyond its debt crisis,  China 
shows muted signs of recovery and the U.S. Federal Reserve
discusses reducing its bond-buying program.  Oil consumption in the most developed European economies
will drop to 13.4 million barrels a day this year, the lowest
since 1985, the IEA said.  Downward Pressures  “Demand is going to continue to surprise to the downside,
supply will continue to surprise to the upside,” Seth Kleinman,
head of energy strategy at Citigroup Inc., said at the Bloomberg
Oil Forum in London on April 11. “The downward pressures are
increasing” on prices, Kleinman said.  Worldwide consumption remains supported by emerging
economies such as China, where demand will increase this year by
380,000 barrels a day, or 3.9 percent, to 10 million a day,
according to the IEA’s report.  “China will be the leader of growth,”Ibrahim Muhanna, an
adviser to  Saudi Arabia ’s oil minister, said in  Kuwait 
yesterday. The kingdom’s projection for demand growth this year
is higher than the IEA’s, at about 1 million barrels a day, as
it predicts that  Asia  and the  Middle East  will compensate for
the slump in Europe.  “Demand for oil in the rest of the world will grow at good
levels as a result of economic growth and improved standards of
living,” Muhanna said.  Saudi Increase  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, “seems
poised to ramp up” production further to meet seasonal demand,
after restoring output to a four-month high of 9.3 million
barrels a day in March, an increase of 50,000 a day from
February, the IEA said.  Total production among the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries slipped by 140,000 barrels a day last month
to 30.44 million a day, as the Gulf kingdom’s increase was
countered by lower output from  Iraq ,  Iran , Nigeria, Libya and
 Algeria . Production fell the most in Iraq, by 150,000 barrels a
day to 2.96 million, as bad weather curbed operations at the
port of Basra, according to the report.  Consumers’ imports of crude from Iran fell to 1.1 million
barrels a day in March from 1.26 million in February amid
international sanctions on the Islamic Republic, the IEA said.  Non-OPEC Reduction  The IEA reduced its estimate for supplies from outside OPEC
in 2013 for the first time, by 20,000 barrels a day, amid lower-
than-expected output from the North Sea.  Non-OPEC producers  such
as the U.S.,  Canada  and  Brazil  will increase supplies this year
by 1.1 million barrels a day to 54.4 million a day, according to
the report.  Yesterday OPEC trimmed its global oil demand estimate for
2013 by 40,000 barrels a day. The organization predicted that
demand will grow by 800,000 barrels a day this year, or 0.9
percent, to 89.66 million a day.  Oil inventories in the most industrialized nations remained
above their five-year average for a sixth month in February,
even after a drop of 32.9 million barrels to 2.66 billion
barrels, the IEA estimated.  “There’s no major region that makes your heart jump,”
when looking at oil demand, said Filip Petersson, a commodities
strategist at Stockholm-based SEB AB, who predicts that Brent,
the European benchmark, will average $107.50 a barrel during the
second quarter. “It’s primarily a general oversupply situation.
We’ve had a substantial oversupply in the first two quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  