-- Ignore Kim’s Threats and Start Over on Missile Defense
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-11T22:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/ignore-kim-s-threats-and-start-over-on-missile-defense.html
With  Iran  nuclear talks  fizzling 
and  North Korea   threatening  to turn  Seoul  into a sea of fire, it
took political courage for U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel to
go before Congress this week with a 2014  defense budget  that cut
money for missile defense programs. Yet, in our eyes, the real
problem is that the $500 million in trims was merely cosmetic.  A deeper slice into the $10 billion the Pentagon spends
each year on such programs wouldn’t make the U.S. one iota less
safe, and would help with the $500 billion or so the Pentagon is
likely to have to cut over a decade in any deficit-reduction
deal.  Don’t get us wrong, we share  Ronald Reagan ’s dream,
 famously expounded  almost exactly 30 years ago, of a shield
protecting the U.S. (and other nations) from intercontinental
ballistic missiles and shorter-range threats. Unfortunately,
since the U.S. program’s inception, its governing philosophy has
been to rush through research, ignore repeated testing failures
and jump full force into production and deployment. The result:
We have a nonfunctioning solution to a less-than-immediate
problem.  The central concept of missile defense -- hitting a bullet
with another bullet -- has proved maddeningly elusive. The
 Ground-Based Midcourse Defense  system, the primary barrier
against long-range ballistic missiles, has “improved” to a 50
percent success rate, which is excellent for NBA three-pointers
but unacceptable for nuclear Armageddon. Worse, none of those
tests included decoys or other countermeasures that an enemy
would probably use.  Last year, a  study  by the National Research Council found
that building systems to strike enemy missiles in the takeoff
stage wasn’t “practical or feasible.” It also suggested
scrapping the existing West Coast system, noting that its
unreliable interceptors would best be used as targets for a
replacement operation.  Why, then, did President  Barack Obama  decide last month to
divert an  additional $1 billion  to that very program? It may
have looked as if he was standing up to North Korea, but the
only beneficiaries are likely to be the contractors and barkeeps
near Fort Greely,  Alaska . (The Terminal High-Altitude Area
Defense packages that Obama dispatched to  Guam  have proved
somewhat effective against slower, shorter-range missiles in
tests, yet are a long way from being part of a homeland shield.)  The renewed rush to set up batteries also ignores the
nature of the threat. North Korea and Iran clearly mean us no
good. But Iran has neither a functioning bomb nor a missile to
carry it. Kim Jong Un’s regime has tested a nuclear device and,
as was divulged yesterday,  may have a warhead  that could fit on
a short- or medium-range ballistic missile. Yet, as Hagel told
the House Armed Services Committee, it is a long way from having
a reliable intercontinental nuclearized missile that threatens
the U.S.  Given the limitations of the U.S.’s enemies and its
possession of the ultimate deterrent -- a nuclear arsenal that
Obama is wisely paying to modernize -- there is time to get the
science right on missile defense.  The smart course is to ignore Kim’s threats and go back to
the drawing board. We can save billions on production and
deployment costs even if we increase spending for research and
development on new proposals. John Arquilla, a professor at the
Naval Postgraduate School, suggests tapping private-sector
creativity by establishing a competition similar to the X-Prize
for space flight. Who knows, maybe Reagan’s oft-mocked idea for
a canopy of X-ray lasers in space will prove the feasible
solution.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 