-- Migrating Inventors Make U.S. Top Destination: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-04-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/migrating-inventors-make-u-s-top-destination-cutting-research.html
Migrating inventors choose the U.S.
over all other destinations, according to economists at the
World Intellectual Property Organization in Geneva.  Canada and Australia are the next most popular among 17
countries studied from 1990 to 2010, while Germany, Italy and
the U.K. are the least, said economists Carsten Fink, Ernest
Miguelez and Julio Raffo in a report based on patent data and
published at a migration  conference  in London this week.  The American advantage is even greater when only migrants
from countries outside the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development are accounted for, reflecting sizeable inflows
into America by skilled Indian and Chinese inventors, the report
said.  The findings help dilute concerns expressed by such
economists as Robert Gordon of Northwestern University that the
U.S. is approaching a period of weak economic growth that
requires immigration of high-skilled workers to avoid.  At a time when American universities have warned it’s
getting harder for students to secure visas, the study says in
its conclusion that “restrictive immigration policies may have
some negative effects on the inflows of skilled workers.”  The pool of talent is probably growing too. Data from the
United Nations shows the estimated migrant population worldwide
was 213 million in 2010, a 58 percent increase from 1990. The
migration rate of inventors reached as much as 9 percent in the
2000s, the economists said.  That shows migration is a “critical pillar of the ongoing
process of globalization,” they said.  * * *  The Federal Reserve’s ability to withdraw stimulus may be
complicated by how much foreigners need dollars. The
complication may delay a correction in the central bank’s
balance sheet by a year and force it to sell assets, according
to  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   The Fed is the world’s supplier of dollars, Joseph Abate, a
strategist at Barclays, noted in an April 10 report. The amount
of currency outstanding has important implications for the path
of monetary policy.  Prior to the start of quantitative easing, such cash was
the single largest liability on the central bank’s balance
sheet. Barclays, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed, estimates reserves of assets will reach $2.6 trillion by
the end of this year, compared with about $1.2 trillion in paper
money in the economy.  As much as 65 percent of all U.S. currency circulates
outside the U.S., Abate said, although the exact amount is
unknown because of underreporting and limited data collection.
When the Fed comes to withdraw stimulus, it will only achieve
equilibrium when its securities portfolio has shrunk back to the
level of total circulating currency plus some excess reserves.  “Assuming it does not sell any of its securities and
allows its portfolio to shrink passively through maturing roll-
offs, then the critical element determining when the Fed reaches
equilibrium becomes the speed of U.S. currency growth,” New
York-based Abate said.  While domestic demand for dollars is driven by the  interest
rate , how much people abroad want to hold greenbacks is more
likely to reflect precaution and the hunt for a stable store of
value or medium of exchange, according to Abate.  Without asset sales, and assuming currency maintains its 8
percent growth, the Fed’s portfolio could reach equilibrium by
early 2019, he said. By contrast, if foreign demand and currency
growth slow, then it may take a year or longer to achieve
balance.  “The unknown foreign demand for currency adds an
additional dimension of complexity to the Fed’s already
difficult exit strategy and could -- if the adjustment were slow
enough -- push the Fed into selling assets,” said Abate, a
former economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  * * *  Stiffer international competition prompts makers of high-
value goods to improve the quality of their products even
further, while manufacturers of lower-quality goods don’t share
that incentive.  So  say  Mary Amiti of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
and Amit Khandelwal, who teaches at Columbia University’s
Graduate School of Business. Using data covering more than
10,000 products from 56 countries that export to the U.S., they
found lower tariffs induce firms that already manufacture very
high quality goods to make them even better.  For OECD members, a 10 percentage-point decline in tariffs
increases quality growth by 5.6 percent for those products
viewed as being the best.  By contrast, firms producing low-quality goods are
discouraged from upgrading as they would face more rivals, the
economists said on the New York Fed’s Liberty Street Economics
blog. A 10 percentage point decline in tariffs decreases quality
growth for those companies by 4.2 percent.  “If a firm is close to the world frontier it is in its
interest to invest in innovation in order to stay in that top
position,” the authors said. “However, if a firm is a long way
from the frontier, it realizes that even if it invests in costly
innovation it still won’t be able to catch up to the firms
already at the frontier.”  * * *  The growing need for central banks to deliver financial
stability may have implications for monetary policy.  A  study  published this month by the International Monetary
Fund found that trying to control financial imbalances in
addition to setting monetary policy makes central banks manage
interest rates more aggressively.  Rate cuts are deeper, albeit shorter-lived, than they
otherwise would be, said economists Itai Agur and Maria
Demertzis in the report, titled “‘Leaning Against the Wind’ and
the Timing of Monetary Policy.”  “By keeping cuts brief, monetary policy tightens as soon
as bank risk appetite heats up,” the study said.  One central bank already balancing financial and economic
stability is the Bank of England. It took up powers to regulate
the financial industry this month with its Financial Policy
Committee. That organization, charged with assessing broad risks
in the financial system, now operates on an official basis after
two years of having interim status.  A separate report published April 8 by Jamie Dannhauser, an
economist at Lombard Street Research Ltd., said the FPC’s push
for banks to hold more capital may require officials to keep
monetary policy easy to offset the headwind to growth.  * * *  China accounts for an average 5 percent of international
inflation, according to the Bundesbank.  In an effort to gauge the importance of the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, researchers Sandra Eickmeier and
Markus Kuhnlenz in Frankfurt  looked  at 38 nations between 2002
and 2011.  They found that China’s export prices, competitiveness and
influence over commodity prices do influence global inflation
dynamics, with producer prices tending to be more strongly
affected than consumer costs. The effect on different regions is
no greater than 13 percent.  * * *  Of the world’s largest 2000 companies, 204 were majority-
owned by governments in 2010-2011. They accounted for $327
billion in sales, equivalent to almost 6 percent of global gross
domestic product, according to the OECD.  In a  study  published this month, the Paris-based group said
ownership of the state-owned enterprises is spread over 37
nations. China leads the list with 70 such companies, followed
by India with 30.  The combined sales of the firms totaled $3.6 trillion in
the year. That represents more than 10 percent of the aggregate
sales of the 2000 companies and exceeds the gross national
incomes of countries including the U.K. and Germany.  Their combined market value of $4.9 trillion corresponds
to 11 percent of global market capitalization of all listed
companies.  * * *  Central banks are looking to broaden the type of assets
they hold, according to a survey of monetary authorities
responsible for more than $6.7 trillion in reserves.  Amid low interest rates on U.S. Treasuries and declines in
major currencies such as the dollar, central banks are looking
elsewhere for yield, the April 7 study by Central Banking
Publications found.  More than three-quarters of respondents were investing in
or considering the Australian and Canadian dollars. Almost a
quarter said equities were either part of their stockpiles or
would be within five years. Half said they had increased the
number of assets or locations they invest in.  Sixty central banks, which together control just over half
of global reserves, responded to the poll.  * * *  Waste management is a $1 trillion market, providing
opportunities for investors as it shifts to business from being
a mandatory public service.  That’s according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which
says poor waste management is a global reality. Only 25 percent
of the 11 billion tons collected each year is recycled or
recovered and 3.5 billion people lack access to basic services
for dealing with waste.  The issue will only worsen as volumes outpace urbanization
and economic growth, equity strategists Sarbjit Nahal and Valery Lucas-Leclin and research analyst Julie Dolle said in an April 5
report.  The need to deal with waste means the industry could be
worth up to $2 trillion by 2020, with Europe facing the toughest
strategic challenge and Asia and South America the fastest
growth. Companies that stand to benefit include Germany’s BASF
SE and  DuPont Co. (DD)  of the U.S., according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  