-- Illinois $2.5 Billion Plan for Bills Viewed as Progress
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-04-11T17:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/illinois-2-5-billion-plan-for-bills-viewed-as-progress.html
Illinois ’s plan to chip away at its
$9 billion bill backlog with a $2.5 billion bond sale is earning
praise from investors, who view the move as a sign lawmakers are
taking steps to repair state finances.  A House of Representatives committee passed the measure,
which has support from Speaker Michael Madigan, a Democrat. The
proposal comes after lawmakers in both chambers last month
passed bills to rein in retirement costs. The House version
would cut Illinois’s unfunded obligations by $20 billion
immediately and save $100 billion over 30 years, Democratic
Representative Elaine Nekritz said.  “Their unpaid bills are a huge outstanding issue and their
underfunded pension is a huge issue, and they’re taking steps
now to address both of them,” said Clark Wagner, director of
fixed income at First Investors Management Co. in New York,
which manages $1.6 billion of munis. “I don’t think it’s a
negative from a ratings point of view.”  Illinois has the lowest rating among U.S. states by Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s, and both companies have
it on negative outlook, meaning the grade could be cut further.  “The state’s chronic use of payment deferrals as a cash-
management tool has contributed to the state’s four downgrades
in the past four years,”  Ted Hampton , a Moody’s analyst, said
in an e-mailed statement. “This kind of proposal would clearly
add to the state’s long-term debt burden.”  No Downgrade  Olayinka Fadahunsi, an S&P spokesman, didn’t return an e-
mail seeking comment on the bill. Fitch Ratings, which grades
Illinois A, sixth-highest and one step above California,
wouldn’t downgrade the state just because of the proposed debt
issuance, said Karen Krop, an analyst.  A $2.5 billion general-obligation sale would be the state’s
biggest since February 2011, when it issued $3.7 billion of
taxable securities, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Illinois
plans to sell an additional $1 billion to $1.2 billion in debt
this year to finance projects, according to John Sinsheimer, the
state’s capital markets director.  The amendment authorizing the additional borrowing passed
6-4 in the House Revenue and Finance Committee yesterday, with
all Republicans voting no. As much as $2 billion would go to pay
Medicaid providers and $500 million to other health providers,
said House Majority Leader Barbara Flynn Currie, a Chicago
Democrat who introduced the provision.  While interest would be about $40 million, the state would
avoid about $20 million in late-payment fees, Currie said.  Bill Backlog  There are 153,656 unpaid bills the office of Illinois
Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka, who opposes the borrowing, said
Brad Hahn, a spokesman. The backlog is about $9 billion,
according to her website.  The fifth-most-populous state issued $800 million of
general-obligation bonds April 2, after postponing a January
sale following a downgrade by S&P. Buyers demanded 1.33
percentage points of extra yield above benchmark munis for 10-
year Illinois tax-exempt debt, almost triple the penalty on
 California  a month earlier.  Illinois in January 2011 raised the personal income tax
rate to 5 percent from 3 percent and the corporate rate to 7
percent from 4.8 percent. The increases are to expire after
2014. That reduces the legislature’s ability to collect
additional revenue to curb the bill backlog, said Eric Friedland, head of muni research in New York at Schroder
Investment Management North America.  “The number of solutions that they have to address the
accumulation of unpaid bills is limited,” said Friedland, whose
company oversees about $2 billion in munis, including Illinois
general obligations. “This may be the least likely to cause
additional financial stress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  