-- Time Warner Said to Be Frontrunner in Bid for Calik’s ATV
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-04-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/time-warner-said-to-be-frontrunner-in-bid-for-calik-s-atv.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , the owner of  HBO 
and Warner Bros. film studio, is in talks to buy Turkey’s ATV
television network from Calik Holdings AS, three people with
knowledge of the situation said.  Time Warner’s bid is about $1 billion, though the
discussions could still fall apart, said one of the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks are private.  Talks accelerated recently with Time Warner as the front-
runner, according to one of the people. Dubai-based buyout firm
Abraaj Capital Ltd. is the other bidder for ATV, two of the
people said. Istanbul-based Calik hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
early last year to help  sell  its media business, which includes
ATV and Sabah newspaper. Time Warner, which will spin off its
magazine unit later this year, is only interested in the
television channel, according to two of the people.  Time Warner and Abraaj are the remaining bidders in a
process that has been going on almost a year, placing binding
bids for the group’s television channel last May. Calik’s TV
assets have attracted media companies looking to foreign
investments to spur sales growth as it becomes harder to add
subscribers in their fully developed domestic markets.  ATV television channel was spun off from the remaining
media units of Calik that include newspapers and magazines to
allow for a separate sale, one of the people said.  Time Split  Keith Cocozza , a spokesman for Time Warner, declined to
comment on the deal. Serhat Albayrak, head of Calik’s media
unit, didn’t respond to phone calls seeking comment. A
spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  Time Warner, based in New York, recently  announced  plans to
split off its poorly performing Time Inc. magazine group after a
failed attempt to form a joint venture with publisher  Meredith
Corp. (MDP)  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes, had a 21 percent gain in operating income in the quarter
ended in December, driven by growth in fees paid by cable and
satellite services that carry its programming, such as HBO.  Calik, which has interests in energy, construction, finance
and telecommunications, paid the government $1.25 billion for
 Turkey ’s second-biggest media group after winning loans from
state-run banks and its Qatari partner in 2008. The company is
managed by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s son-in-law,
Berat Albayrak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  