-- IMF Says ‘So Far, So Good’ in Easing by Central Banks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-04-11T16:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/imf-says-global-easing-aids-banks-even-as-it-adds-financial-risk.html
Global central banks buying assets
and keeping interest rates low to boost growth have had
“positive short-term effects for banks” even as risks from the
policies are increasing, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “The prolonged period of low interest rates and central
bank asset purchases has improved some indicators of bank
soundness,” the  IMF  said today in its Global Financial
Stability Report. “Central bank intervention mitigated
dysfunction in targeted markets, and large-scale purchases of
government bonds have in general not harmed market liquidity.”  Central banks in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Japan  and the U.K.
attacked the longest and deepest recession since the 1930s with
unorthodox accommodation. The  Federal Reserve  is aiding the
world’s largest economy by expanding its balance sheet to a
record $3.22 trillion, almost  equal  to  Germany ’s gross domestic
product. The Bank of Japan plans to buy 7.5 trillion yen ($75.1
billion) of bonds a month and double the monetary base in two
years to stave off deflation.  “The bottom line is: so far, so good,” Laura Kodres,
assistant director of the fund’s Monetary and Capital Markets
Department, said today at a press conference at the IMF
headquarters in  Washington . “The low  interest rates  and the
purchase of various types of securities by these four central
banks have put a floor under the economy, boosting activity, and
have helped stabilize the financial system.”  ‘Financial Distress’  Still, if banks don’t capitalize on the help they are
getting from the unconventional monetary policies to rebuild
their balance sheets, “at some point we can expect another
round of financial distress,” Kodres told reporters.  While most measures of short-term balance-sheet health at
U.S. lenders have improved because of the central bank policies,
they face “significant interest-rate risk” because they
“loaded up on government debt lately” to help meet  capital
requirements , Kodres said at the briefing.  “With interest rates so low, a rise could mean losses on
some of these holdings,” Kodres said. “We find that the
announcement of various monetary easings tended to raise the
spread of bank bonds over  government bonds  -- possibly
indicating that markets saw some future credit risks for
banks.”  Even as central bank policies eased dysfunction in global
markets, the unprecedented actions “are associated with
financial risks that are likely to increase the longer the
policies are maintained,” the IMF said in the study, a chapter
of its twice-yearly report that was published today.  ‘Vigilant Supervision’  “Even though monetary policies should remain very
accommodative until the recovery is well established, policy
makers need to exercise vigilant supervision to assess the
existence of potential and emerging financial stability
threats,” wrote IMF researchers led by S. Erik Oppers, deputy
division  chief  for the Global Financial Stability Division in
the Monetary and Capital Markets Department.  The researchers found “few immediate financial stability
concerns” in the monetary policies, which have “increased some
measures of bank soundness” while not impairing the functioning
of markets. Potential complications include greater credit risk
for banks, slower rebuilding of balance sheets and “challenges
in exiting from markets in which central banks have
intervened,” they wrote.  U.K. lenders using the Funding for Lending program created
by the  Bank of England  and the Treasury in August pay as little
as 0.75 percent including fees for funds, fueling concern that
efforts to spur the economy are helping borrowers at the expense
of retirees and other savers.  Outside Influence  Monetary stimulus deployed by advanced countries to spur
growth is unlikely to stoke inflation as long as central banks
remain free of outside influence to react to challenges, IMF
economists wrote in a chapter of the fund’s World Economic
Outlook released April 9.  The four largest developed-market monetary authorities have
driven borrowing costs to record lows. Bank of Japan Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda, who took office in March, last week embarked on
record easing, aligning with the Fed, the  European Central Bank 
and the BOE in their commitment to return their economies to
full strength.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said April 8 that expansionary
monetary policies in the world’s largest countries are
“mutually constructive.” Monetary stimulus from global central
banks gives “additional support for other countries through
stronger financial markets, more exports,” Bernanke said at a
conference in Stone Mountain,  Georgia .  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a speech
yesterday that the global economy probably won’t gain much
traction this year as Europe and Japan fail to recover and lag
behind other developed economies.  The 17-country euro region still has much to do, including
cleaning up a banking system that isn’t lending enough to the
real economy, Lagarde said. Japan must rely more on monetary
policy to boost its growth, she said, while welcoming last
week’s move by the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to embark on record easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  