-- Hindalco Set to Lead 1st Profit Drop Since 2010: Corporate India
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   P a r e s h   J a t a k i a
-- 2013-04-11T18:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/hindalco-set-to-lead-1st-profit-drop-since-2010-corporate-india.html
Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  and  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  are poised to lead the first decline in quarterly
earnings in three years for companies on India’s benchmark stock
index after the economy grew at the slowest pace in a decade.  Net incomes for 30 companies on the  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  may fall
0.8 percent from a year ago in the quarter ended March 31,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the
first decrease in profits since a 1.8 percent drop in the three
months ended June 2010, the data show.  Asia ’s third-largest economy, facing the fastest inflation
among major emerging nations, expanded at the weakest pace since
2003 in the year to March 31. The slowdown has depressed sales
of goods from Toyota Motor Corp.’s cars to Holcim Ltd.’s cement,
and contributed to a drop that has made the Sensex the worst
performing Asian benchmark  this year . Stocks may extend losses
amid “dramatic” a slump in profit growth, BNP Paribas SA said
in an April 10 note.  “The pressure on earnings is likely to continue for the
next couple of quarters,” Aneesh Srivastava, who manages about
$514 million as chief investment officer at IDBI Federal Life
Insurance Co., said by phone from  Mumbai  yesterday. “Growth
must revive for earnings to pick up. There was a sense at the
end of the December quarter that things would improve but that
hasn’t happened as the macro has only deteriorated.”  Profits increased a less-than-estimated 1.6 percent in the
three months ended Dec. 31 as 43 percent of the Sensex members
trailed analysts’ forecasts, compared with 40 percent in the
previous two quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The $1.8 trillion economy grew 4.5 percent from a year ago in
the final three months of 2012, the slowest  pace  in almost four
years, government data show.  Infosys Earnings  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , the second-biggest company on the Sensex by
 weighting , will announce results today, marking the start of the
reporting season for the March quarter. India’s second-largest
software exporter may report net income of 23 billion rupees
($422 million), compared with 23.2 billion rupees in the year-
ago quarter, a median of 36 analysts’  estimates  in a Bloomberg
survey shows.  Producers of metals, automobiles and capital goods may
contribute the most to the drop in earnings, ICICI Securities
Ltd. wrote in an April 8 note. Aluminum maker Hindalco may say
profit plunged 45 percent to 3.49 billion rupees, according to a
median of 16 analysts’ estimates in the survey.  “Demand for metals has been sluggish, which has impacted
prices and realization for metal companies,” Jayant Acharya, a
director at  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , said in an interview in Mumbai.
“Demand for  consumer goods  is down and the sentiment toward the
economy is weak.”  Plant, Machinery  Car sales in India fell 6.7 percent to 1.89 million units
in the 12-month period ended March, the most since 2001, as high
borrowing costs cooled demand, a manufacturers’ group said April
10. Capital-goods output, a  gauge  of company expenditure on
machinery, has shrunk in 16 out of the 19 months through
January, according to the latest data. Industrial production
likely shrank 1.3 percent in February, according to a Bloomberg
survey before data due today.  “Limited signs of improvement in capital expenditure
spends and waning consumption in specific pockets is leading to
not only poor expectations for the upcoming earnings season but
also for the year ending in March 2014,” Ambit Capital Pvt.
wrote in an April 8 note. “We have a downbeat view for most
sectors going into fourth-quarter results.”  For the year that began April 1, Ambit cut its earnings
estimates for the 90 companies it tracks by 3 percent, Saurabh Mukherjea, head of equities, said by e-mail.  ‘Persisting Inflation’  Profit at Bharti Airtel, the nation’s largest mobile-phone
company, may slide 24 percent from a year ago to 7.72 billion
rupees, the Bloomberg survey shows.  Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) , India’s
biggest motorcycle maker, may say net income fell to 5.04
billion rupees from 6.04 billion rupees.  While the  Reserve Bank  of India pared  interest rates  on
March 19 for a second time in 2013, it has said “persisting”
inflation curbs the scope for further cuts. The next policy
review is due on May 3. Inflation, as measured by the  wholesale-
price index , climbed to 6.84 percent in February from a year
earlier. Data for March is due April 15.  “So far, rate cuts have been slow and we think sales
growth in fiscal 2014 will continue to be weak,” Jyotivardhan Jaipuria, head of India research at Bank of America Corp., said
in a note last week. “Analysts are, as in fiscal 2013, being
too optimistic about a recovery in the economy on the back of a
sustained fall in interest rates.”  Foreign Ownership  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government since September
has allowed more overseas investment in retailing and aviation,
cut fuel subsidies and set up a panel to speed up road, ports
and power projects. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has
said policymakers are reviewing foreign ownership caps in almost
two dozen sectors to revive growth, which slowed to 5 percent in
the year ended March 31, according to government estimates.  The Sensex’s 4.6 percent decline this year has dragged its
valuation to 12.5 times  projected 12-month profits  from a
multiple of 13.5 times at the beginning of 2013. The MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index trades at 10.4 times.  “If we look at the entire market, earnings are going to be
bad next quarter as well and it will at take at least two more
quarters for the earnings to trough out,” Chandresh Nigam, head
of investments at Axis Asset Management Co., with $2 billion in
assets, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV  India  on April 8.
“It will be difficult to make a pin-point call that this will
be the worst quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Paresh Jatakia in Mumbai at 
 pareshj@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  