-- Indonesia Holds Rate as Fuel-Subsidy Plan Raises Price Risk
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-04-11T08:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/indonesia-holds-rate-as-fuel-subsidy-plan-raises-inflation-risk.html
Indonesia held its benchmark
interest rate for a 14th consecutive meeting as plans to cut
fuel subsidies boost inflation risks, reducing scope for
monetary easing even as falling exports crimp economic growth.  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution and his board held
the  reference rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent, the central
bank said in Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by all 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is due to review
proposals for a new fuel policy today as officials seek to limit
energy subsidies that have spurred oil imports, depleted
foreign-exchange reserves and weakened the rupiah. Higher
gasoline and diesel prices or restrictions on the use of
partially government-funded fuel would add to inflation, which
accelerated to a 22-month high in March.  “Inflation’s a more immediate concern given that it’s
already well above their target,” said Euben Paracuelles, a
Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The case for
rate hikes is still there,” he said, adding that the central
bank may begin to tighten policy in the second half of the year.  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,705 per dollar at 3:48 p.m.
in Jakarta, the first decline in three days, prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg show. It declined for a seventh
quarter in the three months through March in the longest losing
streak since 1998, and is the worst performer in the past 12
months after the yen and the Indian rupee among 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Key Challenge  Bank Indonesia today said the nation’s  gross domestic
product  may increase 6.2 percent to 6.6 percent this year
compared to a previous forecast of 6.3 percent to 6.8 percent.
Growth next year may be 6.6 percent to 7 percent, it said, from
an earlier estimate of 6.7 percent to 7.2 percent.  “The resilience of private consumption has been supported
by improvements in consumers’ purchasing power and  consumer
confidence ,” Bank Indonesia said in a statement today, adding
that it expects pressure on price gains and the rupiah to ease.  Indonesia spent 211.9 trillion rupiah ($22 billion) on fuel
subsidies last year, spurring demand for energy products that
contributed to a record  trade deficit  in October. Containing the
subsidy bill will be a key challenge for the successor to
Finance Minister Agus Martowardojo, who is set to replace
Nasution at the central bank.  No Room  Options for changes in the fuel policy have been completed
at the office of the Coordinating Minister for the Economy and
will be presented to Yudhoyono at a cabinet meeting today,
according to Firmanzah, a senior staff member for economic
affairs at the president’s office.  Nasution, whose term ends in May, said last week the
central bank “cannot avoid” raising borrowing costs if needed.
Inflation, which accelerated to a faster-than-estimated 5.9
percent in March, may be 5.3 percent by the end of 2013 compared
with an earlier forecast of about 4.9 percent, Perry Warjiyo,
executive director for monetary policy and economic research at
Bank Indonesia, said this week.  “There’s no room for BI to cut the rate as inflation risks
are high,” said Juniman, chief economist at PT Bank
Internasional Indonesia. “The markets are waiting for the
government policy on fuel subsidies.”  Bank Indonesia raised the rate it pays lenders on overnight
deposits, known as the Fasbi, in August to 4 percent from 3.75
percent. The reference rate is still consistent with the central
bank’s target for inflation, unless the government unveils a new
policy to cut fuel subsidies, Warjiyo has said.  Monetary Operations  The Southeast Asian nation’s quickening inflation contrasts
with countries from China to the Philippines, where easing cost
pressures have reduced the need to tighten policy. Bank
Indonesia doesn’t see the need for special policy measures to
curb price gains, as it expects long-term pressure to ease,
Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in a briefing today.  The central bank will strengthen monetary operations and
use longer-term term deposits and bills to absorb excess
liquidity, Sarwono said, adding that such a move precludes the
need to raise interest rates at this time.  The Bank of Korea today held  borrowing costs  for a sixth
month, resisting pressure from the government for a reduction to
support growth. While Indonesia’s gross domestic product has
risen more than 6 percent for nine straight quarters, the
economy expanded in the three months through December at the
slowest pace in more than two years.  “Monetary conditions have been too loose for too long,
creating imbalances within the economy,” said Robert Prior- Wandesforde, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “Higher interest rates are necessary and provide the most
likely trigger for an unwinding of some of the excesses that
have built up in the Indonesia economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  