-- Indonesia Two-Year Yield at One-Week Low on Fund Inflow Optimism
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-04-11T03:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/indonesia-two-year-yield-at-one-week-low-on-fund-inflow-optimism.html
Indonesia ’s bonds advanced, pushing
the two-year yield to the lowest level in almost a week, on
speculation foreign inflows will recover. The rupiah touched the
strongest level in almost six weeks.  The country should benefit from an increase in capital
flows into  Asia , analysts at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. led by
 Philip Wee  in Singapore wrote in a research note today. The
central bank will keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record-
low 5.75 percent today, according to all 16 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The average yield on local-currency bonds dropped
24 basis points in the 12 months through yesterday to 6.14
percent, an HSBC Holdings Plc index shows.  “Sentiment on Indonesia still seems positive, even if
demand has driven valuations to be quite expensive,” said  Gundy
Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
Singapore. “ Bank Indonesia  is probably not going to change its
monetary policy today, though it sounds like they are going to
hike rates at some point this year.”  The yield on the 11 percent bonds due October 2014 dropped
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.57 percent as
of 9:17 a.m. in Jakarta, the lowest level since April 5,
according to prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  Overseas investors pulled money from Indonesian local-
currency bonds for four weeks through April 5, the longest
losing streak since June 2012, finance ministry data show. The
 Bank of Japan  said last week it plans to buy 7.5 trillion yen
($75 billion) of notes a month and double its monetary base in
two years.  Default Swaps  The cost to insure the nation’s government debt using five-
year credit-default swaps fell five basis points to 146 basis
points in  New York  yesterday, according to CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The rupiah was unchanged at 9,690 per dollar after reaching
9,670 earlier, the strongest level since March 1, prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. It traded at a 0.1
percent premium to the one-month non-deliverable forwards, which
was steady at 9,702, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A daily  fixing  used to settle the derivatives was set at
9,694 yesterday by the Association of Banks in Singapore, from
9,743 on April 9. Today’s rate will be released at 11:30 a.m. in
the city-state. One-month implied volatility for the rupiah, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, fell one basis point to 5.93 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  