-- LinkedIn Acquires Pulse Mobile-News Reading Tool for $90 Million
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-04-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/linkedin-acquires-pulse-mobile-news-reading-tool-for-90-million.html
     April 12 (Bloomberg) -- LinkedIn Corp., the biggest online
professional-networking service, said it’s buying startup Pulse
for about $90 million, accelerating an expansion into
distributing content for users.  The company is paying about 90 percent in stock and 10
percent in cash for the application, which is owned by Alphonso
Labs Inc.,  Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn said
yesterday in a statement.  Founded in 2010 by Akshay Kothari and Ankit Gupta when they
were students at  Stanford University , Pulse helps users access
news and information on mobile phones. Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Weiner  is using acquisitions and new products to make
LinkedIn more relevant to the people already using the site to
seek jobs, scout talent and forge professional networks.  “Content appears to be a more effective way of boosting
engagement on LinkedIn.com than professional-user groups have
been,” Randle Reece, an analyst at Avondale Partners LLC, wrote
in an e-mail. “Grabbing an early position in the mobile market
would be very valuable, long term, as new devices become the
mainstream way to access digital content.”  Reece, who’s based in Nashville, Tennessee, has the
equivalent of a buy recommendation on LinkedIn.  LinkedIn, which has more than 200 million users, has been
the favored stock of all the social-media companies to go public
in the past two years. While  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and
 Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  have tumbled, LinkedIn shares have quadrupled since
their debut in May 2011. The stock  rose  1.6 percent to $180.18
yesterday at the close in  New York , and has gained 57 percent
this year through yesterday.  Reading ‘Frustrations’  The Pulse acquisition follows last year’s purchase of
professional content-sharing site Slideshare Inc. for about
$118.8 million, and the revamping of LinkedIn’s website in
October to make it easier for users to track each other, find
connections and share news stories.  Pulse has more than 30 million users who have activated its
apps in more than 190 countries, LinkedIn said. More than 750
publishers distribute their content through Pulse. The
application competes with  Flipboard Inc. , a news-reading service
for tablets and smartphones.  Pulse founders Kothari and Gupta founded Pulse as a class
project, motivated by “frustrations with mobile news reading,”
they  wrote  in a blog posting. They turned the tool into a
business after seeing the app used by thousands of people and
gaining popularity on smartphones.  Pulse raised $9 million in 2011 from investors, including
 New Enterprise Associates  and Greycroft Partners, following an
$800,000 seed round the year before.  Julie Inouye, a spokeswoman for LinkedIn, declined to make
Pulse’s two co-founders available for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  