-- InterContinental to Market Manhattan Hotel With New Revamp Plan
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-04-11T08:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/intercontinental-to-market-manhattan-hotel-with-new-revamp-plan.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
owner of the  Holiday Inn , Crowne Plaza and Hotel Indigo brands,
will be ready to sell its  New York  Barclay hotel this year after
completing renovation plans, Chief Executive Officer Richard Solomons said.  “We will go back to the market this year,” the CEO said
in an interview in  Abu Dhabi  yesterday. “Demand for prime real
estate assets in major cities is returning, mostly from non-U.S.
real estate investment trusts, sovereign wealth funds and
wealthy individuals.”  InterContinental took the Manhattan property off the market
this year and commissioned the renovation after talks on a deal
failed. Potential buyers will be presented with plans for the
refurbishment at the start of talks, the CEO said. The work will
cost more than $100 million.  “We have taken the time to create full refurbishment
plans,” he said. “What makes it attractive is the opportunity
to enhance the asset, do great refurbishment and create value
that way.”  The renovation will include adding more meeting rooms to
the H-shaped building, Solomons said. The property was first put
up for sale in 2011.  Hotel companies including Starwood Hotels and Resorts
Worldwide Inc. are selling their real estate to focus on
management. Denham, England-based InterContinental, which owns
nine hotels valued at around $1.5 billion, plans to sell all of
them, the CEO said. The company manages  more than 4,600
properties  across the world.  “It creates a bit of schizophrenia if you own too much
real estate, because you are competing with other owners and
because it internally confuses people,” Solomons said. “Do I
buy and invest in something or do I go and get a third party
deal? Cleaning that up creates focus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  