-- Iran Presidential Candidate Says Economy Is ‘Critical’
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-04-11T15:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/iran-presidential-candidate-says-economy-is-critical-.html
A former Iranian nuclear
negotiator, who plans to run in the June presidential race,
attacked incumbent Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s handling of the
economy, saying the country is now in a “critical” situation.  Hassan Rohani also promised to ease  Iran ’s isolation, which
has deepened under international sanctions against the Iranian
nuclear program.  Iran’s inflation has surpassed 30 percent, the population’s
purchasing power has been cut by half and unemployment is at
least 13 percent, Rohani told a rally in Tehran today.
Ahmadinejad, during almost eight years in office, had higher
foreign currency revenues compared with previous
administrations, he said.  “We cannot blame sanctions for all our weaknesses,”
Rohani told a gathering of about 200 people. “We could have
decreased the impact of sanctions with dignity.”  Rohani, a cleric who was a chief nuclear negotiator under
former President Mohammad Khatami, also has ties with ex-
President Ali Akbar Rafsanjani. While local media have suggested
one of them may run for re-election in June, Rohani said they
would not, according to the state-run  Fars  news agency.  Iran is electing a new president on June 14. Candidates
will be able to sign up from May 7 before being screened by the
Guardian Council, a supervisory body.  Iran’s constitution bars Ahmadinejad from running for
another term. The country grew more isolated under him, in part
because of his rhetoric against  Israel  and in support of nuclear
development.  Rohani promised that if elected, his government would be
one of “dialogue and interaction with world.”  Since 2006, the  United Nations , U.S. and European Union
have imposed a series of trade, energy and financial sanctions
to pressure Iran to curb its nuclear program, out of concern it
might build a bomb. Israel and the U.S. have said they would use
military force if necessary to keep Iran from becoming a nuclear
power.  Tehran says its nuclear program is peaceful, designed for
energy production and medical research.  Crude exports from Iran, an Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries producer, declined in March to their lowest
level this year, to 1.1 million barrels a day, the  International
Energy Agency  said today.  The  International Monetary Fund  sees Iran’s economy growing
0.8 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  