-- Iran’s Crude Exports Decline in March on Sanctions, IEA Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-04-11T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/iran-s-crude-exports-decline-in-march-on-sanctions-iea-says.html
Iran’s crude exports declined in
March to the lowest this year as international sanctions aimed
at the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program and weaker global
demand cut purchases, the  International Energy Agency  said.  Imports from Iran slipped to 1.1 million barrels a day in
March, from a revised 1.26 million barrels daily in February,
the Paris-based adviser to 28 oil-consuming nations said in a
report today. U.S. rules took effect in February requiring
importers to pay in local currencies kept in escrow accounts and
refiners in India last month faced the prospect of losing
insurance coverage if they used Iranian oil.  The U.S. and its allies are restricting Iran’s oil exports,
the country’s largest source of revenue, to pressure the
government in Tehran to stop enriching uranium. Negotiators from
Iran and world powers were “far apart in substance” after a
second round of meetings in Kazakhstan ended with no agreement
on Iran’s nuclear enrichment, European Union foreign policy
chief  Catherine Ashton  said on behalf of the U.S., Britain,
France, China, Russia and Germany after the April 5 and April 6
negotiating round. Iran says the program is for civilian use
while Western governments suspect a military intent.  Iran’s oil production declined 40,000 barrels a day in
March to 2.68 million barrels daily, the IEA said. Shipments
last month were also lower than the 1.13 million barrels of
Iranian crude the IEA reported other countries bought in
January. The agency said it adjusted the figures for March
shipments, estimated by measuring the amount of Iranian crude
other countries are importing, by 215,000 barrels a day more to
account for tanker movements that aren’t properly reported.  Estimates of shipments are based on import data submitted
by nations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, information from customs agencies, and news reports
for individual countries, the IEA said. Tanker-tracking is the
only source of information for the most current month, according
to the report.  OPEC production declined last month by 140,000 barrels a
day to 30.4 million barrels a day as reduced output from Iran,
 Iraq ,  Nigeria ,  Libya  and  Algeria  outweighed greater shipments
from  Saudi Arabia  and  Kuwait , the IEA said. Production from the
12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries exceeded
its own production target of 30 million barrels a day it has
held since December 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  