-- Israeli Finance Minister Opposes Israel Chemicals Sale
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-04-11T09:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/israeli-finance-minister-opposes-israel-chemicals-sale.html
Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid
said he’d “adamantly oppose” the sale of fertilizer producer
 Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  to  Canada ’s  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc ., threatening to block what would be the  Middle East ’s
biggest takeover.  “This could be the final nail in the coffin for the
deal,” Richard Gussow, an analyst at DS Securities &
Investments in Tel Aviv, said yesterday by phone.  Lapid, 49, also put  Israel  Chemicals and other resource
developers on notice that he would reconsider how they’re taxed.
Shares in the Tel Aviv-based fertilizer producer, which mines
minerals from the  Dead Sea , fell the most in six months
yesterday.  The acquisition of Israel’s second-largest publicly traded
company would create the world’s biggest producer of potash, a
nutrient that helps crops withstand drought and strengthens
plant root systems. Potash Corp. had said it was seeking to gain
majority control of Israel Chemicals, in which it held a 14
percent stake. Optimism that a deal would materialize helped
boost  Israel Chemicals’ stock  5.3 percent in the three months
ending March 31.  Some lawmakers and unions had opposed the deal. Potash,
based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, said in February it was
putting its bid for Israel Chemicals on hold because of
political events.  “Israel’s natural resources are a public asset and the
Israeli public should be the first to benefit from them,” Lapid
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Shares Decline  Israel Chemicals dropped 3.7 percent to 44.32 shekels at
11:39 a.m. in Tel Aviv, the lowest since September. Yesterday,
the share closed down 4.7 percent. Israel Corp., its parent
company, dropped 1.4 percent to 2,449 shekels.  The Lapid announcement makes the deal “extremely
unlikely,” said Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Excellence
Nessuah Brokerage Ltd.  Lapid, a political newcomer, had stated his opposition to
such a deal while campaigning for office. His declaration, less
than a month after he became finance minister, made his
objections “extra official and extra emphatic,” Alper said.  “The real story, however, is that Lapid is considering
setting up a public committee to discuss how the state is taxing
natural resources,” Alper said. “This is triple worse.”  Lapid also said he would set up a panel to re-examine what
he called “the state’s rights” in natural resources that are
managed by private companies.  ‘Good Idea’  Spokesman for Israel Corp. and Potash Corp. declined to
comment on Lapid’s announcement.  Earlier yesterday, Israel Chemicals Chief Executive Officer
Stefan Borgas said the company would benefit from a deal.  “Merging ICL with a big, strong global partner is a good
idea,” Borgas said in a Bloomberg Television interview at the
 Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange.  Before becoming finance minister in March, Lapid had
criticized the transaction for its potential to harm Israel’s
southern Negev region. Lapid is head of Israel’s second-biggest
political party, Yesh Atid. Israel Chemicals employees have
threatened to strike if talks with the new government over a
deal are revived.  Potash Corp. closed unchanged at C$40.39 yesterday in
Toronto trading. The  shares  have declined 0.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  