-- Lithium Battery Industry Sees Safe Technology for Planes
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-11T20:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/lithium-batteries-can-be-safe-for-planes-experts-say.html
Lithium-ion batteries like the ones
that overheated on two  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliners can be made
safe enough for even the most critical transportation uses,
according to experts who spoke at a forum today.  “Safety is improving year on year for this technology,”
Dan Doughty, of Battery Safety Consulting Inc. in  Albuquerque ,
 New Mexico , said.  The question is whether safeguards, such as extensive
testing and building in protective circuitry, are too costly,
Vince Visco, senior vice president of strategy and business
development at  Quallion LLC , said in an interview. Los Angeles-
based Quallion makes batteries for use in space and medical
devices. He and Doughty spoke today at a U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board forum in Washington.  Boeing is proposing protections that include some of those
Visco described in its redesigned battery, including titanium
vents to draw smoke and fumes outside if a fire starts, as a way
to get its grounded planes airborne. The U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration  hasn’t said when it will act on Boeing’s proposed
fix.  The safety board, as part of an investigation into a 787
battery fire Jan. 7 in  Boston , is holding today’s forum to hear
from academic, industry and government officials on how to make
cells safer. It will hold a separate hearing April 23-24 to
examine the Dreamliner’s battery design and how it was certified
by the FAA.  Grounded Plane  Rechargeable lithium cells, which power devices ranging
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad to power tools, are increasingly being
used in transportation equipment because they are lighter and
hold more power than other battery technologies, NTSB Chairman
Debbie Hersman said in her opening statement.  “Yet, lithium-ion batteries, like other power sources,
such as the gasoline that powers so many personal vehicles, come
with risks,” Hersman said. “These batteries are designed to
produce energy -- it is their very nature that poses the
greatest risk.”  Visco declined in an interview to say whether Boeing’s plan
is sufficient to ensure safety on the plane. Adopting new
protections will bring the 787’s battery pack, which was
designed almost a decade ago, to more current standards, he
said.  The plane, Boeing’s newest airliner, has been grounded
since Jan. 16 following two incidents in which on board lithium
battery packs smoldered.  Solvable Puzzle  When they catch fire, lithium-based batteries may burn
violently, spewing flammable gas and molten metal. However,
batteries much larger than those on the 787 have proven
themselves in recent years in uses that include hybrid buses and
in power grids, Yet-Ming Chiang, a  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  professor who also spoke today’s forum, said.  The industry increasingly understands the ways that
batteries fail, which include internal short-circuits,
overheating, manufacturing defects and damage during use, Chiang
said.  “All of the major manufacturers try to test and plan for
those failure modes,” he said in an interview.  NASA , which has used lithium-based batteries on manned
space missions since 1999, performs extensive testing on each
cell and takes steps to limit the chances of fire, Judith
Jeevarajan, the agency lead for battery safety, said.  Other steps, such as never fully charging a battery, limit
the amount of heat discharged if a battery fails, she said.  Short-Circuit  “There is no reason to say that lithium-ion won’t have a
place in high-consequence applications, such as passenger
airplanes,” said Doughty, a former head of battery testing at
Sandia National Laboratories.  One subject discussed in the hearing may come up again in
the NTSB’s investigation: tests for the type of failure that
occurred in Boston, which the NTSB has found was an internal
short-circuit.  There is currently no agreement on how best to test for
internal shorts in cells, Laurie Florence, principal engineer at
UL LLC, the testing organization formerly known as Underwriters
Laboratories Inc., said at the forum.  To ensure the 787 batteries were safe, Boeing punctured a
cell with a nail to simulate a short-circuit. The battery didn’t
catch fire in Boeing’s tests. A nail test doesn’t accurately
replicate a short, Florence said.  The FAA has recorded 33 cases of batteries brought aboard
commercial planes by passengers or as cargo catching fire since
2009. Of those cases, 26, or 79 percent, involved lithium-based
batteries, according to the  agency .  Safety Incidents  Since 2006, three cargo jets have been destroyed in fires
where  lithium batteries  were present, according to the safety
board. Those cells were being shipped and weren’t part of the
aircraft. The  United Nations ’  International Civil Aviation
Organization  on Jan. 1 imposed new rules on air shipments of
lithium batteries.  A  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chevrolet Volt automobile caught fire
three weeks after a government crash test in 2011, spurring a
congressional hearing. GM fortified the plug-in’s lithium-ion
battery packs to help avoid damage from collisions.  Manufacturers made 4.4 billion lithium-ion batteries in
2012, up from 800 million in 2002, George Kerchner, executive
director of the Washington-based Rechargeable Battery
Association trade group, told the NTSB.  Airlines have told the FAA that on some cargo flights as
much as 85 percent of shipments are hazardous because of lithium
batteries, Janet McLaughlin, deputy director of the agency’s
hazardous materials program, said.  New System  Boeing got U.S. regulators’  permission  to install lithium-
ion batteries on the Dreamliner in 2007, three years after
passenger airlines were barred from carrying non-rechargeable
types as cargo.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)  of Kyoto,  Japan ,  made  the battery pack on
the 787. The firm sells them to  Thales SA (HO) , which then supplies
them to Boeing.  The 787 is the first airliner designed with lithium-ion
batteries as part of the electrical system. One starts an
auxiliary generator and another powers equipment, such as the
plane’s electric brakes, when engines aren’t running on the
ground. A smaller lithium-ion pack also provides backup power
for the cockpit displays, according to Boeing.  Boeing chose them for the 787, which uses more electricity
than previous designs, because they are lighter, hold more
energy and can be quickly recharged, Mike Sinnett, the 787 chief
project engineer, said in a January briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  