-- JAB Said Set to Bid for D.E Master Blenders With Banks
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-04-11T13:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/jab-said-set-to-bid-for-d-e-master-blenders-with-banks.html
Joh. A. Benckiser is close to
announcing a formal offer to buy D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV,
the coffee and tea company spun off by Sara Lee Corp., in a bid
that may value the company at 7.6 billion euros ($10 billion),
people familiar with the matter said.  JAB, the investment firm run by Bart Becht, plans to pay
about 12.75 euros a share, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is confidential. The agreement
will be announced within a week, the people said.  The investment arm of the German billionaire Reimann family
has secured financing from Citigroup Inc., Bank of America
Corp., Rabobank Groep and Morgan Stanley, according to the
people. The two parties said last month that they were in talks
that could lead to a deal, causing a 25 percent gain in Master
Blenders share price on March 28.  “They arranged financing quite quickly,” said Robert Jan
Vos, an analyst at ABM Amro. “The market now assumes that there
is close to 100 percent chance that the bid will be successful.
I still think it’s a knockout bid.”  D.E Master Blenders shares rose as much as 3.1 percent on
the news, and then traded up 0.7 percent at 12.20 euros at 2:41
p.m. in Amsterdam.  Master Blenders spokesman Michiel Quarles van Ufford
declined to comment, saying that he was not in a position to
comment on JAB’s plans. Spokesmen at Citigroup, Bank of America
and Morgan Stanley couldn’t be immediately reached for comment,
and officials at JAB and Rabobank declined to comment.  Coffee Empire  Buying Master Blenders will add to JAB’s coffee
investments, which it bolstered in the past year by purchasing
Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. for about $1 billion and Caribou Coffee
Co. for $340 million. A takeover would pit the Benckiser family
against  Nestle SA (NESN) , the Swiss maker of Nespresso, the biggest
single-service brand in the $45 billion global coffee business.  The offer valued Master Blenders at a multiple of 29 times
earnings, Pierre Tegner, an analyst at Natixis in Paris,
estimated last month. That’s less than the 40 times earnings
that JAB paid for Emeryville, California-based Peet’s and the 42
times it offered in December for Minneapolis-based Caribou.  Becht is assembling a coffee empire after JAB subsidiary
Coty Inc. unsuccessfully attempted a takeover last year of door-
to-door cosmetics seller  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  for more than $10
billion. Becht, also chairman of Coty, said then that the
perfume maker would pursue other opportunities.  Nespresso Compatible  Master Blenders makes L’OR capsules that are compatible
with Nespresso machines. Its Senseo system competes with
Nestle’s Nescafe Dolce Gusto portioned coffee brand.  Since being spun off from Sara Lee, Master Blenders has
restated earnings because of accounting irregularities in  Brazil 
and has reported sales that missed estimates. Chief Executive
Officer Michiel Herkemij left at the end of last year because of
a difference of opinion, leaving Chairman Jan Bennink in charge.  Other parties may eventually participate in the bid, one
person familiar with the matter said. In JAB’s takeover of
Peet’s Coffee last year, BDT Capital Partners LLC, the Chicago-
based firm run by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. vice chairman
 Byron Trott , also took a minority stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  