-- Japan’s Integral Plans to Start Second Fund as Equities Surge
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e   a n d   A m i n a   M o b l e y
-- 2013-04-11T03:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/japan-s-integral-plans-to-start-second-fund-as-equities-surge.html
Integral Corp., the Japanese
private equity firm established in 2007 that has invested in
listed companies, plans to raise 30 billion yen ($301 million)
for a second fund by the end of August as equities surge.  The firm has already received about 11 billion yen from at
least one national bank, several regional lenders and pension
funds, Nobuo Sayama, a partner and representative director at
Integral, said in an interview on April 9. It will invest in
seven to 10 companies over the next five years, Sayama said,
without giving further details.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s plan to revive the world’s
third-largest economy has helped push Japanese stocks to levels
unseen since before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008. Integral’s first fund started that month
and made investments in six companies, including buying  TYO Inc. (4358) 
shares in December 2010 at 49 yen, according to Sayama. The
advertisement company’s stock closed at 131 yen yesterday.  “The market environment has recovered from the wounds
inflicted by Lehman,” Sayama said. Integral is positioning
itself as a “Japanese-style private equity fund,” emphasizing
long-term commitment and support for companies, Sayama said.  The manager raised 11.2 billion yen for its first fund and
also invested in BPS Co., a privately-held manufacturing company
that provided an estimated annual internal rate of return of
30.4 percent, according to Sayama.  Negative Image  “Very little of Japanese corporate pensions is invested in
private equity funds, so capturing even two or three percent of
that total would amount to a considerable sum,” said Kazuya
Kabayama, a senior researcher at the Tokyo-based  Research
Institute for Policies on Pension & Aging . The stock rally may
boost the track record of private equity funds, helping soften
their negative image in the country and encourage investment,
Kabayama said.  While the awareness of funds such as Integral’s has
increased in  Japan  in the past ten years, it “is still short of
our expectations and far below that seen in the U.S.,” Sayama
said.  Sayama helped set up Unison Capital Inc. in 1998, an
investment firm involved in the turn-around of Japanese
confectionery maker Tohato Inc. He was a founder of GCA Savvian
Group Corp. in 2004, which advised  Daikin Industries Ltd. (6367) ’s
acquisition of Goodman Global Inc. Sayama stepped down as a
board member of GCA on March 27 to become its honorary adviser
and to focus on Integral.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
Amina Mobley in Tokyo at 
 amobley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  