-- JetBlue Chief Seeks Broader, Deeper International Airline Links
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-11T12:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/jetblue-chief-seeks-broader-deeper-international-airline-links.html
JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  Chief
Executive Officer David Barger said the U.S. discount carrier
will introduce one or two two-way code-share agreements this
year as it expands international ties to feed its route network.  The first of such deals will emerge from one of six
existing code-shares with foreign airlines, Barger said today in
an interview at the CAPA Centre for Aviation conference.  South
African Airways  may be the inaugural partner, he said in
Powerscourt, Ireland.  JetBlue is adding one-way Aer Lingus code-share operations
to 33 U.S. markets this month. The deal, which expands a long-
running partnership, adds to similar agreements JetBlue has with
equity stakeholder  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Emirates, Japan
Airlines Co., Hawaiian Airlines Inc. and South African Air.  “When you really want to optimize your relationship you
need two-way codes,” Barger said. “Our policy has been to move
a little bit slow because we want to make sure the technology is
ready.”  Barger said he’s also interested in expanded ties with  Aer
Lingus (AERL)  after the Irish carrier co-located its operations at  New
York ’s John F. Kennedy International Airport in JetBlue’s
facility. A similar move in  Boston  would be of interest, he
said.  Aer Lingus Ties  The relationship could further grow if Aer Lingus expands
its network, he said.  “We’d love to see something non-stop to Cork” in Ireland,
Barger said. JetBlue is not interested in taking an equity stake
in the Irish carrier, he said.  Beyond the code-share deals, JetBlue has 17 other
partnership agreements with other airlines. That number could
grow by six to eight more, Barger said.  Later this year, the airline will roll out details of a
premium product and will eschew the first and business-class
labels, Barger said. Demand for the offering is driven by high-
yield transcontinental U.S. routes, rather than the link with
foreign airlines, he said.  The product will become available in the second quarter
next year, he said. The product will feature on the carrier’s
fleet of Airbus SAS A321 narrow-bodies, with delivery of the
first of 30 expected in October, Barger said. Some of the
smaller A320s could also get the premium product.  Barger said JetBlue could buy additional Airbus A320neo
jets, the re-engined version that the Toulouse, France-based
aircraft maker is developing. JetBlue has already bough 40 neos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  