-- John Paulson to Start Fund to Reduce Clients’ Tax Bills
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-04-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/john-paulson-to-start-fund-to-reduce-clients-tax-bills.html
Billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , who last month considered a move to Puerto Rico to
lower his tax bill, is starting a fund to help investors reduce
the amount they owe to the U.S. government.  Paulson’s $18 billion hedge-fund firm invited prospective
clients to an April 24 event at Paulson & Co.’s New York
offices, where the 57-year-old founder will talk about the
Paulson Partners Premium LP Fund, described as a “risk-
arbitrage fund for investors looking to mitigate income taxes.”
The 75-minute presentation will include a 15-minute discussion
of tax-deferred or tax-free investing in the fund, according to
the invitation, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  “He seems to be more focused on avoiding income taxes than
on generating returns for his investors,” said  Brad Alford ,
head of Atlanta-based Alpha Capital Management LLC, who runs a
 mutual fund of funds  that invests in hedge funds. “It gives
billionaires a bad name.”  Paulson, a lifelong New Yorker who became a billionaire in
2007 by betting against subprime mortgages, considered moving to
Puerto Rico to take advantage of a favorable new tax law before
scrapping the idea last month. He’s trying to rebound from two
years of losses in some investment strategies.  Armel Leslie  of Walek & Associates, a spokesman for the
firm, declined to comment on the planned fund.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund, once part of the firm’s
largest strategy, has fallen about 58 percent from the end of
2010 through March, meaning investors have paid no taxes on the
fund in the last two years. All five of Paulson’s strategies
began the year below their so-called high-water marks, putting
longer-term clients in a favorable tax position.  Merger Funds  Paulson and his employees may benefit from the new fund, as
they account for more than 60 percent of the firm’s assets.  Paulson’s merger fund returned an average of 15 percent
from 1994 to the end of last year, and a leveraged version
gained 19 percent a year since its 2003 inception. Those funds
surpassed their high-water marks in the first quarter.  Bloomberg News reported March 11 that Paulson had been
exploring a move to Puerto Rico, where a new law would eliminate
taxes on gains from the $9.5 billion he has invested in his own
hedge funds, according to people who spoke to him about a
possible relocation. Four days later, his firm said he wouldn’t
set up a permanent residence there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  