-- JPMorgan Asset Preparing for Emerging Stocks Rebound in 2nd Half
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-04-11T11:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/jpmorgan-asset-preparing-for-emerging-stocks-rebound-in-2nd-half.html
JPMorgan Asset Management, the
investing arm of the largest U.S. bank, is preparing for a
rebound in emerging-market equities in the second half of this
year spurred by improved earnings.  JPMorgan Asset is buying Korean automaker shares hurt by
investor concern that a weaker yen will limit their ability to
compete against Japanese exporters,Richard Titherington, chief
investment officer and head of  emerging markets , said in an
interview yesterday. The company favors consumer discretionary
stocks with “very low valuations” and has its biggest
overweight position in  China , he said yesterday.  “A strong recovery in the second half” for emerging
market equities will “significantly close the gap” with
developed-nation shares, said Titherington, who manages $47
billion in emerging-market stocks. “We’ve entered some of the
Korean auto companies where the share prices have fallen sharply
when the yen has weakened” on expectation “that’s a temporary
headwind,” he said.  The benchmark  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has dropped 2.5
percent this year, lagging behind an 8.8 percent surge in the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced-country stocks, as 58 percent of
developing-nation companies reported  worse  fourth quarter
earnings than estimated by analysts, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest automaker,
extended its decline to 8 percent this year as the Japanese yen
reached its weakest level versus the dollar since April 2009
yesterday.  “The yen is around fair value now, so I would expect this
headwind to reverse in the second half of the year,”
Titherington said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  