-- Kansas Chaplain Awarded Medal of Honor 62 Years After Korean War
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2013-04-11T18:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/kansas-chaplain-awarded-medal-of-honor-62-years-after-korean-war.html
President  Barack Obama  awarded Army
Chaplain Emil J. Kapaun the Medal of Honor almost 62 years after
his death for his “extraordinary heroism” in aiding fellow
soldiers during the Korean War.  “Father Kapaun has been called a shepherd in combat
boots,” the president said at a ceremony at the White House,
attended by Kapaun’s nephew, Ray Kapaun, and other family
members. “His fellow soldiers, who felt his grace and mercy,
called  him a saint, a blessing from God.”  During enemy attacks, Kapaun, a Roman Catholic priest from
Kansas, “calmly walked through withering enemy fire in order to
provide comfort and medical aid to his comrades,” according to
a White House statement.  He served with the 3d Battalion, 8th Cavalry Regiment, 1st
Cavalry Division during combat operations in the Battle of
Unsan. Obama cited one of Kapaun’s fellow soldiers as saying
“that with his very presence he could, just for a moment, turn
a mud hut into a cathedral.”  Kapaun was first captured by the North Korean Army on Nov.
1, 1950. He escaped when his captors were shot by allied
soldiers. He was taken again a day later “when he volunteered
to stay back with the wounded,” according to an Army account.  Kapaun was held in a North Korea prison of war camp at
Pyoktong and continued his ministry and care for soldiers inside
the POW camp. He died of multiple illnesses on May 23, 1951, at
age 35.  Kapaun was, Obama said,  “an American soldier who didn’t
fire a gun but who wielded the mightiest weapon of all: the love
for his brothers so pure that he was willing to die so that they
might live.”  The Medal of Honor, first authorized in 1861, is awarded to
a member of the armed forces for personal acts of valor above
and beyond the call of duty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  