-- Kim’s Threats Bid to Bolster Power, U.S.’s Clapper Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-04-11T16:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/kim-s-threats-bid-to-bolster-power-u-s-s-clapper-says.html
 Kim Jong Un’s “primary objective
is to consolidate and affirm his power” as  North Korea ’s
dictator since succeeding his late father,  James Clapper , the
U.S. director of national intelligence, said today.  “Much of the rhetoric of late is designed for both
internal and external audiences,” Clapper told the House
intelligence committee. Kim’s goal “first and foremost is to
show he’s firmly in control in North  Korea ,” Clapper said.  North Korea has repeatedly said the region is on the brink
of war since its February nuclear test prompted tighter United
Nations sanctions and the U.S. and  South Korea  began annual
joint drills last month. Kim’s regime has threatened to wage
nuclear war against the U.S. and South Korea.  Despite the threats, North Korea currently lacks the
ability to hit the U.S. with a ballistic missile, Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel said today.  “Right now, I don’t think we believe they have that
capacity,” Hagel told the House Armed Services Committee.  Clapper, presenting the U.S. intelligence community’s
annual global threat assessment, told House lawmakers that the
untested Kim seems “more impetuous and not as inhibited as his
father.” Kim’s father,  Kim Jong Il , died in December 2011.  Unlike his father’s extended “grooming period” of more
than a decade, Kim was being prepared for only two to three
years so “we don’t have a big track record on the new leader,
not much history,” Clapper said.  Underestimating China  Clapper said Kim is “underestimating the Chinese
frustration and discomfiture with his behavior.”  China , North
Korea’s neighbor and chief economic supporter, joined in the
latest round of UN economic sanctions against the regime.  To the extent “that anyone has remaining leverage --
because we have used up most of our sanctions options -- it’s
clearly from the Chinese,” Clapper said.  In one sign of a possible moderation in tone, North Korea
called the closing of an industrial park jointly run with South
Korea temporary.  While blaming the South for this week’s suspension of
operations at the Gaeseong complex north of the border, the move
is “temporary,” the official Korean Central News Agency said,
citing an unidentified government spokesman. South Korean
Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae called for dialogue between
the two sides to resolve the issue.  South Korean shares and the won gained for the third day,
as the  Bank of Korea  froze its key  interest rate  at 2.75 percent
for a sixth month. The benchmark  Kospi index  rose 0.7 percent to
close at 1,949.80 in  Seoul , while the won strengthened by 0.6
percent to 1,129.25 versus the dollar.  ‘Sea of Fire’  A North Korean organization today reiterated that the
country is on a war footing and is ready to attack, and that its
warheads are already programmed with target coordinates.  “Just pressing the button will be enough to turn the
strongholds of the enemies into the sea of fire,” the Committee
for the Peaceful Reunification of Korea said in a statement
carried by KCNA.  The possibility of a North Korean missile test is “very
high” and “may materialize anytime from now,” South Korean
Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se said yesterday. South Korean and
U.S. forces upgraded their joint surveillance “Watchcon”
status by one level to monitor for an imminent missile firing,
Yonhap reported, citing unnamed military officials.  North Korea may fire a missile anytime until around April
15, the 101st anniversary of state founder  Kim Il Sung ’s birth,
South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said today.
Kim Il Sung, who died in 1994, is the grandfather of the current
leader.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  