-- Korea Won Jumps Most in Two Weeks, Bonds Slump as BOK Holds Rate
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-04-11T01:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/korean-won-jumps-most-in-2-weeks-bonds-fall-before-bok-meeting.html
The won rose the most in more than
two weeks as global funds boosted holdings of South Korean
shares on speculation multilateral efforts will ease tensions
with North Korea. Bonds fell the most since September 2011 as
the central bank kept  interest rates  steady for a sixth month.  Foreign investors  bought  more local shares than they sold
for a second day, stock exchange data show. Governor Kim Choong
Soo and his board held the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate
at 2.75 percent, the central bank said in a statement in Seoul
today. Eleven of 20 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
forecast a reduction as tensions with North Korean threaten to
damp business and consumer sentiment. The North may detonate a
nuclear device or carry out a missile test as early as this
week, the South’s  Defense Ministry  said on April 8.  “The won briefly soared as the central bank kept rates
unchanged,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based currency analyst
for Samsung Futures Inc. “The currency is receiving a bout of
support from foreign buying of local stocks and easing tensions
linked to North Korea’s missile tests.”  The won strengthened 0.5 percent to 1,130.76 per dollar at
10:50 a.m. in Seoul, after rising as much as 0.9 percent to
1,125.94 earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-
month implied volatility in the won, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 29 basis
points, or 0.29 percentage point, to 10.15 percent.  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said yesterday at a
Pentagon news conference that North Korea has “been skating
very close to a dangerous line” and should tone down its
“bellicose rhetoric” to ease mounting tensions in the region.
China’s exports to North Korea fell in the first quarter, in
what may be a signal to Kim Jong Un’s regime to change its
behavior following a December rocket launch and nuclear test.  ‘Lingering Risks’  President Park Geun Hye is preparing to roll out fiscal
stimulus after the  finance ministry  said yesterday that any
prolonged geopolitical risks may exacerbate weakness in
economic-growth momentum. While  South Korea  is wrestling with
elevated  household debt , a stagnant  property market  and weakness
in the yen that helps competitors in Japan, Kim said last month
that interest rates are already “accommodative.”  “The  Bank of Korea  made an independent decision” despite
the government’s pressure to act, said Lee Jae Seung, a fixed
income strategist at KB Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
“The decision shows the central bank isn’t assessing the
economy is weakening both at home and overseas.”  The yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due March
2018 rose 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 2.68
percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. That was
the biggest jump since September, 2011. The yield touched a
record low of 2.52 percent on March 28.  The benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  of shares fell 0.4 percent,
reversing an earlier advance. The  Bank of New York Mellon Korea
ADR Index , which tracks American depositary receipts of South
Korean companies in New York, jumped 2.3 percent yesterday,
ending seven days of declines, the longest losing streak in more
than two months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  