-- Nasdaq CEO Greifeld Bonus Cut on Facebook IPO as Total Pay Rises
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-04-11T23:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/nasdaq-cuts-greifeld-s-incentive-pay-by-542-100-citing-facebook.html
Robert Greifeld , the chief
executive officer of  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , received 18 percent
more in compensation for 2012 even as his bonus was reduced due
to the mishandling of the  Facebook Inc. (FB)  initial public offering.  Greifeld’s total pay including salary, incentives and stock
awards was $8.9 million, up from $7.6 million in 2011, according
to a regulatory  filing  yesterday. His cash bonus fell 62 percent
to $1.35 million, in part because the compensation committee
reduced it by $542,100 after the Facebook IPO.  Nasdaq , the second-largest operator of U.S. equity
exchanges, plans to pay $62 million to member firms that lost
money last May after a computer malfunction led to confusion
about whether brokers and their customers owned Facebook shares
or not. Anna Ewing, Nasdaq’s executive vice president in charge
of global technology, had her bonus cut by $263,625 in
connection with the offering, the New York-based company said.  “The management compensation committee may, in its sole
discretion, reduce some or all of the amount that would
otherwise be payable with respect to an award,” the filing
said. “The committee and board explicitly considered the
 Facebook IPO  in connection with their review and determination
of these reduced payouts.”  Greifeld’s stock grant reflects terms of a February 2012
employment contract that cited his success building Nasdaq into
a company that runs exchanges around the world and provides
technology globally. His base salary of $1 million has been the
same since 2006, the filing said.  Nasdaq Shares  Nasdaq’s stock has climbed every year since 2010 and has
rallied 17 percent this year, beating the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index’s 12 percent increase. Earnings have topped analyst
forecasts for eight of the last nine quarters, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Computer systems used to establish Facebook’s opening price
on May 18 were overwhelmed by order cancellations and updates
during the “biggest IPO cross in the history of mankind,”
Greifeld said two days after the offering. Nasdaq’s systems fell
into a “loop” that kept the company from opening the shares on
time and order confirmations to firms were delayed.  “This was not our finest hour,” Greifeld said in a May 20
call with reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 