-- Nations Lead Carbon Plans Amid Elusive Global Price, Shell Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-04-11T12:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/nations-lead-carbon-plans-amid-elusive-global-price-shell-says.html
Investors in clean-energy projects
will need to work within national policy “bubbles” because a
global carbon price will remain elusive for years, according to
 David Hone ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s climate adviser.  The U.K. set a floor on carbon prices this month to
encourage investment in climate-protecting projects as the cost
of European Union emission permits fell near a record low. The
support makes Britain attractive to Shell, which is a preferred
bidder for 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) of funding for a
commercial carbon-capture project, Hone said in an interview.  Policymakers need to move toward a so-called clean carbon
price by avoiding “invisible” influences such as subsidies and
feed-in tariffs, a process that probably won’t happen in the EU
before 2015, he said. The bloc’s parliament is scheduled to vote
April 16 on a plan to reduce the surplus of emission allowances
that contributed to the price slump.  “The clean carbon price is the cheapest way forward, but
we don’t have that today, even though we know that  carbon
capture  and storage really needs to get going,” he said. “The
policy bubble approach that the U.K. has embarked on to deliver
one or two CCS projects is probably the best way forward, given
the circumstances.”  Carbon Floor  Britain is demanding utilities pay 4.94 pounds per metric
ton of carbon dioxide emitted for the year through March 2014
under its price floor plan. The cost steps up to as much as
18.08 pounds a ton by 2015.  The U.K. is seeking to spur carbon-reducing projects by
making it more costly to burn fossil fuels. On top of the
support payments, the nation’s energy companies may have to pay
out another 14 euros ($18) a ton if EU lawmakers approve
proposals to delay the sale of new permits in a strategy known
as backloading, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Without U.K. support, Shell’s carbon-capture project isn’t
attractive after a 57 percent slump in EU emission allowances in
the past two years, Hone said. The  oil company  plans to fit
equipment to trap emissions from  Scotland ’s Peterhead power
station for storage in the depleted Goldeneye offshore gas
reservoir.  Policymakers in the U.S. are seeking a 2015 climate deal
that may allow nations to initially set their own targets, said
Cameron Prell, the U.S. working group chairman of the Climate
Markets & Investment Association, a London-based industry group.  “The U.S. clearly thinks it’s more important to get all
countries to agree on individual reduction goals that will be
implemented first, and work on ambition second,” said Prell,
who is also senior counsel for climate and energy at
McGuireWoods LLP in  Washington .  The U.S. submission to United Nations climate talks
starting April 29 in Bonn said countries may not have in place
even by 2015 their “full range” of post-2020 measures and
“will need to have the flexibility to update their
contributions.”  Companies will have to live with the patchwork of support
available, said Shell’s Hone.  “A global carbon price is a bit of a far-off wish,” he
said. “What we would like to see first is countries or regions
having a clean carbon price, a carbon market unaffected by other
policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  