-- Nestle Says Switzerland Risks Losing Business Attractiveness
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-04-11T13:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/nestle-says-switzerland-risks-losing-business-attractiveness.html
Nestle SA (NESN) ’s chairman said
Switzerland is becoming more difficult as a business location
after voters last month approved some of the world’s toughest
limits on executives’ pay.  “The political and regulatory environment for publicly
listed companies is becoming more difficult in this country,”
Peter Brabeck-Letmathe told shareholders at the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company’s annual general meeting in Lausanne
today.  The initiative against “fat cats,” proposed by Thomas
Minder, head of a herbal toothpaste company, was backed by 67.9
percent of the voters in a March 3 referendum. The measure would
give  shareholders  an annual ballot on managers’ pay, eliminates
sign-on bonuses, severance packages and extra incentives for
completing merger transactions. The initiative also includes
rules punishing executives who violate the terms with as long as
three years in jail.  “It is now crucial to respect the Swiss voting
population’s decision and to find practical legislative
solutions which safeguard the long-term attractiveness of
 Switzerland  as a business location,” Brabeck said in his
speech.  Job Creation  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, has invested more
than 3.2 billion Swiss francs ($3.4 billion) in Switzerland over
the past 10 years, boosting its  headcount  in the country by
3,500 to more than 10,000 employees, he said. More than 60
percent of the company’s global research and development
spending is in its homeland.  “Nestle wants to stay in Switzerland,” Brabeck also said,
adding that country’s long-term stability is “constantly being
challenged.”  The government has said it will issue directives to
implement the Minder initiative within the next year. Parliament
will then need to amend national laws.  The Nescafe maker said Feb. 14 it expects 2013 to be as
challenging as last year, when sales missed analysts’ estimates
on a slowdown in  emerging markets , the source of more than 40
percent of its revenue.  Brabeck’s total compensation in 2012 was 6.97 million
francs, while Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  was paid 9.97
million francs, according to Nestle’s annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  