-- Netflix CEO Hastings Uses Facebook to Announce Viewership
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-04-12T18:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/netflix-ceo-hastings-uses-facebook-to-announce-viewership.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive
Officer  Reed Hastings  posted quarterly viewer data on Facebook,
a day after announcing he’d take advantage of new rules that
allow material information to be disclosed over social media.  “Over the last three months, you all watched over 4
billion hours on Netflix,” Hastings wrote yesterday on his  page 
on Facebook Inc.’s social-media service.  Hastings is staking out a lead role in the use of social
media to communicate with investors. Netflix said on April 10 it
may use Facebook and Twitter for material announcements,
permissible under guidelines issued last week by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which ended a probe into
Hastings’ earlier Facebook posts on viewer usage.  “We encourage investors, the media, and others interested
in our company to review the information we post on the U.S.
social media channels,” Netflix said then in the April 10
 regulatory filing .  Yesterday’s post by Hastings prompted a research note from
BTIG LLC’s  Rich Greenfield  titled: “Is Netflix Now the Most
Watched ‘Cable Network’ on Television? 87 Minutes Per Household
Per Day.”  Netflix, the world’s largest online subscription video
service, rose 4.2 percent yesterday, propelled by a separate
note from Goldman, Sachs & Co. analysts, who raised their
estimates for subscribers, revenue and profitability.  As of 2:21 p.m. in  New York , Netflix  was down   0.3 percent
to $172.44. Before today’s trading, the shares had gained 87
percent this year.  Higher Prices?  “The content library is increasing the value of Netflix to
subscribers that results in a larger addressable market and
higher average revenue per user long term,” Goldman analysts
led by Heath Terry said in the research note.  The analysts suggested Netflix could reap about 5 percent
more revenue per subscriber in the U.S. and internationally
starting in 2014, through price increases or by limiting
simultaneous use of accounts.  A spokesman for Netflix declined to discuss pricing plans
or to elaborate on the use of social media beyond the filing.  The new SEC guidelines clear companies to use Facebook and
Twitter as long as investors are notified first.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , said it will
continue to make financial announcements on its website, in
filings and in press releases. The company said it may also
release material information on its  Facebook  and  Twitter 
accounts, Hastings’s Facebook page or on the  Netflix Blog  and
 Netflix Tech Blog .  Regulatory Scrutiny  Hastings, 52, stirred controversy over SEC disclosure rules
when he wrote in a July 3 post on Facebook that viewing on
Netflix’s streaming service had “exceeded 1 billion hours for
the first time” in June. He is a  director  at  Facebook Inc. (FB)   In December, Netflix and Hastings received notices
indicating the SEC staff planned to take enforcement action over
the posting. The agency reversed its position this month.  “I wasn’t setting out to set an example, I was sharing
something to these 200,000 people,” Hastings said in a January
interview. “I’m not going to back down and say it’s
inappropriate. I think it’s perfectly fine. Sometimes you’re
just the example that triggers the debate.”  The new SEC rules have generated controversy.  Business
Wire , the unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  that
distributes press releases, said last week the SEC is hurting
investors.  Facebook Flood  Guidance from the SEC allowing the use of social media to
disclose financial information “poses a disservice to the
investment community, threatening increased fragmentation of
price-sensitive information,” Business Wire said in the April 4
statement. The stance also raises “privacy concerns as users
are required to register to gain access to material news,
security risks that may adversely affect market stability.”  The SEC hasn’t taken into account mechanics that make it
difficult to filter Facebook or Twitter feeds to isolate posts
by companies from others, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with
Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles . That will require investors
to monitor an avalanche of unrelated material in case Netflix
releases news, he said.  “The SEC made a mistake,” said Pachter, who has an
underperform rating on Netflix, the equivalent of a sell
recommendation. “This is going to backfire on them, and a
prudent company wouldn’t consider Facebook or Twitter as their
only means of public dissemination of material information.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  