-- Netflix Says It May Post News to Facebook, Twitter
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-04-11T14:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/netflix-lists-facebook-twitter-as-media-sources-for-disclosures.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the subscription
video-streaming service, said it may use Facebook and Twitter to
release material information now that U.S. regulators have
cleared the practice.  The Los Gatos, California-based company listed the social-
media services operated by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. as
possible outlets for news in a  regulatory filing  yesterday.
Netflix said it will continue to make financial announcements on
its website, in filings and in press releases.  The move furthers Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings’
role in legitimizing the use of social media to disseminate
financial information. Last week, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission ended an investigation of Hastings and the
company, clearing them for his Facebook posts that regulators
deemed material. The new guidelines clear companies to use
Facebook and Twitter as long as investors are notified first.  “While the SEC exercised restraint here, in the future, it
appears that the use of social media to communicate material,
non-public information, without prior and appropriate notice to
the public, may run afoul” of fair-disclosure rules, lawyers
for Kaye, Scholer LLP wrote in an April 3 report.  Netflix  rose  2.9 percent to $170.84 at 10:12 a.m. in New
York. Before today’s trading, the stock had gained 79 percent so
far this year.  Setting ‘Example’  In its filing, the company said it may release material
information on its Facebook or Twitter feeds, Hastings’ Facebook
page or on the Netflix Blog and Netflix Tech Blog.  Hastings, 52, stirred controversy over SEC disclosure rules
when he wrote in a July 3 post on Facebook that viewing on
Netflix’s streaming service had “exceeded 1 billion hours for
the first time” in June. Hastings serves as a  director  at
Facebook.  In December, Netflix and Hastings received notices
indicating the SEC staff planned to take enforcement action over
the posting.  “I wasn’t setting out to set an example, I was sharing
something to these 200,000 people,” Hastings said in a January
interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “I’m not going
to back down and say it’s inappropriate. I think it’s perfectly
fine. Sometimes you’re just the example that triggers the
debate.”  ‘Investor Disservice’  This month, the SEC reversed course, dropping any
enforcement action and issuing guidance letting companies use
social media sites to communicate. The guidance came as part of
a report detailing the investigation into Netflix and Hastings.  “We encourage investors, the media, and others interested
in our company to review the information we post on the U.S.
social media channels,” Netflix said in yesterday’s filing.  The new guidelines have generated controversy. Business
Wire, the unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  that
distributes press releases, said last week that the SEC is
hurting investors by allowing the increased use of social media
sites for posting financial information.  Guidance from the SEC “poses a disservice to the
investment community, threatening increased fragmentation of
price-sensitive information,” Business Wire said in the April 4
statement. The stance also raises “privacy concerns as users
are required to register to gain access to material news,
security risks that may adversely affect market stability.”  The SEC hasn’t taken into account mechanics that make it
difficult to filter Facebook or Twitter feeds to isolate posts
by companies from others, said Michael Pachter, an analyst with
Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles. That will require investors
to monitor an avalanche of unrelated material in case Netflix
releases news, he said.  “The SEC made a mistake,” said Pachter, who has an
underperform rating on the shares, the equivalent to a sell.
“This is going to backfire on them, and a prudent company
wouldn’t consider  Facebook (FB)  or Twitter as their only means of
public dissemination of material information.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  