-- New Zealand House Sales Jump as Finance Minister Warns on Prices
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-11T03:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/new-zealand-house-sales-jump-as-finance-minister-warns-on-prices.html
New Zealand house sales rose to the
highest in almost six years as prices surged, adding to a
property market boom that Finance Minister  Bill English  said
might trigger an earlier increase in interest rates.  House sales climbed 11 percent from March last year to
8,128, the most for a month since May 2007, the Real Estate
Institute of New Zealand said in an e-mailed statement. House
 prices  advanced 8.6 percent from a year-earlier, led by a 16
percent jump in Auckland, home to a third of the nation’s 4.4
million people.  English today joined central bank policy makers in warning
that rising  house prices  may increase  household debt  levels and
could fan inflation, prompting an interest rate response.  “The current rate of house price inflation, if it
continues, is likely to be accompanied by higher  interest rates 
sooner, and higher exchange rates,” English said in a speech in
Wellington. “Progress on debt reduction has slowed and
household debt is rising again as the housing market heats up.”  Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said March 14 that he
expected to keep the official cash rate unchanged at a record-
low 2.5 percent this year. His deputy Grant Spencer said April 8
that stance may change were rising property demand to stoke a
damaging housing boom.  The central bank has kept borrowing costs unchanged since
March 2011 to help the economy recover from devastating
earthquakes and a global slowdown that curbed exports. Wheeler
is reluctant to raise interest rates because the nation’s
currency is rising and a drought may slow growth this year, he
said last month.  Exporters Struggling  New Zealand ’s dollar has gained 3.6 percent against the U.S.
currency this year, the best-performing Group of 10 currency.
The so-called kiwi bought 85.50 yen at 3:42 p.m. in Wellington.
Earlier it reached 85.78 yen, the highest since February 2008.  “Our exporters are already struggling against the
headwinds of a high exchange rate,” English said. “Households
with high debt levels will be adversely affected by any increase
in interest rates.”  House sales in March rose 3.6 percent from February after
adjusting for seasonal influences, the Real Estate Institute
said. Prices gained 2.4 percent from February, the biggest
monthly gain since March 2007.  Sales in Auckland and Christchurch make up 52 percent of
national transactions and 90 percent of the annual increase in
prices, the institute said.  “There’s a real danger that the Auckland housing market is
mistaken for the New Zealand housing market, and that regulatory
decisions are made on the assumption that conditions in Auckland
and Canterbury are replicated across the rest of the country,”
Chief Executive Officer Helen O’Sullivan said in the  statement .
“Across the rest of the country, price gains are far more
modest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  