-- NHL Joins Gay Rights Group in Effort to Be Most Inclusive League
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-11T18:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/nhl-joins-gay-rights-group-in-effort-to-be-most-inclusive-league.html
The National Hockey League
announced today a partnership with a gay rights advocacy group,
continuing what it calls its quest to become the “most
inclusive professional sports league” in the world.  The NHL and its players union reached an agreement with the
 You Can Play Project , a Denver-based advocacy group that opposes
homophobia in sports and promotes lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender, or LGBT, equality. The partnership includes
educational and support components for teams, players and fans
of the league.  “Our motto is ’Hockey Is For Everyone,’ and our
partnership with You Can Play certifies that position in a clear
and unequivocal way,” NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said in a
statement. “We are delighted to reaffirm through this joint
venture with the NHL  Players’ Association  that the official
policy of the NHL is one of inclusion on the ice, in our locker
rooms and in the stands.”  The news comes after the Baltimore Sun reported last week
that a male athlete in one of North America’s major sports
leagues is considering becoming the first active athlete to
publicly say he is gay. The newspaper said that more than one
current National Football League player was considering going
public with his homosexuality.  As part of the NHL partnership, You Can Play will conduct
seminars at the league’s rookie symposium to educate young
prospects on LGBT issues, according to the release. The NHL also
committed to working with teams to further advance the message,
and will enable players to seek counseling or ask questions
regarding sexual orientation through the league’s Behavioral
Health Program.  Patrick Burke  The You Can Play Project was started last year by Patrick
Burke, a scout with the NHL’s Philadelphia Flyers and son of
former Toronto Maple Leafs general manager Brian Burke, after
the death of his brother Brendan, who was gay. A manager for the
Miami University hockey team, Brendan Burke died three years ago
in a car accident at age 21.  “The hockey culture is ready for an openly gay teammate,”
Patrick Burke said today in a telephone interview.  Many NHL players have already appeared in ads for You Can
Play, including Henrik Lundqvist and Brian Boyle of the New York
Rangers. More than 100 players have publicly said they would
support an openly gay teammate, according to the league.  -- With assistance from  Scott Soshnick  in New York. Editors:
Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  