-- Noonan Says Ireland Isn’t Actively Seeking Precautionary Line
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-11T08:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/noonan-says-ireland-isn-t-actively-seeking-precautionary-line.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said the government is making progress in its efforts to
regain full  market access  and isn’t “actively” seeking a
precautionary  credit line .  “We are moving quite well in terms of exiting the program
and getting back into the market,” Noonan told reporters in
Dublin today, referring to Ireland’s bailout. “We are not
actively pursuing precautionary lines” and “we don’t see that
as urgent at present,” he said.  Noonan raised the possibility last year of a precautionary
credit line being provided to the government as it makes a full
return to international markets. Ireland’s debt agency sold 5
billion euros ($6.5 billion) last month in its first 10-year
debt issuance since its international rescue in 2010.  The yield on Ireland’s security due in March 2023 held at
3.91 percent today, down from 4.22 percent at the end of March.  The Irish finance minister was speaking before a meeting
with European Union colleagues in Dublin that starts later
today. Asked about seven-year extensions on the bailout loans
granted to  Portugal  and Ireland, Noonan said he’s “hopeful”
that some progress will be made.  Portugal’s situation has been complicated after a court
blocked budget cuts required under the country’s bailout.  Noonan said that “we’re not sure yet whether there will be
a political decision taken tomorrow morning or not.”  “It’s not possible to take the formal decision,” he said.
Portugal will “obviously have to come forward with alternative
proposals to replace those that have been deemed
unconstitutional.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  