-- Nordex Leads German Clean-Energy Companies Tapping Turkey
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-12T09:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/nordex-leads-german-clean-energy-companies-tapping-turkey-growth.html
German clean-energy companies led
by wind turbine maker  Nordex SE (NDX1)  are working to boost sales in
Turkey, tapping support from the government in Berlin to benefit
from the nation’s growing demand for electricity.  Nordex, which is based in Hamburg, may invest in a rotor
blade manufacturing plant in Turkey that could start producing
early 2014, said Ibrahim Ozarslan, managing director of Turkish
unit Nordex Enerji A.S. Vexco GmbH, a clean-energy developer,
broker and financial adviser based in Bonn, said it received
“several inquiries” from mid-sized companies in Germany that
want to invest in solar plants in Turkey.  “Turkey is an exciting market for renewable energy
developers and financiers,” Vandana Gombar, senior policy
analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail.
“Companies can benefit from high prices in the wholesale power
market and healthy growth in demand for electricity on the back
of strong economic growth.”  German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler today finishes a
three-day trip to Ankara, where he was accompanied by
representatives from more than 50 companies including Germany’s
biggest utility, EON SE, along with Nordex, Vexco and financiers
from Deutsche Bank AG and KFW Group.  Companies Investing  Turkey, which depends on fossil-fuel imports mainly from
Russian and  Iran  for much of its energy needs, has lured
international investors including  General Electric Co. (GE) , EON and
 Siemens AG (SIE)  to its power industry. The nation’s electricity
regulator forecasts annual demand growth of 6.3 percent through
2023, creating a $130 billion market for investments in energy.  “We know it’s the goal of the Turkish government to reduce
dependence on energy imports,” Roesler told a German-Turkish
energy conference today in Ankara also attended by Turkish
Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz . “Renewable energies can play a
special role in that.”  While Turkey has “strong” wind and solar resources,
expansion has been held back by “complex licensing,
transmission issues and perhaps more importantly a feed-in
tariff that is not considered very attractive, especially for
solar power,” Daniel Guttmann, head of renewable energy
strategy at PWC in  London , said by e-mail.  Turkish Boom  Turkey’s economy grew 9.2 percent in 2010 and 8.5 percent
in 2011, the fastest pace on the European continent in both
years, comparative data from the Organization of Economic
Cooperation and Development show. Dented by weaker demand for
exports, the economy grew 2.2 percent last year, still more than
double the pace of expansion in  Germany .  Turkey, which aims to generate 30 percent of its power from
renewables by 2030, has about 2,300 megawatts of wind power
installed. It plans to develop 600 megawatts in photovoltaic
capacity by 2015.  German investors are turning to Turkey for fresh growth
opportunities after the three-year euro crisis sapped demand and
forced governments to cut clean-energy subsidies. EON swapped
power generation assets in Germany for ones in Turkey in a 1.5
billion-euro ($2 billion) deal in December.  “The Turkish market is highly interesting for German
utilities as well as plant manufacturers,” Hildegard Mueller,
the head of the BDEW utility lobby, which represents companies
including  RWE AG (RWE)  and  Robert Bosch GmbH , said in an interview in
Ankara. “Its strategic location between  Europe  and  Asia  is
especially attractive. German companies can provide their
expertise with gas- as well as coal plants, renewables,  energy
efficiency  and supply security.”  Solar Incentives  Turkey offers a feed-in tariff for renewable energy, paying
premium prices to wind and solar. That’s supplemented by an
additional payment for equipment produced domestically.  Nordex is in talks with officials from the Turkish Energy
Ministry over the need for wider local content incentives that
would benefit consumers and help kick-start more local
production, Ozarslan said. So far, none of the current investors
has received the payment for locally manufactured components,
said Ozarslan.  “The Turkish market has huge potential,” said Ozarslan.
While the company hasn’t made a final decision whether to invest
in the plant, it has already talked to potential partners, he
said.  Vexco, the German developer, is evaluating about 100
megawatts of onshore wind projects in  Turkey  to see which it may
develop and sell, Atilla Turk, the company’s managing director,
said in an interview in Ankara. The company is getting an
increasing number of inquiries from German investors who want to
spend their money in solar plants in Turkey, he said.  “While solar has a good potential in Turkey, the PV sector
is in its very early stages,” he said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  