-- Nova Datacom, Ex-President Plead Guilty in Bribery Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-11T21:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/nova-datacom-ex-president-plead-guilty-in-bribery-case.html
Nova Datacom LLC and its former
president, Min Jung Cho, pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges
related to a bribery scheme involving the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers and government contractors.  Nova Datacom, a computer services and consulting company
based in Chantilly,  Virginia , admitted in federal court in
Washington today to paying more than $15 million in bribes to
three public officials in exchange for contracts and to paying
more than $790,000 in kickbacks to executives of two companies.  So far, 15 people, including two Army Corps officials, have
pleaded guilty in what prosecutors said is the largest bribery
and bid-steering scheme in the history of federal contracting.
The charges against Nova Datacom and Cho involve dealings with
an unnamed former official in the Department of the Army.  “Today’s guilty pleas hold a corporation and its former
president criminally accountable for their roles in funneling
millions of dollars into a sprawling bribery scheme involving
corrupt public officials and compromised government
contractors,”  Washington  U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen said in a
statement. “This brazen fraud extended to the Department of the
Army, where a corrupt public official exchanged contracts for
cash, gambling in  Las Vegas , and a $70,000  Lexus .”  Nova Datacom and Cho agreed to a forfeiture judgment of
$6.8 million. Under federal sentencing guidelines, Nova Datacom
also faces a fine of $39.6 million to $79.2 million. Cho, 44, of
Springfield, Virginia, faces a maximum sentence of five years in
prison.  A sentencing date has yet to be scheduled.  Barbara Van Gelder, a lawyer for Cho and the company,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment
on the guilty plea.  The case is U.S. v. Nova Datacom LLC, 13-cr-00084 and the
Army Corps case is U.S. v. Khan, 11-cr-00276, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  