-- Tobacco Debt Beating Market Seen Losing on Tax Rise: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/tobacco-debt-beating-market-seen-losing-on-tax-rise-muni-credit.html
Tobacco bonds, which beat every
group in the $3.7 trillion municipal market from October through
March, are now falling behind as President  Barack Obama ’s plan
to boost cigarette taxes threatens payments backing the debt.  The president proposed raising the per-pack federal tax on
cigarettes by 94 cents, to $1.95, to finance a pre-kindergarten
program, the administration said yesterday in its 2014 budget
recommendation. That jump would cut consumption by about 12
percent, according to Kenneth Shea, senior tobacco analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  About $101 billion of municipal debt is backed by payments
tobacco companies make to states as part of a 1998 settlement,
based on annual cigarette shipments. Such debt has earned 0.3
percent in April, trailing a 0.7 percent gain in the broader
market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Less smoking
means less money to repay debt, raising the risk of owning the
securities, said Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis at
Iselin, New Jersey-based Herbert J. Sims & Co.  An enacted tax is “going to whack tobacco bonds,” said
Larkin, who’s based in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , and smokes 10
cigarettes a day, down from three packs 30 years ago. “It just
reinforces the fact that the environment to tax cigarettes
higher and higher continues.”  Yield Draw  Tobacco bonds have drawn buyers with their higher yields
compared with benchmark munis as interest rates remain below
historical averages. Twenty-year general-obligation bonds
yielded  3.96 percent  last week, below a 52-year average of 5.88
percent, according to Bond Buyer data.  Tobacco debt has still earned 3 percent in the past six
months, more than the 1.5 percent gain for the whole muni market
and beating other revenue-bond categories, according to Barclays
Plc data.  Increasing cigarette prices “puts that type of performance
going forward at risk,” said Alan Schankel, head of fixed-
income research at financial services firm Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC. in Philadelphia.  The president’s proposal is drawing the attention of
 Louisiana , which plans to refinance tobacco bonds.  Louisiana Looking  “A potential tax increase actually makes it all the more
important to act now to secure these savings for the state,”
said Michael DiResto, an assistant commissioner in the Division
of Administration, said in an e-mail.  Congress last raised the tax by 62 cents to $1.01 per pack
in April 2009, according to Shea. Following that, consumption
fell about 9.5 percent in 2009 and more than 6 percent in 2010,
Schankel said. The segment hasn’t had a negative annual total
return since 2010, Bank of America data show.  The average price in the U.S. last year for a pack of
smokes was $6.20, and it would rise as high as $8 if the
Democratic president’s tax plan were enacted, Shea said.  Debt sold by  New Jersey ’s Tobacco Settlement Financing
Corp., the most frequently traded tobacco bonds last year, has
seen yield spreads rise from a week ago, using BVAL pricing
analysis. Securities maturing in June 2041 were valued at a
spread of 2.6 percentage points yesterday, compared with 2.5
percentage points a week earlier, BVAL data show. The bonds are
rated B- by  Standard & Poor’s , six steps below investment grade.  Still, in a sign of the rally in this segment, the spread
was above 3 percentage points in October.  Industry Payments  The 1998 accord that 46 states struck with  Phillip Morris
USA (PM) ,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  required the
companies to pay more than $200 billion to resolve their
liability in litigation over health costs related to smoking.
Some states borrowed against the payments, which are based on
cigarette shipments.  Bryan Hatchell, a spokesman for Winston-Salem, North
Carolina-based Reynolds American, said last week that Obama’s
plan would raise taxes on low- to middle-income Americans.  While many lawmakers in Congress oppose tax increases, it’s
possible that legislators may pass this one, Larkin and Schankel
said. Some see cigarette taxes as helping smokers quit, and the
extra revenue would go to “a very good cause,” Larkin said.  “Even though the current Congress is anti-tax, taxes on
cigarettes are looked at as mom and apple pie,” said Larkin,
who lit his first cigarette on his first day of work at S&P
analyzing municipal credit in 1975.  Meantime in the municipal market,  California  wraps up a $2
billion general-obligation sale today, part of the biggest wave
of sales this year, Bloomberg  data  show.  Munis are still rallying relative to Treasuries as selling
related to tax season wanes. Ten-year benchmark munis yield 1.82
percent, a five-week low, Bloomberg data show. Treasuries of a
similar maturity yield  1.8 percent .  The  ratio  between the two  interest rates , at about 101
percent, has dropped from a seven-month high of about 113
percent set April 5. The lower the percentage, the more
expensive local debt is by comparison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  