-- Obama Clears $10 Million in Aid for Syrian Opposition
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-04-11T22:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/obama-clears-10-million-in-aid-for-syrian-opposition.html
President  Barack Obama  authorized
the release of as much as $10 million in additional aid to
rebels trying to oust Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The president, in a directive to the secretaries of state
and defense, said today the U.S. would draw on the inventories
of government agencies to provide “non-lethal commodities and
services,” as well as food and medical supplies.  “The humanitarian crisis has gotten worse” in Syria,
Obama told reporters at the White House before starting a
meeting with United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. The
president said he and Ban share the view that the conflict there
is “at a critical juncture.”  Secretary of State John Kerry met yesterday in  London  with
leaders of the Syrian opposition, who are seeking military aid.
The U.S. has provided more than $115 million in non-lethal
assistance so far.  “The president has directed his national security team to
identify additional measures to continue increasing non-lethal
assistance,” White House press secretary Jay Carney said at a
briefing earlier today.  The administration is discussing different ways to step up
support for rebels who are seeking increased U.S. involvement in
the two-year conflict that has killed more than 70,000 people.
The U.K. and  France  are pushing to lift a European Union arms
embargo on Syria and already supply rebels with military-style
equipment such as anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons.  Islamic Militants  The White House has been reluctant to do more because
weapons could end up in the hands of Islamic militants. It’s
also concerned about securing  Syria ’s stocks of chemical
weapons.  Senator Robert Menendez, the New Jersey Democrat who leads
his chamber’s Foreign Relations Committee, said today he will
introduce legislation to allow the U.S. to provide weapons to
the Syrian opposition.  “The time has come, in some form, to provide military
aid” to Syrian rebels, Menendez said at a committee hearing. He
also proposed that the U.S. give Syrian rebels training and
intelligence on the Assad regime’s assets.  Elizabeth Jones, the State Department’s acting assistant
secretary for Near East affairs, said at Menendez’s hearing that
the U.S. remains opposed to arming the opposition.  “We do not believe it is in the United States’ or the
Syrian people’s best interests to provide weapons” to
opposition fighters, Jones said.  Options Ready  At a separate hearing today, General Martin Dempsey,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the House Armed
Services Committee the U.S. was prepared to take additional
action if circumstances require it.  “We’re ready with options if military force is called
for,” Dempsey said. “And if military force can be used
effectively, to secure our interest without making the situation
worse. We must also be ready with options for an uncertain and
dangerous future.”  Menendez and Senator John McCain, an  Arizona  Republican,
questioned the administration’s stance against arming the
rebels. Menendez said he saw no political solution for Syria.
McCain called the idea that talks would be possible without
offering the opposition military help was “really
entertaining.”  “The only way that there would be a negotiated settlement
is if Bashar Assad thinks he’s going to lose,” McCain said in
an exchange with the U.S. ambassador to Syria, Robert Ford.
“And right now with the use of Scud missiles and with fighter
aircraft, he’s able to neutralize to a large degree the
capabilities of the Syrian resistance.”  Balance Shifting  Ford said the balance of power on the ground has already
shifted from the regime to the opposition.  “If you look at a map of what the regime controls now,
compared to what it controlled four or five months ago, you will
see that the armed opposition has made steady, slow but steady
gains,” Ford said.  “In the end, senator, only a negotiated political solution
will provide sustainable and durable solution,” Ford said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net  or
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  