-- Obama Meets With Blankfein, Dimon and Moynihan Today
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-04-11T18:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/obama-meets-with-blankfein-dimon-and-moynihan-today.html
President  Barack Obama  discussed
ways to bolster business confidence and economic growth during a
White House meeting with heads of the world’s biggest banks,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Lloyd C. Blankfein and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Jamie Dimon.  The chief executive officers offered their ideas on
strengthening the recovery including promoting the rebound in
housing, enhancing education and training and clean energy
initiatives, according to a White House statement. The topics
also included reducing the budget deficit and reworking U.S.
immigration laws, the White House said.  Also among the bank CEOs were  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Brian T. Moynihan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Michael Corbat,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Robert Benmosche and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ’s John Stumpf, according to a list provided by the
administration. The bankers are in Washington for the Financial
Services Forum’s quarterly meeting.  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, declined to
give details about the conversation with the president. He said
the meeting was “part of our ongoing engagement with the
financial sector and with the business community.”  Obama is seeking to rebuild relationships with top business
leaders as he seeks to create more jobs. Ties with bankers have
been strained by new U.S. curbs on fees and trading, and Obama’s
Nov. 6 re-election helped drive the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  to its worst
drop in five months the following day. The gauge has since
rebounded and is up 11 percent this year.  Budget Plan  The closed-door meeting follows yesterday’s release of
Obama’s $3.8 trillion spending plan for fiscal 2014. The
blueprint, which the White House budget office says would
provide $1.8 trillion in additional deficit reduction over 10
years, includes collecting $580 billion more in taxes, mostly
from the wealthiest Americans.  He again is seeking adoption of the Buffett rule, named for
billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , to impose a 30 percent
minimum tax on households with more than $1 million in annual
income. The plan also would restrict tax deductions for top
earners and cap tax-favored retirement accounts of some private-
equity executives and self-employed professionals at $3 million.  Job Growth  Obama submitted his budget to Congress amid signs the U.S.
economy, the world’s largest, is struggling to accelerate after
growing 0.4 percent in the last quarter of 2012. Payroll growth
slowed to 88,000 added jobs in March from 268,000 in February,
Labor Department data showed. Figures released today showed
first-time unemployment-insurance claims  fell  by 42,000 to
346,000 in the week ended April 6 from a revised 388,000 the
previous week, easing concern that the labor market was taking a
turn for the worse.  “Over the past three years our businesses have created
nearly 6.5 million new jobs, but we know we can help them create
more,” Obama, 51, said yesterday. “Corporate profits are at an
all-time high, but we have to get wages and incomes rising as
well.”  The business leaders left without making any public
comments.  Today marked Blankfein’s third meeting with Obama since the
president was re-elected, according to one person familiar with
the meeting who asked not to be identified to discuss the
private session. Blankfein, 58, is chairman of the Financial
Services Forum and Moynihan, 53, is vice chairman.  Biggest Banks  JPMorgan’s Dimon, 57, runs the biggest U.S. bank by assets.
It’s based in New York along with Goldman Sachs, one of the
biggest securities traders, while Bank of America, the second-
largest U.S. bank by assets, has its headquarters in Charlotte,
North Carolina. Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, is the
biggest U.S. home lender.  Other members of the forum scheduled to attend are  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s James Gorman,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s Jacques Brand,  UBS
AG (UBSN) ’s Sergio Ermotti,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s Gerald Hassell,  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s Jay Hooley, Abigail Johnson,
president of Fidelity Investments,  Metlife Inc. (MET) ’s Steve Kandarian,  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ’s John Strangfeld and James Weddle of Edward Jones & Co.  Top Obama advisers also were in the meeting, including
 Valerie Jarrett , Chief of Staff Denis McDonough, National
Economic Council Director Gene Sperling and Council of Economic
Advisers Chairman Alan Krueger, according to the White House.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  