-- Occidental’s Irani Opposed by Proxy Adviser Amid CEO Ouster
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-04-11T05:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/occidental-s-irani-opposed-by-proxy-adviser-amid-ceo-ouster.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) 
investors should depose Chairman Ray Irani and the lead
independent director amid a push to replace Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Chazen, proxy adviser Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc. said.  Shareholders should oppose the re-election of Irani and
board member Aziz Syriani at the company’s May 3 annual meeting
in Los Angeles, ISS said in a report dated yesterday. ISS is the
first proxy adviser to advocate for board changes after
Occidental stock fell for two consecutive years, the worst
performance in more than two decades, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Investors such as First Pacific Advisors LLC have called
forIrani to quit after the board’s decision in February to seek
a replacement for Chazen less than two years after his promotion
to CEO of the largest oil producer in the continental U.S.
Shareholders can’t discern who’s in charge at the Los Angeles-
based company and the boardroom turmoil is delaying moves to
boost the share price, said David Neuhauser, a managing director
at Livermore Partners Inc.  “It’s crystal clear that Ray Irani should remove himself
from the situation and allow Chazen to retain full operational
control,” Neuhauser, who helps oversee $100 million in assets,
including Occidental shares, at Northbrook, Illinois-based
Livermore, said in an e-mail. “Occidental must address this
issue and not allow for this to become a sideshow.”  Ten of the company’s 11 directors are up for re-election at
the meeting. Rosemary Tomich, who has served on the board since
1980, isn’t running for re-election.  Third CEO  Chazen, Occidental’s third CEO since 1957, took over in
2011 after Irani agreed to step down amid a shareholder revolt
over executive compensation. Irani’s pay totaled more than $200
million for the past four years, according to proxy filings.  Occidental said in an April 8 statement that Irani played
no role in the decision to oust Chazen. A group of independent
directors met without Irani present for those discussion and
were unanimous in their decision to seek a new chief, according
to the statement.  Occidental directors have been the highest paid in the
energy industry and second-highest among all companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to the 2012 Spencer
Stuart Board Index Report. Board members made an average of
$754,000 each in 2011, more than at Amazon.com Inc., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the report said.  Occidental has fallen 23 percent since Chazen became CEO
with a focus on boosting crude output in Texas and  California 
rather than the Middle East and North Africa.  Investors and analysts including Cambiar Investors LLC and
Oppenheimer & Co. and have said Occidental should consider
selling or spinning off assets outside the U.S. that are more
susceptible to political upheaval, in a breakup that might be
worth $35 billion.  The shares have increased 6.2 percent this year as Chazen,
a geologist and former investment banker, targeted a drilling-
cost reduction of 15 percent for 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  