-- Oil Outlook ‘Bearish’ on Demand Drop, U.S. Shale Boom
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-11T16:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/oil-outlook-bearish-on-demand-drop-u-s-shale-boom.html
Crude prices will probably drop, at
least in the first half, amid rising U.S. shale-oil production
and slowing economic growth, according to analysts.  “I’d stay moderately bearish from here,” Seth Kleinman,
head of energy strategy at Citigroup Inc., said at the Bloomberg
Oil Forum in  London  today. “Everything looks pretty weak,” he
said, citing downward revisions to global demand growth
forecasts by the  International Energy Agency  and the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Global crude production will be “robust” this year as
output rises in the U.S., Iraq and Kazakhstan, while demand
growth may slow in consuming nations including  China , he said.  Brent crude has fallen 6 percent this year on concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will crimp global growth and damp oil
consumption. The North Sea grade traded above $104 a barrel
today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  “The macro risks are skewed to the downside,”  David Fyfe ,
head of market research and analysis at Gunvor Group Ltd., said
at the forum. The outlook for the second half is “more
bullish,” said Fyfe, former head of the IEA’s oil industry and
markets division.  U.S. output of oil and natural gas from shale deposits may
rise at a slower rate through 2014 because the developments will
require almost 3,000 rigs to drill as many as 65,000 wells, in
order to keep up the current pace of expansion, according to an
estimate from Sadad al-Husseini, founder of Husseini Energy, an
independent consultant based in Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia . That’s up
from 1,874 rigs last year.  “Oil shales are great, but scaling it up, that’s a big
order,” Husseini, who retired from Saudi Arabian Oil Co. in
2004, said at the forum.  OPEC will probably maintain its “passive” production
policy because its biggest producers are satisfied with  Brent
crude  prices in a range from $95 to $105 a barrel, he said. The
group is scheduled to meet on May 31 in Vienna after maintaining
a collective production target of 30 million barrels a day in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  