-- London Financial Job Vacancies Jump 25%, Survey Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-04-11T07:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/london-financial-job-vacancies-jump-76-survey-says.html
Job vacancies at financial-services
companies in  London  jumped by 25 percent in the first quarter as
firms bolstered their compliance and risk-management divisions
to placate regulators, a survey showed.  Vacancies in London’s main financial district, known as the
City, and elsewhere in the British capital climbed to 7,308 from
5,859 in the fourth quarter, recruitment consultant Morgan
McKinley said in a statement today. Still, the number of
available jobs fell 7 percent in March from a month ago.  “There is more appetite to hire and the process is more
fluid with fewer obstacles to bringing new talent on board,”
Hakan Enver, operations director at Morgan McKinley Financial
Services, said in the statement. “March 2013 was negatively
affected by Easter coming earlier than usual, causing it to be a
shorter working month and disrupting the process of releasing
new roles to the market.”  Global regulators have asked banks to strengthen risk
management and boost oversight in response to recent  scandals 
that have undermined the reputation of the financial-services
industry. A survey of lenders by the Financial Stability Board
published in February found that “significant gaps” persist in
risk management, with nearly half of the companies failing to
meet “fundamental” criteria for sound governance.  Rogue Traders  Banks including  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been hit by
scandals ranging from rogue traders to interest-rate fixing.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  both paid fines in
the U.S. over failures to halt the laundering of money in
sanctioned countries such as  Iran .  The number of new job seekers fell 7 percent in March from
the previous month, the survey showed. New hires received an
average pay of 77,296 pounds ($118,317), up 17 percent from
their previous position, “indicating that competitive salary
offers are out there for sectors of the market where
professionals are in high demand,” according to the statement.  “Governance-related functions including risk management,
compliance and internal audit, as well as change management --
specifically focusing on finance -- are areas where talent is
still sought after,” McKinley’s Enver said in the statement.  Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the first
quarter after falling 0.3 percent in the previous three months,
the National Institute of Economic and Social Research estimated
this week, indicating Britain will avoid a triple-dip recession.  The 40-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index  was down 0.2 percent at 8:013 a.m in London. It has gained
2.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  