-- Monsanto-Dow Strike Seed Deal to Thwart Rising Resistance
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-11T15:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/monsanto-dow-strike-seed-deal-to-thwart-rising-resistance.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) 
agreed to cross-license seed technologies to produce new
versions of genetically modified corn as crop-killing weeds and
bugs show increasing resistance to older technologies.  Monsanto, the world’s largest seed company, becomes the
first to license Dow’s Enlist trait, which creates crops that
can tolerate 2,4-D herbicide, the companies said today in a
joint statement. Dow, the largest U.S. chemical maker by sales,
is licensing Monsanto’s Corn Rootworm III, which controls root-
eating bugs.  The agreement allows new traits to be added by the end of
the decade to the companies’ co-developed SmartStax corn, which
already has eight technologies to control bugs and tolerate
weedkillers. Adding overlapping technologies will make SmartStax
more durable in the face of emerging resistance, said Garry Hamlin, a Dow spokesman.  “SmartStax is ahead of the curve in controlling weed and
insect resistance, and we plan to keep it that way,” Hamlin
said by telephone today.  About 65 million acres of U.S. cropland harbored weeds last
year that aren’t killed by glyphosate, the world’s best-selling
herbicide, a 51 percent increase from 2011, Dow said in
February.  “We continue to look for additional modes of action that
offer benefit to our farmer customers and complement our
existing offerings,” Monsanto President Brett Begemann said in
the statement.  Growing Resistance  Monsanto is most interested in Dow’s Enlist weed-control
technology because it allows crops to tolerate so-called FOPs
herbicides used to kill grasses, as well as 2,4-D, Kelli Powers,
a Monsanto spokeswoman, said today in a telephone interview.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in January said
new testing methods found rootworms in Illinois and  Iowa  have
become resistant to Monsanto’s Yieldgard corn, which is
engineered to produce a protein from Bacillus thuringiensis, or
Bt, a natural insecticide. Monsanto’s Corn Rootworm III trait
uses RNA interference, which alters the production of cell
proteins, to kill insects. The technology, which is still in
development, is the first alternative to Bt-based traits.  The licensing agreements announced today are non-exclusive,
the companies said. Monsanto will represent both companies in
licensing the next generation of SmartStax corn to other seed
producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  