-- Options Few as U.S. Leaders Told Saturday Mail Can’t End
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-04-11T14:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/options-few-after-leaders-told-saturday-mail-can-t-end.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , which is
losing about $25 million a day even after cutting 25,000 jobs
this year, is left with few cost-saving options short of a
congressional overhaul after its board overruled plans to end
Saturday mail delivery.  The board’s decision yesterday heightens pressure on
Congress to allow changes in the service’s business model before
it runs out of cash, which management has said will happen
temporarily in October.  Without being able to cut back to five delivery days from
six, the Postal Service will take its board’s advice and ask its
employee unions to renegotiate multiyear contracts, consider
asking regulators for an emergency rate increase and cut
administrative costs, Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe said in
an interview. He said he broached the notion of renegotiating
union contracts with labor leaders yesterday.  “They know we’re in a fix in terms of our operating
costs,” Donahoe said. “I’m hoping they’ll at least entertain
the idea.”  The service’s two largest unions questioned the need to
reopen their contracts, which don’t allow career employees to be
fired without cause, saying they made concessions when those
agreements were negotiated. The service, which lost $15.9
billion last year, estimated it would save $2 billion annually
by ending Saturday mail deliveries.  Leadership Needed  “The board’s call to reopen and renegotiate the postal
labor contracts is yet another sign that the Postal Service
needs new executive leadership,” Fredric Rolando, the president
of the National Association of Letter Carriers, said in a
statement. “Asking the NALC to renegotiate a contract that was
just settled in January is insulting and unnecessary.”  The reduction in the service’s workforce this year is
almost equal to the employment of  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the maker of
Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels toy cars. The service is down to
about 497,000 career workers after offering buyouts. Still,
that’s barely helped stanch the cash drain posed by operations.  Members of the American Postal Workers Union have already
compromised, Sally Davidow, a spokeswoman for the union, said in
an interview. They believe cuts should come from other places.  “The Postal Service saved $3.8 billion on account of
compromises that the APWU made during negotiations,” she said.
“APWU members have done their part.”  Authority Lacking  The postal board yesterday decided the service doesn’t have
legal authority to end Saturday mail delivery without getting
authorization from Congress, which it has sought. The board said
plans to take that step in August must halt, absent action by
lawmakers to allow it.  “It calls for us to act with some urgency,”
Representative  Elijah Cummings , a Maryland Democrat and the
senior member of his party on the committee that oversees the
mail service, said in an interview. “We need to get
comprehensive legislation done.”  “What’s going to happen is the post office will continue
to search for ways to be innovative,” Cummings said. “They’re
trying to stay alive. We in Congress have to give them the tools
to do that. And we can’t block them from going into the areas
where they can raise their revenues.”  Lawmakers of both political parties have introduced bills
to revamp the service. The Senate passed a measure in the
previous Congress while the House didn’t. This year, leaders of
both chambers said postal legislation would be a top priority.  ‘Overdue’ Change  “I hope it gives it more impetus,” Senate Majority Whip
 Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, said in an interview. “It’s
long overdue. The Senate bill went over to the House and then
disappeared.”  The service and its unions have asked Congress to relax a
requirement to pay about $5.5 billion a year to the  U.S.
Treasury  for future retiree health-care costs. With barely
enough cash to pay labor expenses, the service defaulted on the
past two years’ payments without penalties from the Treasury.  Jeanette Dwyer, president of the National Rural Letter
Carriers’ Association, said Congress should change the retiree
health funding requirement and allow the Postal Service to find
new sources of revenue, such as in same-day parcel delivery.  “Our Postal Service is in need of true reform, not just
misguided attempts to slash service,” Dwyer said in a
statement.  Authority to end Saturday delivery was included in a
measure last year from Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican who heads the Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, which oversees the service. It was left out of the
Senate-passed postal bill. Congress also hasn’t allowed the
service to accelerate closings of rural post offices.  Congress first required mail deliveries six days a week in
1981. Lawmakers have authority over the service because it gets
an appropriation to reimburse it for mail the law mandates it
must process for free. Yet Congress provides less than 0.1
percent of the service’s annual budget.  GAO Opinion  The postal board’s action yesterday followed a Government
Accountability Office opinion last month saying the service
lacks the authority to stop delivering on Saturdays.  Donahoe has said he relied on a new interpretation of a law
governing the service and the government’s temporary funding
status to declare he didn’t need Congress’s permission to cut
back delivery days to five a week.  Commercial customers are happy to have greater certainty to
plan mailings for later this year, said Jerry Cerasale, senior
vice president of government affairs for the Direct Marketing
Association, based in  New York .  The association doesn’t have an opinion on cutting Saturday
delivery because its members don’t agree, he said, suggesting
closing facilities as a way to cut costs.  “The Postal Service still has excess capacity; a lot of
processing plants that are going to be scheduled to close,”
Cerasale said. “They can speed that up and get a lot of
capacity out of the system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  