-- Orica Urges Australia Manage Currency to End Record Run Above $1
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-04-11T06:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/orica-urges-australia-manage-currency-to-end-record-run-above-1.html
Orica Ltd. (ORI) , the world’s largest
maker of industrial explosives, said Australia should manage its
currency “as other countries have” to support industries being
hurt by the Aussie’s record run above U.S. dollar parity.  The local currency climbed 50 percent since the end of 2008
as investors are lured by Australia’s AAA rating and the highest
interest rates among developed nations. Unconventional monetary
policies in the U.S. and  Japan  have raised concern their
currencies will be debased while Switzerland has capped gains in
the franc since 2011 to help exporters and fend off deflation.  “It is very hard with our manufacturing base as a company
to think of a profile where the Aussie dollar stays above parity
with the U.S. for another five or ten years,” Orica Chief
Executive Officer Ian Smith told a Melbourne Mining Club lunch
today. The government should “make sure that we manage our
currency to some degree as other countries have done.”  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0517 as of 3:59 p.m. in
Sydney and yesterday reached $1.0552, the most since Jan. 24.
The Reserve Bank of  Australia ’s  trade-weighted index  rose 0.4 to
79.90 yesterday, the most since February 1985.  Benchmark rates in Australia are 3 percent compared with
near zero in the U.S. and Japan. The South Pacific nation is one
of eight that hold stable AAA grades from all three main credit-
rating companies and its 10-year sovereign bond yields are 1.78
percentage points  more than  the average for the other seven.  Orica’s net income fell 37 percent to A$402.8 million ($424
million) in the year ended Sept. 30, the company said in
November, after booking a charge of A$367 million at its Minova
mining support business. The unit makes specialty stabilization
and ventilation systems for underground mining and civil
tunneling works and operates in countries including Australia,
the U.K., Germany, India, South Africa, Poland, Russia, and the
U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  