-- Lhota Seeks to Parlay NYC Subway Rescue Into Mayoral Win
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-04-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/lhota-seeks-to-parlay-nyc-subway-rescue-into-mayoral-win.html
Joseph Lhota was  Rudy Giuliani ’s
deputy on Sept. 11 and head of the agency that brought back the
subways after  Hurricane Sandy . He says that makes him the most
qualified candidate to keep  New York City  from reverting to the
days of crime and dysfunction.  Lhota, 58, who faces two other Republicans in a Sept. 10
mayoral primary, says that no other candidate has a career in
government and business so diverse. He spent eight years under
Giuliani, and 14 as a banker with First Boston and Paine Webber
Group Inc. He also served as chief administrative officer at
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) ’s Madison Square Garden Co.  At stake for the most populous U.S. city, Lhota says, is
avoiding a backward slide after 20 years of reduced crime and
job growth under Giuliani, a Republican, and Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , an independent who ran with Republican support.
That’s the path to a Nov. 5 Republican victory in a city where
Democrats outnumber the party by 6-to-1, he says.  “Don’t ever be lulled into thinking that the
transformation is permanent and forever,” he told a hotel
ballroom filled with business executives at a March 6 breakfast
sponsored by Crain’s  New York  magazine. “It can easily slide
back to where it was.”  Lhota leads the Republican field, according to a Quinnipiac
University poll released yesterday. He was favored by 23 percent
of Republican voters polled, followed by George McDonald, 68,
whose nonprofit Doe Fund creates jobs and housing for the
homeless, with 11 percent.  John Catsimatidis , 64, the
billionaire supermarket magnate, trailed with 8 percent, and 52
percent said they were undecided.  Attacking Quinn  Lhota spends less time targeting his Republican opponents
than focusing on City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, the
Democratic frontrunner. In the same poll, Quinn led Lhota by 59
percent to 19 percent.  The son of a retired New York police officer, Lhota held a
news conference on the steps of  City Hall  last week to describe
Quinn as “reckless and dangerous” for proposing an inspector
general to oversee department policies. He also says he’ll
“streamline” government and promote “choice and charter
schools.”  A graduate of  Georgetown University  and the  Harvard
Business School , Lhota said Bloomberg, whose term ends this
year, may leave the city in worse fiscal shape than it appears.
All city union contracts have expired, and Bloomberg didn’t set
aside enough money for raises, Lhota said. The mayor is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  ‘More Prudent’  “It would have been more prudent to have more of a labor
reserve,” he said in an interview. “The mayor obviously
disagrees with me.”  Bloomberg has said he would never leave his successor with
the fiscal challenges he inherited from the Giuliani
administration, including a $4.8 billion deficit in a $42.3
billion 2003 budget. Giuliani spent almost all of a $2.8 billion
surplus on an expanded payroll and other discretionary expenses.
The  Citizens Budget Commission , a nonpartisan business-sponsored
monitor of city and state finances, called the Giuliani
administration’s spending plan an “egregious fiscal policy
error.”  The report “went in the garbage,” Lhota said.  No. 2  Giuliani has been promoting Lhota’s candidacy. He warned in
an e-mail to potential donors that any of the Democratic mayoral
candidates would allow the city to “slip back to its 
unmanageable, ungovernable ways.”  “Joe has more knowledge of city finances than anyone who
has run for mayor in the past 30 years,” Giluiani said in a
telephone interview. Lhota was “my No. 2 guy” before, during
and after the 2001 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center,
Giuliani said.  Lhota’s identification with the former mayor may turn out
to be a liability, said Douglas Muzzio, professor of urban
politics at  Baruch College  of  City University  of New York.
Giuliani’s tenure was marked by racial tension and allegations
of police brutality after the fatal shootings of two unarmed
suspects and the torture of  Abner Louima .  “Lhota was the trigger man for Giuliani, who may be the
most divisive mayor in city history,” Muzzio said in an
interview. “Lhota’s opponents will try to hang Giuliani around
Lhota’s neck like an albatross.”  ‘Unfair Perception’  A Quinnipiac  poll  from August 2000, Giuliani’s seventh year
in office, showed 63 percent of white voters approved of his
performance while 63 percent of blacks didn’t. The findings
were among several surveys that appeared to show Giuliani
dividing the city along racial lines, said  Maurice Carroll , the
polling institute’s director.  Lhota said the descriptions of polarization under Giuliani
were an “unfair perception that needs to include the fact that
crime reduction in the inner city was greater than anywhere else
and more people of color are alive today because of Mayor
Giuliani’s policies.”  As deputy mayor, Lhota was known for accepting assignments
with an “obsession for detail,” said Anthony Carbonetti, who
was Giuliani’s chief of staff. He recalled how Lhota became
known as the “rat czar” after taking on the housing
authority’s battle with the vermin.  He spent so much time near Ground Zero’s burning pile of
rubble that four years later doctors suspected toxic air caused
him to develop Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a cancer of the blood. A six-
month course of chemotherapy left him cancer-free, with the
attitude to “live each day as if it’s my last,” he said.  Hot Temper  If that attitude has included impatience, Lhota has shown
it in flashes of temper throughout his public life. At a Sept.
27 meeting, he criticized Metropolitan Transportation Authority
board member Charles Moerdler, 77, during a dispute over the
number of meetings the authority should hold.  “Be a man,” Lhota said twice.  “Oh, I’d be happy to,” Moerdler said. “In your words, I
will bring it on.”  “Let’s go,” Lhota said.  As head of the MTA, Lhota ran the largest U.S. transit
agency, an enterprise with 66,000 workers and a $13 billion
budget that carries 8.5 million riders a day on subways, buses
and commuter railroads.  John Samuelsen, president of the Transport Workers Union
Local 100, says Lhota listened to his safety concerns, agreed to
pay for protective partitions for bus drivers and helped
commuters, spending $29 million to restore reduced services.  Cuomo Bonding  In an interview, Samuelsen also faulted Lhota for not
signing a contract with the union before he left the agency, and
for withholding pay from workers who couldn’t get to their jobs
in the aftermath of Sandy. When told of the remarks, Lhota said
he didn’t care what Samuelsen said, using an expletive.  Born in the Bronx and raised in Lyndenhurst,  Long Island ,
Lhota now lives in  Brooklyn  with his wife, Tamra, and daughter,
Kathryn, a senior at Georgetown University.  He said he had been on the job as MTA chairman for less
than a year when he began to think about running for mayor. He
didn’t feel he could resign from the state agency until he and
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  bonded the night of Oct. 29, as the
hurricane sent water coursing through  Lower Manhattan , he said.  “The storm gave me an opportunity to know the governor,
work with him closely, and have that discussion with him,” he
said, as he described his second turn since Sept. 11 at the
center of a New York City catastrophe.  He said that during emergencies such as 9/11 or the storm
recovery, he makes to-do lists and that everything on them has
to get done.  “Every day, you have to inch forward, inch by inch, row by
row -- in my case track by track,” Lhota said. “You’ve got to
incrementally move forward as best you can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  