-- How to Defeat North Korea
-- B y   A n d r e i   L a n k o v
-- 2013-04-11T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/how-to-defeat-north-korea.html
Let’s start with the bad news: The
North Korean problem has no simple or quick solution. The
North’s weapons-grade plutonium and nuclear devices have already
been manufactured, and are now safely hidden in  underground
facilities .  China , and to a lesser degree  Russia , remains
unwilling to support a truly rigorous (read: efficient)
sanctions regime. More narrow  financial sanctions  that target
the money used to reward regime insiders with perks, like
bottles of Hennessy cognac and Mercedes cars, won’t have much
impact. Most of the North Korean elite believe that regime
stability is a basic condition for their survival. No doubt,
they would be willing to put up with locally produced liquor and
used Toyotas if the alternative was being strung from the
lampposts.  More international aid would be most welcome in Pyongyang,
no doubt -- but not enough for the regime to give up its nuclear
program. Once the money was spent (and it would be spent
quickly), a nonnuclear  North Korea  would be just another
impoverished country, competing for attention with places such
as Sudan and  Zimbabwe . A U.S. security guarantee -- another
carrot held out by some in  Washington  -- wouldn’t be any more
enticing. North Koreans don’t believe in the value of
foreigners’ promises, especially when such promises are made in
democratic systems where leaders and policies change every few
years.  “Benign” Neglect  There is thus a great and growing temptation to say that
North Korea is better off forgotten and ignored. This reasoning
is attractive, and utterly unrealistic. North Korea has not the
slightest desire to be left alone. Whilst being  “benignly”
neglected , North Korean leaders would work hard to improve their
nuclear and missile arsenal. They would then try to sell their
technologies abroad, both as a way to be troublesome and to earn
extra cash.  All of North Korea’s most destructive policies -- the
nuclear and missile programs, the unwillingness to reform, the
determined efforts to maintain a police state, the penchant for
fomenting regional tensions -- are designed to keep the regime
afloat. The only way to alter North Korea’s behavior is to
change the nature of the regime. The question is how.  What brought about the  end of communism  in Eastern Europe
and the  Soviet Union ? Certainly the desire for national
independence among ethnic minorities, as well as a longing for
democracy among better-educated sections of the population,
played a significant role. On balance, though, the fate of
communist regimes was sealed by their economic inefficiency, not
their political repressiveness. In order to become a political
factor, this economic inefficiency first had to be recognized by
the majority of the population. Had the  Soviet leadership  been
willing and able to maintain a North Korean level of isolation
and repressiveness, the Soviet Union might still be in existence
today.  For a long time, Soviet agitprop tried to cushion the
impact of news about Western prosperity by insisting that only
the cruelty of historic fate, and not the ingrained problems of
the communist system, prevented the Soviet people from enjoying
the same consumer delights as Americans. Russians couldn’t
compare themselves with the lucky inhabitants of  North America ,
who had never suffered a foreign invasion and were free to
exploit the entire world for their selfish purposes.  North Korean propagandists face a bigger challenge. They
have to explain the stunning  prosperity  of  South Korea  -- a
country populated by members of the same ethnic group, who share
the same language and culture as the destitute inhabitants of
the North. The more that knowledge about the fabulous success of
South Korea spreads among ordinary North Koreans, the less
tenable the status quo will become.  Three channels can be exploited to provide the North Korean
populace with unauthorized information about the outside world.
First, academic, cultural and other interpersonal exchanges,
endorsed by North Korean authorities, will open the gates to
potentially dangerous knowledge. Conservatives in Washington,
 Seoul  and elsewhere may question the value of these exchanges,
and no doubt the top functionaries in Pyongyang and their
spoiled children will be the first to take advantage of overseas
study trips or international student exchanges. Yet these are
exactly the type of people who matter most. Changes to the North
Korean system are most likely to be initiated by well-informed
and disillusioned members of the elite.  American Dream  History shows the power of even controlled and limited
exchanges. In 1958, an academic  exchange agreement  was signed
between the U.S. and the USSR. In the U.S., diehard
conservatives insisted that the program would merely provide the
Soviets with another opportunity to send spies into America.
Indeed, the first group of four exchange students included a
rising KGB operative, as well as a former soldier who later
joined the Communist Party central bureaucracy. Within a decade,
he had become the first deputy head of the propaganda department
-- in essence, a second-in-command among Soviet professional
ideologues.  The KGB operative’s name was  Oleg Kalugin , and he turned
out to be the first Soviet spy to criticize the KGB’s role as a
party watchdog. He initiated a campaign aimed at its
transformation into a regular intelligence and
counterintelligence service. His fellow student,  Alexander
Yakovlev , became  Mikhail Gorbachev ’s right-hand man. Yakovlev
made a remarkable contribution to the collapse of the communist
regime in Moscow (some people even insist that Yakovlev, rather
than Gorbachev, was the real architect of perestroika). Both
Kalugin and Yakovlev said it was their experience in the U.S.
that changed the way they saw the world.  Apart from academic exchanges, one should encourage all
activities that create an environment conducive to contact
between North Koreans and foreigners (and especially between
North and South Koreans). This is the major reason why the
 Kaesong Industrial Zone  -- recently suspended by the North --
was actually a very good idea: Projects on which North and South
Koreans work together are bound to produce many situations that
involve uncontrolled and unscripted exchanges between the two
peoples.  Additionally, for the first time in decades, it is becoming
possible to deliver unauthorized knowledge directly to North
Koreans.  DVD players  are common now in the North, and even
computers are not unheard of anymore. Tunable radios, while
still technically illegal, have been smuggled into the country
in growing quantities. The information blockade can now be
penetrated, and the North Korean public seems to be more
receptive to critical messages.  Fortunately, there has been a dramatic increase in
broadcasts directed at North Korea in recent years. According to
a study conducted by the Intermedia Group, five  radio stations  -
- not counting the government-run  Korean Broadcasting System  and
some Christian stations in South Korea -- targeted the North
Korean audience by the summer of 2009. The total broadcast time
amounted to 20.5 hours a day (once again, excluding KBS). Given
that a few years ago the total broadcast time didn’t exceed four
to five hours, this is a remarkable breakthrough. Some estimates
put the number of listeners at 1 million, or some 5 percent of
the total  population . These stations need more active support.  Digital Libraries  New technologies -- particularly the VCD/DVD players that
have continued to spread inside North Korea -- are also creating
opportunities. It is now possible to produce visual material --
essentially, documentaries -- specifically designed for North
Korean audiences. Books, too, can now be easily scanned and
converted into text files. Hundreds of such files can easily fit
into one USB drive or DVD disk. In the 1970s, it would have
taken years of typewriting (or days of photocopying) to
reproduce such a large volume of text; now the job can be done
within minutes. A digital book is also easier to hide or destroy
than its paper equivalent. That means even one copy of a book
(or rather a collection of books, a “digital library”), once
smuggled across the border, can proliferate inside North Korea.  By their very nature, books will be more appealing to
intellectuals and the lower reaches of the elite. Such scanned
materials might thus include textbooks on major social subjects
and humanities, as well as purely technical material (and
special attention should be given to textbooks and manuals
dealing with computers). It is important to introduce books that
have different, even mutually exclusive, opinions; North Koreans
should not be subjected to syrupy propaganda and anti-communist
harangues. Instead, they must become accustomed to intellectual
differences and arguments. They should read what is written by
the left and right, zealous antiglobalists and stubborn
libertarians alike. They should be exposed to the modern world,
with all its complexity and uncertainty.  Finally, the world shouldn’t overlook the potential of
those North Koreans who have made it out of the country. North
Korean  refugees  are very different from those Eastern Europeans
who fled to the West during the  Cold War . To start with, they
cannot be plausibly described as “defectors” since most of them
were driven away from the North by starvation or other
nonpolitical factors. Furthermore, Eastern European and Soviet
defectors were well-educated, while North Korean refugees are
largely farmers and manual workers.  Still, a small but not insignificant community of well-
educated refugees has now built up in South Korea. Contrary to
what is often assumed, they are not actively supported by the
South Korean state; one shouldn’t be surprised by the sight of a
former North Korean engineer working as a pizza deliveryman.
Support systems and jobs for such people are crucial. For
younger refugees, scholarships for master’s and doctoral studies
are of special importance, since currently the government only
pays for their undergraduate education.  Refugee Intellectuals  We need to train more former North Koreans to become
professionals -- construction engineers, accountants,
scientists, water-treatment specialists, and doctors. Nowadays,
refugees stay in touch with their families and friends back in
North Korea, thanks to Chinese mobile phones and a network of
 “brokers”  who deal with people smuggling, money transfers, and
letter exchanges. A refugee who has become, say, an accountant,
is likely to channel back to the North information of much
greater importance and impact than one who makes a living by
waiting tables.  When the collapse or transformation of North Korea finally
comes, some of these refugee intellectuals will probably go back
to their native land. Some of them will become political and
social activists, while many more will apply their technical
skills in the reemerging North Korean economy. They will play a
major role as educators and instructors, teaching North Koreans
how things are done in the South and, broadly speaking, in the
modern world. Investing in them now is one way to help speed
that day along.  ( Andrei Lankov  is a professor of history at Kookmin
University in Seoul, and the author of “North of the DMZ: Essays
on Daily Life in North Korea” and “From Stalin to  Kim Il Sung :
The Formation of North Korea, 1945-1960.”
This is the last of three excerpts from his new book, “The Real
North Korea: Life and Politics in the Failed Stalinist Utopia,”
which will be published May 8 by  Oxford University Press . The
opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Andrei Lankov at  andreilankov@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  