-- Howard Stern Loses Bid to Revive Pay Suit Against Sirius
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-11T17:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/howard-stern-loses-appeal-of-pay-suit-against-sirius-xm.html
Howard Stern  lost a bid to revive
his pay lawsuit against  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  after a  New York 
state appeals court found the talk-show host wasn’t entitled to
additional compensation.  Stern’s production company, One Twelve Inc., and his agent,
Don Buchwald, sued Sirius XM Radio in 2011, claiming the company
refused to pay $300 million in stock awards owed under an
agreement that brought the radio personality to the company.  Justice Barbara Kapnick of state  Supreme Court  dismissed
the suit last April, rejecting arguments that subscribers to XM
Satellite Radio, which merged with Sirius in 2008, should be
counted when calculating the compensation.  An appeals court in  Manhattan  today agreed with Kapnick,
saying the plaintiffs aren’t entitled to additional performance-
based compensation under the agreement with the company’s
predecessor, Sirius Satellite Radio Inc.  “Looking solely to the plain language used by the parties
within the four corners of the agreement, the disputed term
‘Sirius subscribers,’ by which plaintiffs’ performance-based
compensation was measured, did not include subscribers to XM
Radio, a wholly owned subsidiary which defendant acquired by
merger, even though the merger had been anticipated within the
agreement,” the appeals court said in the ruling.  Patrick Reilly , a spokesman for New York-based Sirius,
declined to comment on the ruling in a telephone interview.  Seth D. Rothman, an attorney with Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP
in New York representing One Twelve, didn’t immediately return a
message seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is One Twelve Inc. v. Sirius XM Radio Inc.,
650762-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  