-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate on CPI Outlook Amid Near Potential Growth
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-04-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-after-stepped-up-drive-to-tame-sol-s-rally.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 23rd consecutive month as policy makers
expect inflation to converge to the mid-point of their target
amid near-potential economic growth.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
yesterday maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent,
matching the forecasts of all 10 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  “The decision is based on the fact that inflation is
within the target range in a context of economic growth close to
its potential,” policy makers said in a statement posted on the
central bank’s website.  Inflation remains within policy makers’ target range even
after a surge in consumer prices last month, allowing the
central bank to focus on slowing capital inflows that pushed the
 sol  to a 16-year high in January. Four increases in dollar
reserve requirements this year triggered a 1.2 percent decline
in the sol, helping to reduce the allure of dollar credit.  “The main source of risk is from rapid currency
appreciation and the implications for company and household
balance sheets,” said Hedmond Rios, an economist at Celfin
Capital, by phone from Santiago. “Inflation is secondary given
that it’s converging to 2 percent this year.”  The sol had its biggest quarterly decline since 2008 in the
first three months of the year as the central bank bought $4.4
billion of U.S. currency and allowed pension funds to increase
holdings of overseas assets.  Dollar Credit  The bank has focused on dollar credit, which accounts for
43 percent of all outstanding loans, after using reserve
requirements to damp sol lending.  Local currency loans expanded at an annual rate of 15.5
percent in February, the slowest pace in almost three years.
Dollar credit in the same month rose 14 percent, after a 13
percent climb in January.  Double-digit dollar credit growth, fueled by the sol’s
four-year rally and U.S. monetary stimulus, remains a concern
for the bank, Velarde told reporters March 22.  While the central banks of  Brazil ,  Chile , Colombia and
 Mexico  have all cut borrowing costs in the last 16 months to
protect their economies from slower growth in  China  and the
U.S., Peru has extended its longest interest-rate pause since
the country began targeting inflation in 2002.  ‘Other Things’  The nation’s retail and construction boom fueled economic
growth of 6.3 percent last year, the fastest in South America.
Velarde, in an April 8 interview in Miami, said he expects
Peru’s economy to match that expansion this year.  “Growth of the Peruvian economy has stabilized close to
its long-term sustainable level even though indictors linked to
the external market still show a weak performance,” policy
makers said in their statement.  Peru’s economy, as measured by the national statistics
agency’s economic activity index, grew at an annual rate of 6.2
percent in January and will approach that level in February,
Velarde said. The economy can expand 6.4 percent without
stirring demand pressures, he said.  “Of course, we will look at other things to see if we’re
going to be somewhat more restricted or somewhat more relaxed,”
Velarde said.  Export Decline  Falling exports haven’t dented growth in the third-largest
copper and zinc producer. Exports fell 22 percent in February,
after metal shipments declined. Increased Chinese demand should
bolster Peru’s exports in the second quarter, according to Rios.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 has fallen 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 3.74 percent this year. The  Lima General
Index (IGBVL)  has dropped 5.7 percent.  A record $12.2 billion in foreign direct investment and
demand for local government bonds poured dollars into Peru’s
$200 billion economy last year, leading to a 5.7 percent
appreciation in the sol.  The central bank may try to ease the pace of speculative
inflows by cutting the overnight rate as inflation expectations
decline in the second half of this year, said Jose Martinez,
head of investments at  Rimac Seguros y Reaseguros (RIMSEGC1) , Peru’s
largest insurer.  Output Growth  Peruvian consumer prices  surprised economists  by climbing
0.91 percent last month, the biggest jump in five years, after a
surge in food, transport and schooling costs. The annual
inflation rate rose to 2.59 percent from 2.45 percent, remaining
within policy makers’ target range of 2 percent plus or minus 1
percentage point.  Prices in April will probably rise less than the 0.53
percent increase seen in the same month a year ago, leading to a
slower annual inflation rate, Velarde said.  The central bank forecast inflation will converge to the
center of its target range “in the coming months” as food
supply improves, amid economic growth that’s near potential and
a weak global market.  According to a central bank survey published March 12,
economists expect 2.5 percent inflation this year, above policy
makers’ forecast of 2 percent.  “External factors have been driving inflation in the last
few years and the pressure isn’t going to be as great this
year,” said Martinez in an April 3 interview in  Lima . “The
consumer boom isn’t generating inflation pressures because
output is seeing considerable growth too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  