-- Peru Likely to Keep 4.25% Rate Amid Drive to Tame Sol’s Rally
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-04-11T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-amid-drive-to-tame-sol-s-rally.html
Peru ’s central bank probably will
keep borrowing costs unchanged today for a 23rd consecutive
month after stepping up a drive to rein in dollar credit and
contain the sol’s rally.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will maintain the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, according to
all 10 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The decision will be
announced at about 6 p.m. in Lima.  Inflation remains within policy makers’ target range even
after a surge in consumer prices last month, allowing the
central bank to focus on slowing capital inflows that pushed the
 sol  to a 16-year high in January. Four increases in dollar
reserve requirements this year triggered a 1 percent decline in
the sol, helping to reduce the allure of dollar credit.  “The currency is their main concern right now as inflation
is under control,” said Hedmond Rios, an economist at Celfin
Capital. “We’ll see more use of macro-prudential measures,
which have been very successful up to now.”  The sol had its biggest quarterly decline since 2008 in the
first three months of the year as the central bank bought $4.4
billion of U.S. currency and allowed pension funds to increase
holdings of overseas assets.  Regional Response  The bank has focused on dollar credit, which accounts for
43 percent of all outstanding loans, after using  reserve
requirements  to damp sol lending.  Local currency loans expanded at an annual rate of 15.5
percent in February, the slowest pace in almost three years.
Dollar credit in the same month rose 14 percent, after a 13
percent climb in January.  Double-digit dollar credit growth, fueled by the sol’s
four-year rally and U.S. monetary stimulus, remains a concern
for the bank, Velarde told reporters March 22.  While the central banks of  Brazil ,  Chile ,  Colombia  and
 Mexico  have all cut borrowing costs in the last 16 months to
protect their economies from slower growth in  China  and the
U.S., Peru has extended its longest interest-rate pause since
the country began targeting inflation in 2002.  The nation’s retail and construction boom fueled economic
growth of 6.3 percent last year, the fastest in  South America .
Velarde, in an April 8 interview in Miami, said he expects
Peru’s economy to match that expansion this year.  Growth, Exports  Peru’s economy, as measured by the national statistics
agency’s economic activity index, grew at an annual rate of 6.2
percent in January and will approach that level in February,
Velarde said. The economy can expand 6.4 percent without
stirring demand pressures, he said.  “Of course, we will look at other things to see if we’re
going to be somewhat more restricted or somewhat more relaxed,”
Velarde said.  Falling exports haven’t dented growth in the third-largest
copper and zinc producer. Exports fell 22 percent in February,
after metal shipments declined. Increased Chinese demand should
bolster Peru’s exports in the second quarter, according to Rios.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 has fallen 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 3.75 percent this year. The  Lima General
Index (IGBVL)  has dropped 5.9 percent.  A record $12.2 billion in foreign direct investment and
demand for local  government bonds  poured dollars into Peru’s
$200 billion economy last year, leading to a 5.7 percent
appreciation in the sol.  Rate Horizon  The central bank may try to ease the pace of speculative
inflows by cutting the overnight rate as inflation expectations
decline in the second half of this year, said Jose Martinez,
head of investments at  Rimac Seguros y Reaseguros (RIMSEGC1) , Peru’s
largest insurer.  Peruvian consumer prices  surprised economists  by climbing
0.91 percent last month, the biggest jump in five years, after a
surge in food, transport and schooling costs. The annual
inflation rate rose to 2.59 percent from 2.45 percent, remaining
within policy makers’ target range of 2 percent plus or minus 1
percentage point.  Prices in April will probably rise less than the 0.53
percent increase seen in the same month a year ago, leading to a
slower annual inflation rate, Velarde said.  According to a central bank survey published March 12,
economists expect 2.5 percent inflation this year, above policy
makers’ forecast of 2 percent.  “External factors have been driving inflation in the last
few years and the pressure isn’t going to be as great this
year,” said Martinez in an April 3 interview in  Lima . “The
consumer boom isn’t generating inflation pressures because
output is seeing considerable growth too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  