-- Petrobras Debt Crunch Buoys Exxon’s Prospects in Brazil: Energy
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-04-12T21:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/petrobras-debt-crunch-buoys-exxon-s-prospects-in-brazil-energy.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s worst debt
position in a decade is boosting chances the Brazilian  oil
company  will step aside and let  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  buy offshore exploration licenses in Latin
America’s biggest auction this year.  Exxon has been the most active in requesting data about the
acreage Brazil is offering next month to take advantage of
government-run Petrobras holding back its full participation, a
state official with knowledge of the sale said. As Petrobras
boosted investment in deepwater finds in past years, it became
the world’s most indebted publicly-traded oil company, with $96
billion borrowed, or quadruple the level of 2008 compared with
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  Brazil is about to open its doors wider to international
 oil companies  from Britain’s  BP (BP/)  Plc to  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (386)  to accelerate development in a country already
home to the most oil finds this century. The government has
estimated the nation’s first offshore auction in six years will
generate as much as $5 billion for public spending.  “The foreign companies have an opportunity here,”
Bernardo Wjuniski, an analyst at Medley Global Advisers, said by
telephone from Sao Paulo. “They have more space to gain.”  The business plan of Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras says it
will be “selective” placing bids in the so-called Round 11
auction in May as it focuses on developing existing fields.
Other Brazilian contenders also face tighter finances as they
invest in infrastructure to move from exploration to production
for recently discovered fields, Medley Global Advisers said.  Selling Below Cost  The Brazilian producer declined to comment this week on
Round 11 bidding strategy in an e-mailed response to questions,
saying instead that “Petrobras has interest in exploring and
producing oil commercially in every basin in Brazil, and will
evaluate the best form of participation in the auctions.”  Exxon doesn’t comment on license rounds until after the
results, spokesman Patrick McGinn said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. Shell is “actively assessing” all blocks on offer,
the company’s Latin American press department wrote in an e-
mailed response, declining to comment further.  Brazilian oil and gas regulator ANP declined to comment on
companies’ bidding strategies in an e-mailed response. The
Energy Ministry declined to comment, according to a ministerial
press department official who isn’t an authorized spokesman.  Picking Over Parcels  Petrobras produces more than 90 percent of Brazil’s oil and
sells imported fuel below cost because of government price caps.
The company posted its first quarterly loss in 13 years in the
second quarter of 2012.  The shares have declined 8 percent in 2013 in Brazil,
compared with a 7.1 percent drop for the  Dow Jones Emerging
Markets Titans Oil & Gas 30 Index. (DJEEO)  The extra yield, or spread,
investors demand to buy Petrobras’s dollar-denominated bonds due
2021 instead of U.S. Treasuries widened to 251 basis points
today from 222 basis points at the end of last year.  Petrobras probably will limit its focus to the most
attractive areas up for auction and leave more uncharted geology
for other companies, said Marcelo Muller, a partner at AEM
Capital, a Rio de Janeiro-based private equity firm focused on
the oil industry. Petrobras has made discoveries and studied
natural seeps on the ocean floor in the region to gain knowledge
of the geology, he said.  Brazil is offering 289 blocks that hold an estimated 36.7
billion barrels of oil equivalent. That’s about 14 years of
domestic consumption, based on a 35 percent industry average
recovery rate.  71 Contenders  The government also expects major offers from companies
including Irving, Texas-based Exxon, Shell, BP and  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,
said the official, adding  Repsol (REP)  and China Petroleum & Chemical
will participate as partners. The official asked not to be named
because talks with bidders aren’t public.  BP spokesman  Robert Wine  declined to comment on the
licensing round, as did BG Group spokesman  Neil Burrows .  Four out of the five largest oil producers by market value
-- Exxon,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Shell and BP -- are among the 71
companies that submitted paperwork to compete in the round.  Kurt Glaubitz , a spokesman for Chevron, confirmed in an e-
mail that the San Ramon, California-based producer had applied
for qualification, declining to comment on opportunities that
may arise from Petrobras’s bidding approach. Repsol spokesman
Kristian Rix in Madrid declined to comment on strategies for
Round 11.  “It’s definitely the most eagerly awaited bidding round,”
Ruaraidh Montgomery, a senior analyst at oil and gas researcher
 Wood Mackenzie , said by phone from Houston. “The equatorial
margin is a global exploration hot spot, interest that has only
been heightened by the discovery of Zaedyus in offshore French
Guiana in 2011.”  French Guiana Find  London-based  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  found the 840 million-barrel
Zaedyus field in 2011. Repsol and  CGX Energy Inc. (OYL)  are testing
the boundaries of the discovery further west in Guyana. Oil
companies are eager to explore for similar fields across French
Guiana’s border in Brazil, Montgomery said.  Petrobras already needs to borrow at least $60 billion more
in the five years through 2017 to develop offshore properties
and build new refineries. Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster has started a program to find 32 billion reais
($16.2 billion) in cost savings and the company is selling and
restructuring assets to raise $9.9 billion. Petrobras is the
biggest producer in waters deeper than 300 meters (984 feet).  Project Funds  “Our stance in the exploration area is selective
investments, this also includes our vision relating to future
opportunities,” Jose Formigli, Petrobras’ head of exploration
and production, told industry executives at an April 9 event in
Rio. “Of course we will be active, but selective, and with
partners. For us partnerships make a lot of sense, especially in
exploration.”  Petrobras’s $144 billion in sales last year was dwarfed by
Exxon’s $421 billion, Chevron’s $223 billion and Shell’s $467
billion. The producer’s long-term debt-to-capital ratio, a
measure of funds available for projects, was 33.41 at the end of
the fourth quarter, the highest since the first quarter of 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By comparison, Exxon
had a ratio of 4.33, Chevron had 8.04 and Shell had 13.14, the
data show.  Even so, Petrobras is expected to invest $45.7 billion over
the next year, more than $34.7 billion at Exxon, $33.8 billion
at Chevron and $34 billion at Shell, according to analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Uruguay Vs. Brazil  BP and  Total SA (FP)  were two of the four companies that won
acreage in neighboring Uruguay’s 2012 auction for offshore
areas, underscoring the interest of the world’s biggest oil
companies to expand in  South America , T.J. Conway, a research
and advisory manager at New York-based Energy Intelligence
Group, said by telephone from Washington.  “The majors led the charge into Uruguay, and Brazil is
sort of in that context,” Conway said. “Brazil is one of the
preeminent offshore deepwater plays in the world.”  Brazil’s first sale of oil permits since 2008 will give
Exxon a chance to resume exploration in the country after it
drilled dry holes and returned a license last year in the so-
called pre-salt region that holds the country’s largest
discoveries. Exxon also explored Brazil’s Foz de Amazonas basin
in 2001 and 2002 and failed to find oil in one of the areas
where the government will offer new licenses in May.  Round 11’s 155,800 square kilometers is larger than oil
auctions Trinidad, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru and Suriname have
announced for this year. Brazil hasn’t announced the acreage for
a second offshore round and an onshore natural-gas round planned
for later this year.  New Blocks  A total of about 230,000 square kilometers of exploration
licenses were sold in Latin America in 2012, Wood Mackenzie said
in a March report.  Petrobras, the world’s No. 1 deep-water producer, has
discovered high-quality oil in the Ceara and Sergipe basins,
where new blocks will be available. The geology along Brazil’s
equator also mirrors recent discoveries near the coast of
Africa.  “People are waiting to see, as usual, what the 800-pound
gorilla in the room does, and where Petrobras ends up with its
budgeting and how much it is going to commit,” said Robert Gruendel, head of the energy practice at the DLA Piper law firm
that has oil clients in Brazil. “The reality of that is setting
in.”  Local Content  While Brazil’s oil-rich geology has lured oil companies to
Latin America’s largest economy, local content regulations and
the lack of infrastructure in Brazil’s northeast may temper
enthusiasm for new blocks, said Wagner Freire, a former
exploration and production manager at Petrobras. Companies often
have to buy a majority of goods and services locally, depending
on each project, as part of a government policy to spur economic
growth and employment.  “No question there is good potential, but things are
moving very slowly in the Brazilian oil business,” Freire said
by phone from Rio de Janeiro. “A lot of things have to be done
with local content.”  A combination of waning production at aging fields and
losses from selling imported fuel below cost reduced Petrobras’s
2012 profits to the lowest since 2004. The company plans to
raise $9.9 billion selling assets in Brazil and abroad to help
finance investments.  Brazil’s four publicly-traded oil companies -- Petrobras,
 OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA ,  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3)  and
 HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  -- were among the 71 companies
that submitted paperwork to compete in the auction, the National
Petroleum Agency said April 4.  “On balance I’d look at it as an opportunity if Petrobras
is going to be a little bit more judicious in how it invests,”
Gruendel said. “There will be all sorts of opportunities, both
to joint venture with existing partners in Brazil as well as to
pursue greenfield operations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  