-- Peugeot Debt Cut to B1 at Moody’s on European Auto Market
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-04-11T15:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/peugeot-debt-cut-to-b1-at-moody-s-on-european-auto-market.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s credit rating
was cut to four levels below investment grade by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said  Europe ’s car-market contraction
puts the auto manufacturer’s plans to restore  cash flow  at risk.  The long-term rating on Peugeot’s debt was lowered by one
step to B1 from Ba3, Falk Frey, a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Moody’s, said in a statement today. The outlook is stable,
indicating the debt won’t be reduced again soon.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker, is eliminating
jobs and closing a factory to end losses as the region’s auto
market, already close to a two-decade low in 2012, shrinks for a
sixth consecutive year.  Fitch Ratings  reduced Peugeot debt to
four levels below investment grade in February, while Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services has it at three levels into junk status.  “Unless western European market demand recovers strongly
in 2014 from anticipated 2013 levels, PSA may be forced to
undertake further cost-saving measures beyond the announced
restructuring plan,” Frey said.  In a sign of weak demand, Peugeot will halt production at
its factory in Rennes in northern  France  for more than three
weeks, spokeswoman Erika Louis-Roy said today by phone. About
4,000 of the plant’s 5,500 full-time employees will be asked to
stay at home or do training between April 17 and May 13, she
said. The plant makes the full-sized Citroen C5 and Peugeot 508
models and typically builds about 650 cars a day.  Auto Losses  Peugeot  fell  0.4 percent to 5.84 euros in Paris trading.
The stock has gained 6.7 percent this year, valuing the French
automaker at 2.07 billion euros ($2.72 billion).  The manufacturer reported a 576 million-euro  operating loss 
for 2012. It’s predicting a drop of 3 percent to 5 percent in
Europe’s auto market this year.  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin vowed on Feb. 13 to
bring the Paris-based carmaker to a break-even level by the end
of 2014 through spending reductions and a new strategy that
includes moving its Peugeot brand upscale. The reorganization
includes closing a car factory on the outskirts of Paris and
cutting 11,200 jobs, or 17 percent of its French workforce.  Peugeot has struggled to move forward with its
restructuring as some  workers  try to block the plan. The
automaker was in a Paris court today defending its jobs cuts
against claims by two unions that the proposal doesn’t respect
workers’ rights under French law.  Cost Cuts  Peugeot said on Feb. 13 that it reduced costs by 1.18
billion euros in 2012, beating its savings target of 1 billion
euros. Asset disposals, including a stake in its Gefco trucking
unit, totaled 2 billion euros.  The French government stepped in last year to rescue
Peugeot’s banking unit by offering guarantees on as much as 7
billion euros in sales of new bonds. The proposal is under
review by the European Union, which granted temporary approval
in February of French backing for a 1.2 billion-euro debt sale.
The automaker has also reached deals on 11.5 billion euros in
refinancing for its bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  