-- Plosser Calls for Reducing QE Pace Citing Gains in Labor Market
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-11T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/plosser-calls-for-reducing-qe-pace-citing-gains-in-labor-market.html
Philadelphia Federal Reserve
President  Charles Plosser  said the Fed should begin reducing the
pace of bond buying, citing gains in the labor market since the
start of a third round of asset purchases in September.  “We have seen sufficient improvement to begin tapering our
asset purchase program with the objective of bringing it to an
end before year-end,” Plosser said today in remarks prepared
for a speech in  Hong Kong .  Several Fed officials favored cutting back bond purchases
this year and halting the record stimulus by year-end, according
to minutes of the March 19-20 meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  released yesterday. The FOMC pledged after its meeting
to press on with $85 billion in monthly bond purchases until the
labor market improves “substantially.”  “A few members felt that the risks and costs of purchases,
along with the improved outlook since last fall, would likely
make a reduction in the pace of purchases appropriate around
midyear, with purchases ending later this year,” according to
the minutes.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index yesterday rose 1.2 percent
to 1,587.73 in  New York , while the yield on the benchmark 10-
year Treasury note climbed to 1.8 percent from 1.75 percent on
April 9.  The FOMC met before an April 5 government report showed the
U.S. added 88,000 jobs in March, the slowest payroll growth in
nine months.  Voiced Support  Seven central bank officials voiced support last week for
the FOMC pledge to press on with asset purchases. The officials,
commenting in speeches and interviews, include five who hold a
vote on the FOMC: Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , Governor  Daniel Tarullo , Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , St. Louis’s  James Bullard  and  Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren .  Plosser said the March jobs report didn’t change his view
about the need to curtail bond buying.  “Many observers have noted that the March employment
report, released last Friday, was a disappointment,” Plosser
said. “But I would remind everyone that monthly employment
numbers are highly volatile and fluctuate a great deal from
month to month.”  The Labor Department report included a revision of its
initial estimate of  job creation  in February, suggesting more
jobs were created that month, Plosser said.  “Such swings are not unusual,” he said. “Moreover, the
first release is only preliminary and is subject to revision,
and recently the revisions have tended to be upward.”  Opposed Decision  The Philadelphia Fed chief in 2011 dissented from two
decisions to increase monetary stimulus. He said he also opposed
the decision last year to begin a third round of asset
purchases. Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with
Plosser, 64, scheduled to vote again next year.  The  unemployment rate  fell in March to 7.6 percent, the
lowest level in more than four years. The jobless rate is still
far from the Fed’s longer-run goal of 5.2 percent to 6 percent.  “While further progress would certainly be desirable, I
believe the evidence is consistent with a significantly
improving labor market,” Plosser said. “I want to emphasize
that ending asset purchases is not the start of an exit
strategy, nor would it indicate that an increase in the policy
rate was imminent.”  Plosser said he forecasts the economy will grow about 3
percent this year and in 2014, and the unemployment rate may
fall to 7 percent at the end of this year and 6.5 percent by the
end of 2014.  Maturing Assets  Before raising interest rates, the Fed should reinvest its
maturing assets into shorter-term securities, Plosser said. It
should also raise the discount rate that it charges on direct
loans to financial institutions.  Prior to the financial crisis, Fed officials kept the
discount rate 1 percentage point above their target  interest
rate . The spread was reduced in 2008 to 0.25 percentage point
above the main interest rate to ease financial stresses and
increased to 0.5 percentage point higher in February 2010.  “There is little reason to maintain this crisis-initiated
policy, and so we could begin to restore the spread to more
normal, or non-crisis, levels,” Plosser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  