-- Porter’s Jets Pit Bay Street Versus Islanders
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-11T20:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/porter-s-jets-pit-bay-street-versus-islanders.html
Porter Airlines Inc.’s bid to more
than double the reach of its network hinges on winning over
governments in Toronto and Ottawa amid potentially fierce
opposition from local residents in its hometown.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Deluce must persuade
officials to end a ban on jets at Billy Bishop Airport on a Lake
Ontario island in Canada’s biggest city. Deluce plans to add 12
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  CSeries jets to Porter’s all-turboprop fleet by
2016 to reach as far as Los Angeles and the Caribbean as it
challenges the country’s two biggest carriers,  Air Canada (AC/B)  and
 WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)   Deluce needs jets to go beyond the short-haul service
favored by financial professionals from Bay Street, Canada’s
financial hub, because of Billy Bishop’s proximity to downtown.
Flying the CSeries there would mean lengthening the runway,
lifting aircraft restrictions and mollifying nearby residents.  “It’s a political decision now,”Chris Murray, a
transportation analyst at PI Financial Corp. in Toronto, said
yesterday after Porter unveiled its plane order and proposed
airport upgrades. “Technically, the extension makes sense.”  Deluce, 63, is trying to bulk up a closely held airline so
small that  Air Canada (AC/A) ’s traffic each day is more than twice as
large as Porter’s for a month. The stakes in his gambit include
a plan to add 1,000 jobs and as much as $2.3 billion of plane
orders for Bombardier.  Watching Porter  Air Canada and WestJet are watching how Porter’s plans take
shape, spokesmen said. Both serve Toronto Pearson International
Airport, the city’s main gateway, while Air Canada also uses
turboprops at Billy Bishop.  “The CSeries’ superior economics versus other small
narrow-body aircraft employed by WestJet and Air Canada is a
significant added advantage,”  Fadi Chamoun , a BMO Capital
Markets analyst in Toronto, said in a note to clients. “We
suspect we will see moves by Air Canada and WestJet to counter
this new strategic threat.”  Air Canada rose 2.2 percent to C$3.25 at the close in
Toronto, while WestJet gained 0.7 percent to C$24.78. Both fell
more than 1 percent yesterday as the benchmark S&P/TSX
Industrials Index advanced.  After starting flights in 2006, closely held Porter has
been profitable “for the last couple of years,” Deluce said
without elaborating. He said he had no plans to revive an
initial public offering scrapped three years ago.  Three Levels  The Toronto Port Authority, city of Toronto and  Canada ’s
government would have to consent to jet service, a step Deluce
said may come in 2013. He may face a repeat of the battle he
waged last decade to start flights at the airport, which local
opponents said would clutter the shoreline and lead to noise and
air pollution. Then-Mayor David Miller, who served from 2003 to
2010, scuttled a planned bridge to the island from the mainland,
though a pedestrian tunnel is now being built.  Billy Bishop, named for the Canadian World War One ace,
sits about 100 meters (328 feet) off Toronto’s downtown
waterfront. That has drawn business fliers just five minutes
away by cab, along with skiers heading to  Quebec ’s Mont
Tremblant or Burlington,  Vermont .  “We have concentrated on the time-sensitive business
traveler,” Deluce said in a telephone interview from Toronto.
“But we have developed a very significant leisure clientele who
like the style of service that Porter delivers and want to go a
little further.”  New Cities  Buying jets departs from Porter’s focus on short flights
with Bombardier Q400 turboprops, putting venues such as  Florida 
and the Caribbean within reach, as well as Canadian cities
including Winnipeg and Calgary. The Q400’s maximum range is
1,014 nautical miles (1,878 kilometers), while the CS100 can fly
as far as 2,950 nautical miles, according to Bombardier.  Porter said it will make a request “shortly” for two
amendments to permit Bombardier’s 107-seat CS100s to fly to
Billy Bishop. They would permit the use of that plane and add a
168-meter extension over water to each end of the 3,988-foot
main runway.  The CS100 model ordered by Porter has a minimum landing
distance of 4,400 feet, according to a Bombardier fact sheet
published last month, too long for Billy Bishop.  Where Porter sees only a “modest” change to a landing
strip, Toronto resident Alastair Dickson sees an airport that’s
“just a bad idea” and should be closed.  “It’s madness to put an airport in the middle of a
thriving city like Toronto,” said Dickson, a 62-year-old
sculptor who has lived in the Toronto islands for more than 30
years. “It benefits only a few people.”  Jet Ban  Jets are banned at Billy Bishop until 2033 under a three-
way accord among the port authority, Canada’s government and the
city. The port authority and Transport Canada had no immediate
comment on how they might respond to Deluce’s plan.  No changes will be considered “until a determination is
first made by the elected representatives on Toronto City
Council,” according to a statement from the port authority,
which runs the facility.  Some current and former Toronto politicians are already
weighing in.  Mayor Rob Ford said today he doesn’t “have a problem
with” Porter’s plan, according to comments that were e-mailed
by his press secretary, George Christopoulos. “If these jets
are as quiet as they say they are, it creates jobs, it is good
for business. But again obviously I have to look into it,” Ford
said.  ‘Arrogance, Disregard’  A city councilor, Pam McConnell, said yesterday that
Porter’s proposal showed “arrogance and disregard for the
Toronto residents,” while ex-Mayor Miller said jets should be
restricted to Toronto Pearson.  “It’s completely the wrong direction for the waterfront,”
said Miller, who is now counsel for international business and
sustainability with Toronto law firm Aird & Berlis LLP.  Bombardier also has a stake in Porter’s quest to start jet
service. Completing an order tied the airline’s ability to serve
Billy Bishop with jets would allow the company to showcase its
new plane for the first time at a domestic airline.  The plane’s technology may help Porter’s case in persuading
officials that any disruptions from jets would be minimal.  Bombardier says the CSeries, which will feature the new
geared turbofan engine from United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt &
Whitney, will be about four times more quiet than existing jets.  “The noise profile of the CSeries is dramatically better
than conventional aircraft,” said Karl Moore, a professor of
business strategy at  Montreal ’s McGill University who
specializes in the airline industry. “Some people on the island
understandably will fight it so it will take persuasion to win
them over. There is uncertainty, there’s no question about it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  