-- Premier League Selects Hawk-Eye to Provide Goal-Line Technology
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-04-11T16:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/premier-league-selects-hawk-eye-to-provide-goal-line-technology.html
The Premier League became the first
domestic competition in world soccer to confirm a goal-line
technology supplier after striking a deal with Sony Corp.’s
 Hawk-Eye Innovations Ltd.   The technology, aimed at preventing goal-line errors in the
sport, will be in use from next season, the league said in a
statement today. The announcement follows a meeting in London of
the competition’s 20 member clubs.  “Football is fundamentally a simple game; whichever side
scores most goals wins,” Premier League Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Scudamore  said. “So, when one is scored, or indeed not
scored, and we have the ability through technology to
definitively know whether the ball crossed the line we should
absolutely use it.”  The move comes a week after  FIFA , the sport’s global
governing body, picked  Germany ’s GoalControl GmbH to provide
assistance at this year’s Confederations Cup in  Brazil .
GoalControl was among those under consideration for the Premier
League contract.  Calls for technology intensified after the 2010  World Cup ,
when officials failed to spot a shot from England’s  Frank Lampard  had crossed the line in his team’s 4-1 defeat to
Germany.  Michel Platini , president of European soccer’s
governing body UEFA, is opposed to the technology.  “Principally it is about getting it right,” Scudamore
said. “Fans, players and managers exhort, strain and stress
respectively for their teams to score or prevent goals being
scored, so we as administrators should do all that we can to
ensure the correct decisions are being made.”  Tennis, Cricket  U.K., Basingstoke-based Hawk-Eye, bought by Sony Corp.’s
European unit in 2011, also provides line-call technology in
tennis and cricket.  “Of the four companies that are currently licensed by
FIFA, Hawk-Eye stood out for their excellent track record in
delivering for sport over many years,” Scudamore said. “The
fact it was a camera-based system was critical. Replays will be
made available to all our host broadcasters and we are examining
the feasibility of them being used on in-stadium big-screens. It
is essential that fans see the system in action to know that it
is working.”  Paul Hawkins, inventor of Hawk-Eye, said his company
“understand the responsibility that we have been given, and
that the real challenge lies ahead in consistently delivering
the technology that football deserves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the  London  sports desk at   tpanja@bloomberg.net 
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  