-- Prolor Said to Hire Jefferies to Evaluate Alternatives
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-04-11T13:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/prolor-said-to-hire-jefferies-to-evaluate-alternatives.html
Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH) , an Israeli
company developing improved versions of existing medicines,
hired  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  to study strategic alternatives,
according to a person with knowledge of the decision.  The investment bank will help Nes Ziona, Israel-based
Prolor evaluate the economic value of its projects after drawing
interest from large drugmakers in the past year, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the process is
private. Prolor hasn’t decided to sell itself, the person said.  Prolor may be attractive because its hGH-CTP product, which
is injected once a week to address human growth hormone
deficiencies, is entering the final stage of clinical trials
before it’s submitted for regulatory approval. The treatment may
help the company secure as much as 40 percent of the $2.5
billion to $3 billion market, according to Oppenheimer & Co.  “The company’s products have formulations that could give
it some real advantages, so they could be attractive to the
current players,” said Sergey Vastchenok, a Tel Aviv-based
senior analyst at Oppenheimer. The firm helped arrange a share
sale for Prolor last year.  Prolor declined to comment on the hiring of Jefferies, said
a spokeswoman for the company at BLL Partners LLC in New York. A
spokesman for Jefferies didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment.  Shares Rise  Prolor rose 3.4 percent to $5.19 at 9:40 a.m. in New York,
giving the company a market value of $329.1 million. The stock
increased 4.3 percent in Tel Aviv trading, the biggest gain
since Feb. 13.  Phillip Frost , the billionaire American doctor who is
chairman of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , is Prolor’s
biggest  shareholder  with a stake of about 20 percent.  Calcalist, an Israeli newspaper, reported the investment
bank’s hiring earlier today. New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  of Basel, Switzerland, London-based  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  and Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva are interested in buying
Prolor, which is seeking as much as $800 million in a sale, the
newspaper reported.  That valuation is probably too high given Prolor’s current
market value, the person said.  Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, Eric Althoff, a
Novartis spokesman, and Kalpesh Joshi of Glaxo declined to
comment on the report. Teva didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  Prolor raised as much as $35 million in a share sale almost
a year ago to help finance research and development. The company
said then it had enough cash to conduct late-stage studies of
hGH-CTP, though it may seek a partner to help market the
product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  