-- Qantas Sees Asia Demand Filling Extra Singapore Capacity
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2013-04-12T03:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/qantas-sees-asia-demand-filling-extra-singapore-capacity.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s
largest carrier, said it’s managing to fill a surge in capacity
to Singapore from its tie-up with Emirates as economic growth
encourages travel demand in Asia.  The airline, which increased seats to Singapore by 40
percent from the alliance, is seeing forward bookings over the
next few months “growing into that capacity quite quickly,”
said Simon Hickey, chief executive officer of the Sydney-based
carrier’s international unit.  “We’re quite confident about our position here in
Singapore,” Hickey said in a Bloomberg Television interview
with Haslinda Amin yesterday in the city state. “It’s a key
gateway for Asia where we see a lot of Australian traffic coming
to Singapore and then going across Asia.”  Qantas’ alliance with  Emirates (EMIRATES) , which started March 31,
gives travelers between Australia and  Europe  the option of
flying through Dubai instead of Singapore, the traditional
gateway for the so-called kangaroo route. The carrier has
rescheduled Asian flights to appeal to business-class travelers
as the Emirates tie-in allows it to reduce unprofitable routes
to Europe.  “It’s a focus on the Asian side,” said K. Ajith, an
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “ There’s a
lot of millionaires in this region and travel demand is growing
faster here than anywhere else, so it makes sense to have a
commitment in an Asian hub.”  Qantas opened a “multimillion-dollar” lounge in Terminal
1 of Singapore’s Changi Airport yesterday, Hickey said. It can
seat 460 travelers and has 20 shower stalls, the airline said.  Luring Passengers  Qantas fell 0.4 percent to A$1.7825 as of 12:52 p.m in
Sydney trading. The stock has advanced 20 percent this year,
compared with a 7.7 percent gain in  Australia ’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Qantas is discounting flights to Asia to lure more
passengers on routes to Singapore.  Last month, Hickey said the carrier had “still got a lot
of capacity to fill” on aircraft flying to and from Asia.  Airbus SAS expects airlines in Asia Pacific to buy 9,870
aircraft worth $1.6 trillion in the next two decades, fueled by
travel growth in the region, Chief Operating Officer John Leahy
said Feb. 25.  The Asia-Pacific region will lead demand for new aircraft
as economic growth helps boost the size of the middle class by
almost five times in 20 years, Leahy said in February.  Asian Market  The region will account for 33 percent of global passengers
in 2016, according to the International Air Transport
Association. Budget carriers’ market share in the Asia-Pacific
region rose to 24 percent last year from 1.1 percent in 2001,
according to the CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry
consultancy.  Travel within Asia Pacific overtook intra-North America as
the world’s biggest aviation market in 2009, according to IATA.
The region’s passenger growth, both domestic and international,
is expected to add about 380 million travelers between 2012 and
2016 to 1.2 billion, IATA forecast in December.  Qantas said March 31 that Europe bookings rose sixfold as
the alliance reduces the average travel time by more than two
hours from Melbourne and Sydney to the top 10 destinations in
Europe.  On the new network, passengers will be able to fly to 65
international destinations with one stop in Dubai, compared with
the five one-stop destinations in Europe under Qantas’s previous
alliance with  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) ’s
British Airways unit.  Market Share  The Australian carrier sought the tie-up after losing
market share on international routes to Middle East and Asian
rivals offering a wider range of connections and more convenient
flight times.  Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce pledged to return
the carrier’s international business to  profit  after the company
reported its first annual loss last year since at least 1993,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The tie-up is probably worth about A$90 million ($95
million) a year before tax to Qantas, as it fills more seats on
combined flights to Europe, New Zealand and Southeast Asia, and
drops the unprofitable Frankfurt service, Andrew Gibson, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Inc., wrote in a note on Feb. 22.  Qantas narrowed its loss on overseas routes in the first
half to A$91 million from A$262 million a year earlier, after
dropping unprofitable flights and retiring older planes, it said
Feb. 21. The airline aims to break even on international routes
by 2015, Joyce said Sept. 9.  “That is our target and still our target and we’re working
diligently towards that,” Hickey said. The Emirates alliance
and added capacity into Asia “are coming together to help our
financial situation,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Hong Kong at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in  Singapore  at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  