-- Trader Who Received Tips From KPMG Partner Issues Apology
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/trader-who-received-tips-from-kpmg-partner-issues-apology.html
Bryan Shaw, a trader who said he
received insider tips from fired  KPMG  LLP partner Scott London,
apologized and said he’s been cooperating with the  Justice
Department  and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “During 2010 through 2012, I received non-public
information from Scott London about a number of companies and
then profited substantially from stock trades based upon that
information,” Shaw said in a statement provided yesterday by
 Nathan Hochman , a lawyer at Bingham McCutchen LLP in Santa
Monica, California. “I cannot begin to apologize for my
incredibly stupid actions.”  London was the head of KPMG’s audit practice in Los
Angeles. The firm said in an April 8 statement that he was fired
after KPMG learned he had provided inside information to someone
who used it to trade shares of several West Coast companies.
London wasn’t identified by name in the statement.  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  and  Skechers U.S.A. Inc. (SKX)  said in statements
on April 9 that KPMG was withdrawing as their auditor.  London, in an April 9 e-mailed statement, said he leaked
information by phone over a period of years to a person who
traded on those tips.  London , who didn’t return messages seeking
comment, said he was trying to help a person whose business was
struggling.  Shaw Diamond  Shaw is listed in online business directories as a partner
with Encino, California-based Shaw Diamond Co., a wholesale
jeweler and diamond broker founded in 1957.  “Over the past several months, I have fully cooperated
with the FBI, the SEC, and the U.S. Department of Justice in
their ongoing investigation of this matter,” Shaw said in his
statement. “I expect that my actions will result in significant
civil and criminal consequences, but I realize that this is the
painful price I will pay for my transgressions.”  London was the lead auditor for Skechers, according to
David Weinberg, the shoemaker’s chief financial officer. Senior
KPMG executives visited Skechers on April 8 and told Weinberg
about the misconduct, he said. They said no questions were
raised about the company’s financial reports and that they
believe London is the only auditor involved, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  