-- RBA Sees Profit After Stevens Forced to Pay Swan Dividend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-11T08:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/rba-sees-profit-after-stevens-forced-to-pay-swan-2012-dividend.html
Australia ’s central bank projects
it will have A$550 million ($578 million) available for
distribution in the 12 months to June 30, a year after it was
forced to hand the government almost half its earnings against
Governor Glenn Stevens’s wishes, documents show.  Stevens urged Treasurer Wayne Swan to forgo a dividend from
the Reserve Bank of Australia for the year to June 2012 to allow
the governor to rebuild a buffer drained by the high currency.
“This would be consistent with your earlier agreement to this
approach to begin the process of restoring the balance of this
Reserve,” Stevens wrote in a July 13, 2012, letter to Swan
released today under a Freedom of Information Act request by
Bloomberg News.  Swan rebuffed the request, and asked for a A$500 million
dividend from the RBA, saying it was “appropriate” that
taxpayers receive the payment. The conflicting claims reflect
the impact a higher local currency is having on Treasury, where
tax receipts are weakening, and the central bank, which has lost
money on its international assets.  Currency Complication  “The position of the Reserve Bank has been complicated by
the strong Australian dollar and the fact that it keeps going
higher and higher,” said Shane Oliver, Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
about A$130 billion under management. “Paying the government a
dividend isn’t a problem in normal times, but if difficult
financial conditions fall on the economy it may restrict the
central bank’s ability to provide assistance.”  A spokeswoman for Treasurer Swan said in an e-mailed
statement today that the government doesn’t intend to take a
dividend from the RBA this year. The government took steps in
the last budget to ensure the central bank’s reserve fund is
appropriately capitalized, the spokeswoman said.  In a Feb. 8, 2013 letter from the RBA to Treasury, the
central bank said it projected earnings of A$863 million for the
year to June 30, 2013, with A$550 million of that available for
distribution as a dividend in the following financial year or to
credit the Reserve Fund.  “Exchange rates, in particular, can fluctuate widely over
time and may have a significant effect on the bank’s profits,”
RBA Assistant Governor (Corporate Services) Frank Campbell wrote
in the letter to Treasury. “Although the bank currently records
unrealized gains so far in 2012/13, if the Australian dollar
appreciated over the remainder of 2012/13 unrealized losses may
be recorded.”  Distribution Forecast  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0579 as of 6:41 p.m. in
Sydney today, up from the $1.0353 level on Feb. 6 that was used
by the RBA when making its projections for distributable
earnings in fiscal 2013.  The forecast distribution available noted in the February
letter was A$413 million higher than a September projection,
Campbell wrote. He said the Reserve Fund’s “balance remains
below a level consistent with the board’s policy for this
Reserve, which is to target a balance of 10 percent of assets at
risk.”  A 10 percent appreciation in Australia’s dollar could
result in an unrealized loss of about A$3.43 billion, he wrote.  The Reserve Fund, which provides the capacity for the RBA
to absorb losses, stood at A$1.9 billion in February, Stevens
told a parliamentary panel in Canberra on Feb. 22. He said that
when the central bank held between A$6 billion and A$7 billion
“that was roughly at the target at the time.”  Dividend ‘Appropriate’  In Stevens’s July 13 letter to Swan, he wrote: “The board
seeks your approval to transfer all of the bank’s distributable
earnings in 2012 to the Reserve Bank Reserve Fund.”  In a reply dated Aug. 28 from Swan to the governor, the
treasurer said “the government believes it is appropriate that
tax payers receive a dividend from the Reserve Bank where
circumstances permit.”  “However, I agree it is prudent that the Reserve Bank work
towards replenishing the Reserve Bank Reserve Fund, and for this
reason should retain a portion of its 2011-12 profits,” Swan
wrote in the letter.  Swan in December was forced to abandon a pledge to return
to a surplus this fiscal year as a stronger currency and weaker
commodity prices curb tax receipts, damaging the government’s
economic credibility. He will release a budget on May 14, four
months before a national election that polls suggest the ruling
Labor Party will lose.  Stevens Reappointed  Swan last week reappointed Stevens for a further three
years, saying the governor had made “an enormous contribution
to Australia’s economic performance and financial stability”
since his appointment in 2006.  The Reserve Bank Act states that the central bank’s owner,
the Australian government through the treasurer, determines how
much of the earnings available for distribution will be taken as
a dividend. After paying the dividend to Treasury, the RBA had
A$596 million of its earnings in 2011-12 left to top up its
Reserve Fund, according to its annual  report  published in
September.  “My preference would be to keep all of it, frankly, until
we rebuild the capital, but it is the treasurer’s prerogative to
decide,” Stevens told lawmakers in Canberra on Feb. 22. “In
the current situation he was quite amenable to us keeping more
than half of the earnings available for the year, but he wished
to take the 500 dividend. That is his prerogative, and he is
perfectly entitled legally under the acts to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  