-- RBS Japan Chief Resigns as Bank Punished for Libor Breach
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-04-12T08:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/rbs-japan-unit-ceo-said-poised-to-resign-amid-libor-probe.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s
Japan brokerage head resigned after the country’s financial
regulator punished the unit for attempts to manipulate benchmark
 interest rates .  RBS Securities Japan Ltd.  country representative Ryusuke Otani left the firm today and was replaced by Shoji Taniguchi,
it said in a  statement  on its website. The Financial Services
Agency ordered the firm to improve operations, the regulator
said in a separate statement.  The punishment comes two months after the unit pleaded
guilty to  wire fraud  as part of a $612 million settlement with
the U.K. and U.S. for rigging the London interbank offered rate.
More than a dozen banks and brokers are being probed worldwide
for influencing benchmarks including Libor, the benchmark for at
least $300 trillion of securities.  RBS must submit a report to the FSA by May 13 describing
how it will improve compliance and prevent a recurrence, the
regulator said. The FSA handed down the penalties a week after
the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission recommended
administrative action against the firm.  From around mid-2006 to early 2010, an unidentified RBS
trader and his colleagues asked employees responsible for making
yen Libor submissions to change them to favor their derivatives
portfolio, the SESC said on April 5. The conduct was “seriously
unjust and malicious,” it said.  Review Governance  RBS Securities Japan apologized to customers for the issues
that led to the business improvement order. The firm “will
undertake a comprehensive review of its governance structure,”
it said in the statement.  Otani, who became Japan representative of the brokerage in
2007, isn’t the first top executive of a foreign bank to resign
following interest-rate breaches in the country.  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s Japan brokerage head, Brian Mccappin, stepped down in
January 2012 after the SESC found that employees of the unit
tried to influence benchmark rates.  The FSA banned New York-based Citigroup from trading tied
to Libor and the Tokyo interbank offered rate for two weeks.
Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  received a one-week suspension at the time
for similar breaches.  UBS was fined about $1.5 billion in December by U.S., U.K.
and Swiss regulators for trying to rig rates. London-based
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million pounds ($446 million) in a
global settlement in June, and  Robert Diamond  resigned as CEO.  Dismissed Staff  Edinburgh-based RBS, 81 percent owned by British taxpayers
after getting the world’s biggest bank bailout during the global
financial crisis, said in February it had dismissed six
individuals from the bank for Libor-related misconduct. A
seventh, Simon Green, who traded derivatives tied to short-term
moves in interest rates in dollars and euros, was fired last
month, two people with knowledge of the move said.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the second-largest U.K.
government-owned lender, is probing two money-markets traders
over their alleged role in rigging rates, three people familiar
with the matter said.  Libor is determined by a daily poll that asks banks to
estimate how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for different time-frames and in different currencies. The top
and bottom quartiles are excluded and an average is taken of the
remaining quotes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  