-- Treasury Wine Seeks Cooler Land as Climate Shifts Season
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-04-11T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/treasury-wine-seeks-cooler-land-as-climate-shifts-season.html
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE) , the
world’s second-largest listed wine company, is seeking out
vineyards in cooler regions in preference to ones in warmer
areas as climate change starts to shift growing seasons.  The wine maker’s land acquisition teams are looking to buy
and lease vineyards in  Australia ’s Tasmania state,  Chief
Executive Officer David Dearie said in an interview yesterday.
Harvests are already starting as much as a day-and-a-half
earlier each year as a result of climate change, he said.  Areas suitable for viticulture may drop 68 percent in
Mediterranean  Europe  by 2050 and fall 73 percent in regions of
Australia with a so-called Mediterranean climate, according to a
 study published  this month in the Proceedings of the  National
Academy of Sciences  of the  United States of America .  New
Zealand ’s area will more than double and it will also surge in
northern Europe and western  North America , the authors wrote.  “As the world heats, Tasmania’s very well positioned
because of the cooler climate,” Dearie said. “We’ve got out of
places like the Hunter; in the longer term I think it will be
hot and dry and expensive.”  The Melbourne-based company earlier sold its vineyards in
the Hunter Valley north of Sydney, where the Lindemans brand
originated, as part of a shift to more profitable growing
regions, he said.  Australia’s  most prestigious wine award  went in 2011 to a
shiraz from southern Tasmania, a region better-known for cooler-
climate white wines and pinot noir grapes.  Monitoring Vineyards  Treasury’s growers are monitoring vineyards’ growing
seasons to update their forecasts of local  climate change 
impacts, and delaying pruning work to give time to harvest
grapes as seasons move later, Rebecca Smith, a spokeswoman, said
by e-mail.  Shares of Treasury have climbed 39 percent in the past 12
months in Sydney trading, outperforming the S&P/ASX 200 Index’s
18 percent gain in the period.  Treasury needs to source more high-quality land to meet
demand for premium wines and is looking in the U.S., Australia
and New Zealand, Dearie said. While the company would also like
to find vineyards in France as a means to gain access to the
Asian market, prices were too high at present, he said.  “We don’t actually have the wine,” he said. “It’s a
question of making the wine first and then selling ourselves
into the market.”  The wine maker wasn’t finding the limits of demand for the
most expensive wines, Dearie said. Treasury April 4 increased
prices for its 2008 Penfolds Grange vintage to A$785 ($827) a
bottle, a 26 percent increase on the previous year’s output and
15 percent above an initial pricing in January, as growing
Chinese demand for high-end wines outpaces supply.  China will become the largest wine market in the world
within 10 years, Dearie said in an interview with  Bloomberg News 
last month. Still, it will take 30 to 50 years for the country,
the fifth-largest grower of wine grapes, to establish high
quality wine growing regions, he said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Hays in  New York  at 
 lhays1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  