-- Regulators Lack Power to Unwind Too-Big-to-Fail Banks, FSB Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-04-11T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/regulators-lack-power-to-unwind-too-big-to-fail-banks-fsb-says.html
Global regulators said they still
lack the power to impose losses on creditors and wind down too-
big-fail-lenders without resorting to public bailouts almost
five years after the 2008 financial crisis.  The Financial Stability Board said in a report today that
“few jurisdictions have equipped administrative authorities
with the full set of powers to resolve banks.” Many countries
also lack frameworks to recognize actions taken by foreign
regulators in a cross-border crisis, which is a “major
weakness,” the FSB said.  Cyprus became a testing ground for investor losses when
euro-area authorities last month required restructuring of the
country’s two biggest banks as a condition of a 10 billion-euro
($13 billion) rescue. The Cyprus program, billed by European
policy makers as a unique case, imposes losses on bondholders
and uninsured depositors and was accompanied by  capital controls 
to limit contagion.  “Most of the recommendations that involve actions by
national authorities can -- and should -- be implemented now
without waiting for additional FSB guidance,” said the FSB, a
global group of central bankers and financial supervisors from
the Group of 20 nations with headquarters in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  The FSB recommended that nations give local regulators the
authority to write down creditors’ claims and give them the
ability to make changes to a banks’ organizational structure
“where it is necessary to improve their resolvability,”
according to the report.  The FSB’s review echoes comments made by International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , who said the
“oversize banking model is still very dangerous” in a speech
in  New York  yesterday.  EU Law  European Union leaders have set a June deadline for
governments and the European Parliament to agree on legislation
setting out how authorities should handle  bank failures ,
including through so-called creditor bail-ins.  In the absence of such a system, nations have injected 1.7
trillion euros into their banking systems since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to European
Commission data.  The law, “once approved, will represent a major step
forward in aligning the resolution regimes of EU member
states,” the FSB said.  Other recommendations from the group include introducing
powers for regulators to freeze the status of financial
contracts during a crisis and ensuring legal structures are
capable of resolving non-banks, such as insurance, securities
and investment firms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  