-- Retail Group Opts Out of Visa, MasterCard Swipe Accord
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-11T14:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/retail-group-opts-out-of-visa-mastercard-swipe-accord.html
The Retail Industry Leaders
Association said it will opt out of a multibillion-dollar
antitrust settlement with  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  over so-
called swipe fees, calling it a “bad deal for retailers.”  The trade group said in a statement today that it would
forgo damages payouts and object to the agreement, which may be
worth as much as $7.25 billion. The accord, estimated to be the
largest-ever antitrust settlement, would end a case alleging
that the card companies conspired with major banks to fix the
fees charged to merchants when customers pay with plastic.  The settlement “undermines merchants’ legal rights forever
and fails to restrain the continued growth of swipe fees
increases,” Deborah White, the Arlington, Virginia-based
association’s general counsel, said in the statement.  Several retail groups have opposed the settlement since it
was made public in July, alleging that it doesn’t provide enough
benefit for merchants and gives card companies too much leeway
in the future to raise rates. Some large retailers, including
 Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , have also
spoken out against the accord.  Arguments Today  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson is scheduled to hear
arguments today in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, over
whether a website created by trade groups,  Merchantsobject.com ,
is misinforming retailers about the settlement. The site
encourages businesses to opt out and object to the deal.  Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments
Coalition, which represents credit card firms and banks, said
RILA’s announcement is a “public relations stunt designed to
distract attention” from the hearing.  Gleeson granted preliminary approval to the deal in
November. A hearing on final approval is scheduled for
September.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  