-- Roche First-Quarter Revenue Rises on U.S. Tamiflu Sales
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-04-11T16:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/roche-first-quarter-revenue-advances-on-u-s-tamiflu-sales-boost.html
Flu-stricken Americans and rising
cancer drug sales helped  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  boost revenue by 5.1
percent in a first quarter marked by approvals for two new
breast-tumor drugs.  Sales rose to 11.6 billion Swiss francs ($12.4 billion),
the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today.
That beat the 11.5 billion-franc  estimate  of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Roche doesn’t report quarterly earnings.  Revenue from cancer treatment Avastin rose 11 percent
excluding currency shifts to 1.53 billion francs. The U.S. flu
season helped push sales of the Tamiflu antiviral medicine up by
84 percent. Roche got regulatory approvals for Perjeta and
Kadcyla, two drugs Roche is counting on to extend the franchise
it’s building around the  breast-cancer  medicine Herceptin, sales
of which rose 11 percent excluding currency shifts.  “On the pharma side, it’s very solid,” Odile Rundquist, a
Geneva-based analyst for Helvea AG, said by phone. She has an
accumulate recommendation on the stock. “It’s confirming the
positive stance on the company.”  Herceptin, Roche’s second-best-selling drug, garnered 1.57
billion francs in first-quarter revenue.  Diagnostics Challenges  Challenges are visible in the diagnostics business,
Rundquist said. Revenue declined at three of five units in that
segment, which contributes about a fifth of Roche’s sales.  Roche rose 0.4 percent to 226.40 francs, the highest since
June 2007, giving the company a market value of 195.4 billion
francs. The stock has returned 52 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends, compared with a 33 percent
return for the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  Use of Avastin against ovarian cancer in Europe and
treatment of colorectal cancer patients helped drive the sales
increase for that drug, Roche said. U.S. regulators revoked
approval for Avastin in metastatic breast cancer in 2011.  “The wash-out of the breast cancer indication is now
behind them,” Rundquist said of Avastin sales. “Thanks to
strong uptake in their two new indications, ovarian cancer and
treatment across multiple lines in metastatic colorectal cancer,
it will probably continue to have a good growth rate.”  Blood Cancer  Revenue from top-selling blood cancer drug Rituxan climbed
6 percent excluding currency shifts to 1.7 billion francs.  Whether Roche will be able to build on Rituxan with the
same success as Herceptin may begin to become apparent this
year. The company said it will present the first of four studies
on its next-generation treatment GA101 at the  American Society
of Clinical Oncology ’s annual meeting, which starts May 31.
Roche aims to file GA101 for regulatory approval by the end of
the year.  Diabetes care, Roche’s second-biggest diagnostics unit,
suffered as governments cut costs and changed the way they
reimburse Roche’s products, used to check blood sugar levels.
Sales dropped 4 percent to 539 million francs. Roche isn’t the
only one facing challenges as  Bayer AG (BAYN)  evaluated options for its
own diabetes unit last year before deciding to keep the
business.  Diabetes remains an “important market for us,” Roland Diggelmann, head of Roche’s diagnostics unit, said on a
conference call with reporters today.  Perjeta, known chemically as pertuzumab, won European Union
approval in March for women with a fast-growing type of breast
cancer after being on the market in the U.S. since last year.
It’s designed to work together with Herceptin and chemotherapy.
Kadcyla, otherwise known as T-DM1, was cleared for sale in the
U.S. last February.  “We expect continued strong launches,” Deutsche Bank AG
analysts Tim Race and  Mark Clark  wrote in a note to investors
before today’s results. The team rates Roche’s shares a buy.  Roche confirmed the forecast it made in January that 2013
sales will climb at about the same pace as last year’s 4 percent
increase, based on constant exchange rates. So-called core
earnings per share will increase faster than sales, the
drugmaker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  