-- Romania to Sell Bonds in Euros on Local Market at Lowest Yield
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-04-11T09:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/romania-to-sell-bonds-in-euros-on-local-market-at-lowest-yield.html
Romania ’s borrowing costs are set
to drop to a record low at the second sale of euro-denominated
bonds on the domestic market this year.  The government plans to raise 200 million euros ($262
million) in the reopening of three-year bonds due February 2016,
according to the Finance Ministry’s monthly issuance calendar
published on Bloomberg. The yield will be between 2.8 percent
and 2.95 percent, according to estimates from analysts at Erste
Group Bank AG, Piraeus Bank Romania SA and Societe Generale SA.
That compares 3.14 percent for similar-maturity debt sold Jan.
22.  “The issue marks another step toward building up the local
debt market,” Mihai Patrulescu, a Bucharest-based senior
economist at UniCredit Tiriac Bank SA, wrote in a note. “The
ministry shouldn’t encounter difficulties in raising the planned
amount.”  The Finance Ministry cut its local debt issuance plan to
between 10 billion lei ($3 billion) and 12 billion lei in the
second quarter after raising 18.4 billion lei and 503 million
euros in the first quarter, Diana Popescu, the head of Treasury
at the ministry in Bucharest, said in an interview yesterday. It
plans to borrow 2.5 billion lei this month, excluding today’s
sale.  Romania’s local bonds have rallied this year after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc said some of the country’s
securities are eligible for entry to their government debt
indexes. Yields fell below 5 percent at a two-year leu-
denominated debt auction on April 8 for the first time since the
central bank started recording the data in 2005.  The leu weakened less than 0.1 percent to 4.3910 per euro
by 11:36 a.m. in Bucharest today, halting the longest winning
streak in more than five months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has gained 1.3 percent so far this year,
the second-best performance among currencies in eastern  Europe 
and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ; 