-- Russian Bonds Rise to 2-Month High as Investors Chase High Yield
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-04-11T15:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/russian-bonds-rise-to-2-month-high-as-investors-chase-high-yield.html
Russia’s Eurobonds rose, heading
for the highest close in more than two months, as investors
bought higher-yielding assets after  Japan ’s announcement of
unprecedented monetary easing.  The yield on benchmark Russia Eurobonds due April 2042
plunged 15 basis points, the most on record, on April 4, when
the  Bank of Japan  said it will buy 7.5 trillion yen ($75
billion) of bonds a month. The rate fell four basis points today
to 4.45 percent, the lowest since Jan. 29, narrowing the premium
investors demand to hold the debt over similar maturity  U.S.
Treasuries  to 146 basis points from 172 basis points on April 3.  “Japanese quantitative easing should lead to an additional
inflow of liquidity,” Yury Nefedov, a fixed-income trader at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by phone. “The Fed and
Japan are increasing liquidity on the market quite strongly, and
to find yield you have to go to  emerging markets , including
Russia.”  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee, led by Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke , is continuing with $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases until the labor-market outlook has “improved
substantially,” according to minutes released this week. A
report tomorrow is forecast to show U.S. retail sales stagnated
in March after advancing 1.1 percent in February.  Auction Sellout  Russia’s  Finance Ministry  sold its entire allotment of
bonds at primary auctions yesterday, the first time this year,
placing 35 billion rubles of OFZ securities. The ruble was
little changed today against the central bank’s target  basket  of
dollars and euros at 35.1294 by 7 p.m. in Moscow after three
days of gains. The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent against the
dollar to 30.8100 for the sixth straight day of advances.  Yields on bonds of non-investment grade Russian banks also
fell. The rate on ZAO Russian Standard Bank’s securities due
July 2017 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to a
record 6.94 percent. The yield on Eurobonds of ZAO TCS Bank due
September 2015 dropped 16 basis points to an all-time low of
6.93 percent.  The Eurobonds of smaller Russian banks show “totally
insane” returns thanks to the combination of high coupon, low
duration and low amount outstanding, RenCap’s Nefedov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  