-- Rutgers General Counsel Resigns in Aftermath of Coaching Scandal
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-11T17:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/rutgers-general-counsel-resigns-in-aftermath-of-coaching-scandal.html
Rutgers University general counsel
John Wolf resigned after criticism of his role in the
investigation of basketball coach Mike Rice, who was fired last
week for physically and verbally abusing players.  Wolf and Rutgers President Robert Barchi “agreed that it
is in the best interests of the university that Mr. Wolf resign
from the university effective immediately,” the  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based school said on its website.  Rice was suspended for three games and fined $50,000 in
December following an investigation of his actions by Rutgers
Athletic Director Tim Pernetti, Wolf and an outside  law firm .
The coach was fired on April 3, a day after video was aired on
ESPN’s “Outside the Lines” program showing the coach shoving
players and throwing basketballs at them while using gay slurs
and vulgarities during practices from 2010 to 2012.  Barchi said April 5 at a news conference to announce
Pernetti’s resignation that Wolf “has resigned his leadership
position.”  State Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from  East
Orange , today questioned the decision to reassign Wolf to
another post at the school rather than fire him.  “The decision-making process that has gone on at Rutgers
is simply baffling,” Oliver said in an e-mailed statement. “If
Mr. Wolf’s questionable judgment played a role in the
suspension, rather than the firing, of Mike Rice, he needed to
be held accountable, not reassigned to another sizeable
taxpayer-funded position.”  Wolf will work with the school’s next general counsel to
assure a smooth transition as Rutgers works toward a July 1,
2013, merger with the University of Medicine and Dentistry of
 New Jersey , according to the school statement.  “While I regret the circumstances surrounding my departure
from Rutgers, I always will have very fond memories of the
challenges and achievements that I have been a part of and the
many colleagues and friends, both inside and outside the
university, with whom I have worked at Rutgers since 1984,”
Wolf said in a statement. “I wish Rutgers well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  