-- Sabesp Toppling Tractebel as Water Beats Power: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a r a
-- 2013-04-11T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/sabesp-toppling-tractebel-as-water-beats-power-corporate-brazil.html
Cia. de Saneamento Basico do Estado
de  Sao Paulo  is close to becoming  Latin America ’s biggest
utility by market value after a 67 percent surge in the past
year spurred by investors trading power stocks for water.  The state-run water company’s market value rose to a record
$11.1 billion at the end of last month, narrowing the gap to
generator  Tractebel Energia SA (TBLE3)  to about $360.7 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s down from $1 billion at the
end of last year and $3.89 billion at the start of 2012.  Sabesp, already the world’s largest water utility, is
luring investors seeking the safety of utilities as stagnant
economic growth and government intervention cause the benchmark
Bovespa index to lag behind regional peers. State water
companies offer protection because they aren’t regulated by the
federal government, which is clamping down on industries from
electricity to banks and telecommunications in a bid to hold
down inflation and spur the economy.  “We’re living in a moment when the market is very
selective and searching for shares that don’t have a lot of
volatility,” Henrique Kleine, an analyst at Magliano Corretora,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Sabesp fits that
bill.”  Sabesp is handing investors the Americas’ second-best
return on equity among peers as a swelling middle class in
 Brazil ’s richest and most-populous state fuels a building boom,
boosting demand for sewage and water services. The company’s 17
percent return on equity in the fourth quarter was the best
after  Chile ’s  Aguas Andinas SA (AGUAS/A) ’s 20 percent return.  Tractebel Tops Rivals  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  last year unveiled a
plan to force power companies to either cut prices that
manufacturers say are among the highest in the world or return
contracts to be re-auctioned when they expire, triggering a
selloff in electricity utilities.  Tractebel leapfrogged Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais ,  CPFL
Energia SA (CPFE3)  and  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  in the fourth
quarter to become the biggest utility after sidestepping
pressure to cut rates because its contracts don’t expire for at
least 14 years. Florianopolis, Brazil-based Tractebel has gained
 11 percent  in the past year, less than Sabesp’s 36 percent
rally, which is the most of any utility on the Bovespa index.  ‘Underperforming Peers’  The gauge has declined 16 percent in the period in U.S.
dollar terms, while the main benchmarks in  Venezuela ,  Mexico  and
 Argentina  all gained. The Bovespa is underperforming peers after
gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent in 2012, the slowest
pace since 2009. At the start of last year, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  predicted stimulus measures would help the economy
grow 4.5 percent, while economists surveyed by the central bank
forecast 3.3 percent.  Sabesp, which serves the city of Sao Paulo and 362
municipalities in the state, aims to add 1.9 million new
connections through 2020.  “There is a consensus in society -- within Sabesp, within
the state and the federal government -- that in order to
universalize access to sewage services it’s necessary to invest,
and in order to do that, they need higher rates,” Marcio Prado,
an analyst at  Banco Santander  who rates the stock as  buy , said
by telephone from Sao Paulo. “Opportunities to grow are much
better for Sabesp. The sector is much more interesting than
electricity.”  Government Pressure  Still, Sabesp may face some of the same pressures to cut
costs as power utilities. The Sao Paulo state water regulator,
known as Arsesp, approved a 2.4 percent provisional increase in
the rate Sabesp charges for water, less than the 13 percent
price rise it requested in January. The rate will be revised
again in August after Arsesp concludes a study on the company’s
assets. Prado says he expected a 7 percent increase.  “The recent tariff increase missed expectations,” Vicente Koki, an analyst at CGD Securities who rates the stock neutral,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Sabesp’s shares
have already risen so much, but in recent months there are some
signs that the stock is stalling.”  Sabesp’s press office declined to comment on the company’s
market value and the tariff revision. Tractebel also declined to
comment.  Sabesp continues to have a higher overall consensus analyst
rating than other Brazilian utilities. There are 10 buy
recommendations, 4 hold and 2 sell ratings among 17 analysts
that cover the stock. Tractebel has 13 buys, 7 holds and 2
sells, while only one analyst recommends buying state-run
utility Eletrobras. Two others say hold and seven say sell.  “I’ve been recommending Sabesp for some time,” Magliano’s
Kleine said. “It’s always beating expectations. Their
profitability is exceptional. Sabesp is a defensive stock -- it
provides a service and people aren’t going to stop consuming
water.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Lara in Sao Paulo at 
 plara6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at   hmarinho@bloomberg.net  