-- Salmon Farmer Multiexport Drops in Chile on Virus Return
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-11T17:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/salmon-farmer-multiexport-drops-in-chile-on-virus-return.html
Multiexport Foods SA (MULTIFOO)  fell for a
third day as the company confirmed the presence in one of its
fisheries of the same virus that decimated Chile’s salmon
industry four years ago.  Multiexport, Chile’s third-biggest salmon farmer by market
value,  retreated  4.5 percent to 110 pesos at 2:43 p.m. in
Santiago. The stock has retreated 20 percent since April 8, its
biggest three-day loss since August 2011.  The company discovered the presence of the infectious
salmon anemia virus, also known as ISA, in a single cage at one
of its fisheries in southern Chile’s Aysen region, according to
a  filing  sent to Chile’s securities regulator yesterday.
Multiexport said it will harvest all of the fish in that cage to
contain the virus.  Chilean salmon farms suffered in 2008 an outbreak of ISA,
which forced farmers to prematurely harvest salmon and decimated
the industry’s stocks. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s largest
retailer, stopped buying salmon from  Chile  in 2009. Since then,
Chilean fishing regulators have imposed measures to improve
sanitary conditions for salmon farmers.  “This situation will be an important test for the
regulatory changes after the previous crisis,” Andres Galarce,
an analyst at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA, said in a
phone interview. “The market is waiting for indications if this
is spreading or contained.”  Multiexport said that the cage where the virus was found
represents 0.12 percent of the fish in its farms. Sernapesca,
Chile’s fishing regulator, declared a sanitary emergency
yesterday in the Aysen region after discovering ISA in a farm
operated by a unit of Agrosuper SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  