-- Saudi Arabia Bullish on Oil Demand as IEA Revises Outlook
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-04-11T17:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/saudi-arabia-bullish-on-oil-demand-as-iea-revises-outlook.html
Saudi Arabia ’s petroleum ministry
foresees a bigger improvement in oil demand this year than the
world’s three best-known forecasting agencies, including OPEC.  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s largest producer, expects world demand
to rise about 1 million barrels a day this year, and exceed 90
million barrels a day “for the first time in history,” Ibrahim al-Muhanna, an adviser to Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi , said
yesterday in Kuwait.  The International Energy Agency today trimmed its global
oil demand growth estimate for 2013 amid subdued economic
growth, following similar moves by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  China leads Asian nations where demand is rising, al-
Mohanna said. Oil producers such as  Iraq , Iran, and Libya will
be among other countries where demand will grow this year, he
said. Other  emerging markets  such as Russian and Latin American
countries will also contribute to rise in demand, he said.  World oil use will rise by 795,000 barrels per day this
year, the Paris-based IEA said in its monthly oil report, 45,000
barrels a day less than it estimated last month and a third
straight reduction. OPEC said in its monthly report yesterday it
lowered its consumption growth forecast to 800,000 barrels a
day, while the EIA, part of the U.S. Energy Department, on April
9 lowered its estimate to 960,000 barrels a day.  Forecasts from these international agencies, including
OPEC, “do not reflect the official position of Saudi Arabia and
its outlook of the market future,” al-Muhanna said.  On Pulse  Demand within OPEC itself, and in  China , Japan and India,
underpins forecasts for higher consumption, Kamel al-Harami, a
Kuwait-based independent oil analyst said. “The Saudis have
their hands on the pulse of the global economy. They sometimes
see things that organizations don’t see.”  Next year will be “important for the oil market and for
the global economy as a whole,” al-Muhanna said yesterday,
while attending a meeting of the  Organization of Arab Petroleum
Exporting Countries .  Europe  will probably have recovered from
its financial crisis, enabling demand to recover “albeit in a
limited way,” he said.  Saudi Arabia expects the world economy to expand by 3
percent next year, resulting in a gain in oil demand of as much
as 1.2 million barrels a day, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in  Kuwait  at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  