-- SEC’s Crowdfunding Delay Faulted for Stunting Businesses’ Growth
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-04-11T14:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/sec-s-crowdfunding-delay-faulted-for-stunting-businesses-growth.html
U.S. small-business growth is being
stunted by regulators’ delay in issuing rules to permit so-
called crowdfunding and other means of raising capital, company
owners and academics will tell lawmakers today.  The House Small Business Committee is holding a hearing in
Washington to examine Securities and Exchange Commission work to
implement the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, signed into
law last year with the goal of spurring job creation. The SEC
has missed deadlines for rules including ones that would let
hedge funds advertise for investors and allow startups to raise
money over the Internet.  The hearing will underscore frustration among lawmakers and
business owners over the lack of progress on the rules, which
had bipartisan support in Congress and were endorsed by
President  Barack Obama . SEC Chairman Mary Jo White, who took the
helm yesterday, has said she will prioritize completion of the
rules.  “The longer we wait for action by the regulators, the more
our engines of economic growth will continue to simply tread
water,” Representative David Schweikert, an  Arizona  Republican,
said in a statement prepared for the hearing. “Or worst yet,
starve for lack of opportunity.”  SEC officials haven’t said when will issue the new rules,
according to their prepared testimony. They said the agency has
released guidance to help companies use portions of the law that
don’t require rulemaking.  ‘Remaining Provisions’  “The commission and staff are moving forward on the
various rulemakings,” Lona Nallengara, the SEC’s acting
director of corporation finance, said in a statement. “We look
forward to completing the remaining provisions as soon as
practicable.”  James J. Angel, Georgetown University finance professor,
said the SEC has complicated the process of allowing
crowdfunding. The agency should adopt interim rules and monitor
how they affect capital formation and investor protection, he
said in prepared remarks.  “The commission has shown a pattern of antipathy toward
the idea of crowdfunding from the beginning and is in great
danger of killing the idea through regulatory delay and over-
regulation,” Angel said.  Jean Peters, a board member of the Angel Capital
Association, said the SEC should clarify how hedge funds and
other private-investment vehicles can safely use advertising to
raise money. The SEC’s draft rule, issued in August, said
advertising would be permitted as long as a company takes
reasonable steps to verify an investor is accredited, or has a
net worth exceeding $1 million and annual income greater than
$200,000.  “This is problematic because the SEC has not provided
clarity on what are ‘reasonable steps,’” Peters said in
prepared remarks. “Many legal experts have advised their
clients through alerts not to invest in advertised offerings if
there is no safe harbor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in  Washington  at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  