-- Senate Immigration Plan Crosses Border Hurdle Toward Deal
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2013-04-11T04:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/senate-immigration-plan-crosses-border-hurdle-toward-deal.html
A bipartisan group of senators
negotiating a rewrite of U.S. immigration law has agreed on
border-protection principles that would create a foundation for
legislative action, according to people familiar with the talks.  The accord links mandates for tougher border control to
opening a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented
immigrants already in the U.S. The connection is viewed by
Republican leaders as essential to crafting a deal that would
advance legislation this year.  Leaders of the group say the remaining challenge is putting
their agreement in written form for consideration by the full
Senate as soon as next month. Their talks have unfolded as a
bipartisan group of lawmakers in the  House of Representatives 
works on its own immigration blueprint, while Democrats in the
lower chamber plan to unveil a separate proposal today.  “We are closer now than we have been in 25 years for
serious immigration reform,” Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , a
Democratic member of the Senate group, told reporters in
Washington after speaking to the Congressional Hispanic Caucus
yesterday on progress by the negotiators. “It’s a question of
drafting, of actually writing the bill.”  Talks in closed-door sessions have also dealt with other
aspects considered crucial to a broader accord, such as visas
for field hands and other low-skilled workers, as well as the
path to provide undocumented immigrants with legal status.  Hearing Planned  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, said after meeting with members of the group
that he expects to “have legislative language to review by the
time of the hearing” he plans on the matter for April 17.  Issues that still present hurdles include visas for
farmworkers who pick most of the nation’s fruits and vegetables
as well as for low-skilled workers in other economic sectors.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, said in an
interview after the Hispanic Caucus meeting yesterday that
representatives of farmworkers and growers had reached a
“tentative agreement” on an agricultural-visa accord. He
declined to provide details of that agreement.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest union organization, had earlier reached an accord over
visas for low-skilled workers in services ranging from
groundskeeping and plant nurseries to housekeeping and building
maintenance. At the same time, Representative Raul Labrador, an
Idaho Republican who has been instrumental in the House
negotiations, has cautioned that the agreement weighs too
heavily in favor of unions.  Core Voters  The question of border control remains central to any
agreement for Republicans, whose party has courted support from
its core voters with demands for a crackdown on illegal
immigration and deportation of undocumented workers.  Since November, when President  Barack Obama  won 71 percent
of the Hispanic vote, Republican Party leaders have called for a
more sympathetic approach toward immigration in an attempt to
reengage the fastest-growing part of the nation’s electorate.  Yet Republican leaders such as Senator Marco Rubio of
 Florida  have remained mindful of that base of supporters who
traditionally have viewed any relief for undocumented immigrants
as a form of amnesty for law-breakers.  Rubio and the other senators have tentatively agreed to
concepts that draw a direct connection between strengthening the
border and granting new rights to the undocumented, according to
two people familiar with the senators’ discussions who asked to
not be identified in describing the talks.  Border Surveillance  The principles of the accord would require continuous
surveillance of 100 percent of the border, with a 90 percent
effectiveness rate for enforcement in high-risk sectors, one
person familiar with the talks said. The Homeland Security
Department would get $3 billion and have six months to draft and
implement a five-year plan to achieve those goals.  No immigrants could gain any provisional legal status until
the plan is in place, the person said. A commission of officials
from Southwest border states and municipalities would be created
if the department failed to meet the goals after five years.  The objective, the second person familiar with the talks
said, is to provide achieveable performance measures that link
border security with opening a pathway to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants.  The next step toward citizenship couldn’t be taken until
the Homeland Security Department submitted a plan to secure the
border, the person said. The initial granting of provisional
legal status for undocumented immigrants would also be tied to
the department’s success in implementing that plan.  Tight Controls  The agency would have no leeway to begin granting permanent
residency status until both tougher border controls and a system
of verifying that companies aren’t employing undocumented
workers is in place. In addition, the government would have to
establish an entry-exit system to ensure that people who enter
the U.S. on visas leave when they are supposed to.  Under the plan, one of the people said, the granting of
green cards couldn’t resume even after 10 years if the other
conditions hadn’t been met. It could take 20 years for some to
obtain legal status under the rules in the accord.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  