-- Sept. 11 Trial Lawyers Seek Delay After Computer Breaches
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-04-11T21:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/sept-11-trial-lawyers-seek-delay-after-computer-breaches.html
Lawyers for the accused plotters of
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks urged a military judge to
postpone hearings scheduled for later this month after internal
defense documents went missing on government computers.  For at least a month, lawyers for accused mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four others who face a military tribunal
have found their confidential work inexplicably missing from the
U.S. Defense Department computers on which they store documents.
That, and a separate computer-related issue, spurred an
emergency request today to postpone hearings set for April 22.  “The chunk of information that’s missing is our internal
files,” said Walter Ruiz, a lawyer for Mustafa al Hawsawi, a
Saudi who allegedly helped finance the hijackers. “This
essentially cripples our ability to operate.”  The accused Sept. 11 plotters are scheduled to return to
court in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for five days of hearings that
may include arguments over whether the government must retain
evidence relating to Central Intelligence Agency “black-sites”
in third countries where detainees were allegedly tortured.  Hearings in the case, which began last year, have been
plagued by delay. In August, the threat of a hurricane canceled
a week of arguments while hearings this year were slowed as the
judge probed defense claims that the government was
eavesdropping on them.  Colonel Todd Breasseale, a Pentagon spokesman, declined to
comment on the computer issue.  Computer Search  The latest request for a postponement came after the chief
military defense counsel issued an order yesterday instructing
lawyers to cease doing confidential work on U.S. computers.
Separately, administrators of the U.S. computer system recently
provided internal defense e-mails to prosecutors in what may
have been an inadvertent computer search, Ruiz said.  “Is there any security for defense attorney information?”
James Connell, the lawyer for Ammar al Baluchi, who is
Mohammed’s nephew, asked in a statement. “This new disclosure
is simply the latest in a series of revelations of courtroom
monitoring, hidden surveillance devices, and legal bin
searches.”  Mohammed and the four other defendants are accused of
plotting the attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to
kill almost 3,000 people at the World Trade Center in  Manhattan ,
the Pentagon in  Virginia , and in  Pennsylvania .  They are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the planes, terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians.  They could face execution if convicted of the most serious
charges.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York 
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  