-- Serbian Central Bank Holds Rates After Kosovo Deal Rejected
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-11T10:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/serbian-central-bank-holds-rates-after-kosovo-deal-rejected-1-.html
Serbia ’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged for a second month after failed talks
on an accord with Kosovo jeopardized the Balkan nation’s chances
of starting European Union membership talks soon.  The Narodna Banka Srbije in Belgrade left its  one-week
repurchase rate  at 11.75 percent, matching the expectations of
12 of 24 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The same number of
economists predicted a quarter-point to half-point reduction.  “The existing degree of monetary policy restrictiveness
ensures that annual inflation, which slowed in the first
quarter, will continue to decline and return” to the target
band of 4 percent plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, the
central bank said in an e-mailed statement.  Premier  Ivica Dacic ’s government rejected an EU-mediated
agreement on normalizing relations with Kosovo on April 8 and
called for further negotiations. Serbia, which is looking to
start entry talks with the 27-nation bloc in June, needs deeper
EU ties after the wars of the 1990s stunted its economy’s
transition from communism.  Serbia is unlikely to get the date for the start of EU
membership talks, Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said in
Belgrade yesterday after meeting with German and French
lawmakers who said the country should focus on making its
reforms a success rather than focusing on the date for talks.  Weakening Inflation  Rate setters are encouraged by weaker inflationary
pressures and export-led economic recovery, while future policy
restrictiveness will depend on global financial markets and
growth outlook in Serbia’s main export markets, the bank said
today.  The central bank paused its tightening cycle on March 12 to
assess price pressures before reducing borrowing costs to spur
growth after the economy fell into its second recession in three
years. The bank raised rates eight times in the previous nine
meetings.  Policy makers pledged on Feb. 13 to consider changes to
monetary policy as inflation pressures based on food and
regulated prices ease. Vice-Governor Veselin Pjescic said the
current rate level is sufficiently restrictive as long as the
bank’s forecasts, including for an economic contraction of 0.1
percent and 2 percent inflation in the 17-nation euro area this
year, are met.  The central bank is also fighting inflation with a stable
dinar,  Europe ’s top performer against the euro in the previous
six months with a 1.48 percent gain, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It traded at 111.8242 at 9:38 a.m. in Belgrade, or
0.02 percent down on the day.  Regional Trend  Serbia’s rate trend contrasts with others in the region,
where borrowing costs are falling to halt economic slowdowns
amid Europe’s debt crisis. The National Bank of Serbia wants to
ease price pressures stemming from regulated price increases and
expanded dinar liquidity.  Inflation has been accelerating since April 2012, when it
fell to a 30-year low of 2.7 percent, due to rising food costs
amid a drop in farm output. The rate reached 12.4 percent in
February and is expected to peak at 14 percent through April.
The central bank wants to bring it down to 4 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points, by December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  