-- Shell, Mitsubishi Will Start Iraq Plant on April 15
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-04-11T15:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/shell-mitsubishi-will-start-iraq-plant-on-april-15.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  will start capturing gas from Iraq’s  oil fields 
next week in a $17 billion project known as Basra Gas Co.  “Basra Gas Co. will start operations officially on April
15,” said Ali Hussain Khudayir, director general of South Gas
Co., which represents the Iraqi government’s controlling stake
in the Basra Gas Co. venture.  The plant will produce 400 million cubic feet (11 million
cubic meters) a day from next week, climbing to 2 billion cubic
feet a day by 2017, Khudayir said on March 27. The facility will
capture so-called associated gas from the Zubair, Majnoon and
West Qurna-1 oil fields in southern Iraq.  Iraq’s government holds a 51 percent stake in the Basra Gas
venture, while Shell owns 44 percent and Mitsubishi the
remainder.  Iraq  signed a 25-year agreement with Shell, Europe’s
largest oil company, and Mitsubishi in Nov. 2011 to capture gas
from some of the biggest oil fields in the south. The holder of
the world’s fifth-largest  oil reserves  burns off as much as 1
billion cubic feet a day of gas because it lacks the facilities
to capture byproducts of crude production, Deputy Industry
Minister Mohammed Zain said in October.  Iraq has sought investors to increase gas output to end
power outages and supply electricity stations, which suffered
from decades of war and economic sanctions. The country’s
electricity grid remains unable to meet domestic demand 10 years
after the U.S.-led invasion that toppled  Saddam Hussein . The
government plans to export gas after it has satisfied domestic
demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  