-- Siemens Industry Unit Plans 3,000 Job Cuts to Meet Savings Goal
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-04-11T12:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/siemens-industry-unit-plans-3-000-job-cuts-to-meet-savings-goal.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, said its industry division will cut about
3,000 jobs as part of the company’s 6 billion-euro ($7.9
billion) savings program to counter falling demand.  The division, which employs more than 100,000 people
globally, is targeting 1.1 billion euros in increased
productivity by the end of 2014, unit head Siegfried Russwurm
told investors and analysts today in Hanover, Germany.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said earlier today
that the company has already realized reductions in the “high
hundreds of millions” of euros. Profitability at Munich-based
Siemens last year dropped back to the levels when Loescher
started in 2007, prompting a new program to cut costs in
November after the CEO acknowledged he had been too slow to
react to falling demand amid the global economic slowdown.  A quarter of the cuts will come through savings this year
in procurement. The industry sector contributed 29 percent of
the total 1.7 billion-euro profit generated by Siemens’ four
divisions in the first fiscal quarter.  Russwurm said the cost cuts will help the industry division
to counter higher costs and lower pricing to achieve a profit
margin in excess of 13.5 percent in 2014 for its existing
businesses. With the integration of recently acquired Belgian
software maker LMS, profitability will reach 14 percent, he
said.  Siemens has said it’s divesting units which it deems to
hinder its goal of a 12 percent profit margin by the next fiscal
year. It’s spinning off its Osram lighting unit, while seeking
buyers for businesses such as airport luggage systems, mail
automation and water technology.  India, Pakistan  The number of mechanical drives factories in  Germany  will
be  reduced  from four to two, eliminating 500 jobs, with a
further 200 positions moving from the country to the Czech
Republic, Russwurm said in a presentation posted online today.
The reduction of plant capacity in  India  entails the scrapping
of 140 jobs, while the closure of a factory in  Pakistan  will
result in 170 positions going.  Streamlining administrative operations means 500 jobs at
the unit’s headquarters will be cut, and a further 1,700 sales
positions will also disappear.  Siemens said last year that the energy division will
contribute 3.2 billion euros of savings to the total 6 billion-
euro target.  “Our competitors earned more than we did in the past half
year and gained ground on us,” Loescher said in an interview in
a Siemens staff newsletter published today. “When direct
competitors achieve 13 percent return on sales, while we achieve
only 9.5 percent, we need to do something.”  Operating profit represented 12.2 percent of competitor
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s sales in the three months to the end of
December, compared with Siemens’ 9.1 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  