-- Slovenian Lawmakers Eye Debt Plan as Crisis Signs Mount
-- B y   A l a n   C r o s b y   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-11T13:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/slovenian-lawmakers-eye-debt-plan-as-crisis-signs-mount.html
Slovenia is rushing to tap
financial markets in the face of mounting pressure to solve the
nation’s banking woes and avert a fiscal crisis after the
European Union’s sternest warning yet that action is needed.  The  Finance Ministry  will sell 500 million euros ($656
million) of 18-month Treasury bills on April 17 after raising 56
million euros on April 9, short of the 100 million-euro target.
The announcement came as lawmakers in the capital Ljubljana
begin debate today on a plan to place a legal limit on debt.
Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek failed to reach a consensus with
party leaders on a plan last night.  Slovenia’s ailing banks have made it a target for financial
markets, with shrinking demand at a debt auction this week
signaling investor expectations that the country may be the next
domino to fall in the 17-nation euro area. Cyprus became the
region’s fifth bailout victim last month when it agreed to a 10
billion-euro rescue.  “It’s time to act in order to break a current devastating
cycle,” Saso Stanovnik and Matej Simnic, economists at Alta
Invest d.d. in Ljubljana, wrote in a report today. “It’s the
new government’s turn to regain confidence by proposing its own
scheme to salvage Slovenia, but it has to be concrete and
credible and since time for refinancing is short, it also has to
be efficient and quickly implemented.”  Bad Loans  Slovenia, whose 35 billion-euro economy is the fourth
smallest in the euro area, fell into the crossfire after
European creditors and the  International Monetary Fund  forced
losses on bank depositors in the aid package for Cyprus.  The country’s second recession in four years is swelling
bad loans at state-owned lenders such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d. Bad loans stemming mostly from the construction industry’s
collapse, represent a fifth of  gross domestic product , according
to an April 9 report released by the Paris-based Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  While Slovenia is less reliant on banking than the Cypriot
economy,  default risk  jumped after the Alpine country missed its
target at the April 9 debt offering, reigniting concern it may
follow  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Cyprus in seeking an
international bailout.  Litmus Test  Next week’s “auction will act as another litmus test for
the locals’ appetite to lend to the government,” Abbas Ameli- Renani, an emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  London , said in an e-mail. “A successful debt sale
will relieve some pressure from the government heading into
June, while another failed auction will undoubtedly rattle
nerves further.”  The cost of protecting Slovenia debt against non-payment
using credit-default swaps rose to a six-month high of 370
points by 3:11 p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated benchmark bond
maturing in 2022 is hovering near record levels after the
Finance Ministry missed its target in this week’s auction of
Treasury bills by almost half as borrowing costs rose. The 2022
bond’s yield stood at 6.21 percent today, near the record-high
of 6.38 percent reached on March 27.  Political Gridlock  Political gridlock and legal snags “have prevented
Slovenia from addressing its imbalances adequately and enhancing
its adjustment capacity, thus increasing its vulnerability at a
time of heightened sovereign funding stress in  Europe ,” the
European Commission, which enforces EU regulations, said in a
report yesterday.  The commission gave Slovenia and Spain until May 29 to make
reforms or risk becoming the first to be punished under a year-
old “macroeconomic imbalances procedure” designed to deal with
the lagging competitiveness and overstretched banking systems
that are fueling the crisis.  With the government pledging to do “everything in its
power” to avoid the bailout, Bratusek has huddled with leaders
of the main political parties to come up with a constitutional
amendment that would put a limit on state debt. The Cabinet is
also working on a bank-recapitalization plan valued at as much
as 4 billion euros.  Leaders of parliamentary parties will present their stance
on putting the debt limit into the constitution at today’s
parliamentary session. Lawmakers will continue the debate and
possibly vote on the move on May 7, Karmen Uglesic, the
spokeswoman for the assembly in Ljubljana said by phone.  Slovenia’s debt to economic output ratio stood at 53.7
percent at the end of last year, according to the commission.  Capital Needs  Slovenia’s three largest banks, Nova Ljubljanska,  Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  and  Abanka Vipa d.d. , will probably
need as much as 2 billion euros of fresh capital,  Fitch Ratings 
said on April 5 after it cut the credit score of some of the
country’s lenders.  Slovenia needs to borrow about 3 billion euros this year to
repay maturing debt, aid banks and finance the budget, the said
on March 20. About 1 billion euros of debt matures in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The problem is not quite as bad as for Cyprus, because
the banking sector is much smaller,” Wolfgang Kuhn, head of
euro-area fixed income at Aberdeen Asset Management in London,
said in an interview yesterday. Still, “we need to have more
clarity on the banking sector to venture there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crosby in Prague at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  