-- Smart Money Likes High-Yield Aussie’s Robust Economy: Currencies
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-04-11T13:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/smart-money-likes-high-yield-aussie-s-robust-economy-currencies.html
The smart money shows no sign of
losing confidence in the Australian dollar as analysts belatedly
acknowledge the appeal of a high-yielding currency with a world-
beating developed economy.  The  trade-weighted index  for the so-called Aussie reached
its highest level since 1985 yesterday, spurring analysts to
reverse course after cutting year-end forecasts for the
currency.  Australia ’s dollar will likely trade at $1.02 by Dec.
31, up from estimates at the end of March of $1.01, according to
the median of 42 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Rabobank NA,
the currency’s most-accurate forecaster, boosted its outlook.  Buoyed by a record mining investment boom, Australia’s
economy grew 3.6 percent in 2012, the fastest pace in five years
and the best performance among the Group of 10 currency nations.
While the government reported today that the unemployment rate
rose to the highest level since November 2009, the nation will
lead growth through 2015, expanding an average 2.9 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  “The Australian dollar meets our criteria of a strong
currency and we do believe it will be an important beneficiary
of continued central-bank reserve diversification,” Jonathan Lewis, New York-based chief investment officer and a founder of
Samson Capital Advisors LLC, which oversees about $7.3 billion,
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions. “We believe this is
a very long-term investment theme.”  Reserve Managers  Three-quarters of 60 central banks polled in February said
they are investing in or may buy Australian dollars, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc said April 7.  Australia’s dollar rose for a fourth day, strengthening 0.1
percent to $1.0558 at 9:23 a.m.  New York  time after advancing to
$1.0582, the most since Jan. 11. It has remained above $1 for a
record nine-month stretch. The Reserve Bank of Australia’s
trade-weighted  index , which tracks the Aussie against the
currencies of 21 nations that account for at least 90 percent of
the country’s commerce, rose 0.4 to 79.90 yesterday, the most
since February 1985.  Samson’s Strong Nations Currency Fund, which considers
economic and financial positions, governance and law while
making foreign-exchange investments, held 9.1 percent of its
assets in the Australian dollar as of March 31, the largest
share along with the Chilean peso among currencies outside of
the U.S. dollar, according to its website.  AAA Rating  UBS Global Asset Management, overseeing about $630 billion
worldwide, expects the Aussie to stay high as investors “just
love” the yields it offers.  Australia is one of eight nations that hold stable AAA
grades from all three main credit-rating companies. Its 10-year
sovereign bond yields are 1.77 percentage points more than the
average for the other seven countries.  With A$270 billion ($284 billion) in sovereign debt,
Australia has the second-largest government bond market among
stable AAAs. That compares with $11.6 trillion for the U.S.,
which Standard & Poor’s reduced to AA+ in 2011, and $9.2
trillion for  Japan , graded AA- by S&P.  “We are seeing corporates, not just from Asia but from
 Europe , thinking: Where are we going to put our money?” Anne Anderson, head of Asia-Pacific fixed income for UBS Global Asset
Management, said at the  Bloomberg Australia Economic Summit 
yesterday. Clients in Europe “look at the yield and they cannot
believe that our bond yields are so high,” she said.  Diversifying Reserves  The currency will trade in a range from 85 U.S. cents to
$1.15, Anderson said, without specifying a time frame. The
Aussie climbed as high as $1.1081 on July 27, 2011, the most
since it was freely floated in 1983. The RBA’s 3 percent
benchmark rate is the highest among developed nations.  The Aussie has surged 50 percent since the end of 2008 as
 unconventional easing  by nations including the U.S. and Japan,
and a debt crisis in Europe prompted investors to diversify away
from the dollar, yen and euro.  The Federal Reserve and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  have pledged to
purchase about $160 billion in bonds between them every month to
spur growth, pursuing so-called quantitative easing that some
investors speculate will debase their currencies.  Central banks for the first time used their reserves to buy
about the same amount of currencies from Australia and Canada as
U.S. dollars at the end of last year, according to International
Monetary Fund data released March 29.  A category the IMF calls “ other currencies ,” which
strategists say is dominated by the Aussie and Canadian dollars,
rose to a record 6.1 percent of the $6.1 trillion in allocated
global reserves.  China , the world’s biggest reserve holder,
doesn’t report the data to the IMF.  Aussie ‘Floor’  The IMF said in November it would consider separately
identifying allocations to the Aussie and Canadian dollar in its
Composition of Official Foreign-Exchange Reserves report. That
would influence central bank decisions to invest in these
currencies, 67 percent of those polled for the RBS Reserve
Management Trends 2013 report said.  “Ongoing demand for AAA rated credit may put a floor under
the Australian dollar,” said Darcie Sunnerberg, a vice
president and sovereign analyst at Boston-based Loomis Sayles &
Co., which has $186 billion in assets under management.
“Overall, fundamentals would suggest a weaker Australian dollar
in the short-term,” she said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  The  Loomis Sayles Bond Fund (LSBDX)  had an Australian-dollar
exposure of 3.5 percent as of March 31, compared with 3.6
percent at the end of last year. Sunnerberg predicts the
Australian dollar will rise over a two-year-plus time frame.  Rate Forecast  Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG are among
forecasters saying the currency will drop below $1 this year as
slowing mining investment damps growth. Gross domestic product
will probably slow one percentage point to 2.6 percent this
year, according to the median forecast of economists polled by
Bloomberg News.  A National Australia Bank Ltd. business conditions gauge
slumped to its weakest in almost four years, an April 9 report
showed. The nation’s  unemployment rate  will rise to 5.75 percent
this year, the bank said.  The jobless  rate  climbed to 5.6 percent in March, the
highest since November 2009, a statistics bureau report showed
today. The number of people employed fell by 36,100, almost five
times more than economists forecast, the data showed.  To arrest the slowdown and support the economy as a record
mining investment boom slows, the RBA will cut borrowing costs
to a record low 2.75 percent in the third quarter, economists in
a Bloomberg News survey estimate.  The RBA reduced rates by 1.75 percentage points since Nov.
1, 2011, to rebalance the economy away from mining and toward
industries including construction and tourism.  ‘Quality Place’  “There’s room to cut should that be necessary,” RBA
Assistant Governor Christopher Kent said yesterday at the
Bloomberg Summit.  Year-end forecasts for the Aussie range from Saxo Bank
A/S’s 88 cents to $1.12 at Royal Bank of  Canada , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re hedged and we’ll stay that way until we see
fundamentals change in a bigger way,” said Daniel Janis, a
global fixed-income portfolio manager who helps oversee about
$15.5 billion at Manulife Asset Management in  Boston . “We like
the quality of the government bonds because we don’t have to
worry from a ratings standpoint, so it’s a quality place holder
in our portfolio.”  Janis estimates the Aussie will trade in a range from
parity to $1.06.  Offshore investors’ holdings of Australian sovereign debt
swelled by A$23 billion to A$207 billion last year and foreign
deposits in domestic banks rose to a record, official data show.  “The main theme is that China’s still got this
diversification bid out there for the Australian dollar and that
has limited declines in the currency above the parity level,”
said Adrian Foster, the Hong Kong-based head of financial-
markets research for Asia at Rabobank.  Rabobank, the most accurate firm at picking the Aussie over
the past four quarters according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
forecasts it will end the year at $1.06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  