-- The Inhumane Practice of Solitary Confinement
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-11T22:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/solitary-confinement-makes-u-s-prisons-cruel-and-unusual.html
The use of solitary confinement in
U.S. prisons and detention centers has broken the bounds of
reason and decency. The federal government  reported  last month
that the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency routinely
holds hundreds of immigrants in solitary confinement -- even
though the inmates are detained on civil charges. The news
underscored the continued outlier status of the U.S., which
subjects tens of thousands of inmates, including the nonviolent,
to a practice that much of the world regards as torture.  Solitary confinement, wrote Senator  John McCain , a former
prisoner of war, “crushes your spirit and weakens your
resistance more effectively than any other form of
mistreatment.” Long-term isolation impairs the brain, which is
why as far back as 1890 the U.S. Supreme Court  concluded  that it
led to insanity and suicide in some inmates, “while those who
stood the ordeal better were not generally reformed, and in most
cases did not recover sufficient mental activity to be of any
subsequent service to the community.”  Unfortunately, a century later that lesson was lost. The
1990s were a boom time not only for prison construction but also
for the practice of solitary confinement. From 1995 to 2000,
according to a Vera Institute of Justice  study , the daily prison
population in disciplinary segregation increased 68 percent --
more than double the growth rate of the general prison
population.  The total number of prisoners held in solitary confinement
in the U.S. is difficult to ascertain. According to the federal
government, there were more than 81,000 prisoners in “restricted
housing units” in state and federal institutions in 2005. That
number doesn’t include prisoners held in local jails or
immigration detention centers. (A more recent census isn’t
available.)  Prisons have wide discretion in confining inmates, who can
be relegated to solitary confinement for reasons ranging from
violent behavior to verbal insolence. Some are segregated as a
form of protective custody. Solitary inmates typically spend 23
hours a day in a cell, receiving meals through a slot in the
door. Even their one hour of exercise takes place essentially
alone -- often in a confined space not much larger than a cell.  The benefits to society aren’t readily apparent. In
addition to placing enormous psychological stress on inmates,
solitary confinement strains budgets, because segregated units
are more costly to operate, and increases demands on prison
staff.  Mississippi  reduced the number of prisoners in long-term
solitary confinement from 1,300 in 2007 to just over 300 today,
saving more than $5 million a year without an increase in prison
violence.  “We’ve been conditioned that 23-hour lockdowns make it
safer,” Mississippi Department of Corrections deputy
commissioner of institutions, Emmitt Sparkman,  wrote  in 2011.
“In Mississippi, we’ve found that’s not necessarily true.”  Other states, too, are growing skeptical of solitary
confinement. The prison system in Washington state has been
reducing strictures on inmates in solitary units, granting them
more time outside the cell for personal development, including
classes and exercise.  Most nations in  Europe  have all but ended the practice. By
German statute, solitary confinement is permissible only if it
is deemed “indispensable,” in which case it is restricted to a
total of three months a year. Any greater duration requires the
consent of higher authorities.  U.S. prisons should follow suit. First, mentally ill
prisoners, who have the least capacity to survive solitary
confinement, should never be subjected to it. In cases where the
practice is absolutely necessary, to protect either the inmate
or others, it should be used sparingly. Sentences should be
short, and prisoners must be allowed enough social contact to
sustain their humanity. No prisoners should be released directly
from solitary confinement into the public, where even the most
rudimentary demands of society can quickly overwhelm them.  Solitary confinement is, by its nature, dehumanizing. It
should be a last resort for violent and dangerous criminals. It
certainly should have no role in the detention of undocumented
immigrants and thousands of other nonviolent prisoners.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 