-- SouFun Drops as Loans Sink State Stocks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-11T21:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/soufun-drops-as-loans-sink-state-stocks-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  in  New York  fell
for the first time this week, led by property stocks and state-
run companies, on concern a bigger-than-estimated increase in
lending will spur the central bank to tighten credit.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. fell from a six-day high, losing
1.1 percent to 90.42.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of China’s
biggest real estate website, dropped 5.4 percent, while
government-backed  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  sank the most since
October. China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. and  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) ,
slid to the lowest levels since July.  Chinese banks issued 1.06 trillion yuan ($171 billion) of
new loans in March, exceeding the 900 billion-yuan median of 34
economists’ forecasts. Money supply also grew 15.7 percent last
month. Policy makers may tighten monetary policy to contain the
debt buildup, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a report yesterday.
Expansion in Asia’s biggest economy quickened to 7.9 percent in
the final three months of 2012 after a seven-quarter slowdown.  “The market interprets these data as too much liquidity
being put into the market, which may be followed by some
tightening to prevent real estate prices from going higher,”
Elena Ogram, who manages $50 million in emerging-market assets,
including Chinese stocks, at Bank am Bellevue AG in Zurich, said
by e-mail. “On one hand, the economic recovery is subdued and
authorities are trying to support it by extra liquidity. On the
other, the extra liquidity may push real estate prices higher.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., fell 0.4 percent $36.27,
retreating for the first time in three days. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent to a record-high 1,593.37
amid a bigger-than-estimated drop in weekly U.S. jobless claims.  Home Prices  SouFun’s American depositary receipts tumbled to $22.38
after rallying over the previous two days.  E-House China
Holdings Ltd. (EJ) , a property agent based in  Shanghai , slid 2.5
percent to $4.27, sinking the most in a week.  China’s new home prices climbed for the 10th month in
March, rising 1.1 percent from February, the biggest gain in
more than two years, SouFun said April 1 after surveying 100
cities. Buyers rushed into the market last month before local
governments started to implement detailed property curbs to
limit gains in home prices.  Aggregate financing , a broader measure of credit that
includes non-bank lending such as trust loans, bond and stock
sales, was 2.54 trillion  yuan  in March, close to a record,
compared with the median analyst estimate of 1.8 trillion yuan,
according to data released by China’s central bank yesterday.  Non-Bank Lending  Fitch Ratings lowered its assessment April 9 of China’s
long-term yuan debt by one step to A+, the fifth-highest grade,
saying there are increasing financial-stability risks given the
lack of transparency in the increased borrowing by local
governments.  “We would expect further policy announcements to reflect a
greater desire by the central government to exert more control
over the non-bank lending sector,” Tony Hann, head of emerging-
market equities at Blackfriars Asset Management Ltd., said by e-
mail yesterday.  Yanzhou, China’s fourth-largest coal producer, slid 4.7
percent to $12.31 in New York, the steepest slump since October.
The company’s ADRs traded 0.8 percent below its  Hong Kong 
shares, the first discount this week, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. China Life Insurance Co., the nation’s biggest insurer,
slipped 2.8 percent to $39.58 in the first retreat in four days.
Its ADRs traded at a 0.6 percent  discount  to the stock in Hong
Kong.  Suntech Surge  China Telecom’s ADRs sank 2 percent to $48.87, the lowest
price in almost nine months, while China Unicom lost 1.8 percent
to $12.85, the lowest level since July 18.  Yongye International Inc. (YONG) , a Beijing-based fertilizer
company, said yesterday it is corresponding with  Nasdaq  over its
2012 annual report and the status of its privatization bid.
Yongye’s shares have been halted in New York since March 18 and
will remain suspended until Nasdaq is fully satisfied with the
information provided by the company, according to a PRNewswire
statement.  Yongye has lost 8.8 percent in 2013 before trading was
halted.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , a solar-panel maker based in
Wuxi, China, surged a fourth day, rising 18 percent to a four-
week high of 87 cents. While the company had the biggest gain on 
the Bloomberg China-US gauge and is up 107 percent this week, it 
is still down 54 percent from this year's high reached Jan. 4.
Baoding-based solar maker Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. added
0.9 percent to $2.17 yesterday.  Solar Index  The  Bloomberg Industries Large Solar Index (BISOLAR)  -- which tracks
17 solar companies including Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar
Inc., Sandvika, Norway-based Renewable Energy Corp. and Suntech
-- rose 2.4 percent yesterday to the highest level in a month.  Suntech, whose main unit was forced into bankruptcy after
defaulting on a $541 million bond repayment last month, said
April 10 that judicial authorities in Schaffhausen,  Switzerland ,
granted the company’s principal European unit a moratorium for
two months on creditor claims.  The stock jumped 16 percent April 8 after a news service
owned by  Hong Kong Economic Times  said  Warren Buffett ’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. may buy the solar panel maker,
citing an unidentified person. Tina Potthoff, a spokeswoman for
MidAmerican in  Des Moines , Iowa, said by e-mail that it doesn't
comment on speculation. Shashin Surti, a spokesman for Suntech,
said it also doesn't comment on speculation by e-mail April 9.  `No Sense'  “I don’t know why MidAmerican would want to buy a Chinese
solar manufacturer, that makes absolutely no sense, especially
one that has the problems that Suntech has,” Alex Morris, an
energy analyst at  Raymond James  & Associates Inc. said by phone
from Houston yesterday. Raymond James dropped coverage of
Suntech last month before its bond default, Morris said.  Trading volumes for Suntech were more than four times the 
daily average over the past three months today, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.    The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong added
0.1 percent to 10,708.25 yesterday, extending a four-day rally,
while the Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares
dropped 0.3 percent to 2,219.55 in its first decline in three
days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  