-- Korea’s 5-Year Yield Jumps Most in Four Years on BOK; Won Climbs
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-11T07:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/south-korean-bonds-slide-on-rate-decision-won-rate-swaps-surge.html
South Korea’s bonds fell, spurring
the biggest increase in five-year yields since May 2009, after
the central bank unexpectedly refrained from cutting borrowing
costs. The won rose the most in more than two weeks.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board held
the benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  at 2.75 percent, the
monetary authority said in a statement in  Seoul  today. Eleven of
20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a reduction as
tensions with North Korea threaten to damp business and consumer
sentiment. The won advanced as global funds boosted holdings of
local shares.  “It was a shock to the market simply that the Bank of
Korea went the opposite way with its interest rate decision than
what was expected,” said Lee Jae Seung, a fixed income
strategist at KB Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “The
anticipated rate cut was already priced in the bonds market, and
now investors are running away.”  The yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due March
2018 rose 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 2.78
percent in Seoul, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
That’s the biggest jump since May 4, 2009.  The cost to lock in borrowing costs for one year using
 interest-rate swaps  jumped nine basis points to 2.68 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That is the biggest increase
since March 3, 2011. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  of shares swung between
gains and losses before closing 0.7 percent higher at 1,949.80.  Won Advances  The won extended gains immediately after the rate decision,
rising as much as 0.9 percent, before paring its advance as
North Korea showed signs of proceeding with a missile test. The
currency strengthened 0.6 percent to 1,129.25 per dollar at the
close of trading, the biggest jump since March 25, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. An intelligence satellite showed a
North Korean missile launchpad in east of the country moved to
face skyward, Kyodo News reported, citing an unnamed Japanese
Defense Ministry official.  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
37 basis points to 10.07 percent.  The timeframe for a North Korean missile launch is until
around April 15, South  Korea ’s defense ministry spokesman Kim
Min Seok said today. The date marks the birth anniversary of the
totalitarian state’s founder, Kim Il Sung. The North may
detonate a nuclear device or carry out a missile test as early
as this week, the ministry said on April 8.  ‘Bellicose Rhetoric’  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said yesterday at a
Pentagon news conference that North Korea has “been skating
very close to a dangerous line” and should tone down its
“bellicose rhetoric” to ease mounting tensions in the region.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye is preparing to roll
out fiscal stimulus after the finance ministry said yesterday
that prolonged geopolitical risks may exacerbate economic
weakness. While the nation is wrestling with elevated household
debt, a stagnant property market and weakness in the yen that
helps competitors in  Japan , Governor Kim said today interest
rates are “accommodative.”  The Bank of Korea today cut this year’s economic growth
forecast to 2.6 percent from 2.8 percent. That follows the
finance ministry’s reduction in March to 2.3 percent from
December’s 3 percent estimate.  “The won briefly soared as the central bank kept rates
unchanged,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based currency analyst
for Samsung Futures Inc. “The currency is receiving a bout of
support from foreign buying of local stocks and easing tensions
linked to North Korea’s missile tests.”  The  Bank of New York Mellon Korea ADR Index , which tracks
American depositary receipts of South Korean companies in New
York, jumped 2.3 percent yesterday, ending seven days of
declines, the longest losing streak in more than two months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  