-- Sunderland to Announce New African Jersey Sponsor, Official Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-11T13:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/sunderland-to-announce-new-african-jersey-sponsor-official-says.html
Premier League struggler Sunderland
is close to announcing a new sponsorship partner to replace
Invest in  Africa  on its jerseys, a club official said today.  The northeast England soccer club is fighting to stay in
the top division and earlier this month fired coach  Martin O’Neill  and replaced him with Paolo Di Canio.  Following Di Canio’s appointment, the new manager and the
club were forced to issue statements clarifying the Italian’s
political position.  He’d described himself in a 2005 interview
as a “fascist” and was photographed making fascist salutes
when he played with  Italy ’s Lazio. On April 3, Di Canio denied
he’s a supporter of fascism.  Group marketing director Mike Farnan said local media
reports that Invest in Africa ended the two-year agreement,
signed last year, early because of Di Canio’s appointment were
inaccurate. He also denied the club withdrew from the pact
because of concern over the business practices of Invest in
Africa’s backer Tullow Oil Plc in  Uganda .  “The reality is it was a two-year deal with a year’s break
clause,” Farnan said in a telephone interview. “What’s
happening is we will be announcing a major African conglomerate
with 188,000 employees as a sponsor and Invest in Africa will
continue supporting us.”  Any agreement won’t be announced until after Sunderland
finds out what division it will be playing in, he said. The
Black Cats are 17th in the 20-team Premier League, one place
outside the relegation zone thanks to a superior goal difference
than Wigan.  “We’re hoping to announce it soon,” Farnan said. “The
focus now is on making sure we secure our Premier League
status.”  Charity Work  Sunderland’s sponsorship with Invest in Africa, a not-for-
profit organization, started in June 2012. Farnan said the group
will continue to be a top-ranked sponsor next season.  Sunderland has focused on growing its supporter base in
Africa, where it also does charity work. It announced an
agreement with the Nelson Mandela Foundation before a home match
with  Manchester United  on March 30. Sunderland has also
established soccer-based community programs in Ghana and
Tanzania, and is in talks to open a project in  Ethiopia , Farnan
said.  “Africa is part of our long-term strategy, we’re not
pulling out,” Farnan said. “We don’t listen to all the rubbish
that’s being written. We just decided it would be good to be
working with a consumer-facing brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  