-- Swedish Riksbank Seen Pausing as House Price Gains Top Inflation
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-04-11T10:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/swedish-unchanged-consumer-prices-add-riksbank-rate-cut-pressure.html
Swedish house prices are rising at
too fast a pace to allow the central bank to cut interest rates,
even as inflation remains well below the bank’s 2 percent
target, according to SEB AB.  “The Riksbank will likely continue to accept somewhat
slower inflation and in return try to stem credit growth,”
Erica Blomgren, chief strategist at SEB in Oslo, said by phone.
“The Riksbank is currently more looking into credit growth and
trying to prevent rising investment among households. The trend
in house prices has turned and prices are actually rising
again.”  Consumer prices were unchanged in March from a year earlier
after falling 0.2 percent the previous month,  Statistics Sweden 
said today. Prices were seen falling 0.2 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 12 economists. House prices increased an
annual 3 percent in the first quarter, the statistics office
said in a separate statement.  Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves , who is also the chairman
of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, is trying to fix
chronic below-target inflation without fueling an asset bubble
in Scandinavia’s largest economy. His board agreed to leave the
repo rate at  1 percent  in February after four cuts in the year
through December. The economy stagnated in the fourth quarter as
lackluster demand in  Europe  and gains in the krona hurt exports.  Krona Strengthens  The krona rose 0.4 percent to 8.3279 per euro at 12:08 p.m.
in  Stockholm . It strengthened 0.8 percent to 6.3489 per dollar.  The Riksbank will probably keep its main rate unchanged
through the rest of the year, Blomgren said. Inflation will
average 0.3 percent in 2013 and 1.8 percent in 2014 as the
economy grows 1.6 percent this year,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  forecast
yesterday.  “From a pure inflation perspective, and also taking into
consideration unemployment, there is definitely more room for
stimulus in  Sweden ,” Blomgren said. The rate path should
continue to signal a “small probability” of a cut, she said.  The Riksbank said in February inflation won’t reach its 2
percent target until May 2014. The bank announces its next rate
decision and new economic forecasts on April 17.  Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent  on the month .  Adjusted for
mortgage costs , inflation was 0.9 percent while consumer prices
by that measure gained 0.5 percent from a month earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  