-- Swiss Stocks Climb on Japan Stimulus; Swatch Advances
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-04-11T15:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/switzerland-stocks-are-little-changed-swatch-advances.html
Swiss stocks  advanced for a second
day as the  Bank of Japan  said it will take all steps necessary
to meet its inflation target, and a report showed applications
for U.S.  unemployment benefits  fell more than forecast.  Swatch (UHR)  Group AG and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA were among
the biggest gainers, following a gauge of European luxury-goods
companies higher, after Jefferies Group Inc. said jewelry and
watch sales in China and  Hong Kong  may rebound.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  increased 0.6 percent to 7,815.28 at
the close of trading in Zurich. The number of shares changing
hands on the gauge was 7.2 percent lower than the average of the
past 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
broader Swiss Performance Index also added 0.6 percent today.  “The reason for gains is the new monetary policy in  Japan ,
which is very aggressive,” said Thomas Dhainaut, a  fund manager 
at Sycomore Asset Management in Paris, which oversees $2.2
billion in stocks. “Liquidity that comes to the market will go
to riskier assets. What is driving the stock market the most
today is the monetary policy of central banks.”  Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the central
bank will take all steps necessary to meet a 2 percent inflation
target. “The biggest commitment is that we will take all
necessary measures,” he told reporters in Tokyo yesterday, six
days after announcing unprecedented stimulus to double the
monetary base over two years.  Applications for unemployment benefits in the U.S. plunged
more than forecast last week, unwinding a surge caused by the
Easter holiday and spring break at schools.  U.S. Jobless  Jobless claims decreased by 42,000 to 346,000 in the week
ended April 6, from a revised 388,000, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 49 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a drop to 360,000.  The  European Central Bank  said it will look for signs in
economic data that inflation could slow more than it currently
anticipates.  “In the coming weeks, the Governing Council will monitor
very closely all incoming information on economic and monetary
developments and assess any impact on the outlook for  price
stability ,” the ECB said in its monthly bulletin today, echoing
President  Mario Draghi ’s April 4 policy statement.  Swatch, the biggest maker of Swiss timepieces, advanced 2.1
percent to 541.50 Swiss francs. Richemont, the owner of the
Cartier brand, rose 2.2 percent to 73.75 francs.  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd., Swatch’s retail partner in China,
jumped 11 percent in Hong Kong after Jefferies recommended
investors hold the stock in new coverage.  Luxury Sales  Jefferies said Hong Kong and China jewelers and watch
retailers may see a rebound in sales, gross margins and profits
after consolidation last year.  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the world’s largest maker of flavorings and
fragrances, advanced 2.5 percent to 1,158 francs.  The Bloomberg European Luxury Goods Index increased 1.5
percent, rising for a second day.  Leclanche SA dropped 4 percent to 4.34 francs, its lowest
price in two months. The manufacturer of large-sized lithium ion
batteries said shareholders at the annual general meeting
approved a financial restructuring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  