-- Syrian Air Raids on Civilians Are Crimes: Rights Group
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-04-11T10:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/syrian-air-raids-on-civilians-are-crimes-rights-group.html
Syrian air force pilots carrying
out deliberate or indiscriminate attacks against civilians at
sites including bakeries and hospitals are responsible for  war
crimes , according to Human Rights Watch.  The New York-based group said it documented 59 unlawful air
attacks by forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad at sites
that it had visited in northern  Syria .  “Individuals who commit serious violations of the laws of
war willfully -— that is intentionally or recklessly —- are
responsible for war crimes,” Ole Solvang, a Human Rights Watch
researcher, said in an 80-page report published today. The raids
“appear to be part of systematic and widespread attacks.”  The conflict in Syria began in March 2011 with peaceful
protests and turned violent after government troops turned their
guns on demonstrators. At least 70,000 people have been killed
in the unrest, the United Nations estimates.  Air raids against civilians became a regular feature of the
civil war in July,  Human Rights Watch  said. Buildings struck by
aircraft included places where civilians gather in large
numbers, including bakeries and hospitals, though the targets
may sometimes have been nearby rebel positions, it said.
Munitions included bombs dumped from the back of helicopters and
incendiaries, the group said.  Syria lacks the reconnaissance and precision munitions
needed to identify and target objectives in urban areas,
according to four air force officers who defected and spoke to
the report’s authors.  “They believed their commanders nonetheless ordered air
strikes in cities and towns, in part to instill fear in the
civilian population in opposition strongholds, and also to
deprive the opposition of its support,” according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francis Harris in London at 
 fharris4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  