-- Thatcher Funeral to See 2,000 Invitations Sent Out
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-11T16:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/u-k-ex-premiers-u-s-ex-presidents-invited-to-thatcher-funeral.html
More than 2,000 invitations will be
sent out for former U.K. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher’s
funeral with full military honors next week, an event that will
see roads closed and Parliament suspended to mourn her.  All surviving former British prime ministers and U.S.
presidents have been invited to the service in London’s St.
Paul’s Cathedral on April 17, Prime Minister David Cameron’s
office said today. Tony Blair and former South African President
F.W. de Klerk, who Thatcher backed in the last years of
apartheid, are among those who have confirmed they will attend.
The ceremony will be one step short of a full-scale state
funeral. The service will start at 11 a.m.  “The first woman prime minister; three terms in a row;
prime minister for longer than anyone in 150 years,” Cameron
said on Sky News television. “People would find us a pretty
extraordinary country if we didn’t properly, with some dignity
but also some fanfare, mark the passing of this extraordinary
woman.”  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner was not
invited, though the nation’s ambassador to the U.K., Alicia Castro, will be asked to be one of the 2,300 people present in
the cathedral. The move underlines the continuing tension over
the Falkland Islands, which Kirchner has pressed Britain to give
up and which Argentina invaded in 1982. More than 700 troops
from U.K. units that fought in the Falklands War will line the
route of the procession, giving the event a martial feel.  ‘Another Provocation’  Argentine Foreign Minister Hector Timerman said he wouldn’t
go even if invited.  “Who cares if I’m not invited to a place that I didn’t
plan to go,” Timerman said in an interview with Radio La Red in
Buenos Aires. “It’s another provocation. The woman died, let
her family hold the wake in peace.”  “In agreement with Lady Thatcher’s representatives, around
200 states, territories and international organizations are
being invited to send an official representative to the funeral
service,” Cameron’s office said in an e-mailed statement. “We
have invited those countries and institutions with whom we have
normal diplomatic relations.”  Others to confirm their attendance so far include Canadian
Prime Minister Stephen Harper and his Thatcher-era predecessor,
Brian Mulroney. Singer Shirley Bassey, composer Andrew Lloyd Webber and television presenter Jeremy Clarkson will also be
there.  Reagan Family  Also invited are a representative of the family of the late
U.S. president, Ronald Reagan, Thatcher’s closest Cold-War ally,
former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the current
British Cabinet and opposition Labour Party leader Ed Miliband,
as well as a representative of Nelson Mandela.  Military guests have been told to wear full-day ceremonial
dress without swords, while civilians have been instructed to
wear tail coats with black waistcoats and black ties or a dark
suit, and women to wear a hat.  Cameron’s office later said the Archbishop of York, John Sentamu, veteran TV interviewer David Frost, TV newsreader
Trevor McDonald, designer Anya Hindmarch and actresses Joan Collins and June Whitfield are expected to attend.  Roads in central London will be closed, the capital’s
transport authority said, while Cameron’s weekly question-and-
answer session in Parliament, traditionally held at noon on
Wednesdays, will be canceled.  Processional Route  The  ceremonial funeral procession  will run from Parliament
in Westminster, along Whitehall, through Trafalgar Square, on to
the Strand, Aldwych, Fleet Street and Ludgate Hill, where it
will end at St. Paul’s Cathedral.  Those roads and others in the surrounding areas and
elsewhere areas in central London will be subject to closures
and parking restrictions, Transport for London said in an e-
mailed statement today. Blackfriars and Westminster Bridges will
be closed for the duration of the event, and Waterloo Bridge
will have restricted access.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel signed a book of condolence
for Thatcher at the British Embassy in Berlin today.  “In deep mourning for Baroness Thatcher -- one of the
great political figures of the 20th century,” she wrote. “Her
commitment to freedom remains unforgotten.”  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and other foreign
ministers attending a Group of Eight meeting in London also
signed a memorial book.  Britain Divided  Thatcher’s death has prompted a divided reaction in the
U.K., with her Tory supporters lauding her economic reforms and
strength of character, while her political opponents have
pointed to the decline in traditional manufacturing and growing
north-south divide under her premiership.  Anti-Thatcherites have called for a gathering to celebrate
her death on April 13 in Trafalgar Square, the scene of rioting
in 1990 against her move to replace local-property taxes with a
flat-rate levy on every resident, known as the poll tax.  Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, whose Liberal Democrats
opposed Thatcherite policies, said the protests planned for two
days’ time are “puerile” and “childish.”  “It’s so out of keeping with the character of us as a
nation,” Clegg told LBC radio today. “I don’t think they speak
for the country at all, the people who are jumping up and down
with joy at her death.”  Cameron echoed his sentiment.  “Of course, some people won’t agree with that, but I
think that some of the scenes we have seen are frankly pretty
distasteful,” he told reporters in Derby, central England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  