-- U.S. Won’t Allow Crude Exports Within the Next Decade
-- B y   S t e p h e n   V o s s   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-11T17:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/u-s-won-t-allow-crude-exports-within-the-next-decade.html
The U.S. won’t allow companies to
export domestic  crude oil  within the next 10 years, according to
more than 60 percent of those polled at a Bloomberg Oil Forum.  Thirty-four out of 82 traders, analysts and energy
professionals attending the forum in  London , or 41 percent, said
the U.S. would never allow exports, while 22 percent said only
after 2023. The U.S. will condone exports within the next five
years, according to 13 percent of those polled, while the
remaining 23 percent suggested sometime between 2018 and 2023.  “This question of the U.S. exporting crude runs so much
against the grain of everything that comes out of  Washington :
energy independence, domestic oil and propping up U.S. self-
sufficiency,” Sadad al-Husseini, the founder of Husseini
Energy, an independent consultant in Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia , said
at the forum in London today.  Technological improvements in hydraulic fracturing and
horizontal drilling have unlocked new resources in the U.S. and
the nation will probably become the world’s largest oil producer
by about 2020, according to a November annual report by the
 International Energy Agency . Such abundance raises the
possibility that the U.S. will rescind its decades-old policy of
banning crude exports, the IEA said.  A U.S. decision on whether to allow oil exports would be
“very helpful,” amid constraints on spare production capacity
elsewhere, IEA Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven said at a
conference in Paris on April 4, adding that the decision is one
for the U.S. alone.  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Chief Economist, Christof Ruehl, said in an
interview in London on Feb. 18 that, from a market perspective,
allowing U.S. crude exports would be the “best thing.”  Exports Unlikely  “I can’t see how politicians would make a 180-degree turn
even within the next few years,” Husseini, who retired from
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. in 2004, said today.  David Fyfe , the head of market research and analysis at
Gunvor Group Ltd., said at the London forum today that such a
move would be a “difficult political hurdle” to overcome.  “I think it is a difficult ask, although I think
industrial reality and refining economics would suggest that it
should allow it,” said Fyfe, who was formerly the head of the
IEA’s oil industry and markets division.  “Politically, I don’t see it happening under this current
administration,” said Christian O’Neill, senior energy analyst
at Bloomberg Industries.  Just a few years ago, few analysts predicted that the U.S.
would now be on the verge of having enough natural gas to make
exports viable, said Seth Kleinman, head of energy strategy at
Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Voss in London at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  