-- U.S. Could Profit From Fannie Mae Bailout, CEO Mayopoulos Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-04-11T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/u-s-could-profit-from-fannie-mae-bailout-ceo-mayopoulos-says.html
U.S. taxpayers could see a net gain
from their bailout of  Fannie Mae  as the housing market rebounds,
Chief Executive Timothy J. Mayopoulos said today.  “I do think, given the strength of our future
profitability, that it is possible that we will be able to pay
dividends that would be equal to or greater than the amount of
money that we’ve received from the Treasury Department,”
Mayopoulos said in an interview that will air on Bloomberg
Television’s “Capitol Gains” with  Peter Cook .  Washington-based Fannie Mae was seized by the U.S. in 2008
after investments in risky loans pushed it to the brink of
insolvency. Since then, it has taken $116.5 billion in aid from
the Treasury and has sent back more than $35 billion in
dividends, which count as a return on the government’s
investment and not as a repayment.  The company packages mortgages into securities on which it
guarantees payments of principal and interest. President  Barack Obama  and members of both parties in Congress have said they
want to wind the company down and shrink the government role in
the mortgage market.  Fannie Mae reported a profit of $17.2 billion for 2012 on
April 2, the largest annual return in the company’s history.
Common and preferred shares have soared since then as investors
have bet there’s a chance lawmakers will allow the company to
become independent again now that it’s profitable.  “I’m not sure those investments are being made on the
basis of business fundamentals,” Mayopoulos said in the
interview, which airs in full April 14 on “Capitol Gains.”
“There might be bets on really what people think the political
outcome is going to be.”  Under the terms of an agreement with Treasury that went
into effect this year,  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  will be allowed to retain only
$3 billion in net worth. Any profits beyond that amount will go
to taxpayers.  “The company hasn’t been capitalized,” Mayopoulos said.
“So whatever the future of housing finance is going to be,
there are still some major issues to be decided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  