-- U.S. Steel Says Industry Will Pitch Safety to Consumers
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-04-11T18:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/u-s-steel-says-industry-will-pitch-safety-to-consumers.html
U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , the country’s
largest producer by volume, said the  steel industry  will
emphasize safety to consumers as it tries to fend off use of
alternative materials in the automotive industry.  “There are certain attributes -- particularly on safety --
that would resonate with consumers and individuals,” Chief
Executive Officer John Surma told reporters today after a  speech 
to the Automotive Press Association in Detroit. “We’re trying
to take our communications up a notch.”  Automakers are looking to materials such as high-strength
steel, aluminum and magnesium to reduce vehicle weight and cut
fuel consumption to help meet stricter U.S. rules. North
American automakers may triple their use of stronger, thinner
steel by 2025 to increase  fuel efficiency , according to the
 Steel Market Development Institute , an industry lobbying group.  Vehicles made in  North America  will contain an average of
as much as 585 pounds (265 kilograms) of so-called advanced
high-strength steel in 2025, the Washington D.C.-based business
unit of the American Iron & Steel Institute said this month.  The use of the lighter, stronger steels will keep the total
portion of steel used in cars unchanged, the institute predicts.
Steel makes up about 58 percent to 60 percent of a vehicle’s
weight.  The steel lobby’s outlook differs from its counterparts
representing other materials such as the Aluminum Association.
Automakers may increase their use of aluminum to 550 pounds per
vehicle in 2025 from 327 pounds in 2009, according to a  study 
released by the group in September 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in  Detroit  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  