-- U.S. Student Borrower Advocates Say Tying Rate to Market Risky
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/u-s-student-borrower-advocates-say-tying-rate-to-market-risky.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget
proposal tying student-loan interest rates to the market is
drawing criticism from education advocates because there’s no
cap to protect borrowers when rates climb.  While the cost of borrowing in general today is low, there
is a long-term risk for students, said Jennifer Mishory, deputy
director of  Young Invincibles,  a Washington-based nonprofit
group that advocates for the interests of 18-to-34 year-olds.  “There must be a cap on how high those rates could go,
otherwise students could be facing much higher debt levels and
could be deterred from even going to school at all,” Mishory
said.  Under Obama’s plan, rates on subsidized Stafford loans,
which are for undergraduates from low-income families, would be
set yearly based on the market and would be fixed for the life
of the loan. Outstanding education debt is now at $1 trillion.
As the cost to attend college outpaces the inflation rate for a
fourth decade, more borrowers struggle to repay their debts.
Rates on  student loans  are higher than on mortgages because they
aren’t backed by any collateral and students often don’t have
credit histories.  Rates on  subsidized Stafford loans  are set to double July 1
to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent. Graduate students pay at a rate
of 6.8 percent or 7.9 percent.  Students Struggling  If Congress can’t work out comprehensive student-loan
reform before July 1, lawmakers should temporarily extend the
current rate for subsidized Stafford loans, said Ethan Senack, a
higher-education associate for  U.S Public Interest Research
Group , which advocates for students.  “The President’s proposal lowers rates in the short term,
but pays for it with high rates in the future,” Senack said in
an e-mail. “That isn’t investment. When students and families
are struggling with record debt, we need more investment in
higher education, not less.”  The rate for unsubsidized Stafford loans has been at 6.8
percent since July 2006. Rates on subsidized loans began to
gradually decrease after July 2008, and have been at 3.4 percent
since July 1, 2011. The initial reduction was passed by Congress
in 2007 after campaign promises from Democrats during the 2006
mid-term elections, according to  Mark Kantrowitz , who runs a
website offering advice on education debt.  The cost to the government to implement the plan would be
$25 billion in the first five years and would save $15 billion
over 10 years, according to Jason Delisle, director of the
federal education budget project at the  New America Foundation ,
a Washington-based nonprofit public-policy institute.  GOP Bill  The long-term savings comes from government projections that
10-year Treasury rates will rise in the future, and that rates
on future cohorts of student loans would be above 6.8 percent,
he said.  Republicans also favor tying the loan rate to the market.  On Tuesday, U.S. Senators  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma ,  Richard Burr  of  North Carolina  and  Lamar Alexander  of  Tennessee 
introduced a  bill  for all newly issued Stafford loans as well as
PLUS loans for parents and graduate students to be tied to the
U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rate plus 3 percentage points.
The 10-year note yesterday yielded 1.78 percent.  “Moving to a market-driven approach will benefit both
borrowers and taxpayers in the long-term,” Coburn said in a
statement Tuesday. “Temporary fixes require annual patching and
do nothing to solve the real problem. This bill provides a
sustainable solution by eliminating arbitrarily dictated rates
formulated by Washington politicians.”  Congressman  John Kline , chairman of the House Committee on
Education & the Workforce, also favors market-based student-loan
 interest rates .  Repayment Options  “My Republican colleagues and I have long believed
returning to a market-based system for determining interest
rates just makes sense, and will provide more stability for
borrowers,” Kline said in a statement yesterday. “We look
forward to a thorough discussion with the administration to
determine whether the proposal outlined in the budget will
effectively serve students, families, and taxpayers in the long
run.”  Obama’s plan would also expand  repayment options  so
borrowers don’t have to pay more than 10 percent of their
discretionary income on student loans. The proposal calls for $1
billion in competitive Race to the Top grants for states that
find ways to cut college costs and limit tuition increases.  The budget plan would provide $71.2 billion to the
Department of Education, a 4.6 percent increase over the 2012
enacted level, according to the White House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  