-- U.S. Tight Oil Threatens CIS Crude Exports, Russian Academy Says
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-04-11T11:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/u-s-tight-oil-threatens-cis-crude-exports-russian-academy-says.html
Crude oil exports from the
 Commonwealth of Independent States  may drop 17 percent by 2040
as tight oil production in the U.S. soars, the Russian Academy
of Sciences said in a  presentation  on its website.  CIS exports will decline to 293 million metric tons in 2040
from 355 million tons in 2010, according to the academy’s base
scenario. Russian crude  output  will fall by as much as 50
million tons annually by 2020 in the report’s “shale
breakthrough” scenario, as high costs and the current tax
system limit competitiveness on global energy markets.  New drilling technology including hydraulic fracking will
transform the U.S. into the largest crude producer and a net
exporter starting around 2020, the  International Energy Agency 
said in November. Russian President  Vladimir Putin  has called
for his country to maintain output at 10 million barrels a day
for the next decade. Oil and gas provide about half of the
government’s budget revenue.  “ Russia  is a price-taker on the oil market that will
export as much as it can,” Ildar Davletshin, a Moscow-based oil
and gas analyst at Renaissance Capital Ltd., said by phone
today. “There is some concern that Russia will be left behind
as it is still reliant on old technology, and a 10 percent
decline in output by 2020 is not unreasonable.”  Russia produced 518 million tons, or 10.4 million barrels a
day, of crude and gas condensate in 2012, according to the
Energy Ministry.  “The Russian Academy of Sciences is not known for its
expertise in shale oil production,” Alexander Burgansky, a
Moscow-based oil and gas analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp.,
said by e-mail.  Burgansky cited  Leonid Fedun , vice president of OAO Lukoil,
Russia’s biggest private oil producer, who told the Vedomosti
newspaper that U.S. shale output won’t exceed 3 million to 4
million barrels a day. There is no threat of oversupply, he
said.  The CIS includes most former Soviet republics, including
oil exporters Russia, Kazakhstan and  Azerbaijan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  