-- Hudson’s Bay CEO Baker Says Looking at Creating a REIT
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-04-11T20:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/hudson-s-bay-ceo-baker-says-looking-at-creating-a-reit.html
Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) , the Canadian
retailer that went public in November, is looking at creating a
real estate investment trust.  The company’s real estate is “advantageous” as HBC can
use it for financing and to keep costs down, Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Baker  said in a phone interview from  New York 
today.  “Just like Loblaw, we have the exact same opportunity” to
“create a real estate investment trust sometime in the
future,” he said. “It’s something we look at all the time.”  HBC, Canada’s oldest company,  rose  1.69 percent to close at
C$15.00 at 4:30 p.m. in Toronto, where the company is based.  Loblaw Cos., the Ontario-based grocery chain, said in
December it is planning to spin off its property into a REIT
later this year.  Michael Culhane, HBC chief financial officer, said in the
company’s third quarter conference call in November that the
company had the opportunity to consider a REIT.  HBC  will open 20 Topshop stores over the next four years
across  Canada , Baker said. The shops, which are separate stores
inside HBC locations, generate annual sales of C$600 per square
foot, he said.  HBC is opening the largest shoe department in Canada at its
Queen Street store Toronto in September or October. It will also
open a Kleinfeld Bridal shop in the store, which will be the
largest bridal shop in the country.  Kleinfeld’s Bridal  “We’re really very focused on women’s shoes, Kleinfeld’s
and our Topshop rollout -- those are the three big initiatives
growing in a big way at Hudson’s Bay this year,” Baker said.
Topshop stores are “really important” for HBC because they
bring in a younger and more modern customer, Baker said.  HBC earlier reported earnings of 86 cents a share, adjusted
for certain items, more than the 85 cent average estimate of
eight analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Sales of C$1.39
billion, beat the C$1.36 billion estimate in the survey.  The company sees sales growth of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent
in 2013.  “We are seeing greater growth in Canada and we are very
bullish on our sales opportunities in Canada,” Baker said. “We
are optimistic and feel good about the U.S. but our
opportunities are stronger north of the border.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  