-- Urbi Said to Hire Rothschild to Consider Restructuring
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-04-11T21:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/urbi-said-to-hire-financial-adviser-rothschild-as-bonds-plummet.html
Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*) ,
 Mexico ’s third-biggest publicly traded homebuilder by sales,
hired Rothschild as a financial adviser to consider a debt
restructuring, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The company’s bonds due in 2022 fell 12.4 cents today to
44.28 cents on the dollar, the lowest price on record, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Antonio Jorge, an Urbi investor
relations official, declined to comment.  Securities of Mexico’s homebuilders have  plunged  as
President Enrique Pena Nieto shifts government housing policy to
favor capital-intensive apartment construction over single-
family dwellings that previously garnered subsidies. Urbi  shares 
are down 64 percent this year on concern the Mexicali, Mexico-
based company may have to write down businesses and properties
as cash holdings dwindle.  The hiring of Rothschild is a “bad signal,” Ray Zucaro,
who helps oversee $300 million of emerging-market debt at SW
Asset Management in  Newport Beach ,  California , wrote in an e-
mail. “If things were going well they would not need them.”  An official at Rothschild in Mexico City declined to
comment, saying the company doesn’t talk to the press.  The company’s shares fell 1.3 percent to 2.94 pesos today
in Mexico City trading.  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) , Mexico’s
largest homebuilder, fell 6.1 percent to 17.5 pesos, the biggest
loser on the country’s benchmark  IPC index .  Bridge Loan  Both companies’ shares recouped some of their losses after
President Enrique Pena Nieto said during a speech at a housing
industry event that Mexico has a “firm commitment” to the
sector. “We will keep working to give greater liquidity” to
housing companies, Pena Nieto said.  Homex said in a regulatory filing today that it obtained a
bridge loan, partly backed by the government, to help finance
apartment construction. Culiacan, Mexico-based Homex said it was
the first homebuilder to get a loan under the Sociedad
Hipotecaria Federal guarantee program announced March 6.  The 144 million peso ($12 million) loan is a sign of
“Homex’s strength and credibility as well as the good
relationship with financial institutions,” the company said in
an e-mail. The funds “will allow Homex to accelerate its
ongoing building investments.”  While Urbi and other homebuilders have tried to shrink
operations to conserve cash, “the solution remains mostly out
of their control because of their significant exposure to
government programs,” Morgan Stanley analyst Rafael Pinho wrote
in an e-mailed report today. The firm cut its  rating  on Urbi’s
shares to underweight from equal weight.  Credit Ratings  Concern that Urbi will become the first homebuilder in
Mexico to impose losses on bondholders has grown because the
company has the highest debt-to-earnings ratio in the industry.
Urbi also was the biggest cash burner in 2012, with 5.4 billion
pesos of negative free  cash flow . Construction of apartments
requires higher initial cash investments.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Urbi’s  credit rating  on March
20 to B2, five levels below investment grade, citing the
company’s earnings and cash flow deterioration. Standard &
Poor’s and  Fitch Ratings  rank the homebuilder three levels lower
at CCC. That level means default is a “real possibility,”
according to Fitch.  HSBC Holdings Plc analysts said last month that a
restructuring of Urbi’s bank loans may “leave the rest of
Urbi’s stakeholders deeply subordinated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  