-- US Airways Snowstorm Delays Trigger U.S. Investigation
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-11T21:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/us-airways-snowstorm-delays-trigger-u-s-investigation.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and its
regional partners are being investigated by the U.S.
Transportation Department for the most widespread incident of
long tarmac delays since a U.S. rule took effect in 2010.  Passengers were stranded on 34 planes during a snowstorm at
the carrier’s Charlotte,  North Carolina , hub, in February. The
incident was responsible for all U.S. tarmac delays of three
hours or more during the month, the Department of Transportation
said today.  It was the most delays for any month, not just for a day,
or by a single airline since regulators began imposing penalties
in April 2010, according to a department website.  Airlines face fines of as much as $27,500 a passenger for
keeping them stranded on planes for more than three hours at a
time.  Passengers were trapped onboard  US Airways  and US Airways
Express flights during a snowstorm of greater magnitude and
duration than forecast, said Michelle Mohr, a spokeswoman for
the carrier, based in Tempe, Arizona.  “We’re cooperating fully with the DOT investigation and
also conducting our own investigation simultaneously,” Mohr
said in an interview.  The previous high number of U.S. tarmac delays in a month
since regulations were tightened occurred in July 2012, when 18
flights exceeded the limit, according to the  Bureau of
Transportation Statistics . There were 268 delays in June 2009,
before fines were imposed.  Food, Water  US Airways made sure passengers were kept informed and had
access to onboard food, water and operating lavatories, Mohr
said. The airline provided partial refunds for customers whose
travel was disrupted and offered vouchers for a future flight,
she said.  The Transportation Department fined  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American
Eagle $900,000 in 2011 after passengers were stranded on 15
planes at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport. Two other U.S.
carriers have been fined for delays:  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  for $130,000 in February and  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  for
$90,000 last August.  The tarmac-delay rule was created after incidents in which
passengers weren’t allowed to get off stranded planes that
lacked food, water or working lavatories. It now covers non
U.S.-based airlines as well.  Four international carriers have been fined, all in the
past eight months: Caribbean Airlines Ltd. for $100,000 last
month; Copa Airlines of Panama for $150,000 and Virgin America
Inc. for $55,000 in January; and  Pakistan International Airlines
Corp. (PIAA)  for $150,000 in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  