-- VA Cuts Goal for Reducing Claims Lampooned by Jon Stewart
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-11T19:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/va-cuts-goal-for-reducing-claims-lampooned-by-jon-stewart.html
The U.S. Department of  Veterans
Affairs  will process almost 300,000 fewer injury-compensation
claims from former troops next year than it previously
estimated.  The department will handle about 1.32 million claims in the
fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, according to budget documents
released yesterday. That’s about 280,000 fewer than the VA
estimated a few months ago.  The discrepancy drew criticism from lawmakers at a
congressional hearing today. They have pushed the department to
deal with a backlog of injury-compensation and pension claims
that has delayed payments to former troops.  “You talk about bold predictions for performance, yet year
after year results don’t back them up,” said Representative
Jeff Miller, a Florida Republican and chairman of the House
Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “The goalposts keep moving.”  More than 885,000 compensation and pension claims were
pending as of March 30, and about 69 percent of them have been
in the system more than 125 days, the VA’s goal for timely
processing.  The lower projections for injury-compensation claims
processing are due to changes that occurred as the result of
legislation passed by Congress, VA Secretary Eric Shinseki told
committee members, without elaborating.  Hoarders Episode  The claims backlog drew the attention of  Jon Stewart , who
hosts the “ Daily Show ” on  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Comedy Central
television channel. He called the delays “criminal” during a
episode this month.  Stewart showed pictures of an agency office in  North
Carolina  where boxes of claims were threatening a building’s
structural integrity.  “Is this the VA or an episode of Hoarders?” Stewart
joked, referring to the A&E Television Networks LLC show that
features people struggling to part with belongings cluttering
their homes.  Miller today said he was frustrated that lawmakers continue
to increase the VA’s budget while the issues persist.  “I believe this committee and this Congress has delivered
everything the VA has asked for, but I’ve yet to see the
benefits,” he said.  The Veterans Benefits Administration, which oversees claims
processing, would receive $2.5 billion in President  Barack Obama ’s budget request released yesterday. That includes $155
million to implement a paperless system and $136 million to
convert medical records and other items to digital format.  Axiom Corp., an Atlanta-based information technology
vendor, has a VA contract tied to the document-conversion work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  