-- Vale Faces Prolonged Tax Battle After Court Ruling
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-04-11T21:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/vale-confronts-prolongued-brazil-tax-dispute.html
The $15.5 billion tax dispute that
has been weighing on  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, will be prolonged after Brazil’s Supreme Court decided
to reassess the case.  Vale’s decade-long challenge of a government claim that it
owes taxes for profits generated by foreign subsidiaries must be
analyzed separately from a broader case filed by a trade
association. In a modest victory for Vale, the court ruled
yesterday that taxes on foreign profit can’t be applied before
2002, reducing Vale’s potential claims by as much as 1.47
billion reais out of a total 30.5 billion reais ($15.5 billion).  Vale shares  had  the biggest two-day loss in almost a month
in Sao Paulo as the court failed to bring the dispute to an end.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. said in
research notes before the ruling that they expected a final
decision favorable to Vale.  “The market had bought a definition and got frustrated,”
Rafael Weber, who helps manage about 5.4 billion reais at
Geracao Futuro Corretora, said in a telephone interview from
Porto Alegre,  Brazil . “Nothing is resolved.”  The stock dropped 1.5 percent to 32.40 reais at the close
today, extending its two-day decline to 4.9 percent, the most
since March 13.  Tax Havens  The Supreme Court in Brasilia  ruled  that Brazilian
companies must pay taxes on profits of their foreign units if
they are based in tax havens, while the applicability of
payments in other jurisdictions will be discussed on a case-
base-case scenario. The decision affects exporters such as Vale,
Gerdau SA and Cia de Bebidas das Americas, which are fighting
tax claims.  While still low, the ruling means there is now a higher
chance that Vale may have to pay the claims in full, Bank of
America analysts led by Felipe Hirai said yesterday.  “Despite the high expectations of a positive ruling, the
probability of Vale losing the final case and having to pay the
liability in full increased,” the Sao Paulo-based analysts
wrote in a note to clients.  Vale, which has a holding based in  Austria , doesn’t have
operations in countries with tax havens and the claims the
company received for the 1996-2001 period will be removed after
the ruling, Clovis Torres, the firm’s top lawyer, said in a
conference call yesterday. The court still has to judge the case
of units in countries where Brazil has tax agreements, he said,
declining to estimate how long a final decision may take.  “There’s no established timeframe, they can take all the
time they want,” he said. “The fact that the retroactivity
wasn’t considered was a big victory for us.”  Overdue Taxes  The Supreme Court also upheld an appeal from Vale to allow
the company not to pay collateral until their case is brought to
trial in the court.  Brazil is demanding  Vale  pay 30.5 billion reais in foreign
units tax for 1996 to 2008, the company said April 2 in a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The claims for
the 1996-2002 period includes overdue taxes for 461 million
reais and an additional 1 billion reais in interests and
penalties, it said. Vale expects the country to file additional
claims for the years after 2008, it said then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  