-- Venezuelan Ransom Funds Hedge Against Kidnaps as Vote Looms
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-04-11T19:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/venezuelan-ransom-funds-hedge-against-kidnaps-as-candidates-spar.html
Venezuelans are banding together to
create informal insurance societies to pay off criminals in case
of kidnapping as violence soars and moves to the forefront of
voters’ priorities before the April 14 presidential election.  Groups of friends and relatives are pooling money that can
be tapped in a hurry if one of its members is held for ransom,
said a Venezuelan lawyer in the city of Barquisimeto who
participates in a fund with three other couples and requested
anonymity for security reasons. The lawyer’s fund has more than
$60,000 divided between bank accounts and cash kept at home.  Venezuela has the world’s highest number of kidnappings
after  Nigeria ,  Mexico ,  India  and  Pakistan , according to London-
based research group Control Risks, which describes the
country’s capital, Caracas, as a “hotspot” for these crimes.
As the South American nation prepares for a snap election
following President  Hugo Chavez ’s death last month, security has
become a central campaign issue. Chavez’s hand-picked successor,
interim President  Nicolas Maduro , and his opponent, Miranda
state Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski, are vowing to get
tough on criminals if they win the six-year term.  “Violence and impunity have gotten so bad in the country
that the opposition and the government have recognized in the
campaign that it is one of the problems that hasn’t been
resolved,” Carlos Romero, a political scientist at Central
University in Caracas, said by telephone. “Crime is the biggest
problem for Venezuelans and they partially blame bad governance
for it.”  Actor Kidnapped  On April 9 comedian Laureano Marquez, a supporter of
Capriles and a television actor, was kidnapped in southeast
Caracas, Globovision reported on its website. He said he was
released within a matter of hours unharmed and declined to say
whether he was ransomed, the television station’s online edition
said. Caracas-based newspaper El Universal also reported the
kidnapping. The public prosecutor’s office didn’t respond to a
telephone call seeking comment.  Marquez was arriving at his home at 9:30 p.m. in a gray
Jeep Cherokee when he was intercepted by men who assaulted him
and forced him into another car, Manuel Tangir, head of citizen
security for Caracas’ Baruta municipality, said on Globovision
today. Marquez was released five hours later, Tangir said.  Homicides have almost quadrupled during Chavez’s 14 years
in power, jumping to 16,030 in 2012 from 4,550 in 1998, the year
before he took office, according to data published by the
government and  United Nations . They rose 23 percent in the past
two years, and the oil-rich nation has  overtaken Colombia  as
 South America ’s most dangerous country since 2006.  The homicide rate of 73 per 100,000 inhabitants is more
than 14 times higher than in the U.S. Still, the Venezuelan
Violence Observatory, a non-governmental organization, says the
government under-reports murders and estimates 21,692 people, or
59 people a day, were killed in 2012.  ‘Key Drawback’  While there are no official statistics on kidnapping, the
government said it helped resolve more than one case a day last
year, facilitating the safe return of a total of 413 hostages, a
report submitted to the National Assembly last month said.  Venezuela had between 625 and 1,970 kidnappings last year,
according to data gathered by Nicholas Watson,  Latin America 
analysis director at  Control Risks .  “Crime represents one of the key drawbacks to doing
business in Venezuela,” Watson said in a phone interview from
Bogota. “The bottom line is there have to be stringent security
measures in place to protect all premises and assets at all
times.”  Some companies avoid setting up shop in Venezuela
altogether, preferring to use a Venezuelan partner to conduct
business, Frank Holder, FTI Consulting’s chairman for Latin
America, said in a phone interview. FTI’s Venezuelan clients
often move their families out of the country and commute every
week, Holder said. These clients often use armored cars with
armed guards on motorbikes as escorts, he said.  “It’s a very hostile environment for a businessman,”
Holder said. “If you compare it to anywhere else in the region,
only countries like Guatemala and  Honduras , where organized
crime controls part of the territory, do you have this security
situation.”  Many families and friends set aside money so they can
quickly pay a ransom without having to involve the authorities,
Caracas-based security adviser and lawyer Fermin Marmol Garcia
said.  Wealthy Victims  Criminals target wealthy victims such as Washington
Nationals baseball player  Wilson Ramos , who was kidnapped for
two days in 2011, as well as middle-class families who can come
up with enough cash and jewelry to pay the ransom. Victims are
usually randomly chosen as they walk or drive through
residential areas after dark and held captive for an average of
eight hours, Garcia said.  The target of these so-called express kidnappings are
driven around as the criminals contact family members before
releasing them in the outskirts of the city after a ransom is
paid, he said.  The four couples who created the informal insurance plan in
Barquisimeto, the fourth-biggest city in Venezuela, have known
each other for more than five years. The lawyer said the
family’s two-bedroom house was burglarized last year.  The fund was created after a member of the group was
kidnapped two years ago and held in captivity for almost a week,
the lawyer said. The group shares a common plan with details of
how to proceed in case one of them is kidnapped, said the group
member.  Life and Death  Opposition candidate Capriles is trying to tap into this
sense of unease among the middle-class as he attempts to narrow
the advantage his rival has in the polls.  “Can you imagine walking at this hour in Caracas?”
Capriles said during a nighttime rally April 1 as his supporters
marched in the capital city and 19 states to protest crime.
“This is a fight for the future, for life. God has given us an
opportunity to choose between life and death.”  Maduro, a former union leader who served as foreign affairs
minister in Chavez’s government, has 55 percent support against
45 percent for Capriles, Credit Suisse wrote in a report April
10, citing a survey conducted from April 1 to 5 by Caracas-based
polling company Datanalisis. The poll of 1,300 people has a
margin of error of 2.66 percentage points, it said.  Capriles says he would increase police patrols and step up
gun control measures while cracking down on drug trafficking,
according to proposals posted on his campaign website.  Two-Hand Approach  Maduro said that crime is a growing problem in  Venezuela 
and promised to boost investment in the police force, focusing
his efforts on the most dangerous municipalities, according to
proposals published on his campaign website.  He also said that carrying on with Chavez’s 21st century
socialist revolution will reduce  income inequality  and,
therefore, cut incentives to commit crime. He vows to continue
increasing the state’s control over the economy after his mentor
seized more than 1,000 companies or their assets, while
redistributing wealth to the poor.  “If I extend one hand and they don’t take it, with the
other I’ll come with the police, the National Guard and with the
people,” Maduro said in a speech March 11 as he vowed to disarm
criminals. “This needs to end.”  While social programs created by Chavez helped reduce
poverty and inequality, police forces remain undermanned and
oftentimes lack proper equipment to enforce the law, Watson
said.  For Holder, there’s no direct correlation between crime and
social inequality. Instead, a country’s institutions play a key
role in reducing crime.  “Though social inequality dropped, the institutions
themselves have deteriorated even more,” Holder said. “The
government is more monolithic, but ironically the institutions
are weaker, there isn’t an independent judiciary in Venezuela.
If the institutions don’t work, something replaces it, and that
something is usually organized crime.”  Venezuela was given the maximum score of five in FTI
Consulting’s Latin Security Index for 2013, which measures
security for businesses, meaning it is a “very dangerous
country,” according to the Baltimore-based consulting company.
Venezuela was considered the region’s most dangerous nation
after  Haiti , and was designated with a red light meaning that
crime is getting worse.  Coming Storm  Reducing crime is only one of the challenges the next
government will need to face.  Venezuela’s economic growth will decelerate this year as a
fiscal deficit limits  government spending , with gross domestic
product expanding an estimated 1.9 percent after climbing 5.6
percent in 2012, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The government in February devalued its currency for the
fifth time in nine years to narrow its fiscal gap. The country
has the fastest official inflation in Latin America with a 22.8
percent annual rate in February, while the  unemployment rate  is
the highest after  Colombia .  The cost of protecting Venezuelan bonds against default for
five years increased 37 basis points this year to 682 basis
points on April 10, the highest level among major Latin American
nations tracked by Bloomberg after  Argentina .  Pledges by both candidates aren’t convincing voters who
remain skeptical over the ability of the state to reduce crime,
Luis Vicente Leon, president of pollster Datanalisis, said by
phone. Capriles lost the October election to Chavez by 11
percentage points after making public safety a central focus of
his campaign.  “Caracas is akin to a war zone,” Watson said. “Crime
rates are really, really high. I don’t see any significant
improvement, at least not in a one-, two-, three-year period.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 