-- Visa, MasterCard Judge Orders Changes on Swipe-Fee Sites
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-11T22:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/visa-mastercard-judge-orders-corrections-to-swipe-fee-websites.html
Websites critical of a settlement
that  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  reached with retailers over
so-called swipe fees are misleading and must be corrected, a
federal judge ruled.  The sites contain “bad information” that may have caused
some retailers to drop out of the settlement, U.S. District
Judge John Gleeson said today in  Brooklyn , New York. He gave the
parties a week to decide on changes.  “I’m not going to belabor this with you,” Gleeson told
Jeffrey Shinder, a lawyer representing retail trade associations
that established the sites and have opposed the settlement.
“I’m just talking about basic fairness.”  Sites at issue include  Merchantsobject.com  and home sites
for the trade groups  National Community Pharmacists Association ,
 National Grocers Association  and the  National Association of
Convenience Stores , among others, according to court filings
submitted by the plaintiffs’ lawyers.  The sites provide one-sided information encouraging
retailers to object and opt out and don’t fully explain
consequences of those actions, the plaintiffs’ lawyers said.
While opting out allows merchants to pursue their own lawsuits
against the credit card firms, it deprives them of the ability
to receive payments for damages under the settlement, the
lawyers said.  Prominent Placement  The Merchantsobject site also fails to give prominent
placement to a link to the official, court-approved source of
information about the deal,  paymentcardsettlement.com , the
lawyers said.  “The non-court-approved websites appear to be causing
actual confusion among class members,” said Bonny E. Sweeney, a
lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, in a declaration filed with the
court. Since the sites went live, dozens of form objections have
been filed by merchants apparently using the sites, she said.  “It is currently difficult to know whether these class
members intended to opt-out, but did not send the required
letter or whether these class members only meant to object to
the settlement, but picked the ’wrong’ sample document provided
on the various websites,” she said.  Retail Leaders  Today’s hearing came after the Retail Industry Leaders
Association announced it would opt out and object to the deal,
which may be worth as much as $7.25 billion. The accord,
estimated to be the largest-ever antitrust settlement, would end
a case over claims that the card companies conspired with banks
to fix the fees charged to merchants when customers pay with
plastic.  Several retail groups have opposed the settlement since it
was made public in July, alleging that it doesn’t provide enough
benefit for merchants and gives card companies too much leeway
to raise rates. Retailers including  Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  have spoken out against the
accord.  “We do not think the sites were misleading or that they
misled anyone to object or opt-out,” said Shinder, in an e-
mailed statement following the hearing.  “We do care deeply about the integrity of this process,
and per the court’s order, will endeavor to work with class
counsel” to ensure it is “crystal clear that those who
submitted objections from those sites did so because they
believe the settlement is a bad deal,” he said.  Lyle Beckwith, a government relations representative for
the National Association of Convenience Stores, one of the
groups behind the Merchantsobject site, called the request for
changes “not a big deal.”  Nit-Picking  “This is just unbelievable nit-picking,” he said. “We
are standing between attorneys and their $700 million payday and
they don’t like it.”  Courts have previously ruled that the First Amendment does
not prevent judges from supervising communications with absent
class members about proposed settlements, the plaintiffs said in
court filings.  The settlement covers more than 7 million retailers. If a
sizable percentage chooses to opt out, Visa and MasterCard could
have an option to back out of the deal.  Gleeson granted preliminary approval to the deal in
November. A hearing on final approval is scheduled for
September.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York 
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  