-- Vornado CEO Says J.C. Penney Loss Unrelated to Exit
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-04-11T17:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/vornado-ceo-says-j-c-penney-loss-unrelated-to-exit.html
Michael Fascitelli, who is leaving
next week as  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) ’s chief executive officer,
said losses on the company’s investment in  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  had
nothing to do with his decision to resign.  “None. Zero. Absolutely none,” he told reporters today
after speaking on a panel at New York University’s Schack
Institute of Real Estate in  Manhattan . “It had no impact.”  Fascitelli, whose last day at Vornado is April 15,
announced his resignation on Feb. 27, a day after the New York-
based real estate investment trust reported a $224.9 million
loss on its stake in J.C. Penney. Vornado sold more than 10
million shares of the Plano, Texas-based department-store chain
last month, leaving it with about a  6.1 percent stake , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Steven Roth , Vornado’s chairman, will take over as CEO
temporarily. Fascitelli, who has worked with Roth since joining
the REIT in 1996, said there was no friction between them that
played into his departure.  “We don’t always agree, but that wasn’t just this year,
that’s been for 15 years,” he said.  Fascitelli, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner, said
an auto accident last year spurred him to make a change.  “You focus on your work, and that’s your life, and your
family, and all of a sudden you have a close call,” he said.
“Of course you rethink everything. I’m 56 years old, and I
decided I want to do something else.”  Next Venture  He said he has no idea what his next venture will be. He’ll
continue to maintain an office at Vornado’s Seventh Avenue
headquarters and will remain on the board of the company, which
owns more than 100 million square feet (9.3 million square
meters) of U.S. commercial real estate.  Fascitelli said he has received overtures including being
involved in a sports team. The person was interested in buying a
team, he said, declining to provide details.  Roth and the board will determine his permanent successor
as Vornado’s CEO, he said.  “They got a great bench,” Fascitelli said. “And Steve
tells me plenty of people have applied for my job. There’s a
huge demand for my job from the outside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  