-- Wells Fargo 401(k) Loans Jump 28% as Older Workers Borrow
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-04-11T20:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/wells-fargo-401-k-loans-jump-28-as-older-workers-borrow.html
The number of people taking loans
from their 401(k) retirement accounts increased 28 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier as older workers tapped
their savings, according to  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co.  The number is based on 1.9 million survey participants who
have 401(k)s administered by the company, of which 34,987, or
about 1.8 percent, took out loans, the San Francisco-based bank
said today in a statement. The average new loan balance rose 7
percent to $7,126.  U.S. workers may borrow from their 401(k) and pay the loan
back to the account if their employer’s plan allows it,
according to the  Internal Revenue Service . Individuals who
demonstrate financial need for reasons including medical
expenses or the purchase of a primary residence also may take a
so-called hardship withdrawal. Savers in their 50s were the most
likely to borrow against their 401(k)s, Wells Fargo said.  “The increased loan activity particularly among older
participants is concerning because those are the years when
workers can start to make ‘catch-up’ contributions and really
need to focus on preparing for retirement,” Laurie Nordquist,
director of Wells Fargo Retirement, said in the statement.
“This age is also the ‘sandwich’ generation, caught between
paying for their kids’ education and supporting elderly
parents.”  Fidelity, Vanguard  Employers usually require workers to pay back loans in full
if they leave a job and tapping the accounts may mean people
miss out on tax-free build-up of investment gains.  At Fidelity Investments, the largest provider of 401(k)
plans, the portion of workers initiating a loan in the quarter
rose to 3.1 percent from 2.9 percent a year earlier, according
to Michael Shamrell, a spokesman for the Boston-based company.  “Loan taking bounces around,” said Jean Young, a senior
research analyst for Vanguard Group Inc.’s Center for Retirement
Research. The number of new loans issued to participants in
401(k)s administered by Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard declined 3 percent during all of 2012, Young said in an
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  