-- Wheatley Says Structured Products Like Spread Bets ‘on Steroids’
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-04-11T16:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/wheatley-says-structured-products-like-spread-bets-on-steroids-.html
Structured products are a “perfect
example” of securities where banks have overloaded investors
with information without ensuring they understand the risks,
 according to  the head of a new U.K. regulator.  The products, which typically package debt with
derivatives, have “often been mind-bogglingly complicated
financial gambles,” according to Martin Wheatley, chief
executive of the Financial Conduct Authority. They are “almost
like spread bets on steroids,” he said in a speech yesterday.  Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are seeking to increase
transparency for the securities after they came under scrutiny
following the financial crisis in 2008 for being overly complex.
Rules requiring banks in the European Union to provide concise
information outlining the characteristics and risks of the
products they sell could be in place by the end of 2014,
according to the European Commission.  The Financial Services Authority was replaced last week by
two new regulators. The FCA was created to carry out the FSA’s
consumer work and has powers to quickly ban risky products,
intervene in marketing and publish information on investigations
before they result in charges or a settlement. The Prudential
Regulation Authority, a unit of the  Bank of England  under
incoming Governor  Mark Carney , is responsible for the stability
of the banking industry.  Many structured products are too complex with too many
moving parts, which means they are “almost impossible to take a
rational decision on,” Wheatley said.  He highlighted a so-called auto-callable structured note
where investors lock up money for between one and six years with
their returns dependent on the share prices of three technology
companies, as an example of a complex product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  