-- When the Zombies Attack, You’ll Need Your Gun
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-04-11T22:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/when-the-zombies-attack-you-ll-need-your-gun.html
Suppose the walking dead attacked
your house. Would you (a) defend yourself; (b) lock the door and
dial 911; (c) write a Facebook post blaming the sequester; or
(d) negotiate?  If you don’t know that the correct answer is (a), you won’t
survive the zombie apocalypse.  Zombies are everywhere these days. In June,  Brad Pitt  will
star in the  film version  of Max Brooks’s  best-selling novel 
“World War Z.” The Westerosi of “Game of Thrones” have to worry
about the White Walkers.  Harry Potter  had to face the Inferi.
Even Dr. Gregory House had to battle zombies, although it turned
out he was  only dreaming .  So it should scarcely come as a surprise that zombies have
moaned and shuffled their way into politics -- including,
unsurprisingly, the debate over  gun control . This month,  an
article  in the Guardian created a stir by analyzing AMC’s wildly
 popular serial  “The Walking Dead” -- every episode of which
features scenes in which the characters must either kill their
way out of corners or die horribly -- and concluding that the
program, properly understood, represents a call for more
regulation of firearms.  Maybe so. But I’m skeptical. Because, if there is one
commonality to all the various presentations of zombies in
popular culture, back to the early George Romero and even to
19th century “zombi” fiction, it is that nobody is there to save
you. The only way to defeat the zombie is to do it yourself.  Feeling Safe  Certainly self-defense is a crucial argument among those
who favor relatively lax regulation of firearms. Protection,
according to  a poll  of gun owners in February, is the No. 1
reason they own a gun. And the overwhelming majority of those
who own guns say they feel safer knowing that others own guns.  But this concern may not be limited to gun owners.  Another
poll  -- taken in January, just a month after the massacre in
Newtown,  Connecticut  -- found that almost two-thirds of
respondents consider the right to bear arms a protection against
tyranny. As might be expected, the proportion was higher among
gun owners, but some 57 percent of those not owning guns agreed.  How does all of this relate to the zombies? Bear in mind
that contemporary zombie stories are apocalyptic -- that is, the
world we know has fallen by the wayside. Government has been
swept away. Plucky survivors are banding together. Self-reliance
is less ideology than necessity, and self-defense is the only
way to survive.  Observers of the cultural zombie phenomenon point to all
the supposed menaces that the walking dead, in their implacable
hunger, might represent: immigrants, or terrorists, or even
simply the march of secularism and modernity. Certainly the
phenomenon arises at a moment when the nation is almost as
deeply in doubt as it is in debt. As Terrence Rafferty  has noted 
in the  New York  Times, “The zombie is clearly the right monster
for this glum mood.”  We should look deeper. Zombie fiction is particularly
popular among the young -- the same young, remember, who
overwhelmingly believe that Social Security won’t be there when
they retire. I suspect that zombie stories appeal to a
generation that is secretly worried that government itself won’t
make it; that the manifest inability of our politics to cope
with today’s challenges suggests a likely incompetence at
tackling tomorrow’s.  So viewed, the zombie apocalypse provides an example of
what Tom Moylan, in his  classic study  “Scraps of the Untainted
Sky,” refers to as “critical dystopia”: the use of an imagined,
unattractive future to call attention to the sociological and
technological risks of the present.  Feeling Anxious  And what’s that risk? It’s that the White Walkers will soon
be massing along the Wall, and the powers that be won’t be able
to stop them. (Think Benghazi,  Libya .) It’s that the powers that
be might themselves cease to be, in which case we’ll have to
protect ourselves or die -- just as gun-rights advocates insist.  I myself doubt that the future is so grim. But we can
hardly blame gun owners for believing it or young people for
wondering. We live in a time when all politics are Manichean.
The sky is always falling. The other party is always on the
verge of bankrupting the nation, or destroying private industry,
or demolishing the Constitution.  This adolescent rhetoric isn’t designed to reassure. It’s
designed to frighten.  Social Security  won’t be there unless you
adopt our fix, each side proclaims. Medicare won’t be there. The
armed forces might not even be there.  It’s true: The future is scary. By screaming about the
horrors to come, however, politicians and pundits are implicitly
suggesting that government might not be able to handle what lies
ahead. Small wonder that trust in government remains at  historic
lows .  The zombie is a warning to  baby boomers : Our children are
worried that the fortifications along the wall might not hold.
Let’s hope there’s time to leave them a different legacy.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 