-- WTI Crude Drops a Second Day, Erasing Its Weekly Advance
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-04-12T11:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/wti-oil-fluctuates-after-dropping-most-in-week-on-iea-outlook.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for a second day, erasing its advance this week. The U.S.
benchmark’s discount to London-traded Brent neared its narrowest
in more than 14 months.  Futures dropped as much 1.4 percent in New York as Cyprus
said it will ask the euro area for further financial aid, while
investors awaited a report forecast to show U.S. retail  sales 
stagnated in March. Oil prices may rebound next week, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. WTI’s  discount  to Brent
shrank to as little as $10.40 a barrel today, the smallest gap
on an intraday basis since Jan. 26, 2012.  “The supply balance is still a bit weak,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , who forecasts that WTI will average $96 a barrel this
quarter. “We are close to the bottom, as we expect the market
to tighten, but the bottoming-out process may take some time.”  WTI for May delivery declined as much as $1.26 to $92.25 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
and was at $92.34 at 12:12 p.m. London time. The volume of all
futures traded was 73 percent greater than the 100-day average.
The contract has slipped 2.4 percent over the last two days, its
biggest decline since April 4. Prices have fallen 0.4 percent
this week, paring their gain this year to 0.5 percent.  Brent for May settlement, which expires on April 15, fell
$1.29 to $102.92 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The more actively traded June future slid $1.41 to
$102.97. The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $10.58
to WTI futures.  Retail Sales  Crude extended its drop as the euro area’s finance
ministers met in Dublin. Cyprus’s President, Nicos Anastasiades,
will seek to increase the 10 billion euros ($13.1 billion) of
aid pledged by the other 16 members of the single currency, said
a government official who asked not to be identified.  The U.S. Commerce Department will publish its report on
 retail sales  at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . The value of purchases
was little changed in March, according to the median forecast of
85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales increased 1.1 percent
in February, their biggest gain in five months.  The contracting spread between WTI and Brent comes amid a
weakening in the structure of the North Sea oil market.  Front-month Brent futures are trading today at a discount
to the next month, a structure known as contango, for the fourth
time in the past six days after  North Sea production  climbed
with the end of oil-field maintenance and as refiners curbed
operations during a seasonal lull in demand.  Contango Opportunity  The shift into contango for the first time in nine months
will last a short time and presents an opportunity to bet that
the price will rebound, according to banks from Morgan Stanley
to BNP Paribas SA.  Morgan Stanley predicted this “latest bout of Brent
weakness will reverse,” while BNP Paribas recommended betting
that the premium for short-term deliveries will resume as
supplies become constrained.  “The underlying factors that had loosened a bit in the
Brent market will shift,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of
commodity markets strategy at BNP Paribas in London.  WTI may gain next week amid signs of improving U.S.
employment, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Fourteen of 36
analysts and traders, or 39 percent, forecast that crude will
increase through April 19. Thirteen respondents predicted a
decline and nine projected little change. U.S. jobless claims
dropped more than forecast in the week ended April 6, a Labor
Department report showed yesterday.  Oil in New York has technical support along its middle
Bollinger Band on the weekly chart at $91.42 a barrel, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted last week’s
decline near that level, signaling that buy orders may be
clustered around the indicator. Losses tend to accelerate when
contracts breach a support level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  