-- Yale’s Betts Joins Hockey Alumni on Bulldogs’ Frozen Four Road
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-11T13:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/yale-s-betts-joins-hockey-alumni-on-bulldogs-frozen-four-road.html
Roland Betts has followed  Yale
University  men’s hockey through 28 losing seasons after
graduating in 1968. Today, he and a group of 30 alumni travel to
watch the Bulldogs play their first national semifinal game in
61 years.  The cross-generational group of Yale hockey enthusiasts
includes Betts, former lead owner of the  Texas Rangers  and
chairman of Chelsea Piers LP in  New York , and Keith McCullough,
founder of  Hedgeye Risk Management LLC  in New Haven,
Connecticut. Betts, 66, played for the Bulldogs in 1967-68;
McCullough was Yale’s captain 31 years later.  The group has tickets to Yale’s Frozen Four game against
the  University of Massachusetts Lowell  at 4:30 p.m. in
Pittsburgh, and many have plans to play golf in the area
tomorrow. They haven’t yet scheduled a return trip in the hopes
that the Bulldogs make it to their first National Collegiate
Athletic Association title game on April 13.  “We’re leaving it open-ended,” Betts said in a telephone
interview. “We didn’t anticipate being in the Frozen Four, but
since they’re here, we wouldn’t miss it for the world.”  Top-ranked  Quinnipiac University  (29-7-5), located in
Hamden, Connecticut, six miles (10 kilometers) from Yale’s  New
Haven  campus, plays  Minnesota ’s  St. Cloud State University 
(25-15-1) in the second semifinal tonight. The winner of that
game will face the winner of the Bulldogs (20-12-3) and River
Hawks (28-10-2).  Yale is a 2-to-1 underdog to advance to the final,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel & Casino sports book, meaning a
$10 bet on the Bulldogs tonight would return $20 plus the
original investment. UMass Lowell is the favorite to win the
championship at 8-5, followed by Quinnipiac and St. Cloud State
at 5-2, with Yale the longshot at 5-1.  Hockey Heritage  It is the second semifinal appearance for the Bulldogs, the
country’s oldest college hockey program. Founded in 1896, it was
one of two representing the East at the 1952 national
championships, before the NCAA adopted its current 16-team
format.  McCullough was on the Yale team that went to the NCAA
tournament in 1998, the school’s first postseason trip after
1952, and captain for his senior season the following year. He
hosted Yale watch parties two weeks ago when the Bulldogs, the
lowest seed in the West Regional, advanced to Pittsburgh.  “It’s like watching David versus Goliath,” McCullough
said in a telephone interview. “It’s pretty amazing to see Yale
beating teams like Minnesota, which has 15 players drafted by
NHL teams, while Yale doesn’t even give athletic scholarships.”  Baseball Link  Betts was the lead owner of baseball’s Rangers from 1989 to
1998, heading a group of investors that included future U.S.
President  George W. Bush . He was senior fellow of the  Yale
Corporation , served on the board of the  U.S. Olympic Committee ,
and in 1992 co-founded Chelsea Piers LP, which developed and
operates the sports and entertainment complex on  Manhattan ’s
West Side.  Betts has been to many of Yale’s recent NCAA tournament
games, including a 2010 loss to eventual-champion  Boston College 
and a 2011 loss to eventual-champion Minnesota Duluth. He and
McCullough spoke of a bond that exists between the current
program and its former players.  When the Bulldogs beat Minnesota nine seconds into overtime
to advance to the regional final, Betts said, he called Yale
Athletic Director Thomas Beckett to brag that his wife, Lois,
who he calls a “good-luck charm,” had turned on the television
before the start of the extra period. Yale junior  Jesse Root ,
who scored the goal, and senior  Josh Balch , who scored the next
day against  North Dakota , were interns at McCullough’s risk-
management firm last year.  NHL View  “A lot of my colleagues watched the games at our parties,
and here are our interns scoring two of the biggest goals in
Yale hockey history,” McCullough said. “Now they all assume
they’re going to go on and play for the  New York Rangers .”  One former Bulldog is on an NHL roster at the moment --
forward Chris Higgins with the  Vancouver Canucks . Four members
of the current Yale team have been NHL draft picks.  Yale finished the regular season 16-10-3, with victories
over Denver and Colorado College, who have 44 NCAA tournament
appearances and nine national titles between them. The Bulldogs
finished third in the ECAC Hockey conference and entered the
NCAA tournament as an at-large bid, the No. 15 seed among 16
teams.  Keith Allain  Much of the team’s recent success is owed to coach Keith
Allain, a Yale graduate who took over the program in 2006, Betts
said. The Bulldogs have made four NCAA tournament appearances in
the past five years, versus two prior to Allain’s arrival.  “I truly thought that at Yale you could have the best of
both worlds, the best education in the world and compete in
hockey at the highest levels,” Allain told reporters last week.
“So our mission is to consistently compete for championships.”  McCullough said he is reminded of that transformation when
he coaches beginner’s hockey in Fairfield,  Connecticut .  “These kids all want to be on the Yale hockey team,” he
said. “That’s a new thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  