-- Yen Rallies After Failing to Break 100 Level; Dollar Pares Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-12T21:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/yen-near-100-per-dollar-before-kuroda-set-for-weekly-declines.html
The yen rallied against all of its
16 most-traded peers after it failed yesterday to weaken beyond
100 to the dollar, a level not seen in four years, and a
technical indicator signaled it had fallen too much, too fast.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  pared gains after U.S. retail sales and
 consumer confidence  unexpectedly slid, fueling bets the  Federal
Reserve  will maintain stimulus that may debase the greenback.
The Canadian and Australian dollars weakened as risk appetite
faded and stocks dropped. The yen still had a weekly loss,
dropping after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  announced unprecedented
stimulus on April 4 to end 15 years of deflation.  “The failure to really close above 100 has encouraged some
profit taking,”  Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at
Standard Chartered Plc in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The softer U.S. number today confirmed investors’
suspicion that this leg in the move higher is fading and it’s a
good time to take profits.”  The yen appreciated 1.3 percent to 98.37 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, after touching 99.95 yesterday, the weakest
since April 14, 2009. It lost 0.8 percent this week in its
second five-day drop.  The U.S. currency slipped 0.1 percent to $1.3113 per euro
after gaining earlier as much as 0.5 percent. The dollar
declined 0.9 percent this week against Europe’s shared currency.
The euro fell 1.2 percent today to 129.02 yen after advancing to
131.12 yesterday, the most since January 2010.  Treasury Report  The  U.S. Treasury  said in a report it will press  Japan  to
refrain from competitive devaluation and from targeting its
 exchange rate  for competitive purposes. It declined to name
China a currency manipulator. China’s  yuan  rose 0.1 percent to
6.1921 to the greenback, the strongest level since 1993 on a
closing basis.  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major trade
partners, fell 0.2 percent to 82.127 after rising 0.3 percent
earlier to 82.491.  Stocks declined, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
falling 0.3 percent. Gold tumbled, with futures for June
delivery dropping as much as 5.7 percent to $1,476 an ounce.  “Profit-taking across the board, it seems,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York, referring to the drop in gold and the
Japanese currency’s rally.  Peso Falls  Mexico’s peso fell from a 20-month high after the sales
report at its biggest trade partner. The currency weakened 0.3
percent to 12.0759 per  U.S. dollar  after touching 12.0194
yesterday, the strongest intraday level since August 2011.  U.S.  retail sales  dropped 0.4 percent in March, the biggest
decline since June, following a 1 percent gain in February,
Commerce Department figures showed. A Bloomberg survey forecast
an unchanged reading.  “The risk currencies, the ones you’d expect to respond,
are getting hurt,” Dan Dorrow, the head of research at Faros
Trading LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a phone interview.
“Any growth-, risk-sensitive currency is getting hit.”  Canada’s dollar weakened 0.3 percent to C$1.0136 to the
greenback, while Australia’s sank 0.4 percent to $1.0508. Both
nations produce commodities for export.  Confidence among Americans fell in April to a nine-month
low, another report showed. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment declined to
72.3 in April from 78.6 a month earlier.  Fed Purchases  The Fed is purchasing $85 billion of bonds a month in the
third round of its quantitative-easing strategy to spur economic
growth. It reiterated in March it would keep buying until
there’s significant improvement in the labor market.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said April 8 in Stone
Mountain, Georgia, that economic conditions “are clearly still
far from where we would all like them to be,” stoking bets
policy makers will need longer to exit the stimulus program.  Bernanke spoke today at a conference in Washington on low-
income communities. His remarks didn’t mention monetary policy
or the economic outlook.  The yen’s 14-day relative-strength index versus the
greenback was 28.3 yesterday, its fourth straight day below the
level of 30 that some traders see as a sign an asset has fallen
too quickly. It was 36.7 today.  The Bank of Japan surprised markets on April 4 by doubling
monthly bond purchases to almost match the Fed’s monetary easing
and setting a two-year horizon for achieving its goal of 2
percent inflation. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said today
there’s no time limit to the stimulus. He reiterated that the
BOJ’s policies are not aimed at foreign-exchange rates.  Inflation ‘Fear’  “There’s definitely some fear of inflation,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc. “That’s what they’re trying to do, create
inflation, so if you’re a bondholder, that’s not good.”  Yields on 10-year Japanese government  bonds  have climbed
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, this week to 0.61
percent, the highest on a closing basis since March 15.  “Mr. Kuroda understands that you can’t do this halfway,”
 Kenneth Rogoff , an economics professor at  Harvard University  and
a former chief economist at the  International Monetary Fund ,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “It is not rocket science for
the government to spend money, and the bank to print money and
eventually to get inflation. It’s a matter of the balance of
risks, and will they get cold feet.”  The yen tumbled 3.8 percent in the past month, according to
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, which tracks 10
developed-market currencies. The dollar fell 1.2 percent, and
the euro lost 0.5 percent.  Ireland, Portugal  The euro slipped today against the dollar as European Union
officials discussed rescue-loan extensions for Ireland and
Portugal. They agreed in principle at a meeting in Dublin to
seven-year extensions.  Futures traders increased to the most since June 2010 their
bets that sterling will decline against the dollar, figures from
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the pound compared with those
on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 69,969 on April 9,
compared with net shorts of 65,020 a week earlier.  The pound declined 0.3 percent today to $1.5343 after
touching $1.5412 yesterday, the highest since Feb. 20. For the
week, sterling was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  