-- YPF Grab Backfires as Imports Whittle Surplus: Argentina Credit
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-04-12T17:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-11/ypf-grab-backfires-as-imports-whittle-surplus-argentina-credit.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s takeover of  YPF SA (YPFD)  to pare energy
imports is backfiring and threatening to narrow the country’s
trade surplus needed to pay debt.  YPF, the country’s largest energy producer, will have to
spend an extra $400 million to import fuel to supply its gas
stations after a flood and fire at its La Plata refinery reduced
output. That will further whittle a  trade surplus  that narrowed
60 percent in February from a year earlier and hamper government
efforts to build  reserves  used to pay foreign bondholders.
Central bank reserves fell 7 percent this year to $40.4 billion,
compared with a 0.2 percent decline in  Brazil .  A year after Fernandez nationalized a majority stake in YPF
from Spain’s  Repsol SA (REP) , output is flat and foreign investment
needed to tap the world’s third-largest shale deposit hasn’t
materialized. Argentina, which hasn’t borrowed from
international credit markets since its $95 billion default in
2001 due to borrowing costs of 13.95 percent, has imposed
currency controls and import restrictions in a bid to slow
capital outflows and maintain a positive trade balance.  “Reserves will continue to fall,” due to higher imports,
said former Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna in a telephone
interview from Buenos Aires. Energy imports may reach $15
billion, he said, which would be a record.  Energy Bill  Argentine Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino declined to
comment on the impact YPF’s imports may have on this year’s
trade surplus. Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a YPF spokesman in Buenos
Aires, declined to comment in an e-mail on extra imports
triggered by lower output at the La Plata refinery, the
country’s largest.  The trade surplus may shrink to $11 billion this year from
$12.7 billion in 2012 on the increased fuel imports, according
to Alejandro Ovando, an economist at the Buenos Aires-based
research firm IES.  South America’s second-biggest economy imported $1.3
billion in energy in the first two months of the year, compared
with $840 million in the same period last year, according to
Ovando’s estimates. The deficit in energy trade may reach a
record $5 billion this year, compared with a $3 billion deficit
in 2011, according to estimates by Mauricio Claveri, an
economist at research company Abeceb.com in Buenos Aires.  Lack of investment in production and economic growth that
averaged 7.7 percent per year between 2003 and 2010 have swung
an energy surplus to a deficit in 2011, Claveri said in a
telephone interview. A recovery in the economy, which may expand
as much as 3 percent this year from 1.9 percent in 2012, may
boost domestic energy demand further, he said.  ‘Good Harvest’  A better soybean harvest this year will offset the impact
of higher energy imports, according to Alberto Ramos, a senior
Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York.  “With the good harvest expected for this year, the
government will be able to handle this well,” he said in a
telephone interview. “Even in a worst-case scenario, they will
handle the situation by enforcing a tighter control on other
imports to preserve a trade surplus at a time when there’s a
scarcity of dollars. It’s the only country in the world that has
a trade surplus target rather than an inflation one.”  Argentina , the world’s biggest soybean oil exporter,
expects to harvest 48.5 million metric tons of soybeans this
year, 20 percent higher than in the 2011-2012 season, according
to the Buenos Aires Grains Exchange. Its estimated corn crop
will rise to 25 million metric tons.  Borrowing Costs  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of Treasuries narrowed 50 basis points, or 0.50
percentage point, to 1,155 basis points at 1:36 p.m. in New
York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to protect $10 million of Argentine debt against
non-payment during five years with credit-default swaps fell 340
basis points to 1,953 basis points yesterday, according to data
compiled by CMA Ltd. The swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 5.1480 per dollar.  The nationalization of YPF follows other examples in
Venezuela and Bolivia where greater state control of the energy
sector has led to an increase in refinery accidents, a drop in
production and lower investment, according to Juan Pablo Fuentes, an economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.  “This is just the tip of the iceberg,” Fuentes said in a
telephone interview from West Chester,  Pennsylvania . “The
public sector lacks the technical and financial capacity to run
these companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  