-- ‘Monti Effect’ Fizzles Before $574 Billion New Year
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-12-23T09:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/-monti-effect-fizzles-before-574-billion-new-year-euro-credit.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s market
honeymoon is ending as Italian bond yields approaching 7 percent 
signal mounting concern his government may struggle to sell 440 
billion euros ($574 billion) of debt next year.  Monti took just five weeks in office to push through a 30
billion-euro emergency budget package aimed at taming surging
borrowing costs. Investors reacted to the plan’s final approval
by the Senate yesterday by driving up the yield on Italy’s 10-
year benchmark bond by 12 basis points to 6.91 percent, close to
the 7 percent level that prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  
to seek bailouts. It was at 6.94 percent at 10:13 a.m. in Rome.  “The Monti effect has now also been priced in and I think
there is a lot of room for disappointment next year,” said Lex Van Dam, who manages $500 million in assets at Hampstead Capital
LLC in London.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield reached a euro-era record 7.48
percent on Nov. 9, one week before Monti took over from former
Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  and three months after the  European
Central Bank  started backstopping the nation’s bonds. The yield
 fell  to as low as 6.26 percent on Dec. 6 as investors rewarded
Monti, a former European Union commissioner, before giving back
those gains the following week with EU policy makers struggling
to stamp out the debt crisis.  “To overcome the sovereign debt crisis, it’s vital that
everybody look at our debt with confidence,” Monti told upper-
house lawmakers yesterday. “It is essential that Italians buy
 government bonds  and treasury bills, whose yields are very high.
We must trust ourselves.”  Next Week  The Rome-based Treasury will sell 9 billion euros of 179-
day bills and as much as 2.5 billion euros of zero 2013 bonds on
Dec. 28. The next day  Italy  will auction four different bonds,
including a 10-year security.  Italy, the euro area’s  third-largest economy  and second
most-indebted after Greece, may hold the key to the single
currency’s survival. It must repay about 53 billion euros in the
first quarter from the region’s total maturing debt of 157
billion euros, according to Swiss lender UBS AG. The nation,
with 1.9 trillion euros in debt, owes a further 3.2 billion
euros in interest payments based on the average five-year yield
of the past three months.  “Paradoxically, the only real lever that Monti has is the
weakness of Italian government debt,” said Nicola Marinelli,
who oversees $153 million at Glendevon King Asset Management in
 London . “The more yields go up and the specter of a failed
auction becomes real, the more he can push for leeway from the
parties” that support the government in Parliament.  Structural Reforms  Monti reiterated yesterday that he will turn his attention
next to overhauling Italy’s rigid labor market and streamlining
the welfare system.  “The structural reforms are regarded by the market as more
important than the budget measures,” said  Stephen Lewis , chief
economist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “Because these
structural reforms impinge on special interest groups, Monti
will face strong opposition, possibly on the streets, but
definitely from politicians representing those interests.”  Monti’s plan, which includes a pension overhaul and tax
increases including on primary residences, may also push Italy
deeper into a recession that the government forecasts will begin
in the current quarter.  The economy shrank 0.2 percent in the third quarter from
the previous three months, when it grew 0.3 percent, national
statistics institute Istat said this week. The government
forecasts a shrinking economy in the fourth quarter, 0.6 percent
growth in 2011 and a 0.4 percent contraction next year.  Guaranteeing Bonds  The budget plan, Italy’s third round of austerity since
June, also introduced rules to allow banks to use bonds
guaranteed by Italy as collateral to obtain loans from the
European Central Bank. Banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  issued about 40 billion euros in state-backed bonds
this week, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  “I think the fact that Italy is now more or less
guaranteeing the banking system means that the  ratings agencies 
will come down even harder on its sovereign debt ratings,” said
Van Dam, the  fund manager .  Standard & Poor’s  on Dec. 5 placed 15 euro nations on
review for a possible downgrade, including the euro-area’s six
AAA rated nations, amid the worsening debt crisis. Italy’s was
downgraded by the main ratings companies this fall starting in
September when S&P cut it one level to A, citing weak economic-
growth prospects.  ‘Recessionary’ Measures  Monti’s package, which seeks to help balance the budget in
2013, will cut 0.5 percent from gross domestic product over the
next two years while reducing public debt,  Bank of Italy 
Governor Ignazio Visco told Parliament on  Dec. 9.  Some of the
drag on growth may be offset if borrowing costs fall, he said.  “It’s a recessionary budget package, which won’t produce
further proceeds for the state and will choke growth, generating
the need for a further budget adjustment,” Gianvittore Vaccari,
a senator of the opposition  Northern League , said yesterday.  The plan’s approval came one day after the  International
Monetary Fund  ended a visit to  Rome  as part of its monitoring
program. The IMF said the team will return next month.  “The IMF-led technical mission in early January could
pose a degree of risk, as there is the potential for
misinterpretation of its presence,” said Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in London. “The bottom
line is that Italy is simply too big to fail and too big to be
bailed out, and the ECB has no other option but to be more
flexible on sovereign debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  