-- Adebayor to Make Tottenham Wait, Sun Reports: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-12-23T11:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/adebayor-to-make-tottenham-wait-sun-reports-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Adebayor Delay  Striker Emmanuel Adebayor has told Tottenham he won’t make
a decision about a permanent stay at White Hart Lane until the
end of the season, the  Sun  reported.  Adebayor, at Spurs on a season-long loan from  Manchester
City , scored his 9th goal of the season in yesterday’s 1-1 draw
with Chelsea that kept Tottenham in third place and on course
for a return to the Champions League.  “I will try and help Spurs finish top four,” The Sun
quotes him as saying. “It’s too early to judge. I’m not a liar
so I won’t say, ‘I’ll be here for life.’”  Bid for Bobby  Sunderland manager Martin O’Neill is ready to make an 8
million-pound ($12.5 million) offer for Fulham striker Bobby Zamora, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Zamora can leave Fulham, where he has had a stormy
relationship with manager  Martin Jol , the Mirror said. O’Neill
won’t wait long for Zamora to make a decision as his second
striker choice, Nikica Jelavic of Rangers, is being pursued by
several teams including QPR, the newspaper said.  Bridge Interest  Arsenal may step up its interest in signing Manchester City
defender Wayne Bridge on loan because regular left-back  Kieran Gibbs  faces a further month on the sidelines, the Mail  reported .  Bridge, a former England national team player, has been
left out by City boss  Roberto Mancini , who said he doesn’t
understand why the defender won’t leave.  Arsenal’s defense had been hit by injury with Gibbs,  Johan Djourou ,  Andre Santos , Carl Jenkinson and Bacary Sagna all out.  Swiss Case Suarez  Liverpool would consider taking its appeal of Luis Suarez’s
eight-match ban for racially abusing Manchester United’s Patrice Evra to a sports court if the Football Association doesn’t
reduce the sanction, the  Sun  reported.  Liverpool must wait to receive a full written response to
find out why the striker received such a lengthy ban, the
newspaper said.  The Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court of Arbitration for
Sport is the highest tribunal that can decide the matter.  90 Points  Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini has set a target of
90 points for his club to capture the Premier League title, the
 Sun said .  City leads the league with 44 points, two more than
 Manchester United , and Mancini thinks another 46 points from the
final 21 matches should be enough to lift the trophy, the Sun
said. United won the title last season with 80 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 