-- Taiwan Dollar Gains on Investment Outlook; Bonds Little Changed
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2011-12-23T08:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/taiwan-dollar-gains-on-investment-outlook-bonds-little-changed.html
Taiwan ’s dollar and stocks advanced
this week after President Ma Ying-jeou urged state-owned funds
to boost investment as the island strives to shore up its
economy from the European debt crisis.  The  Taiex index of shares (TWSE)  rallied after Ma’s comments that
followed yesterday’s first meeting of the financial strategy
group formed to cope with market volatility. Central bank
Governor Perng Fain-nan will leave  interest rates  unchanged at
1.875 percent at a Dec. 29 review, 10 of 14 economists in a
Bloomberg survey predict. The rest expect a cut to 1.750
percent.  Government bonds  fell before today’s release of next
year’s debt-sale calendar.  “Ma’s comments have supported stocks and led to some
slight selling in bonds,” said Samson Tu, who helps oversee
$400 million of fixed-income securities as a  fund manager  at
Uni-President Assets Management Corp. in Taipei. “Bond traders
aren’t willing to make their moves before the announcement.”  The  Taiwan dollar  rose 0.1 percent to NT$30.296 against its
U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency
gained 0.2 percent this week.  Global investors bought $826 million more local stocks than
they sold this month, trimming net sales for the year to $9.7
billion, according to exchange data.  Taiwan’s industrial production dropped 3.55 percent in
November from a year earlier, more than a 2.8 percent decline
forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey, according to data
released toward the end of currency trading.  Reports due later in the day may show U.S. personal
spending, durable goods orders and new home sales rose in
November, according to separate surveys by Bloomberg.  The Ministry of Finance said after the end of bond trading
that it will sell NT$225 billion of debt next quarter, and plans
19 sales for 2012.  The yield on the 1.25 percent notes maturing in September
2021 rose one basis point to 1.285 percent, prices from Gretai
Securities Market show. The rate increased three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, during the five-day period.  The  overnight money-market rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose one basis point to 0.404 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  