-- Israel’s Allot Drops the Most in Four Months on Sales of Equipment to Iran
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2011-12-23T18:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/allot-plunges-most-in-four-months-as-network-gear-sold-to-iran.html
Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , an
Israeli maker of high-speed networking equipment, plunged the
most in four months after Bloomberg News reported that the
company’s Internet-monitoring gear was sold to  Iran .  Allot fell 6 percent to $15.69 at 12:44 p.m. in  New York ,
after earlier plunging as much as 13 percent, the steepest
intraday decline since Aug. 18.  The Hod Hasharon, Israel-based company sold the equipment
to Randers, Denmark-based technology distributor RanTek A/S,
which repackaged it and shipped it to Iran, Bloomberg reported.
 Israel  prohibits “trading with the enemy,” which includes
Iran. The Israeli Defense Ministry is investigating the report,
according to an e-mailed statement today.  “Investors don’t like these kinds of international
violations of rules,” said  Jay Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan
Capital Markets. “Given the tensions between Israel and Iran,
anything like this is probably going to take a little bit of
time to see what’s happening.”  Allot complies “fully with Israeli and non-Israeli laws,
including all applicable export laws and regulations,” the
company said in a statement today. “The company is
investigating the claims contained in the Bloomberg article.”  The gear shipped to Iran, NetEnforcer, can inspect pieces
of data moving over a network. It can be used to eliminate spam
or help network operators prioritize certain types of traffic.
The technology, called “deep-packet inspection” can also be
used to monitor e-mails and prevent activists from using the web
anonymously.  Sales Employees  Three former sales employees for Allot told Bloomberg News
it was well known inside the company that the equipment was
headed for Iran. Allot officials said they have no knowledge of
their equipment going there and are looking into RanTek’s sales.  “We do not authorize any sales to Iran,” said Jay Kalish,
executive director of  investor relations  at Allot. If its
products were shipped there by RanTek, it would be a “breach of
contract.”  RanTek officials didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  