-- Mobius Sees Smooth North Korea Transition; Still Holding S.Korea Stocks
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2011-12-23T04:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/mark-mobius-says-north-korea-may-adopt-economic-reforms-similar-to-china-s.html
North  Korea ’s leadership transition
will probably be smooth and its new rulers may be willing to
embrace economic reforms similar to those in  China , said
Franklin Templeton Investments’  Mark Mobius .  A regime change in the communist nation is unlikely to have
“immediate substantive impact” on other North Asian financial
markets, Mobius, executive chairman of Templeton Emerging
Markets Group, wrote in his  blog . The company is still holding
on to South Korean equities, he said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today.  South Korea ’s Kospi slumped 3.4 percent on Dec. 19, the
most in five weeks, after the death of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il sparked concerns over succession in the totalitarian
nation. The gauge has risen 5.2 percent since then. The focus
now is on his son Kim Jong Un, who is thought to be in his late
20s and was named to senior military and party posts last year.  “In some ways, the break from the past could be a good
signal so I’m more optimistic than pessimistic,” Mobius said in
the TV interview. “I think the transition is going to be rather
smooth.”  Franklin Templeton  maintained its holdings of South
Korean equities this week, he said.  North Korea’s state media called for citizens to “loyally
follow” Kim Jong Un, according to a Dec. 19 statement. The
country will become more open under the new leader, compared
with the rule of his late father, according to almost half of
South Koreans who responded to an opinion poll.  China Ties  “In this kind of environment, we can expect some change,”
Mobius said on TV. “I don’t think it necessarily means some
military change but some economic change.”  Close ties with China, a source of oil and food and a
purchaser of coal, have yet to convince  North Korea  to mirror
its larger neighbor’s liberalization. North Korea’s trade of
$4.17 billion in 2010 compared with South Korea’s $891.6
billion, the  Bank of Korea  estimates. Gross domestic product of
30 trillion won in 2010 was one-fortieth of the size of South
Korea’s, according to  estimates  by the South’s central bank.  Officials from South Korea and China may discuss North
Korean issues next week in  Seoul , Yonhap News reported today.  “We expect the new leaders may be willing to adopt
Chinese-style economic reforms, which could result in a much
more relaxed political environment,” Mobius wrote in his blog.  Lower Valuations  China’s economy  has grown an average of 10 percent a year
and overtaken  Japan ’s as the world’s second-biggest since then-
leader Deng Xiaoping began rolling out free-market policies in
1978.  The  Kospi (KOSPI)  gained 1.2 percent as of 1:20 p.m. Seoul time
today. The gauge’s rally since Dec. 19 came as the government
pledged to take action to soothe markets and foreign investors
overlooked the potential for political upheaval and bought
equities in  Asia ’s cheapest major stock market.  The Kospi trades at 8.9 times estimates for next year’s
earnings, the lowest in Asia after Pakistan and Vietnam,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas  investors  purchased a net 329.9 billion won ($287
million) of shares in Kospi companies on Dec. 21, the most in
three weeks, after selling a net 564.9 billion won during the
previous two days, according to data from Korea Exchange Inc.  “There has always been a threat of invasion from the
north, and this threat has been amplified by the various actions
taken by the North Koreans over the years,” Mobius wrote in his
blog. “Therefore, some foreign investors have become inured to
the situation.”  The Kospi fell 0.8 percent on July 11, 1994, the first
trading day after North Korea announced the death of Kim Il
Sung,  Kim Jong Il ’s father. The gauge advanced 18 percent in the
next four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  