-- Harleysville Had Rejected Takeover Offer With $250 Million Customer Payout
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2011-12-23T23:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/harleysville-rejected-offer-with-250-million-customer-payout-filing-says.html
Harleysville Mutual Insurance Co. 
rejected a takeover offer in September from an unidentified
bidder that included a payout of $250 million to the
Pennsylvania-based company’s customers.  The bidder estimated the payout would be worth about $1,244
for each Harleysville policy, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. Harleysville Mutual, owned by its customers, instead
agreed in September to a sale to Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co.
that includes no payout to policyholders.  The disclosure may fuel claims by customers that
Harleysville executives and directors boosted their personal
payout by diverting the takeover premium away from policyholders
and toward a Nasdaq-listed subsidiary. Four policyholders have
brought suits in state courts in  Pennsylvania  to challenge the
deal, according to yesterday’s filing, including Roger Brown, a
former general counsel of the company.  The alternative offer was made by a firm identified in
Harleysville’s filing only as “Company B.” It included $42 for
each share of the subsidiary,  Harleysville Group Inc. (HGIC) , owned by
outsiders, for a total price of more than $800 million. In the
Nationwide agreement, the outside shareholders get $60 a share.  Robert Kauffman , general counsel for the Harleysville
companies, didn’t immediately return a phone message for
comment.  In the filing, Harleysville Group said the offer from
Company B was “complex” and might have taken as long as two
years to consummate. It said that customers would benefit from
the Nationwide merger by becoming members of a larger mutual
company with a higher financial-strength rating.  Michael Browne, chief executive officer of the Harleysville
companies, stands to collect about $14.8 million for the value
of his Harleysville Group stock options based on the $60-a-share
price, according to yesterday’s filing. He’ll get another $2.6
million from accelerated vesting of restricted stock, and $5.8
million for a gain on stock he already owned, the filing shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 