-- Stocks Rise, Erasing S&P 500’s Decline for 2011
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2011-12-23T21:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/asian-stocks-won-gain-on-u-s-recovery.html
U.S. stocks rose, erasing the 2011
decline for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid further signs
of strength in the world’s largest economy. Treasuries declined
while commodities advanced.  The  S&P 500  added 0.9 percent to 1,265.33 at 4 p.m. New
York time. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  jumped 1 percent to
12,294, the highest level since July 27. The MSCI All-Country
World Index advanced 0.8 percent, rising for a fourth straight
day. Copper rallied 1.6 percent and crude oil briefly topped
$100 a barrel. Yields on 30-year Treasuries climbed eight basis
points and increased the most in a week since October.  Orders for U.S. durable goods jumped in November by the
most in four months, data showed today, helping to offset
weaker-than-forecast  consumer spending . Sales of new U.S. homes
rose in November to a seven-month high. The U.S. Congress passed
a two-month payroll tax cut extension a day after House
Republicans surrendered on whether to endorse the measure days
before its scheduled Dec. 31 expiration.  “The market’s holding up,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-
based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment Management,
said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees $550 billion.
“It’s important to take it all with the totality of the week,
we had fantastic data on housing and jobs earlier this week, so
overall, this data is weak, but the jobless claims trumps it
because it’s more forward-looking.”  Erasing 2011 Drop  A four-day  rally (SPX)  in the S&P 500 erased the index’s decline
for the year, giving it a 0.6 percent gain for 2011. The gauge
jumped 3.7 percent this week after data on employment,  consumer
confidence , housing starts and leading economic indicators added
to expectations that the  U.S. economy  can weather  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  Wall Street strategists forecast the S&P 500 will end the
year at 1,278, or 1 percent higher than today’s close. With four
trading days left in 2011, the benchmark index for U.S. equities
would need to climb about 0.2 percent each day to reach their
projection. On average, the S&P 500 gains 1 percent in the last
four days of the year, according to data dating back to 1928
compiled by Bloomberg.  All 10 industries in the S&P 500 advanced at least 0.6
percent today, led by consumer-discretionary stocks, technology
and raw materials companies.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
advanced 1.8 percent.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
rose at least 2 percent, pacing gains among the largest
companies. U.S. markets will be closed Dec. 26 for the Christmas
holiday.  Durable Goods  U.S. stocks rose as orders for goods meant to last at least
three months rose 3.8 percent in November, as an increase in
demand for aircraft outweighed declines in spending on computers
and equipment. A separate report showed purchases of single-
family properties increased 1.6 percent to a 315,000 annual
pace, adding to evidence of stability in the housing market.
Consumer spending rose less than forecast in November as wages
declined for the first time in three months.  Equities maintained gains after Congress extended a two-
percentage-point payroll tax cut, following a month of wrangling
among lawmakers. The measure will continue expanded  unemployment
benefits  and head off a reduction in Medicare payments to
doctors through February. Lawmakers plan to negotiate on a
longer-term extension in the new year.  “That removes probably the biggest domestic threat to the
economy in 2012,”  David Kelly , who helps oversee $394 billion
as chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “As the year ends, some of the
extremes in uncertainty are diminishing, and that should allow
the market to go up.”  European Stocks  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.9 percent, taking its
weekly advance to 3.5 percent.  Wavin (WAVIN)  NV jumped 22 percent as
Mexichem SAB, a Latin American chemical maker, raised its
takeover bid for the Dutch manufacturer to 10 euros a share. The
London and Dublin markets closed early today. The Tokyo exchange
was shut for the Emperor’s Birthday holiday.  Yields on  30-year Treasury bonds  climbed to 3.06 percent
today. Ten-year yields increased eight basis points to 2.03
percent, and touched the highest level in more than a week.  The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities advanced 0.1 percent,
the fifth consecutive gain. Crude oil climbed 0.2 percent to
$99.68, capping its biggest weekly gain in two months. Futures
rallied 6.6 percent over the past five days.  Copper rose to the highest level in more than a week, to
$3.4695 a pound, as improved economic data in the U.S. spurred
optimism that demand for industrial metals will grow. Gold fell
for a third straight day, dropping 0.3 percent, on speculation
that a stronger dollar will curb demand for the metal as an
alternative asset.  The U.S. Dollar Index rose 0.1 percent as a slower-than-
expected expansion of  France ’s gross national product fueled
concern that the European economy is stalling. The euro weakened
against most of its major peers. The currency lost 0.1 percent
to $1.3042.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Sutherland  in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  