-- Asian Stocks Rise as U.S. Economic Reports Overshadow Europe Debt Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2011-12-23T10:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/asian-stocks-rise-as-u-s-economic-reports-overshadow-europe-debt-concerns.html
Asian  stocks (MXAP)  rose, with a regional
index heading for its first gain in three weeks, as a drop in
U.S. jobless claims and an increase in consumer confidence added
to signs the world’s biggest economy is weathering  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, advanced 1.5 percent in Seoul.  James
Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a supplier of building materials the
counts the U.S. as its largest market, climbed 3.6 percent in
Sydney. Gloucester Coal Ltd. surged 22 percent after Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co. offered to buy the Sydney-based company for
about A$2.1 billion ($2.1 billion) in cash and shares.  “Its encouraging that the U.S. economy is improving,”
said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion at Pengana
Capital Ltd. Melbourne. “Asset prices can probably go further
despite this fairly benign economic environment. There’s
probably a need for further policy response in Europe but at
least we’re seeing that the liquidity mechanism put in place are
starting to impact positively in terms of bond yields paring
their gains.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  climbed 1.3
percent to 397.49 at 7:22 p.m. in  Hong Kong , heading for a 2.2
percent advance this week. Almost five shares gained for each
that fell in the gauge.  The regional index had fallen in the past two weeks as
signs of slowing growth in  China  and concern that Europe’s debt
crisis is worsening overshadowed improving U.S. data. Greece’s
creditors are resisting pressure from the  International Monetary
Fund  to accept bigger losses on holdings of the indebted
nation’s government bonds, three people with direct knowledge of
the discussions said.  New Zealand Quake  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose 1.1 percent and Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index also advanced 1.4 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index gained 0.9 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index increased 1.2 percent. Japanese markets are closed today
for a holiday.  New Zealand’s  NZX 50 (NZSE50FG)  Index added 0.3 percent, paring gains
of as much as 0.7 percent after a magnitude 5.8 earthquake
struck Christchurch, the country’s second-largest city.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.4 percent
today. The gauge gained 0.8 percent in  New York  yesterday amid
better-than-estimated economic reports.  Asian exporters gained as the number of Americans applying
for unemployment benefits unexpectedly dropped last week to the
lowest since April 2008 and consumer confidence rose more than
forecast in December to a six-month high.  Samsung Electronics increased 1.5 percent to 1.068 million
won in Seoul.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of clothes and toys to
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., rose 1.3 percent to HK$14.32 in Hong Kong.
James Hardie climbed 3.6 percent to A$6.96.  ‘Overall Premium’  Gloucester (GCL)  Coal surged 22 percent to A$8.55 in Sydney.
Yanzhou Coal, China’s fourth-biggest coal producer, is buying
the Sydney-based company for A$2.1 billion in a cash and share
deal that values Gloucester at as much as A$10.16 a share,
Gloucester said in a statement.  “There is an overall premium to recent share prices and I
think the market has captured a good proportion of that,”
Lawrence Grech, a resources analyst at Austock Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said by phone.“There is an indication of value which
Yanzhou is obviously signaling but the benefits of that are more
than 18 months into the future.”  Yanzhou Coal, which will gain more mines and port access in
Australia with the acquisition, climbed 6.6 percent to HK$16.74
in Hong Kong.  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , the biggest shareholder of
Gloucester, was unchanged on S$1.19 in Singapore.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes Japan, slumped
18 percent this year through yesterday, heading for its worst
performance since 2008. Utilities posted the biggest decline
among the 10 industry groups in the gauge as Japanese utilities
tumbled after meltdowns at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant. It was the worst nuclear accident in 25 years.  Taiwanese Insurers  The regional benchmark index’s drop this year compared with
a 0.3 percent decline by the S&P 500 and a 13 percent slide by
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the Asian gauge were
valued at 12.6 times estimated earnings on average, compared
with 12.7 times for the S&P 500 and 10.4 times for the Stoxx
600, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwanese insurance companies rallied after the nation’s
financial regulator eased rules to allow life insurers to
establish a mechanism for foreign-exchange hedging.  Cathay Financial Holding Co. (2882) , Taiwan’s biggest life insurer
by market value, jumped 6.9 percent to NT$33.3. China Life
Insurance Co. gained 6.8 percent to NT$25. Shin Kong Financial
Holding Co. climbed 6.6 percent to NT$8.83.  Keppel Corp., the world’s biggest builder of oil platforms,
rose 3.1 percent to S$9.54 in Singapore.  The company said its
Fernvale unit won a contract valued at $809 million to build a
semi-submersible drilling rig for Urca Drilling BV, a unit of
Petroleo Brasileiro’s Sete Brasil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  