-- Asia to Import Most West African Oil in Six Months on India
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2011-12-23T09:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/asia-to-import-most-west-african-crude-in-six-months-on-india.html
Asian refiners will boost their
imports of West African crude for January loading to 55 cargoes,
the most in at least six months, after an 80 percent jump in
Indian purchases, a survey of seven traders showed.  Shipments totaling 52.1 million barrels, or 1.68 million
barrels a day, will be exported from  Angola , Nigeria, the
Republic of Congo and Cameroon, the poll and an analysis of
loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News showed. That’s 19
percent higher than this month’s 1.41 million barrels a day.  Refiners in  Asia  can buy Middle Eastern crude or West
African grades and their choice normally depends on the value of
the lower-sulfur blends from Angola and Nigeria versus heavier
grades from  Saudi Arabia  and  Iran . The lighter crude yields more
lucrative products such as diesel and gasoline when processed.
Saudi Arabia raised its  official selling price  for January
crudes to Asian buyers on Dec. 5.  “We may see Asian buyers turning en masse to Atlantic
Basin and West African crudes in the coming period, with the
latter under continued pressure from refinery shutdowns on the
U.S. East Coast,” Vienna-based consultants JBC Energy GmbH had
forecast in a Dec. 6 note.  The  Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps , which measures the
European benchmark against the Persian Gulf grade, reached an
11-month low of $2.85 a barrel on Dec. 9, according to data from
PVM Oil Associates. It was at $3.85 today. Traders make more
profit from shipping West African crude to Asia when the spread
between the two contracts shrinks.  Indian companies bought 19 shipments for January, eight
more than December, according to the survey.  Indian Imports  Indian Oil Corp. the nation’s largest refiner, bought 12
cargoes for January, including five shipments of Nigerian
benchmark Qua Iboe, the survey showed. The company only
purchased 7 lots for this month.  Reliance Industries (RIL) , owner of the world’s biggest refining
complex, bought two cargoes of Angolan crude and one shipment of
Lokele grade from Cameroon after skipping imports for December,
the survey showed.  Chinese refiners will import 30 cargoes, the most in at
least six months, compared with 28 for December, the survey
showed. China International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,
known as Unipec, bought 20 lots, two more than this month.  Asian imports of West African crude for December were
revised to 46 cargoes from 47 after one shipment of Qua Iboe was
deferred to January.  Qua Iboe  was at a premium of $2.53 a barrel to North Sea
Dated Brent today, compared with an average of $2.13 in
November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, plans to export 2.1
million barrels a day of crude next month while Angola will ship
1.67 million barrels, Bloomberg calculations based on loading
programs showed.  The following tables show details of planned Asian imports.
Each cargo ranges from 600,000 barrels to 1 million barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  