-- Asian Growth Forecasts Cut by Fitch as Singapore Output Declines: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2011-12-23T06:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/asian-growth-forecasts-cut-by-fitch-as-singapore-output-declines-economy.html
Singapore ’s  industrial production 
unexpectedly declined in November, adding to evidence of a
weakening Asian outlook that prompted Fitch Ratings to cut its
growth forecasts for the region.  The island’s output fell for the first time in six months,
putting pressure on policy makers to support growth even as a
separate report showed inflation accelerated in November.
Emerging Asia will expand 6.8 percent in 2012, Fitch said in a
report distributed today, less than its June forecast of 7.4
percent. The company raised its 2011 and 2012 estimates for
inflation in the region.  Asian nations from  Thailand  to Indonesia and Malaysia have
reduced interest rates or left them unchanged in recent meetings
to shield their economies from the protracted European debt
crisis even as inflation remains elevated. Singapore’s central
bank, which uses the  exchange rate  to manage price gains, said
in October it will slow gains in the currency, and Manulife
Asset Management predicts pressure for the  Singapore dollar  to
appreciate will ease.  “We’re already seeing slower growth across Asia and the
deterioration will probably be more evident in the first half,”
said Edward Lee, regional head of rates strategy at Standard
Chartered Plc. “Inflation is the problem here as it’s been high
and relatively sticky. It’s difficult for policy makers but
they’ll have to focus on growth” and most central banks will
have to keep easing monetary policy, he said.  Singapore Dollar  The Singapore dollar has fallen 0.6 percent against its U.S.
counterpart this year, joining most Asian currencies in
depreciating as the worsening global outlook threatens demand
for the region’s exports. The island’s currency rose 0.2 percent
to S$1.2909 per U.S. dollar at 2:54 p.m. local time today.  Asian stocks rose today, with a benchmark index set for its
highest close since Dec. 13 after data showed a drop in U.S.
jobless claims yesterday. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced
0.8 percent.  In the U.S., reports today may show personal spending,
durable-goods orders and new home sales rose in November,
according to Bloomberg surveys.  Still,  Taiwan  may say today industrial production fell in
November for the first time since 2009. Output dropped 2.8
percent last month from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Vietnam Inflation  Vietnam’s inflation slowed for a fourth month in December,
a report showed today, adding to the case for the central bank
to lower interest rates even as the nation grapples with the
quickest price gains in Asia. Prices rose 18.13 percent in
December from a year ago, compared with a 19.83 percent pace
reported earlier for November.  In  Europe ,  Russia  will probably leave  interest rates 
unchanged for a third month today as central bank Chairman
Sergey Ignatiev seeks to keep inflation in check before
presidential elections in March. The refinancing rate will
remain at 8.25 percent after two quarter-point increases this
year, according to 20 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Consumer confidence  in  Italy  probably deteriorated in
December, according to another survey.  Singapore’s government forecasts economic growth will slow
next year. Manufacturing, which accounts for more than a fifth
of the Singapore economy, fell 9.6 percent from a year earlier
after a revised 22.2 percent increase in October, the  Economic
Development Board  said. The median of 13 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News was for a 12.2 percent gain.  Policy Outlook  Singapore’s inflation rate was 5.7 percent in November,
matching the fastest pace of price gains since 2008, the
Department of Statistics said in a separate report.  “Food and housing costs, along with wage inflation have
remained elevated for the past few months, adding to
inflationary pressures,” said Cheng Duan Pang, head of fixed
income at Manulife Asset Management in Singapore. Still, “we
expect upward pressure on the Singapore dollar to reduce as the
market will form expectations that monetary policy could revert
to a neutral stance as inflationary pressures ease” amid slowing
growth, he said.  Fitch raised its 2011 inflation estimate for Emerging  Asia 
by 0.3 percentage point to 5.9 percent and increased its 2012
forecast to 4.9 percent from 4.7 percent, even as it lowered
growth forecasts.  “The deterioration in the outlook for the world economy
and the lagged impact of policy tightening in some countries,
including the region’s two giants,  China  and  India ” prompted
the cut in GDP forecasts, credit analysts led by  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific sovereigns, said in the report.  China Forecast  Fitch cut its 2012 growth forecast for China to 8.2 percent
from 8.5 percent previously. In India, where the ratings company
says inflation and monetary tightening are weighing on
investment, it predicts the economy will expand 7.5 percent in
the year ending March 2013, compared with an earlier estimate of
8.2 percent.  “Both China and India face a combination of slowing
activity and stubbornly high inflation, underlining the risks
that can arise from allowing inflation to rise above desired
ranges,” the Fitch analysts said. “Moreover, the  Indian rupee 
weakened to an all-time low against the  U.S. dollar  of around 52
in November 2011. If sustained, this level could give a further
upward kick to inflation in 2012 and complicate policy
management still further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  