-- Latvia Expects to Get 15-20% Stake in Lithuanian Nuclear Plant
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2011-12-23T10:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/latvia-expects-to-get-15-20-stake-in-lithuanian-nuclear-plant.html
Latvia wants to take a stake of
between 15 percent and 20 percent in a nuclear power plant being
planned for construction in neighboring  Lithuania , Prime
Minister Valdis Dombrovskis.  “Our intention is to be a part of this project, and right
now we are discussing on a technical level on what share exactly
in the project we will take,” Dombrovskis said in an interview
in Riga today. “I would expect it to be somewhere of the range
of 15 percent to 20 percent.”  Lithuania is planning to build a new atomic plant in
 Visaginas  by 2020, together with Latvia and  Estonia  and a
strategic investor, Hitachi Ltd.,  Japan ’s second-largest builder
of nuclear reactors. Lithuania wants to control at least 34
percent of the plant, while the three other partners would split
the rest.  Lithuania agreed on the guidelines of a preliminary
agreement with Hitachi today, which will provide technology and
financing for the facility.  “I would say that we are making good progress with this
project and we are looking forward to signing this agreement and
actually implementing this project,” Dombrovskis said.  Hitachi will sign the final contract to begin building the
400 billion-yen ($5.1 billion) project next year, company
President Hiroaki Nakanishi said on Dec. 20. The plant will be
built by Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy Ltd., a venture with General
Electric Co.  PGE, Poland’s largest utility, dropped plans on Dec. 9 to
join building the power plant in Lithuania as it focuses on
other investment projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  