-- Australia Judge Denies Ex-Hanlong Executive’s Travel Request
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2011-12-23T07:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/australia-judge-denies-ex-hanlong-executive-s-travel-request.html
An Australian judge refused to allow
a former executive at a  Sichuan Hanlong Group  unit to leave the
country after his alleged partner in an insider-trading scheme
failed to return from a trip to  China .  Calvin Zhu, a former vice president at Hanlong Mining
Investments, is the only person left within the jurisdiction who
is the principal objective of an investigation by the Australian
Securities & Investments Commission, New South Wales Supreme
Court Justice Michael Slattery said in Sydney today.  Steven Hui Xiao, Hanlong Mining’s former managing director
who had been allowed to go to China in November on the promise
of returning by Nov. 26, hasn’t done so, Slattery noted in
denying Zhu’s travel request.  Australia ’s securities regulator is investigating Zhu, Xiao
and other individuals on allegations they took A$1 million
($1.02 million) from Hanlong Mining, created a company where the
money was deposited, traded the shares and contracts of
 Bannerman Resources Ltd. (BMN)  and  Sundance Resources Ltd . before
Sichuan Hanlong offered to buy them.  Zhu, Xiao and others allegedly made a profit of A$1.2
million and transferred all the money to  Hong Kong . The current
whereabouts of the money is not known, Slattery said.  Sichuan Hanlong, based in  Chengdu , China, had offered to
buy Sundance for 57 Australian cents a share, valuing the Perth-
based miner at A$1.65 billion. The deal is expected to close in
May, according to Sundance.  David Stack, the securities watchdog’s lawyer, had said
Xiao’s lawyers advised the regulator he can’t return because he
has high  blood pressure .  Sichuan Hanlong informed Sundance that it’s working with
the Foreign Investment Review Board on its takeover application
and expects to receive a ruling before the deal is scheduled to
close, Sundance said on Oct. 4.  That followed a report in the Sydney Morning Herald that
said the regulator won’t decide on the bid until it gets more
details of the insider trading probe.  The case is: In the matter of  Australian Securities and
Investments Commission  v Xiao. 2011/00285688. New South Wales
Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  