-- Biden Focuses White House’s Criticism on Romney in Iowa Op-Ed
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2011-12-23T13:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/biden-focuses-white-house-s-criticism-on-romney-in-iowa-op-ed.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  focused the
White House’s criticism of Republican presidential candidates
onto  Mitt Romney , accusing him of wanting to “double down on
the policies that caused the greatest economic calamity since
the Great Depression.”  “Romney appears satisfied to settle for an economy in
which fewer people succeed, while the majority of Americans are
left to tread water or fall behind,” Biden wrote in an  opinion
essay  published today in the Des Moines Register, the biggest
newspaper in  Iowa , where the caucuses that kick off the
Republican presidential nominating contest will be held Jan 3.
“Americans cannot afford a return to policies that rewarded the
recklessness of a few while millions of  small businesses  and
workers were left to clean up the mess.”  Leading in most national polls for the Republican
nomination, Romney and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
are alternating attacks against each other with critiques of
President Barack Obama’s handling of the economy. Romney has
said Obama will create a society based on entitlements, not
private enterprise.  Vice President’s Role  Biden responded to that accusation today, assuming the
traditional vice presidential role of attacking the other party
and sharpening the Obama team’s criticism of the former
Massachusetts governor.  “Romney also misleadingly suggests that the president and
I are creating an ‘Entitlement Society,’  whereby government
provides everything for its people without regard to merit, as
opposed to what he calls an ‘Opportunity Society,’ where
everything is merit-based and every man is left to fend for
himself,” Biden wrote. “The only entitlement we believe in is
an America where if you work hard, you can get ahead.”  Heading into the holiday weekend, Romney is wrapping up a
four-day bus tour in  New Hampshire , with plans to greet voters
in pizzerias, Mexican restaurants, a toy store and diners.  Gingrich is seeking to reduce expectations that he will win
the  Iowa  caucuses as his momentum stalls in national polls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  