-- Bill Gates Chilling in Australia Gets Coolest Summer Since 1960
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2011-12-23T05:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/bill-gates-chilling-in-australia-gets-coolest-summer-since-1960.html
Bill Gates , the world’s second-
richest person, can’t seem to buy a break in the weather during
his month-long Australian holiday.  Gates and his family arrived last week in Sydney,
Australia’s biggest city, where Bondi Beach attracts some 40,000
sunbathers on weekends this time of year. His arrival during the
southern hemisphere’s summer has coincided with the area’s
coolest December in more than half a century.  As schools break until late-January and residents flock to
the coasts, the city’s typically temperate summer feels more
like an extended, soggy spring. The billionaire co-founder of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  added his voice to a chorus of residents
grumbling about the leaden skies, downpours and chilly evenings.  “Wish it was a tiny bit warmer,” Gates told the Sydney
Morning Herald after he and his family moved into a Tuscan-style
waterfront mansion last week.  The three-level home, costing A$25,000 ($25,425) a week in
rent, boasts its own jetty, six bedrooms, a gym and cellar,
according to local media reports.  The property is reportedly located in Vaucluse, a wealthy
neighborhood in the city’s eastern suburbs which are also home
to billionaire  James Packer ,  News Corp. (NWSA)  board member  Lachlan Murdoch  and  Westfield Group (WDC)  Chairman  Frank Lowy .  Gates has maintained a low profile after an initial flurry
of interviews with the Australian newspaper, the Herald and
Australian Broadcasting Corp.  New Neighbors  Business owners at the local Vaucluse shopping strip told
Bloomberg News today that neither he nor his family had been
spotted picking up a newspaper or buying groceries. The media
office for the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , their namesake
charity, said in an e-mail that he was not available for
comment.  Gates, 56, chose Australia for his getaway because his
family “thought it would be fun to come down and see some of
the neat places around  Australia ,” he told the Herald.  If sunshine and warm weather was preferred, their timing
hasn’t been great.  Sydney is on track for its mildest December since 1960,
David Barlow, a Bureau of Meteorology spokesman, said in a
telephone interview today.  The average maximum temperature at the bureau’s weather
station, near the southern side of Sydney’s Harbour Bridge, was
22.3 degrees Celsius (72.1 degrees Fahrenheit) for the first 23
days of the month. That’s 2.9 degrees below the 150-year average
and close to the 22.8 degrees recorded 51 years ago.  Wet Summer  The weather bureau blames the mild, wet weather on the
persistence of a  La Nina  weather phenomenon across the tropical
parts of the  Pacific Ocean , which it forecasts will last through
the remainder of Australia’s summer.  The so-called southern oscillation index, a measure of La
Nina’s strength, has climbed to 21 from 13.8 in November,
according to a bureau bulletin issued Dec. 21. Periods of La
Nina are often associated with above-normal summer rainfall and
colder daytime temperatures across eastern and northern parts of
Australia, according to the bureau’s website.  “We’re in a weak La Nina event that’s been going since
November and that’s brought above-average rainfall and you get
the cloudy conditions that lower the maximum temperatures,”
Barlow said.  Sydney recorded its wettest spring since 2004, with 257.4
millimeters (10.1 inches) of rain falling in the three months
through Nov. 30. Sydney airport recorded an average 7 hours of
sunshine a day in that time, less than the historical average of
7.4 hours.  At least the Gates family can look forward to a warmer
Christmas Day in Sydney.  The weather bureau  forecasts  Dec. 25 will have a high of 26
degrees with “partly cloudy” skies. Boxing Day, a public
holiday the following day, is expected to see 27 degrees before
the arrival of an afternoon thunderstorm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  