-- Blacks Leisure at 22-Year Low as It Foresees No Offer for Shares
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2011-12-23T13:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/blacks-leisure-at-22-year-low-as-it-foresees-no-offer-for-shares.html
Blacks Leisure Group Plc, a U.K.
retailer of outdoor clothing and equipment, fell to a 22-year
low after the company said it expects no offer for its shares.  Blacks expects talks with several companies next month,
when the sale process will end, it said in a Regulatory News
Service statement today. The stock fell as much as 64 percent to
0.63 pence in London trading, the lowest since 1989. It was down
57 percent, at 0.75 pence, at 12:50 p.m. London time.  “There is no equity value,” Freddie George, an analyst at
 Seymour Pierce , said by phone. “It’s going to go to the highest
bidder.”  Edinburgh Woollen Mill Ltd., a clothing retailer known for
acquiring retail chains, may be the frontrunner in bidding to
acquire parts of Blacks, the Scotsman reported today, without
saying where it got the information.  Sports Direct International
Plc (SPD) , Mountain Warehouse Ltd. and Go Outdoors Ltd. are also
bidding for parts of the Northampton, England-based chain, which
runs 98 Blacks stores and 208 Millets outlets.  Edinburgh Woollen Mill acquired fashion chain Jane Norman
Holdings Ltd. in June and previously bought furnishing chains
Ponden Mill and Rosebys.  “I suspect Edinburgh Woollen Mill are looking to do the
same thing as they did with Jane Norman, buy the company for the
stock and they’ve got the brand on top for free,” George said.
“But this time there are a lot of interested parties. It’s
really anybody’s guess.”  Edinburgh Woollen Mill didn’t respond to calls and e-mails
seeking comment. Nicola Swift, a Blacks spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  