-- BNY Mellon, New Star, Apple, Chevron, NCAA, BP, Rothstein in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-12-23T12:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/bny-mellon-new-star-apple-chevron-ncaa-bp-rothstein-in-court-news.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  will
pay $1.3 million to  New York , Texas and Florida to resolve a
probe into manipulative trading of auction-rate securities.  The joint investigation by the Texas State Securities
Board, the Florida Office of Financial Regulation and New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  was tied to the actions of
Mellon Financial Markets as an intermediary broker on behalf of
Citizens Property Insurance Corp. of Florida, according to
statements from Schneiderman’s office and the Florida and Texas
agencies. The settlement includes penalties, fees and costs.  Auction-rate securities are municipal bonds, corporate
bonds and preferred stocks whose rates of return are
periodically reset through auctions. The market for the
securities collapsed in February 2008 after major dealers
withdrew their support for the auctions, causing most of them to
fail.  From January 2008 to February 2008, Mellon Financial
enabled Citizens Property to buy large quantities of its own
auction-rate securities by placing bids in its own auctions as
if it were an independent third-party buyer, Schneiderman’s
office said in a statement.  Citizens Property knew that broker-dealers who were
managing the securities would have rejected the bids and asked
for help from Mellon Financial Markets, which agreed to submit
the trades to help the Florida insurer avoid detection,
Schneiderman’s office said.  Citizens Property’s bids were below market rates and
resulted in the auctions clearing at rates lower than they would
have had the insurer not intervened, Schneiderman’s office said.
Investors earned $6.7 million less in interest than they would
have had Citizens not joined the auctions, the  Texas State
Securities Board  said.  Mellon Financial “traders and their managers understood
that CPIC’s bidding would set clearing rates lower than they
would have been in the absence of such bidding, and that this
would be both detrimental and objectionable to other investors
bidding on or holding CPIC’s auction rate securities,”
Schneiderman’s office said.  “BNY Mellon Capital Markets is pleased to have resolved
this matter, which centered on the isolated conduct of three
individuals who are no longer with the company,”  Ron Sommer , a
Bank of New York Mellon spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  It would be inappropriate for Citizens Property Insurance
to comment on the settlement, Christine Ashburn, director of
legislative and external affairs for the Tallahassee-based
company, said in an e-mail.  “It is important to recognize that Citizens was vigilant
in obtaining guidance from outside legal counsel prior to
engaging in these transactions,” Ashburn said. “We continue to
believe that our actions were legally permissible, and we remain
committed to providing any information regulators may request.”  For more, click here.  Ex- New Star  Founder Refutes Former Fund Manager’s Bullying Claim  John Duffield , founder of  New Star Asset Management
Holdings Inc. , denied claims made by a former fund manager that
he bullied his staff.  Patrick Evershed  made “extreme and colorful statements”
at an employment tribunal hearing in a dispute that was
subsequently settled this month, Duffield said in comments on a
 website . The case was settled before New Star could fully refute
them in court, he said.  “Patrick made a number of statements that were exposed as
misleading during cross-examination or were refuted under oath
by New Star’s witnesses before he truncated the hearing,”
Duffield said on his website.  Evershed sued New Star for unfair dismissal after being
suspended in 2008 by the fund’s chief executive officer, Howard
Covington. The suspension came shortly after Evershed wrote a
letter to New Star’s human resources department complaining
about Duffield’s conduct.  “I’d love to give a detailed response to some of the
points, but I can’t,” Evershed said of Duffield’s comments in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Evershed and New Star “reached an agreement which resolves
the employment tribunal proceedings without admission of
liability,” Henderson Group said in an e-mailed statement.
“Both parties are satisfied with the terms of the agreement,
and have agreed to keep them confidential.”  Ex-Secret Service Official Wins Dismissal of Conspiracy Charge  Conspiracy charges were dismissed against a former Secret
Service official and five other security-company executives in
the first prosecution of alleged foreign bribery based on a
government sting operation run inside the U.S.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon yesterday threw out the
conspiracy charge at the defendants’ request after the
government finished presenting its case to a federal jury in
Washington. Five of the executives still face additional foreign
bribery charges.  Prosecutors allege that R. Patrick Caldwell, former chief
executive officer of  Protective Products of America Inc. (PPAFQ)  and an
ex-deputy assistant director at the Secret Service, joined an
illegal business deal by agreeing to make payments to an FBI
agent posing as a representative of the west African country of
Gabon.  Leon’s ruling, which he made from the bench after 12 weeks
of trial, resulted in the acquittal of Stephen Giordanella,
Caldwell’s predecessor at Protective Products.  “Judge Leon followed the law and made a correct and just
decision,” said Paul Calli, lawyer for Giordanella. “Mr.
Giordanella should have never been charged. He was innocent.”  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  The trial that opened Sept. 28 is the second in a 22-
defendant kickback conspiracy case stemming from a fake $15
million weapons deal. It’s the biggest prosecution of
individuals accused of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, or FCPA. A trial of four others arrested in the sting ended
in a mistrial in July after a jury failed to agree on a verdict.  The other defendants are John Mushriqui, Jeana Mushriqui,
John Godsey and Marc Morales. Each was charged with one count of
conspiracy and two to five counts of bribery. The bribery
charges carry maximum five-year prison sentences.  All six have pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Sons Can’t Appeal in $198 Million Suit, Judge Rules  Bernard Madoff’s sons can’t appeal a bankruptcy judge’s
decision to permit a $198 million claim against them to go
forward, a federal judge in Manhattan said.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley yesterday declined to
hear an appeal of the September decision in favor of  Irving
Picard , the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, in his claim against several Madoff family
members including  Andrew Madoff  and the estate of Mark Madoff,
who committed suicide in December 2010.  In the suit, filed in 2009, Picard claimed Madoff’s family
used the firm as their “family piggy bank” and should be
forced to turn over the money to victims of Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme. He sued Mark and Andrew Madoff as well as Bernard
Madoff’s brother Peter Madoff and his niece, Shana Madoff
Swanson. All the defendants held senior positions at the Madoff
firm.  Picard claimed that the defendants failed to stop Madoff’s
fraud, instead choosing to profit from it. In the September
ruling, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bernard Lifland ruled that Picard
could pursue most of his claims against the Madoffs and gave him
the opportunity to amend his complaint.  Madoff, 73, who pleaded guilty to charges of masterminding
the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, is serving a 150-year term
in a federal  prison  in North Carolina.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, declined to comment
on yesterday’s ruling. Martin Flumenbaum, who represents Andrew
Madoff and Mark Madoff’s estate, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message.  The case is: Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff, 11-Misc.-379,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Apple Unlikely to Win German Ban on  Samsung (005930)  Galaxy 10.1N  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is unlikely to win a ban on sales of Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Galaxy 10.1N tablet computer, a modified
version introduced after sales of the original tablet were
blocked, a German court said.  The Dusseldorf court that banned sales of the Galaxy 10.1
on Sept. 9 is unlikely to grant Apple an injunction against the
Galaxy 10.1N, Presiding Judge Johanna Brueckner-Hofmann said at
a hearing yesterday. Samsung has changed the device’s design
sufficiently to distance it from the iPad, she said, adding that
the view is preliminary. A ruling was scheduled for Feb. 9.  “Consumers are well aware that there is an original and
that competitors try to use similar designs, so buyers are
vigilant when looking at products,” Brueckner-Hofmann said.
“We don’t think that someone buys a Samsung to make his table
neighbor at the coffee house believe he owns an iPad.”  Apple has faced setbacks in its legal fight against
Samsung, its closest rival in tablet computers, since its
initial September success in Germany. The iPad maker failed to
convince an Australian court on Dec. 9 to reinstate a ban in
that country and two days ago, a Dusseldorf court voiced doubts
about the reach of Apple’s European Union design right that was
the basis for the company’s Sept. 9 injunction.  The new Samsung tablet has thicker edges and the front
screen has speakers which distinguish it from the iPad, the
court said. There is also a broad Samsung label that ensures
consumers aren’t confused, according to the judges.  Apple’s lawyer Matthias Koch argued that Samsung is still
exploiting the reputation of the iPad.  Samsung lawyer Thomas Musmann argued that Cupertino,
California-based Apple is trying to monopolize the tablet
format.  Yesterday’s case is LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 292/11.  For more, click here.  Chevron, Transocean Face Brazil Indictment Over Oil Leak  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the operator of the Brazilian offshore well
that triggered oil leaks, and rig owner Transocean Ltd. will
defend executives threatened with criminal indictments in the
South American nation.  Chevron learned that Brazil’s federal police intend to
indict employees involved in the drilling that led to the Nov. 7
leaks from seafloor fissures near the $3.6 billion Frade
development, Kurt Glaubitz, a spokesman for the San Ramon,
California-based company, said in a statement Dec. 21.
Transocean, in a separate statement Dec. 21, said it will
“vigorously defend the company and its collaborators.”  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy company by market
value, has been fined 50 million reais ($26.9 million) and
ordered to halt all drilling and crude production off Brazil’s
coast after discovering the leaks last month. Chevron estimated
the volume of the seeps at 3,000 barrels during the eight days
it took for the company to locate and halt the leaks.  Chevron and other offshore oil explorers are facing
increased scrutiny of their drilling practices in the wake of  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s 2010 blowout of a well in the Gulf of Mexico that killed
11 workers and led to the worst U.S. offshore crude spill.  Chevron underestimated the amount of pressure at an oil
deposit it was exploring, and crude leaked from the reservoir
for about eight days, George Buck, president of Chevron’s
Brazilian subsidiary, said on Nov. 20. Buck was among 17 Chevron
and Transocean employees targeted for indictments, the Folha de
S. Paulo newspaper reported Dec. 21. Glaubitz declined to
identify the employees targeted for indictment. George wasn’t
available to comment, the spokesman said.  Anthony Dovkants, a spokesman for Vernier, Switzerland-
based Transocean, said in an e-mailed statement that the
allegations were without merit.  For more, click here.  Electronic Arts Must Defend Activision Contract Claims at Trial  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the second-biggest U.S. video-game
publisher, lost a court bid to dismiss the $400-million
contract-interference claims by its larger rival  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)   California Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle, at a hearing
Dec. 21 in  Los Angeles , denied Electronic Arts’ request to throw
out the claims, saying Activision had provided sufficient
evidence that a jury should decide whether Electronic Arts broke
the law by talking to two creators of Activision’s “Call of
Duty” franchise while they were still under contract.  Berle rejected Electronic Arts’ argument that it was
perfectly lawful for the two top executives of Activision’s
Infinity Ward studio, Jason West and Vince Zampella, to explore
future employment opportunities. It was “a whole different
scenario” if Electronic Arts approached the two executives
while there was still more than two years left on their
contract, the judge said.  Activision, based in Santa Monica, California, last year
added Electronic Arts as a cross-defendant to a lawsuit that was
initially brought by West and Zampella after they were fired.
They had sued for $36 million, saying Activision fired them to
avoid paying the royalties they were owed for “Call of Duty:
Modern Warfare 2,” the top-selling game the previous year.  Robert Klieger, a lawyer for Redwood City, California-based
Electronic Arts, declined to comment after the hearing.  “We’re pleased with the ruling and look forward to proving
our case at trial,” Steven Marenberg, a lawyer for Activision,
said after the hearing.  The case is West v. Activision, SC107041, California
Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  For more, click here.  NCAA Denies Claims in Head Injury Suit by Ex-Collegiate Athletes  The National Collegiate Athletic Association denied claims
in a lawsuit filed by former college football players who accuse
it of profiting from athletes while neglecting those who suffer
concussions.  The response, filed Dec. 21 in federal court in Chicago,
addresses claims raised in a class-action lawsuit brought by 25-
year-old Adrian Arrington, a former football player for Eastern
Illinois University. Where it doesn’t deny the allegations, the
NCAA says it is “without knowledge” of the practices that
Arrington and other athletes say show a failure to enforce
safety measures to protect players from head injuries.  The NCAA said in the court filing that it earned revenue of
$749.8 million in the 2009-2010 season, and that it doesn’t pay
salaries to student-athletes. The organization also responded to
arguments that it doesn’t require its member institutions to
educate athletes about reporting concussions and their symptoms.  “Each member institution is responsible for protecting the
health of its student-athletes,” according to the filing. The
NCAA said that “for decades it has provided appropriate
information and guidance on concussions to its member
institutions” and encourages those schools to educate athletes
about “symptoms associated with concussions.”  The cases are Arrington v. NCAA, 11-6356, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago), and Owens v.
NCAA, 11-6816, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials  Allen Stanford Found Mentally Fit for January Fraud Trial  R. Allen Stanford is mentally fit to stand trial and will
face a jury next month on charges he swindled investors of more
than $7 billion, a U.S. judge ruled. The trial is to begin with
jury selection on Jan. 23.  Stanford’s defense team argued unsuccessfully that his
mental capacity was diminished by head injuries he suffered in a
2009 jailhouse assault and the effects of powerful anxiety
medications prescribed in prison after the beating.  “I have found by a preponderance of the evidence that
Stanford is competent to stand trial,” U.S. District Judge
David Hittner in Houston said yesterday in finding Stanford able
to assist in his defense.  Hittner’s ruling followed 2 1/2 days of debate over the
extent of brain damage Stanford, 61, suffered from the assault
and the extent to which he might be faking memory loss.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Cameron Asks Court to Scuttle BP Gulf Spill Trial Plan  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  asked a federal appeals court
to derail the February nonjury trial over which companies should
be blamed for the 2010  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  Cameron, which made the blow-out prevention equipment used
for the Macondo well, asked a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals
meeting in Dallas to throw out the existing trial plan and rule
that the company has a right to a trial before a jury. U.S.
District Judge Carl Barbier, who is overseeing much of the spill
litigation, has scheduled the nonjury trial for Feb. 27 in New
Orleans to determine liability and apportion fault.  Barbier plans two subsequent nonjury phases on the size of
the spill and efforts to contain it. Test jury trials on damages
would follow, the judge said. Cameron, which settled damage
claims with BP last week, said the trial plan violates its
constitutional rights.  “There is not a claim against Cameron that does not
implicate our right to a jury trial under the Seventh
Amendment,” Russell Post, a Cameron attorney, told the judges
at the hearing in federal court.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of
lawsuits against  BP  and its partners and contractors, including
Cameron,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded and
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  The appeals case is In re: Cameron International,
11-30987, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The
lawsuits are combined in In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Convicted Swindler Rothstein Says Partners Knew of Scheme  Scott Rothstein, the Florida lawyer convicted in a $1.2
billion investment fraud, said two of his former law firm
partners also knew of the scheme, according to a transcript of a
sworn deposition made public Dec.22.  Rothstein, sentenced to 50 years in prison, said his former
partners, Stuart Rosenfeldt and Russell Adler, were aware of the
scheme, according to a transcript of the deposition taken this
month at the federal courthouse in Miami as part of their law
firm’s bankruptcy case. The transcript was posted on the website
of the law firm Conrad & Scherer, which represents some of the
investors seeking to recover money invested in the scheme.  “They knew that we were moving money illegally in and out
of the law firm,” Rothstein said of Rosenfeldt and Adler,
according to the transcript. “At various points in time, they
came to know that there was a Ponzi scheme going on, although
the word Ponzi was never utilized.”  Rothstein, formerly of Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, pleaded guilty in January 2010 to five
counts of racketeering, money laundering and wire fraud after
admitting he sold investors interests in bogus settlements in
sexual-harassment and whistle-blower lawsuits.  Bruce Lehr, a lawyer for Rosenfeldt, said Dec. 22 in a
phone interview that his client wasn’t aware of the Ponzi
scheme.  “Stuart Rosenfeldt had absolutely no idea of the
wrongdoings of Scott Rothstein until Mr. Rothstein fled the
country,” Lehr said. “Mr. Rothstein, who pleaded guilty and
was sentenced to 50 years in prison, had no credibility then.
The fact that after spending some time behind bars, he has
decided to throw his law partner under the bus has not awarded
him new credibility.”  Adler’s attorney, Fred Haddad, said Rothstein was lying
about his client.  “He didn’t know anything about what Rothstein was doing,”
Haddad said. “I like Scott personally. I’ve gotten drunk with
Scott. But he said at the beginning of his depo that this would
be the first time in his life that he’s told the truth. I think
he still hasn’t reached the first time in his life to tell the
truth.”  Rosenfeldt and Adler haven’t been charged with wrongdoing.  The case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA, 09-34791,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Southern Florida (Fort
Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 