-- Boehner Joins Reagan, Kennedy in Political Crow-Eating Moments
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/boehner-joins-reagan-kennedy-in-history-of-political-crow-eating-moments.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
acceptance of a two-month payroll tax-cut extension after he
spent several days disparaging the plan is the daily special on
a long menu of political crow.  Similar dishes: President Barack Obama’s debt-ceiling deal
with Republicans that didn’t include the new revenue he earlier
demanded, President  George H.W. Bush ’s tax increase after his
campaign directive to “read my lips” and  California  Governor
 Ronald Reagan  cracking out of self-imposed concrete to raise
taxes.  “We know that politicians make public commitments, and we
know that our system demands compromise,”  Sarah Binder , a
political science professor at George Washington University and
a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington, said
in an interview yesterday. “We shouldn’t be surprised that they
find themselves having to backtrack.”  Such cave-ins typically play out over months or years --
not in just a few days, as happened with Boehner’s response to
the short-term payroll tax cut passed by the Senate Dec. 17.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, began Dec. 22 by defending his
days-long rejection of the Senate’s bipartisan deal, saying at a
press conference “the best policy is a one-year extension.” He
ended the day by announcing he was accepting the Senate plan,
preventing a Jan. 1 increase in the tax from 4.2 to 6.2 percent
for 160 million U.S. workers.  Less Clear Cut  The technical nature of the payroll tax debate -- a
yearlong extension rather than a two-month one -- means it
probably won’t stick in public memory the way a more clear-cut
flip-flop does, Binder said.  “Read my lips: No new taxes,” Bush said while accepting
the Republican presidential nomination in 1988. He raised taxes
in 1990 as part of a deficit-reduction plan.  Bush suffered, losing a second term, in part because he
“never fully explained to people why he did what he did” in
breaking the campaign promise, Larry Sabato, director of the
center for politics at the  University of Virginia  in
Charlottesville, said in an interview yesterday.  In contrast, “Boehner helped himself when he conceded that
in political terms, the Republicans had essentially been
outclassed,” Sabato said, referring to the speaker’s statements
at a Dec. 22 press conference.  Reagan’s Collapses  Reagan also notched a number of memorably colorful
collapses.  Before taking the governor’s office in cash-strapped
California in 1967, Reagan insisted his feet were “set in
concrete” on the issue of raising taxes. In 1971, as the
Republican signed a tax increase, he said at a press conference,
“The sound you hear is the concrete cracking around my feet.”  U.S.  House Democrats  dished up another serving of crow when
Reagan was president and pushed for cuts to Social Security
benefits.  Then-Speaker Tip O’Neill and fellow Democrats “just
blasted the White House,” Julian E. Zelizer, a professor of
history and public affairs at  Princeton University  in  New
Jersey , said in an interview yesterday. “The administration
backed away from it and never talked about it again. It was a
famous backing down of a very popular president.”  About-faces cross party lines.  Lyndon B. Johnson  set the stage for a flop when he was
nominated as the Democratic candidate for president Aug. 26,
1964: “We are not about to send American boys nine or ten
thousand miles away from home to do what Asian boys ought to be
doing for themselves.”  The  Vietnam war  continued throughout his presidency.  New Revenue  Obama, a Democrat seeking re-election next year,
consistently said in July he wouldn’t agree to a deal to raise
the U.S. debt ceiling unless it included new revenue as well as
spending cuts sought by Republicans. He then hunkered down with
the Republicans and hashed out a plan without tax increases,
drawing complaints from his party.  “There was caving this time,” Representative Eliot Engel,
a New York Democrat, said as Obama signed the deal Aug. 2.  The president also backpedaled in December 2010, a month
after Democrats suffered losses in the midterm election, on
continuing income tax cuts first enacted in 2001 and 2003 under
President  George W. Bush . Obama agreed to extend the expiring
breaks for all income levels after insisting the highest earners
should pay more.  High-Profile Defeats  “High-profile defeats are part of how it works -- half of
 Washington  usually is losing,” Zelizer said. “It’s not so much
about having to reverse yourself, it’s how you handle it. Either
you want the public not to be paying a lot of attention, or you
want to claim this is the outcome you wanted all along.”  George W. Bush was a “master” at adopting a loss as a
win, Zelizer and Binder said. He was opposed to creating the
Department of  Homeland Security  after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks -- until it became clear Congress would pass it.  “’Yep, that was my idea,’” Binder said, describing Bush’s
reaction. “That’s a great way to put these potential debacles
behind you.”  Admitting failure after a high-profile political mistake
can help offset blow-back, Zelizer said.  President  John F. Kennedy ’s popularity rose after he
acknowledged policy errors in the failed Bay of Pigs invasion in
Cuba.  “We intend to accept full responsibility for our errors,”
Kennedy said in April 1961.  Eisenhower and D-Day  An example of being prepared to accept one’s political
mistakes came from the man who would become the 34th president.
General Dwight Eisenhower on June 5, 1944, drafted a statement
for possible release if the following day’s allied invasion of
 Europe  went awry.  The landings “have failed to gain a satisfactory foothold
and I have withdrawn the troops,” Eisenhower wrote in the note
later found by an aide. “My decision to attack at this time and
place was based on the best information available. The troops,
the air and the Navy did all that bravery and devotion to duty
could do. If any blame or fault attaches to the attempt it is
mine alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  