-- BP Keeps Australia Solar Venture as It Exits Business Globally
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2011-12-23T03:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/bp-keeps-australia-solar-venture-as-it-exits-business-globally.html
BP Plc ,  Europe ’s second-largest oil
company, said it is sticking with a proposed A$923 million ($937
million) solar project in  Australia  after deciding to exit the
business globally amid a glut.  “We continue to remain part of the consortium and we
continue to work to bring the project to fruition,” Jamie Jardine, a Melbourne-based spokesman for the company, said by
phone today.  While London-based BP is proceeding with the plan, the
company and its partners in the proposed 150-megawatt solar
plant in Australia’s New South Wales state have yet to sign
power-supply agreements needed to advance with the project and
failed to meet a Dec. 15 deadline to reach a financial close,
Jardine said. The companies expect to start construction of the
venture in the second half of 2012, later than previously
estimated, he said.  BP will exit the solar business after 40 years because it
has become unprofitable, Mike Petrucci, the chief executive
officer of the solar unit, told staff in an internal letter
earlier this month. The industry faces oversupply and price
pressures after Chinese competitors increased production.  BP, Fotowatio Renewable Ventures and Pacific Hydro Pty won
A$306.5 million in Australian government funding earlier this
year to build the Moree solar farm. The companies aim to build
one of the world’s largest plants using photovoltaic panels to
turn sunlight into power, Javier Huergo, head of business
development of Madrid-based Fotowatio, said in June.  The partners had expected to begin building the solar farm
in the first quarter of 2012, Huergo said at the time. BNP
Paribas, Banco Santander SA and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) 
were among eight banks that initially agreed to help finance the
venture, Huergo said in February.  Renewables Target  Australia, which has set a target of generating 20 percent
of its power from renewable energy sources by the end of the
decade, also said in June it would provide A$464 million to a
solar project in Queensland led by a unit of Paris-based Areva
SA. That venture proposed a 250-megawatt solar thermal and gas
hybrid power plant, according to the government.  BP, an early entrant into the solar business, quit
manufacturing entirely in July. The company plans to sell stakes
in the more than 158 megawatts of projects it’s developed with
local partners in countries including  Italy ,  Spain ,  Germany ,
Britain and the U.S. Its solar equipment venture in  India  with
 Tata Power Co. (TPWR)  is conducting “business as usual,” K.
Subramanya, chief executive of Tata BP Solar India Ltd., said on
Dec. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  