-- Brazil’s Top Banks Tighten Grip on Loans as Yields Soar for Small Rivals
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2011-12-23T14:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/brazil-s-top-banks-tighten-grip-on-loans-as-yields-soar-for-small-rivals.html
Brazil’s top banks may tighten their
grip on consumer and small-business lending as record high
borrowing costs and the end of emergency credit pinch smaller
competitors struggling with fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Bonds maturing in 2020 sold by Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA and
Banco Bonsucesso SA, both based in Sao Paulo, yield 20 percent
and 14 percent, respectively, after the banks were shut out of
international markets for the past three months. Cruzeiro,
Bonsucesso and Banco BVA SA, based in Rio de Janeiro, are among
small lenders that have already borrowed near the maximum, two
times their capital base, in loans guaranteed by the nation’s
deposit fund, an emergency program the government plans to phase
out beginning next year.  Taking up the slack are the nation’s six largest banks,
including  Itau Unibanco Holding SA  and  Banco Bradesco SA , which
expanded their share of lending in  Brazil  to 77 percent this
year through June, compared with 60 percent for the same period
three years ago. Small and mid-sized banks, those with capital
below 5 billion reais ($2.69 billion), have a loan portfolio of
165 billion reais, according to central bank  data . Regulators
changed bank liquidity rules yesterday to help small lenders by
enticing big banks to purchase their loan portfolios.  “You need scale, and funding isn’t there,” said Saul Sabba, founder of Rio-based Banco Maxima SA. “You need to grow
really fast and take on a lot of risk, but when the market has
any type of credit squeeze, it hits the small banks first.”  Leaving the Business  Maxima decided to get out of the  consumer credit  business
in 2008, Sabba, who created one of Brazil’s first asset-backed
securities in 2001, said in an interview from his office
overlooking Copacabana beach.  Maxima paid off all loans, known as DPGEs, guaranteed by
Brazil’s deposit fund because they are too expensive, he said.
The bonds carry rates of more than 13 percent annually for
three- to five-year financing, according to quotes from banks
that trade the securities.  The central bank said yesterday it will allow banks to use
part of their required reserves to purchase pools of credit and
longer-termed bank bonds, known as letras financeiras, from
lenders whose capital doesn’t exceed 2.2 billion reais. Banks
won’t be able to collect interest payments, at Brazil’s
benchmark rate of 11 percent, on part of their reserves in a bid
to push larger lenders to use the idle cash to finance smaller
lenders.  Rating Cuts  Bank of America Corp. cut its stock ratings on  Banco Pine
SA ,  Parana Banco SA  and Banco Industrial & Comercial SA in
September, saying a global economic slump would hurt small
banks’ profits more than their larger rivals.  “It’s really going to be hard for these small banks to
survive,” said Leonardo Bastos, a finance professor at IBMEC
business school in Rio. “The people losing out will be the
customers as the banking system turns into a semi-cartel where
loans are more expensive than they should be.”  Smaller banks advanced after the central bank measures were
announced yesterday, paring losses for the year. Banco
Industrial & Comercial rose 3.4 percent, trimming this year’s
decline to 46 percent.  Parana Banco (PRBC4)  rose 2.3 percent and Pine
increased 0.6 percent, reducing 2011 losses to 26 percent and 14
percent, respectively. Cruzeiro do Sul was unchanged with a
decline of 8.6 percent this year.  Itau rose 1.5 percent, paring the year’s drop to 12
percent, while Bradesco rose 1.1 percent for a 3.8 percent 2011
decline. Banco do Brasil fell 0.6 percent, extending a 25
percent fall.  Capital Requirements   Policy makers took steps in November to help smaller banks
by reducing the amount of capital they must set aside for
certain types of loans. The central bank  cut  its key lending
rate three times since August to counter a slowdown in demand,
as the economy contracted for the first time in 2 1/2 years in
the third quarter. Small banks’ difficulty financing new loans
may worsen the slowdown.  The rate reductions immediately lower funding costs for
loans guaranteed by the deposit fund because most of them are
tied to Brazil’s interbank lending rate, said Juliana Guimaraes,
director of  investor relations  at Bonsucesso. In addition, the
nation’s biggest banks aren’t aggressive competitors in courting
customers from the emerging middle class, she said.  ‘Less Flexible’  “The big banks are more rigid, less flexible with
documents and they want to open an office and have the customers
come to them,” Guimaraes said in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “We go to the customers. We hire contractors to sell
loans at public agencies, schools and health clinics.”  Demand for asset-backed securities and the sale of loan
portfolios to larger banks will be strong enough to counteract
the elimination of international bond sales and the phasing out
of DPGE next year, Banco Cruzeiro said in an e-mailed response
to questions. BVA said in an e-mailed statement that
international bonds are “irrelevant” for funding because there
are enough financing opportunities within Brazil.  Lending in Brazil is dominated by three government
controlled banks -- the state-development bank known as BNDES,
federally controlled Banco do Brasil and Caixa Economica Federal
-- and private lenders Itau, Bradesco and Banco Santander SA.
Those six companies accounted for more than three-fourths of the
1.8 trillion reais in outstanding loans in Brazil through June,
according to data from the central bank.  More Consolidation  Brazil’s central bank director, Anthero Meirelles, said in
May he expects more consolidation as small banks “restructure”
to meet tighter bank and accounting requirements.  In April, the nation’s guarantee deposit bank, known as the
FGC, funded the acquisition of Banco Schahin SA by Banco BMG SA,
a lender focused on payroll-deductible loans. The FGC also
financed the purchase of Banco Matone SA by J&F Participacoes
SA, the holding company for beef exporter JBS SA. It merged the
lender with Banco JBS SA to create Banco Original.  The central bank ordered the liquidation of Banco Morada SA
in October and expanded an investigation into the bank’s credit
card, tourism and information-technology units.  “The question for smaller banks is the sustainability of
the franchise,” said Ceres Lisboa, a banking analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service in Sao Paulo. “The competition is extremely
dangerous to banks that have less funding flexibility.”  Brazilian taxpayers may foot the bill for consolidation
because it will leave private banks “complacent” with charging
high rates for short-term company loans and leave all financing
for Brazil’s biggest projects to government subsidized lending,
Bastos from IBMEC said.  Profit Margins  The nation’s banks charge an average 38.5 percent for loans
and raise capital at a 10.3 percent rate, according to the
central bank. That spread is the widest in the world after
 Zimbabwe , according to the  World Economic Forum ’s 2010 Global
Competitiveness  Report , generating a median profit margin of 18
percent. In the U.S., the profit margin is 8.6 percent.  Small banks’ financing options narrowed further when the
market for selling loan portfolios dried up last year following
an accounting-fraud probe linked to the practice at Banco
Panamericano SA. Banco BTG Pactual SA, founded by billionaire
 Andre Esteves , purchased Panamericano for 450 million reais in
January after the FGC agreed to extend a  credit line  to the bank
to cover Panamericano’s losses.  Policy makers are working to avert another Panamericano
situation, said Monica Baumgarten de Bolle, a partner at SPX
Capital, a 2.4 billion-reais hedge fund based in Rio.  Funding Gap  “The big banks for the most part only lend to the biggest
players,” said de Bolle, who analyzed  Argentina ’s sovereign
default as an economist for the  International Monetary Fund  from
2000 through 2005. “If the small banks stop giving out loans,
you may have a gap in funding for small and mid-sized companies
and for consumer loans.”  Loans to  consumers  in Brazil grew 55 percent since December
2009, faster than corporate-loan growth of 36 percent in that
period, according to the central bank. The default rates for
consumer loans have picked up this year, rising to an average of
7.3 percent from 5.7 percent in December 2010, according to the
central bank. Company loan defaults increased to 4 percent from
3.5 percent.  The central bank said on Nov. 30 it will slow the
implementation of the new accounting standards, scheduled for
January, to help smaller banks avoid booking losses all at once.
The current requirements allow banks to book all projected
revenue from the loan immediately when it’s sold. If customers
pay off their loan earlier than planned, the bank must book the
anticipated revenue as a loss.  The Bicycle  The rule feeds a phenomenon dubbed “the bicycle,” because
banks are forced to increase credit growth every quarter to
recover income from losses that weren’t known when the loan was
sold, said Roberto Troster, a former chief economist at Brazil’s
national banking association who is now the head of financial
research and advising firm Delta Consultoria.  “It’s like a bicycle because you can’t stop,” he said.
“You start off each year at a loss, so you need more and more
profit to make up for it,” he said, adding that many banks had
already stopped the practice.  Maxima’s Sabba said he doesn’t think it’s worth the risk to
try to compete against the big banks.  “The failure of some of those banks shows that consumer
credit is not the place for small banks,” Sabba said. “When
big banks move into the consumer credit market, margins shrink,
and you’d be taking on a lot of risk for not that much money.
That’s why we got out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  