-- Canada Regulator Decision, Volcker Rule, BNY Mellon Settles: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-23T13:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/canada-regulator-decision-volcker-rule-bny-mellon-settles-compliance.html
The  Supreme Court  of Canada ruled
that Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s proposal to create a
national securities regulator is unconstitutional, arguing that
the federal government overstepped its authority into provincial
jurisdiction.  The nine members of the country’s highest court said in its
unanimous opinion that the federal government’s proposal
“overreaches genuine national concerns.”  While the “economic importance and pervasive character of
the securities market” may support federal action, it doesn’t
“justify a wholesale takeover of the regulation of the
securities industry,” the court said yesterday in Ottawa.  Canada is the only industrialized country in the world
without a national securities regulator. Flaherty had pushed for
a single model, saying the current system of 13 provincial
agencies is more costly and reduces the country’s ability to
regulate the securities industry.  The government will “respect” the ruling, a spokesman for
Flaherty said after the opinion was released.  “It is clear we cannot proceed with this legislation,”
 Chisholm Pothier , Flaherty’s director of communications, said in
an e-mail. The government will review the opinion “carefully
and act in accordance with it.”  Flaherty proposed legislation last year to create a
national agency and sought the court’s opinion on whether it was
constitutional. The case turned on whether the federal
government has the authority to create a national regulator
under a section of the Canadian constitution that gives
Parliament the power to regulate “trade and commerce.”  Provinces that opposed the plan, such as Alberta, Quebec
and Manitoba, argued it encroached on the constitutional right
of provinces to regulate local matters and industries within
their borders.  Ontario, home to the  Ontario Securities Commission  and the
Toronto Stock Exchange, has been supportive of a single
regulator. Its Minister of Finance Dwight Duncan said in a
statement he remains committed to pursuing a national securities
regulator.  The court said in its opinion that Canada may still adopt a
“cooperative approach” that recognizes the provincial nature
of securities laws while addressing national concerns.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Regulators Extend Comment Period on Volcker-Rule Proposal  U.S. regulators will extend the comment period for the so-
called Volcker rule, giving lawmakers and banks more time to
seek changes in the  proposed ban  on proprietary trading, said a
government official familiar with the process.  The comment deadline, initially set for Jan. 13, will be
pushed back 30 days to Feb. 13, said the official, who declined
to be identified because the decision isn’t public. The change
may extend the comment period until a vote by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, the last of five agencies required
to approve the Dodd-Frank Act measure. CFTC Chairman  Gary
Gensler  said on Dec. 20 that the vote may come next month.  The proposed rule, named for former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the regulatory overhaul
to rein in risky trading by banks that benefit from  deposit
insurance  and Fed borrowing privileges. The Fed, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and
Securities and Exchange Commission released a joint notice of
proposed rulemaking in October.  The rule goes “significantly beyond congressional
intent,” and will make it difficult for banking entities to
manage risk prudently, Representative  Randy Neugebauer  said, a
Texas Republican, said in a letter yesterday urging a delay that
was signed by 121 House lawmakers, including four Democrats.  Neugebauer sought a 30-day extension and an interim
proposed rule reflecting comments from banks and the CFTC.  The proposed rule would ban banks from making trades for
their own accounts while allowing them to continue short-term
trades for hedging or market-making. It also would limit banks’
investments in private-equity and hedge funds.  For more, click here.  Hungary Suffers Second Downgrade to Junk as IMF Talks Stall  Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s drive to
consolidate power at the cost of delaying an  International
Monetary Fund  bailout prompted Standard and Poor’s to become the
second ratings company in a month to downgrade the country’s
debt to junk.  Proposed changes to Hungary’s central bank laws are
complicating financing aid talks.  Hungary’s sovereign-credit ratings were cut one step to BB+
from BBB-, S&P, which had rated the eastern European nation at
investment grade since 1996, said Dec. 21 in a statement,
assigning a negative outlook. Moody’s Investors Service lowered
its assessment to Ba1, the highest junk grade, on Nov. 24, while
 Fitch Ratings  has assigned its lowest investment grade, BBB-.  Lawmakers are scheduled to approve changes to a draft
central bank law today and pass the bill next week, which the
European Central Bank said yesterday may “undermine” monetary
policy independence. The IMF and the European Union cited the
draft for breaking off financing talks with Hungary last week.
IMF backing would bolster policy credibility, S&P said.  The European Commission hasn’t decided on whether to resume
financial aid talks with Hungary, the EU executive’s
representative in Budapest, Tamas Szucs, said in an e-mail
yesterday. Earlier in the day yesterday, Olivier Bailly, a
spokesman for the Commission, told reporters in Brussels that
preliminary formal discussions over an aid package will begin in
January.  For more, click here.  U.K. Treasury Plans Curbs on Excessive Credit-Card Charges  The British Treasury plans to stop airlines, retailers and
other companies from levying excessive fees on customers paying
with credit and bank cards by limiting the amount they charge to
the cost of the transaction.  The  Office of Fair Trading , the U.K.’s antitrust regulator,
said in June that the law should be changed. A three-month
investigation found evidence of “drip pricing” surcharges that
cost U.K. consumers 300 million pounds ($470 million) in 2009 in
the airline industry alone, the OFT said.  The Treasury will consult business and consumer groups and
plans to have legislation in place by the end of next year,
according to today’s statement.  Which? , a consumer-rights group, said in a statement that
the move will be a “huge victory” for shoppers and called on
companies to “be up front” about charges immediately and not
wait for legislation. Which? filed a so-called supercomplaint
with the OFT in March about the practice, singling out taxi
services and low-cost airlines as surchargers.  Compliance Action  Bank of  New York  Mellon Settles Auction-Rate Investigation  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BNY)  will pay $1.3 million to New
York, Texas and Florida to resolve a probe into manipulative
trading of auction-rate securities.  The joint investigation by the Texas State Securities
Board, the Florida Office of Financial Regulation and New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  was tied to the actions of
Mellon Financial Markets as an intermediary broker on behalf of
Citizens Property Insurance Corp. of Florida, according to
statements from Schneiderman’s office and the Florida and Texas
agencies. The settlement includes penalties, fees and costs.  Auction-rate securities are municipal bonds, corporate
bonds and preferred stocks whose rates of return are
periodically reset through auctions. The market for the
securities collapsed in February 2008 after major dealers
withdrew their support for the auctions, causing most of them to
fail.  “BNY Mellon Capital Markets is pleased to have resolved
this matter, which centered on the isolated conduct of three
individuals who are no longer with the company,” Ron Sommer, a
Bank of New York Mellon spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Mellon Financial Markets was a separate financial entity at
the time the activity occurred, the Texas agency said.  Citizens Property Insurance didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone message seeking comment on the settlement.  For more, click here.  Hedge Fund Centaurus Fined for Violating Gas Position Limits  Centaurus Energy Master Fund LP, a Houston-based energy
hedge fund run by former Enron Corp. trader John Arnold, was
fined $75,000 by the  New York Mercantile Exchange  for violating
position limits in natural-gas trading.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the Nymex, ordered Centaurus on
Jan. 21 not to increase its short position in natural gas
futures for May delivery, CME said in a disciplinary notice
yesterday. Five days later, the fund violated the limit, its
fourth position-limit infraction in 24 months and a breach of a
Jan. 6 cease-and-desist order from the exchange, CME said.  Centaurus neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing, CME said.
Arnold didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The Centaurus Energy Master Fund, founded in 2002, has $5
billion under management, Arnold told regulators in August 2009.  Sen. Brown Calls for Fannie, Freddie Probe: Boston Herald  Sen. Scott Brown, a Massachusetts Republican, called for a
criminal investigation into  Federal National Mortgage
Association (FNMA)  and its executives in a letter to Attorney General
Eric Holder, SEC Commissioner  Mary Schapiro , the Boston Herald
reported.  The current lawsuit doesn’t go far enough, Brown said in
the letter, referring to a lawsuit commenced last week by the
Securities and Exchange Commission against former Fannie Mae
Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  and Ex-Freddie Mac Chief
Executive Richard Syron, according to the newspaper.  U.S. Clears NYSE-Deutsche Boerse Deal With Direct Edge Sale  NYSE Euronext’s (NYX)  acquisition by  Deutsche Boerse AG  was
cleared by the U.S. Department of Justice, putting the
transaction in the hands of European antitrust authorities who
have resisted approval.  U.S. regulators, who in May blocked  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
from pursuing a hostile bid for the New York Stock Exchange
owner, agreed yesterday to allow the purchase by Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Boerse as long as the company sells its 31.5 percent
stake in another U.S. equity market, Direct Edge Holdings LLC.  Scrutiny of the proposed acquisition has been greater in
Europe, where the merger would unite the region’s two biggest
derivatives exchanges, NYSE’s Liffe and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex.
In the U.S., trading in interest-rate, agricultural and
commodity futures is dominated by one company, CME Group Inc.,
after it merged with the Chicago Board of Trade in 2007 and the
New York Mercantile Exchange in 2008.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire NYSE Euronext on Feb. 15,
creating the world’s biggest stock exchange operator, for stock
worth $9.53 billion. The value of the acquisition has fallen to
less than $7 billion as stocks around the world tumbled.  For more, click here.  Courts  SEC Says Judge Orders Executive to Pay $49.5 Million  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said a federal
judge ordered Alfred S. Teo Sr. and a trust he controlled to pay
$49.5 million for lying in SEC filings about his ownership of
 Musicland Stores Corp.  stock.  U.S. District Court Judge Susan D. Wigenton issued the
final judgment in the case Dec. 21, the SEC said in a statement.  In May, a jury returned a verdict finding Teo liable for
securities fraud and disclosure violations on all counts against
him.  Interviews/Speeches  Wallison Says Fannie, Freddie Deceit Fueled 2008 Crisis  Peter Wallison, co-director of financial policy studies at
the  American Enterprise Institute , talked about the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s against former Fannie Mae Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Mudd and Ex- Freddie Mac (FMCC)  Chief Executive
Richard Syron for understating by hundreds of billions of
dollars the subprime loans held by the firms.  He spoke with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  ESRB’s King Says Banks Must Have Range of Contingencies  European Systemic Risk Board  Vice Chairman and Bank of
England Governor Mervyn King spoke at an ESRB news conference in
Frankfurt about risks facing Europe’s banking system and
liquidity measures.  Andrea Enria, chairman of the European Banking Authority,
also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Juncker Comments on European Rating Agency, Transaction Tax  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said he’s in favor of creating a
European rating agency and is “having some discussions on
this.”  He made the remarks today on Luxembourg DNR radio.  “But one shouldn’t think that a European rating agency,
because it’s European, will come to the conclusion that we don’t
have any problems in the euro area,” Juncker said during the
radio interview. “Even if I am critical toward rating agencies,
not everything they say is wrong.”  “A European rating agency would maybe be more tactful
concerning the moment it chooses to give a warning, but not
necessarily completely different in its estimation,” he said.
“What disturbed me with the rating agencies this year is that
they always came out with their warnings just when a country
decided in its parliament to take economy measures, just before
an important meeting, two days after an important meeting
happened.”  Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, also said the 17 euro-region countries may succeed in
imposing a tax on financial transactions.  “I would of course like that such a financial transaction
tax would be introduced worldwide,” Juncker said during the
radio interview. “But we haven’t managed to do that.”  Alternatively, he suggested a transaction tax at the level
of the 27 EU countries or the 17 euro countries.  Comings and Goings  Lehman Banker, Budget Expert Picked to Steer Spain’s Economy  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy named a former  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  banker and a budget professor as his
finance chiefs, tasking them with overhauling an economy that
risks being engulfed by the debt crisis.  Luis de Guindos, former deputy finance minister and head of
Lehman in Iberia, was sworn in as minister for economy and
competition yesterday. Cristobal Montoro, budget minister when
the People’s Party was last in power, returns to the same post
with further responsibility for public administration. Rajoy
created the roles to replace Elena Salgado, who did both jobs in
the last government as well as being deputy prime minister.  Spain’s financing costs last month approached the level
that pushed Greece, Ireland and Portugal to seek bailouts, and
the European Commission expects the nation to miss its budget
goal this year.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 