-- Canada Oct. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2011-12-23T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/canada-oct-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Oct. GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product was unchanged in October,
following four consecutive monthly increases. The output
of the goods-producing industries fell 0.2% in October as
a result of declines in utilities, construction, and
mining and oil and gas extraction. These declines offset a
gain in manufacturing. Services increased 0.2%, led by
retail trade and, to a lesser extent, finance and
insurance, the public sector and professional services.
Conversely, wholesale trade and some tourism-related
industries fell.  Real gross domestic product is unchanged in October  Declines in utilities and mining and oil and gas
extraction  The utilities sector decreased 1.5% as a result of
lower demand for both electricity and natural gas.  Mining and oil and gas extraction declined 0.2%,
largely because of lower output of non-metallic mineral
mines (which include potash and diamond mines). Support
activities for mining and oil and gas extraction were down
slightly, following gains in the previous two months. Oil
and gas extraction edged up 0.1% as higher natural gas
production offset the decline in oil extraction.  Construction down, home resale market up  Construction decreased 0.4% in October, with lower
residential and non-residential building construction
accounting for almost all of the decline. Construction of
single-family dwellings was particularly weak. Reduced
public and commercial construction led the decline in non-
residential building construction.  Sales of existing homes increased across the country,
resulting in a 1.3% increase in the output of real estate
agents and brokers.  Increase in manufacturing  Manufacturing production increased 0.3% in October, led
by gains in transportation equipment (particularly  motor
vehicle  parts), wood products, plastics and rubber
products, and food manufacturing. Declines were recorded
in paper, furniture and related products, primary metals,
as well as beverage and tobacco manufacturing.  Retail trade up, wholesale trade down  Retail trade grew 0.6% in October, marking the third
consecutive monthly increase. Gains in October were
widespread but more notable in motor vehicle and parts
dealers, food and beverage stores, and health and personal
care stores. Declines were recorded in furniture and home
furnishing, miscellaneous, and general merchandise stores.  Wholesale trade decreased 0.3% in October after edging
up 0.1% in September. Declines in the wholesale trade of
personal and household goods and petroleum products
outweighed gains in food products, motor vehicles and
parts, and building materials.  Finance and insurance sector increases  The finance and insurance sector rose 0.3% following a
1.0% decline in September. Gains were led by an increase
in mutual fund activity as well as in several components
of traditional banking services. Conversely, there were
declines in residential mortgages, personal loans, and
business loans. Lower activity at insurance carriers was
also recorded.  Main industrial sectors' contribution to the percent
change in gross domestic product, October 2011  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry
data at basic prices are chained volume estimates with
2002 as the reference year. This means that the data for
each industry and each aggregate are obtained from a
chained volume index multiplied by the industry's value
added in 2002. For the 1997 to 2008 period, the monthly
data are benchmarked to annually chained Fisher volume
indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-price input-
output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index
to the prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry
prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data
more comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data,
chained quarterly.  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2011. For more information
about monthly GDP by industry, see the National economic
accounts module on our website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  