-- Central America Lures Sportswear Makers as Adidas Shifts Orders
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/central-america-lures-sportswear-makers-as-adidas-shifts-orders.html
Sportswear producers such as  Adidas
AG (ADS)  are turning to Central America to complement  China  as a
source for apparel as the region’s proximity to the U.S. allows
for quick turnaround of orders during peak seasons.  With China’s garment factories producing more for its own
growing middle class and wages there rising, companies have
begun moving production back to countries within Central America
and the Caribbean that also benefit from duty-free access to the
U.S. market.  Adidas, the world’s second-biggest sporting goods maker,
plans to increase fivefold to about 45 million items a year by
2015 its production in the region, said Gregg Nebel, Adidas
Group’s head of social and environmental affairs for the
Americas, in a telephone interview from his office in  Seattle .  “The real shift for us was driven by a need to have
shorter lead time,” said Nebel. “We’ve been reallocating our
production volume needs back into Central America,” he said.
“Some of that is being pulled back from  Asia .”  U.S.  apparel imports  from the six nations of the Dominican
Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement, or DR-CAFTA, were
up 2.6 percent in the 12 months through October, compared with a
3 percent drop from China in that same period, according to the
U.S. Commerce Department’s International Trade Administration.  Imports of apparel from China last posted an annual decline
in 2008, when the recession dried up global trade. China
accounts for about 41 percent of U.S. clothing imports, down
from 42 percent last year. DR-CAFTA accounts for about 13
percent of U.S. apparel imports, up from 12 percent in 2009.  ‘Chasing’ Inventory  Carlos Arias, president of  Guatemala ’s textile and apparel
exporters’ association, expects the region’s producers to profit
from last-minute inventory replenishment, known as “chasing,”
in the holiday and post-holiday season that runs to the end of
January.  Quick turnarounds -- goods shipped from Central America by
sea can take two to three days instead of about two weeks from
China -- are also important at other peak shopping periods, such
as the back-to-school season, apparel makers say.  “We are seeing interest in some of our customers in
looking at the region as a permanent chase region,” said Arias,
who is also president of Guatemala City-based Denimatrix LP, one
of the region’s biggest jeans producers. “They are looking to
control inventories better and react faster.”  ‘Exploring the Possibility’  Nike Inc., the world’s largest sporting-goods maker, is
“exploring the possibility of sourcing” from Nicaragua “with
a small number of strategic partners,” Nike spokeswoman Mary
Remuzzi said in a statement.  Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike already has contracted with
factories in  Honduras , El Salvador and the  Dominican Republic ,
according to the company’s website.  Donald Blair, chief financial officer at Nike, said on a
conference call this week that improved inventory management was
enabling the company to keep a better handle on discounting.
“As we start to see our supply chain smooth out, we’re going to
also see that those discount levels can be managed out.”  Nike this week reported second-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as sales of running shoes surged in  North
America . Nike shares, up 11 percent for the year, fell 1.6
percent yesterday to $94.82 in New York trading.  Managing inventory is key to controlling costs, said supply
chain expert Jeff Streader, an operating partner at Marlin
Equity Partners LLC in El Segundo,  California . “Competitiveness
is having the right product at the right time.”  Quicker Turnaround Times  The shift from China allows companies to save by keeping
fewer goods in warehouses, relying instead on Latin American
producers for quicker turnaround times. Free-trade agreements
with Colombia and  Panama  signed into law in October by President
 Barack Obama  may accelerate the process.  Retail  inventory-to-sales  ratios in the U.S. were at 1.32
months’ supply in October, the lowest since record-keeping began
in 1980 and down from a seven-year high of 1.62 months’ supply
in December 2008, at the height of the financial panic,
according to Commerce Department data.  “Rather than bringing in all of the goods for holidays up
front, we’re seeing more of a flow,” Streader said. “Inventory
is money.”  Global retailers and the major brands are also concerned
that producers in China may cut back on exports and focus
increasingly on the country’s growing domestic market, said
Walter Wilhelm, a Salt Lake City-based apparel and footwear
consultant. The cost of production in China is also rising, he
said.  China’s Rising Wages  Twenty-one regions in China, including Beijing and special
economic zone Shenzhen, raised minimum wages by an average 22
percent this year, the government said in Beijing on Oct. 25.
Shenzhen’s minimum monthly wage of 1,320 yuan ($208) is the
highest in the country.  The minimum wage in Guatemala is about $230 a month, while
in  Nicaragua  it’s about $134 a month for workers in special
industrial zones, according to the governments’ websites.  The end of quotas on textile and garment exports from
 developing countries  to developed nations on January 1, 2005,
caused the loss of thousands of jobs in Central America, as well
as in the U.S., as China gobbled up share of the U.S. market.  Aided by the launch of DR-CAFTA in 2006, some of those jobs
are returning to member nations, which include the Dominican
Republic,  Costa Rica , Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala and El
Salvador.  Recovering Jobs  Guatemala, which saw its apparel and textile-related
employment plummet to about 80,000 in 2008 from about 120,000 in
2004, has now recovered to about 92,000 jobs, according to
Arias.  In Nicaragua, 70,000 workers are employed in textile
operations and another 10,000 may be hired next year, Dean
García, executive director of the Nicaraguan Association of
Textile and Apparel Industries, said in a telephone interview
from Managua.  Central America is forecast to grow 4 percent next year,
compared with an estimated 3.9 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in September.  Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Adidas Group, which has 14
contracted production sites in the CAFTA region, will see much
of its growth in Honduras,  El Salvador  and Nicaragua, Nebel
said. Adidas rose 1.2 percent yesterday to 50.13 euros,
extending its gain for the year to 2.3 percent, in Frankfurt
trading.  Apparel maker Augusta Manufacturing SA has begun a pilot
program to produce sportswear in Nicaragua for Adidas and plans
to hire about 1,000 workers through next year, Javier Chamorro
Rubiales, executive director of the official Nicaraguan
investment promotion agency, said in a telephone interview from
Managua. Another Adidas supplier is set to begin production
early next year and will generate about 1,000 jobs in the
country by the end of 2012, Chamorro said.  “We are rebuilding the industry in a post-China
environment as our customers are looking to balance their
sourcing,” Arias said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  