-- Chevron, Conoco Ensnared in Post-BP Government Crackdown on Oil Slicks
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2011-12-23T21:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/chevron-conoco-entrapped-in-post-bp-government-crackdown-on-oil-slicks.html
Brazil’s threatened indictment of
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  executives after offshore oil
leaks shows that regulators from the  North Sea  to the  Indian
Ocean  are stepping up scrutiny after  BP Plc’s  2010 disaster.  Brazilian authorities have said they may prosecute
employees, shut operations and exact more than $10 billion in
fines after the leaks at the Frade field 230 miles (370
kilometers) off the coast of Rio de Janeiro. The spill occurred
19 months after an explosion in the Gulf of Mexico killed 11
workers and triggered the biggest offshore U.S. oil spill.  Governments around the world are paying closer attention to
how energy explorers drill into high-pressure deposits of crude
and natural gas as much as 8 miles beneath the sea surface.
Chevron’s Brazil incident took place after a  ConocoPhillips (COP)  leak
in  China  and prior to what may be Nigeria’s biggest spill in a
decade at a Royal Dutch Shell Plc facility.  “There’s been just such a rash of them that governments
have got to act tough” with  oil companies , Allen Brooks, a
managing director at energy-investment bank PPHB LP in Houston
and Chevron shareholder, said in a phone interview. Since the BP
accident “every spill after that is heightened in terms of
media attention and obviously government concern.”  ConocoPhillips was criticized by the People’s Daily,
China’s Communist Party newspaper, for “negligence, cover-ups
and cheating” in its handling of a June leak in Bohai Bay.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  ordered a “thorough” investigation in
September.  In Nigeria,  Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA)  shut its 200,000 barrel-a-day
Bonga field this week after a tanker-loading accident caused
less than 40,000 barrels of crude to leak.  Olympic Hosts  Brazilian prosecutors are suing Chevron for 20 billion
reais ($10.8 billion) in environmental damages for the Nov. 7
leaks that the San Ramon, California-based company has estimated
at 3,000 barrels.  The furor in a nation keen to protect beaches from floating
globs of crude ahead of the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Olympic
Games may lead to new drilling rules so tough that oil
exploration becomes unprofitable, said  Adriano Pires , an
economist and former adviser to Brazil’s state oil ministry.  “What I fear is now we have a circus created around the
Chevron problem, a real circus, and to show the people they are
doing something they may create norms, legislation and
proceedings that make it impracticable to get environmental
licenses for offshore exploring,” Pires, head of the Brazilian
Center for Infrastructure, a Rio-based energy-industry
consultant, said in a telephone interview.  Making Exploration Expensive  “Depending on the measures that the government may take,
it would make oil exploration in  Brazil  much more expensive,”
Pires said.  Brazil’s federal police have said they intend to indict
employees involved in the drilling that led to leaks from sea
floor fissures near the $3.6 billion development,  Kurt Glaubitz ,
a spokesman for Chevron, said in a Dec. 21 e-mail. In a separate
statement, Transocean, owner of the drilling rig leased for the
Frade field, said it will defend the company.  Chevron underestimated the amount of pressure at an oil
deposit it was exploring, and crude leaked from the reservoir
for about eight days,  George Buck , president of Chevron’s
Brazilian subsidiary, said on Nov. 20. Buck is among 17 Chevron
and Transocean employees targeted for indictments, according to
a copy of the federal police document obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Foreign Investment ‘Chill’  “I’m a little surprised by the stance that you’re seeing
in Brazil, largely because it’s so excessive, potentially, that
you could put a very big chill on foreign investment in the deep
water,”  Ted Harper , who helps manage about $6.8 billion in
assets at Frost Investment Advisors in Houston, including about
$50 million of Chevron shares, said in a phone interview.  The response so far in Brazil is an “overreaction,” he
said.  Chevron has lagged its peers since the leaks were disclosed
on Nov. 10, gaining 1.9 percent through today’s close, compared
with increases of 8.3 percent and 7.1 percent, respectively, for
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Shell, the biggest Western energy
companies by market value.  Chevron rose 1.1 percent to $107.50 at the close in  New
York . Transocean gained 0.7 percent to $40.31.  ConocoPhillips, the third-largest U.S. oil company, said on
Dec. 21 that it’s taking responsibility for the Bohai Bay spill
and is setting up compensation funds to support environmental
research and affected communities.  Worst Since 1998  Royal Dutch Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, said
yesterday as much as half of the crude that leaked from the
Bonga installation has dissipated through natural dispersion and
evaporation. Bonga, located 75 miles off Nigeria’s coastline,
pumps about 10 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  The leak may have been the country’s worst since a January
1998 spill dumped an estimated 40,000 barrels into the sea from
the Idoho platform on the southeastern coast, with slicks
reported as far west as Lagos. Shell, the largest foreign oil
producer in Nigeria, has been criticized by some local residents
and foreign groups for onshore spills.  An “independent verification” of the Bonga platform
incident is needed to ensure the spill wasn’t more, Nnimmo
Bassey, executive director of Environmental Rights Action, said
in a phone interview from Lagos. “Shell has never been
forthcoming about incidents of oil spills in the past.”  ‘More Awareness’  BP  has booked more than $40 billion in losses related to
last year’s Gulf disaster that sank Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon rig and spilled an estimated 4.9 million barrels of
crude. The London-based oil producer also faces hundreds of
lawsuits by fishermen, hoteliers and property owners in coastal
areas where crude washed ashore.  Unlike the BP incident in the Gulf, this year’s Brazilian
and Chinese spills are within the normal range of oil industry
accidents, Nansen Saleri, chief executive officer of Quantum
Reservoir Impact LLC in Houston, said in a telephone interview.  “What’s different right now, post-Macondo, is that there’s
far more awareness globally at all levels,” he said. In the
long run, the industry will develop better and more stringent
procedures to help prevent small incidents, he said, and oil and
gas development will continue.  “Those countries who choose to go on a very punitive path
at the end will suffer the negative consequences themselves,”
said Saleri, who is a former reservoir-management chief at Saudi
Arabia’s state oil company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  