-- Sinopec Completes C$2.2 billion Purchase of Calgary-Based Daylight Energy
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2011-12-23T19:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/china-petrochemical-corp-completes-purchase-of-canada-s-daylight-energy.html
China Petrochemical Corp. (600028) , the
nation’s biggest oil refiner, completed the purchase of Canada’s
 Daylight Energy Ltd. (DAY)  for about C$2.2 billion ($2.16 billion),
the company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Sinopec, as the Chinese company is known, said it paid
C$10.08 a share in cash for Calgary-based Daylight.  Cong Peixin, a spokesman for the  China  Petrochemical unit
that carried out the transaction, declined to elaborate on the
statement. Daylight confirmed the completed sale in a statement
released yesterday.  The purchase gives the Beijing-based company access to more
than 300,000 acres of land in areas rich with oil and natural
gas, after falling crude prices made valuations attractive.  Sinopec Group, China National Petroleum Corp. and Cnooc
Ltd. are seeking to gain technology through partnerships in
order to develop China’s shale-gas reserves, estimated to be
larger than those in the U.S.  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, has partnered
with Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp.
to explore possible shale wells.  Chinese companies have announced $18.3 billion worth of
bids this year for overseas oil and gas exploration and
production companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Cnooc bought  Canada ’s Opti Canada Inc. in November for $34
million in cash, agreeing to take on $2.4 billion in debt.  Daylight’s proven and probable reserves rose 46 percent to
the equivalent of 174 million barrels of oil at the end of 2010,
the company said March 1. The company’s production was 35
million barrels in the third quarter, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  