-- New Zealand’s Christchurch City Hit by Earthquake, Closing Airport, Malls
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2011-12-23T05:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/christchurch-struck-by-earthquake-closing-malls-and-airport.html
Christchurch ,  New Zealand ’s second-
largest city, was struck by a series of earthquakes flooding
roads, damaging some buildings and forcing officials to evacuate
shopping malls two days before Christmas.  No fatalities, serious injuries or widespread damage were
reported following the temblors, the first of which struck just
before 2 p.m.,  New Zealand Police  said in an e-mailed  statement .
The initial earthquake was magnitude 5.8 and was followed by
aftershocks including one at about 3:19 p.m. of magnitude 5.9,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  Christchurch, on the nation’s  South Island , is recovering
from a series of earthquakes that started in September last
year, the worst being a magnitude 6.3 temblor that killed 181
people on Feb. 22. Ten months later, many residents are waiting
on property repairs while businesses have closed or relocated
because of devastation in the central city.  “Our Christmas is not going to be the Christmas we had
hoped for,” Mayor  Bob Parker  told  Television New Zealand .  The  New Zealand dollar  fell as low as 77.23 U.S. cents from
77.53 cents immediately before the first earthquake. It bought
77.52 cents at 5:30 p.m. in Wellington.  The first temblor was centered 20 kilometers (13 miles)
north-east of the city and 8 kilometers deep, New Zealand’s
 GeoNet reported . The stronger quake was shallower and closer to
the city, it said.  Cathedral, Airport  Christchurch Cathedral, which is being partially demolished
after suffering damage in February, was further affected, Roger
Sutton, chief executive of the Canterbury Earthquake Recovery
Authority, told reporters at a televised news conference. Other
large buildings in the central business district don’t appear to
be badly affected, he said.  Christchurch International Airport Ltd. will resumes
flights from about 6 p.m. after being closed four hours, it said
in a statement. There was no damage to runways or systems and
the terminal is open after being evacuated, Chief Executive
Officer Jim Boult said.  An office building in the eastern suburb of New Brighton
was damaged, and staff were safely evacuated, police said. Other
properties have been cordoned off after suffering damage, and a
previously damaged house has collapsed, police said.  In the east of the city there are reports of liquefaction,
a phenomenon that causes soil to lose its strength after violent
shaking, police said. Some roads are flooded, covered with silt
or have large holes. People are being urged to stay away from
hillside areas after rock falls.  As many as 26,000 people were without electricity, grid
operator Orion Networks Ltd. said on its website. Police urged
people to stay off roads as traffic congestion increased.  New Zealand faces a NZ$20 billion ($15 billion) bill to
rebuild homes, roads and commercial buildings in Christchurch
and surrounding towns after the earthquakes the past 15 months.
More than 6,500 homes have been condemned while 900 central city
buildings are being demolished.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  