-- Commerce Bank to Settle Overdraft Fee Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   F e l i c e   M a r a n z
-- 2011-12-23T20:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/commerce-bancshares-unit-to-pay-18-3-million-to-settle-overdraft-lawsuits.html
Commerce Bancshares Inc.  said a unit
of the company agreed to pay $18.3 million to settle consumer
lawsuits accusing the Colorado bank of illegally charging
excessive overdraft fees.  Officials of the unit, Denver-based  Commerce Bank , agreed
to resolve customers’ claims that the bank “improperly charged
overdraft fees on certain debit card transactions,” according
to a company filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “The bank, while admitting no wrongdoing, agreed to the
settlement in order to resolve the litigation and avoid further
expense,” officials said in the filing.  Commerce Bancshares, based in Kansas City, Missouri, is
among more than a dozen banks across the U.S. that settled suits
targeting overdraft policies which customers contend were
engineered to generate fees unfairly.  Consumers said banks, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  had policies that
allowed them to debit account holders’ funds in a way that made
it more likely customers would incur overdraft fees.  The  Federal Reserve  last year prohibited lenders from
automatically charging fees when consumers have insufficient
funds for electronic or debit-card transactions.  Earlier this year, Bank of America, the second-largest U.S.
bank by assets, agreed to pay $410 million to resolve similar
claims over its overdraft policies.  Cases in Miami  Consumers’ claims against Commerce Bank were consolidated
in federal court in Miami with other cases targeting the
overdraft policies.  Suits against more than 30 banks have been gathered before
U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King as part of a so-called
multidistrict litigation. King has overseen pretrial exchanges
of information in the cases since June 2009. The Commerce Bank
accord still needs court approval.  Commerce Bancshares is a holding company with more than
370 banks in  Missouri , Kansas, Illinois and Colorado and
Oklahoma.  The case is Wolfgeher v. Commerce Bank, 1:10-cv-22017, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami). The
consolidated case is In re Checking Account Overdraft
Litigation, 09-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Felice Maranz in  New York 
at   fmaranz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 