-- Congress Passes Payroll Tax-Cut Extension
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2011-12-23T18:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/congress-passes-payroll-tax-cut-extension.html
The  U.S. Congress  passed a two-month
 payroll tax -cut extension eight days before its scheduled
expiration after House Republicans dropped their objections
under growing political pressure.  “This is some good news, just in the nick of time for the
holidays,” said President  Barack Obama , who signed the
legislation. “When Congress returns I urge them to keep working
without drama, without delay, to reach an agreement” on
extending the tax cut for all of 2012, he said.  Similar to a plan passed by the Senate Dec. 17, the measure
would extend a two-percentage-point payroll tax cut, continue
expanded  unemployment benefits  and head off a reduction in
Medicare payments to doctors through February. Lawmakers plan to
negotiate on a longer-term extension in the new year.  Passage capped a year of partisan battles that brought the
U.S. to the brink of four government shutdowns and a government
default on obligations to bondholders. Today’s approval of the
tax measure in both chambers by unanimous consent came only
after  House Republicans  surrendered to attacks from Obama,
congressional Democrats and Senate Republicans angered by the
House’s push for a yearlong extension days before the holidays.  “I hope this Congress has had a very good learning
experience, especially those who are newer to this body,”
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters after his chamber’s action today. “It seems that
everything we’ve done this past year has been a knock-down,
drag-out fight. There is no reason to do that.”  New Talks Next Year  The agreement kicks the dispute over extending the tax cut
for 160 million U.S. workers into early next year without
resolving deep divides over how to cover the cost through 2012.  Democrats are seeking to raise taxes for high-income
Americans, and Reid said “nothing is off the table” as he
named his negotiators for a longer-term deal. Republicans want
to cut the federal workforce and freeze pay for government
employees, among other spending-cut options.  Republicans also want to attach to a payroll tax-cut
extension policies such as a rewrite of the  unemployment  system
or weaker rules for industrial emissions -- both opposed by
Democrats.  The deal that House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, and Reid, a Nevada Democrat, agreed to yesterday
calls on Obama to accelerate approval of the Keystone XL oil
pipeline from  Canada .  Weaker Position  Boehner might be in a weaker position in 2012 after
presiding over the tumult of recent days, in which Senate
Republicans opposed his stance and some House Republicans had
begun to defect as well. The talks next year will unfold in the
months ahead of a presidential election, making Boehner’s task
more difficult.  “I don’t think it’s a time for celebration,” he told
reporters yesterday. “Our economy is struggling. We’ve got a
lot of work ahead of us in the coming year.”  Some Republicans were pleased to see that Boehner cut his
losses.  “The great danger would have been if we continued,” said
Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma . “We made our points. We’ve
gotten some modifications.”  6.2 Percent  Without congressional action, the payroll tax for employees
would have risen in January to 6.2 percent from the current 4.2
percent. The tax funds Social Security. The measure also averts
an end to emergency unemployment benefits set to expire on Dec.
31 and assures doctors that their Medicare reimbursement rates
won’t be reduced starting in January.  Michael Feroli,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s New York-based chief
U.S. economist, said economic growth would be reduced by 0.5
percentage points in the first quarter and 1.5 percentage points
in the second quarter of 2012 if the payroll tax cut and
expanded unemployment benefits weren’t continued. Continuation
of those measures would allow growth of 2.5 percent in the first
half of the year, he said in a Dec. 16 note to clients.  The pressure for Boehner to cut a deal built for days.
Republican Senators  Olympia Snowe  of Maine,  Scott Brown  of
 Massachusetts ,  John McCain  of Arizona and  Bob Corker  of
 Tennessee  criticized Boehner’s move to reject the bipartisan
two-month extension after it passed the Senate on Dec. 17.  Boehner became more isolated in his opposition after the
top Republican in the Senate,  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky,
issued a statement yesterday urging the House to pass the short-
term measure.  ‘Sealed the Deal’  McConnell said the House should pass a bill that averts
“any disruption in the  payroll tax  holiday or other expiring
provisions and allows Congress to work on a solution for the
longer extensions.”  That statement “sealed the deal” in ending the standoff,
said Brian Gardner, the senior vice president for Washington
research at KBW Inc.  Boehner held a conference call with Republicans yesterday.
On a similar conference call after the Senate’s Dec. 17  passage
of the two-month extension, rank-and-file Republicans pressed
Boehner to oppose the measure. The House rejected the Senate
bill 229-193 on Dec. 20.  House Republicans who participated in yesterday’s call said
the tone was much different.  “It wasn’t truly a conference call,” Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican, said. “It wasn’t a solicitation
of opinion.”  Moving Forward  Though most House Republicans still want a yearlong deal,
Kingston said it was time for the party to move forward.  “This takes the whole thing off the front page and that’s
a good thing,” he said.  Some House Republicans said yesterday they don’t think
Boehner’s agreement to pass the two-month extension puts him in
immediate danger of losing the support of the Republican
majority he leads.  Representative  Sean Duffy , a freshman Republican from
 Wisconsin , said Boehner was trying to reflect the views of his
colleagues. Duffy said he is pleased that a tax increase will be
avoided in January and doesn’t think the saga would hurt
Republicans in the 2012 election.  “I think the American public will look at the economy and
job growth and the lack thereof,” Duffy said. “I don’t think
this is an indicator of what will happen next year.”  One Difference  Today’s measure includes one difference from the version
passed by the Senate. A yearlong payroll  tax cut  extension would
apply to the first $110,100 in wages. To prevent someone from
shifting all their income into the first two months of the year,
the Senate bill limited the tax break to the first $18,350 a
worker earns.  Republicans changed the bill to apply the tax cut to the
full $110,100 in wages, according to information provided by the
office of House Ways and Means Committee Chairman David Camp, a
Michigan Republican. That makes it easier for payroll processors
to continue the tax cut if it is extended beyond February.  Workers who earn more than $18,350 during the first two
months of the year will pay an additional two-percentage-point
tax when they file their returns in 2013.  The bill is H.R. 3765.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  