-- U.S. Consumer Spending Probably Increased on Autos
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-23T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-november-on-pent-up-auto-demand.html
Consumer spending  probably climbed
in November as Americans flocked to auto showrooms and shopped
for holiday bargains, contributing to a pickup in U.S. growth as
2011 comes to a close, economists said before a report today.  Purchases rose 0.3 percent after increasing 0.1 percent in
October, according to the median estimate of 79 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The report may also show  incomes 
grew 0.2 percent, down from a 0.4 percent gain the prior month.  “We’ve got a lot of pent-up demand coming through on car
sales,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global
Insight Inc. in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “Overall, we are
probably going to come in with holiday spending up not quite as
much as last year.”  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  are among retailers using
discounts to draw in customers hunting for affordable gifts as
wages stagnate. Failure by Congress to extend tax breaks, and a
slump in Europe caused by the region’s debt crisis represent
risks early next year to sustaining gains in household
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy.  The Commerce Department’s spending report is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from gains of 0.2 percent to 0.6 percent.  Target began a three-day “Almost Last Minute Sale” on
Dec. 8 with markdowns on such items as Stanley Black & Decker
Inc. coffee makers and gift card giveaways. A week earlier, the
discount chain held the “Big Toy Event” offering half off a
second item.  Discounting Merchandise  “Retail has been very promotional and consumers have been
value conscious,” Brian Dunn, chief executive officer at Best
Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer, said on
a Dec. 13 conference call. “We purposely planned to take a
leadership stance in the marketplace and stepped up our
promotional efforts to do so.”  Through last week, the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Retailing Index of 94 companies has increased 2.9 percent since
the end of last year compared with a 3 percent decline in the
broader  S&P 500 .  Automakers did well last month.  Sales  of cars and light
trucks advanced 3 percent in November to a 13.6 million
seasonally adjusted annualized rate, the highest since August
2009, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Another report from the Commerce Department at the same
time may show demand for durable goods, those  meant to last  at
least three years, rose 2.2 percent in November after a 0.5
percent decline the prior month, according the economists
surveyed.  Global Demand  Growth in  emerging markets  is helping sustain demand for
U.S.-produced goods.  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest farm-
equipment maker, on Nov. 23 reported fiscal fourth-quarter
profit and forecast 2012 earnings that topped analysts’
estimates.  “We expect sound farmer confidence and strong equipment
demand,” investor communications manager Susan Karlix said on a
conference call.  “The economy has been expanding moderately,
notwithstanding some apparent slowing in global growth,”
Federal Reserve policy makers said in their latest statement on
Dec. 13 following a meeting. “Household spending has continued
to advance, but business fixed investment appears to be
increasing less rapidly and the housing sector remains
depressed.”  The housing market remains a weak link in the recovery that
began in June 2009. The National Association of Realtors this
week reported revised figures for existing-home sales showing
annual purchases were an average of 14 percent lower than
previously reported going back to 2007.  Home Sales  Sales of  new houses , due from the Commerce Department today
at 10 a.m., probably rose 2.6 percent to a 315,000 rate in
November, according to economists’ estimates. That’s fewer than
last year’s total of 323,000, which was the lowest on record.  The outlook for the world’s largest economy into 2012
hinges in part on  Europe , where policy makers are struggling to
contain a financial crisis that began two years ago in  Greece 
and is threatening to spread. There is also fiscal policy
uncertainty in the U.S., where congressmen are debating
extension of breaks on employee withholdings and measures to cut
the  budget deficit  by $1.2 trillion over 10 years.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  