-- Convicted Con Man Rothstein Says Banyon’s Levin Knew of Scam
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2011-12-23T19:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/convicted-swindler-rothstein-says-banyon-fund-s-george-levin-knew-of-scam.html
Scott Rothstein, the  Florida  lawyer
convicted in a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme , said George Levin,
then-chief executive officer of hedge fund Banyon Investments,
knew of the fraud, according to deposition transcripts.  Rothstein said in a deposition made public this week that
the Ponzi scheme took off once Levin began investing. Levin’s
 Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based fund invested $775 million in
Rothstein’s law firm.  “The Ponzi scheme really got legs when I was introduced to
George Levin,” said Rothstein, who is serving a 50-year prison
sentence. “Levin knew.”  Rothstein, formerly of Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA in
Fort Lauderdale, pleaded guilty in January 2010 to five counts
of racketeering,  money laundering  and wire fraud after admitting
he sold investors interests in bogus settlements in sexual-
harassment and whistle-blower lawsuits.  Nicole Vinson and William Merlin, lawyers for Levin, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails and a phone call seeking comment
on Rothstein’s testimony. Levin has previously denied claims
that he knew of the Ponzi scheme. The  fund manager  really was a
whistleblower, contacting the U.S. Attorney’s office in November
2009 to report “irregularities” after Rothstein failed to make
a payment, Jesse Derris, a spokesman, said in 2009.  Derris said today in an e-mail that he no longer represents
Levin.  Rothstein’s deposition was taken this month at the federal
court in Miami as part of the bankruptcy case of Rothstein’s
former law firm.  The bankruptcy case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA,
09-34791,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Southern Florida
(Fort Lauderdale). The investors’ case is Razorback Funding LLC
v. Rothstein, 09062943, Circuit Court, 17th Judicial Circuit,
Broward County, Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 