-- Copper Traders Most Bullish in Two Months on Demand Outlook: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2011-12-23T16:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/copper-traders-most-bullish-in-two-months-on-demand-outlook-commodities.html
Copper traders are the most bullish
since October as global inventories at a two-year low add to
signs that demand is improving.  Sixteen of 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
metal to advance next week, the first positive outlook in three
weeks and the highest proportion since Oct. 14. Global copper
stockpiles monitored by exchanges in London, Shanghai and New
York fell 22 percent since March and this month were at the
lowest level since October 2009, Bloomberg data show.  European copper demand will rebound after this quarter and
prices will climb 26 percent in the next 12 months, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said Dec. 20. The  European Central Bank  awarded
a record 489 billion euros ($638 billion) to euro-area banks for
three years on Dec. 21 to keep credit flowing amid a debt crisis
that helped wipe more than $10 trillion from the value of
equities since May and pushed copper down 20 percent this year.  “Reported inventories have been declining very
aggressively, and the indication suggests that the market is
still tight,” said Nikos Kavalis, an analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “Copper is going to have decent,
if unspectacular, growth rates. Supply is still constrained.”  Copper’s Slump  Copper is down 25 percent from a record $10,190 a metric
ton in February at $7,638 on the  London  Metal Exchange and
heading for the first annual drop since 2008. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI  Index (MXWD)  of 24 commodities rose 2.4 percent as the MSCI
All-Country World  Index  of equities fell 9.5 percent. Treasuries
returned 9.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Traders also anticipate gains in gold, corn and soybeans
next week, while most respondents expect raw sugar to be little
changed, the surveys showed.  The number of applications for U.S. unemployment benefits
unexpectedly dropped last week to the lowest since April 2008,
Labor Department figures showed yesterday, while Dec. 15 data
showed manufacturing in the New York and Philadelphia regions
accelerated more than forecast in December. The U.S. is the
biggest buyer of copper after  China .  Asian buying has driven a decline in copper inventories,
with metal tracked by the Shanghai Futures Exchange down 54
percent since March. China accounts for 38 percent of global
consumption and  Europe  makes up 19 percent, according to
 Barclays Capital . Stockpiles monitored by the LME plunged 7,300
tons on Dec. 19, the most since May 2009. Global inventories
are 534,190.3 tons and fell to 523,574 tons on Dec. 1, data from
exchanges show.  ‘Attractive’ Prices  Prices are “looking increasingly attractive” and European
buyers will probably stop relying on stockpiles as China’s
demand growth accelerates in the first half,  Max Layton , an
analyst at Goldman in London, said in a Dec. 20 report. The bank
forecasts copper to trade at $9,500 in the next 12 months.
Barclays expects a 234,000-ton shortage next year as consumption
increases 2.5 percent.  A three-month strike in  Indonesia  at  Freeport-McMoRan (FCX) 
Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine, which has the world’s
largest recoverable reserves of copper, helped support prices.
Freeport said on Dec. 14 that a wage-increase agreement will end
the strike, though warned of “limited” concentrate shipments
until full operations are restored, probably by early 2012.  While traders are now bullish, hedge funds and other money
managers remain  bearish . They are holding a net-short position,
or bets on lower prices, of 3,390 U.S. futures and options,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Speculators have held a net-short position since mid-September,
the longest stretch since July 2009, a month after the last U.S.
recession ended.  Funding Constraints  Concern about Europe’s deepening crisis last week pushed
the dollar to the highest level against the euro since January.
A stronger greenback makes dollar-traded metals more expensive
in other monies.  Standard & Poor’s  put 15 euro nations on review
for possible downgrade on Dec. 5, and ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said on Dec. 19 that lenders in the region may have “very
significant” funding constraints next year.  “I’m still very bearish because there have been no
solutions to a number of problems,” said Mark Lewon, the
president of Utah Metal Works Inc., a Salt Lake City-based
company recycling industrial scrap. “China is still showing
economic weakness in comparison to its recent history.”  Growth in the euro-area will slow to 1.1 percent next year
from 1.6 percent this year, while expansion in China will drop
to 9 percent from 9.5 percent, the  International Monetary Fund 
estimated in a September report.  Shipping Routes  Declining demand for  consumer goods  in the Europe would
hurt economies globally. The Asia-to-Europe route is the second-
biggest inter-regional trade for the container shipping industry
after Asia-to-U.S., according to London-based Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker. Containers carry everything from
furniture to televisions and refrigerators.  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials is set for the weakest
performance since 2008. Goldman Sachs said in a report Dec. 1
that the world is likely to avoid a recession and predicted a 15
percent return for commodities in the next year. Barclays said
on Dec. 20 it has a “positive” outlook for the first quarter.  Sixteen of 26 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect gold to gain next week. Futures on the Comex in  New York 
rose 13 percent to $1,608 an ounce this year. Holdings in
gold-backed  exchange-traded products  at 2,321.158 tons are
within 2 percent of the record set Dec. 14, even as prices
slipped 16 percent from the all-time high in September.  Sugar Prices  Five of nine people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to be
little changed next week and three were bullish. The commodity
fell 26 percent this year to 23.85 cents a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York.  Eighteen of 24 anticipate higher corn prices, while 19 of
25 said soybeans will advance. Corn slipped 2 percent to
$6.165 a bushel in  Chicago  this year, and soybeans slid 16
percent to $11.725 a bushel.  “The focus in the commodity market is centered on global
growth and the European crises,” said Bayram Dincer, an analyst
at LGT Capital Management in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland . “We
expect that global demand for commodities will remain robust and
price supportive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 