-- Corn, Soybean Futures Rise on Dry South American Weather; Wheat Advances
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2011-12-23T21:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/corn-soybean-futures-rise-on-dry-south-american-weather-wheat-advances.html
Corn and soybeans rose on
speculation that adverse weather will limit output in  South
America  and lift overseas demand for U.S. supplies. Wheat
gained, capping the longest rally in almost 11 months.  Dry conditions the next 10 days will increase stress on
crops in Argentina and southern  Brazil , where most areas have
had less than half the normal rainfall since Dec. 1, Mike Tannura, the president of T-Storm Weather LLC in Chicago, said
in a telephone interview. Above-average temperatures beginning
Dec. 27 will accelerate soil evaporation, Tannura said.  “The forecasts point to the increasing threat for crop
losses,”  Jerry Gidel , a market analyst for North American Risk
Management Services Inc., said by telephone from Chicago.
“People are betting that yield losses in South America will
increase U.S. exports.”  Corn futures for March delivery rose 0.3 percent to close
at $6.195 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade,
capping the first six-session gain since December 2010. The
grain advanced 6.3 percent this week, the biggest such increase
since mid-October. Still, the price has fallen 1.5 percent this
year on rising world grain production.  Soybean futures for March delivery rose 0.1 percent to
close at $11.725 a bushel, the seventh straight gain and the
longest rally since July 15. The oilseed climbed 2.9 percent for
the week, paring the annual loss to 16 percent.  Top Exporters  The U.S. was the world’s largest producer and exporter of
both commodities in the marketing year that ended Sept. 30. The
Department of Agriculture says Brazil will top the U.S. this
year as the largest shipper of soybeans.  Argentina  is the
second-biggest corn exporter after the U.S.  The adverse weather in South America is similar to the
2008-2009 growing season, when a La Nina pattern strengthened in
December, T-Storm’s Tannura said, leading to a 30 percent plunge
in Argentina’s corn and soybean output, a 13 percent decline in
Brazil’s corn production and a 5.3 percent drop in soybeans.
This December has been even drier in Argentina than in 2008,
Tannura said.  China , the biggest consumer and buyer of soybeans, may
import 6.1 million metric tons of the oilseed in December, the
most in 18 months, the Ministry of Commerce said today on its
website.  “China may increase purchases” of U.S. corn and soybeans
as South American crop risks increase,  Don Roose , the president
of U.S. Commodities Inc., said today.  Wheat futures for March delivery rose less than 0.1 percent
to $6.22 a bushel, after gaining 7.3 percent in the prior five
sessions. The grain has fallen 22 percent this year on rising
world production and slowing demand for U.S. supplies.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion. Wheat was in fourth
place, at $13 billion, behind hay, government data show.  The CBOT will be closed Dec. 26 for the Christmas holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  