-- Corporate Bond Risk Falls in Europe, Credit-Default Swaps Show
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2011-12-23T13:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Credit-default swaps insuring bonds
sold by European banks and governments fell amid optimism the
 U.S. economy  is recovering and will help boost global growth.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index tied to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers fell for a fifth day, declining two
basis points to 274 at 1 p.m. in London, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index linked
to 15 governments dropped six to 351, the lowest since Dec. 7.  U.S. personal spending, durable-goods orders and new home
sales picked up in November, reports are forecast to show, after
data yesterday showed a drop in jobless claims. Sovereign credit
was also boosted as European Central Bank Executive Board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said policy makers shouldn’t shirk from
using quantitative easing if deflation becomes a danger to the
euro region.  “The market may be reacting positively to the comments
from ECB board member Bini Smaghi on the use of QE in the  euro
zone , however this remains at best a distant prospect,” said
Roger Francis, an analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. Ltd. in
London.  The SovX index has risen 70 percent this year as European
leaders failed to come up with a solution to the crisis that has
roiled markets for most of 2012. The gauge has declined 4
percent in December, only the second monthly drop since March.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield ratings rose 1 basis
point today to 757, reversing an earlier drop to a two-week low,
JPMorgan prices show. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps
linked to 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell 0.5
basis point to 172 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.1 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Shanahan  in  London  at 
 Mshanahan3@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  