-- Croatian Premier Proposes Cabinet to Lead Country Into EU
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2011-12-23T14:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/croatian-prime-minister-proposes-cabinet-to-take-country-into-eu.html
Croatian  lawmakers  confirmed the new
ruling Cabinet of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ’s Cabinet
after he vowed to boost economic growth and curb rising state
debt as the country prepares join the European Union in 2013.  Milanovic’s  Social Democrats  led a four-party coalition
called  Kukuriku  to victory in a Dec. 4 election. The alliance
won 80 of 151 seats in parliament, dethroning the  Croatian
Democratic Union , which had governed for 17 of the last 21
years. The former ruling party took 47 seats.  “This is for me an enormous responsibility and joy and
also an enormous opportunity,” Milanovic, a 45-year-old former
diplomat, told Parliament today. “The crisis we are facing
presents a threat, but also an opportunity. Let’s make this into
an opportunity for  Croatia .”  Croatia is taking longer than its Balkan neighbors to
recover from a recession that began more than two years ago. The
new government takes over with the threat of another economic
contraction as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps demand for exports
from the Adriatic Sea nation. Milanovic will also have to curb
rising debt and avoid a ratings downgrade.  ‘Vicious Circle’  The country risks getting caught “in a vicious circle of
insolvency and slow growth,” Milanovic said. “We need to limit
public spending, consolidate the budget, lower the deficit and
initiate growth. Public finances are stretched and we can’t
continue to borrow like this anymore.”  Economic output rose 0.7 percent in the third quarter from
the same period a year ago and the November jobless rate, at
17.9 percent, is more than double compared with EU members
 Germany  and the  Czech Republic .  Central bank Governor Zeljko Rohatinski this month said the
country may slide into recession in 2012 as the government
spending cuts and the euro area’s debt crisis continue to hurt
the economy.  Croatia had its  credit rating  reduced a year ago to BBB-,
one step above junk at  Standard & Poor’s , which cited a
“deteriorated fiscal position and continuously weak” external
financing.  Fitch Ratings  said on Dec. 5 it will review its
assessment in the first quarter in 2012, by which time it
“expects to have more information regarding the government’s
fiscal and economic program.  Among the proposed ministers are Economy Minister Radimir
Cacic, Finance Minister Slavko Linic, Foreign Minister  Vesna Pusic , Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic, Agriculture Minister
Tihomir Jakovina, Justice Minister Orsat Miljenic and
Transportation Minister Zlatko Komadina.  The Adriatic nation is set to become the EU’s 28th member
in July 2013.  To contact the reporter responsible for the story: Jasmina
Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story: James M. Gomez
at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  