-- Crude Futures Head for Biggest Weekly Gain in Two Months on U.S. Economy
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2011-12-23T13:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/crude-futures-head-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-two-months-on-u-s-economy.html
Oil headed for its biggest weekly
gain in almost two months in  New York  after U.S. economic
reports indicated that growth in the world’s biggest crude
consumer will accelerate.  West Texas Intermediate futures have advanced 6.8 percent
this week, matching the gain in the period ended Oct. 28. U.S.
initial  jobless claims  dropped to the lowest level since April
2008, data from the Labor Department showed yesterday. Leading
indicators climbed more than forecast in November, and consumer
sentiment improved this month. Oil supplies fell the most in a
decade last week, the Energy Department said Dec. 21.  “We’re seeing improving data from the U.S., which I expect
will be a little bit stronger next year,” said Torbjoern Kjus,
an oil market analyst at DnB NOR ASA, who predicts prices will
decline in the first quarter as  Libya  boosts output. “But
 Europe ’s problems will escalate and more than offset this.”  Crude for February delivery was at $99.90 a barrel, up 37
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:32 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday rose 86 cents
to $99.53, the highest settlement since Dec. 13. Futures climbed
9.4 percent this year after increasing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for February was trading at $107.76 a barrel, 13
cents lower, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European contract’s premium to Nymex crude was $7.84 a
barrel, compared with a close yesterday of $8.36 that was the
smallest differential since March 8. The spread surged to a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  U.S. Economy  U.S. initial unemployment claims fell by 4,000 to 364,000
last week, Labor Department figures showed yesterday. The
Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three to
six months rose 0.5 percent, versus a median forecast of 0.3
percent in a Bloomberg survey. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index of consumer sentiment increased more than
expected in December.  Crude may rise next week on speculation that sanctions
against  Iran  will curb supply from the world’s third-largest oil
exporter, a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  Twelve of 32 analysts, or 38 percent, forecast oil will
gain through Dec. 30. Ten respondents, or 31 percent, predicted
prices will drop and 10 estimated there will be little change.
Oil is up 26 percent this quarter, the biggest advance since the
second quarter of 2009.  Iran Sanctions  The European Union and the U.S. are seeking support from
the  Middle East  and  Asia  for sanctions to increase pressure on
Iran to abandon a suspected nuclear weapons program. Iran’s navy
will hold 10 days of maneuvers east of the  Strait of Hormuz ,
state-run Fars news agency reported yesterday, citing Navy
Commander Habibollah Sayari.  “If there are sanctions, that will be supportive,” said
Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong . “If there is a response by Iran or if tensions
escalate then that would be even more supportive.”  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, flows through the waterway between Iran and
Oman at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf , according to the U.S.
Department of Energy. Sayari said Iran’s military has the
capability to “control” the strait, according to a second Fars
report. Whether it chooses to close the channel “depends on the
decision of Iran’s higher officials,” he said.  EU foreign ministers are scheduled to meet next month to
discuss sanctions. Iran, which exports more crude than any
nation except  Saudi Arabia  and  Russia , denies trying to develop
nuclear weapons.  Floor trading at the  New York Mercantile Exchange  is closed
Dec. 26 because of the Christmas holiday. Electronic trading
begins at 6 p.m. on Dec. 26 for the next day’s settlement price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  