-- CVC Drops Takeover of ConvergEx Amid SEC, Justice Probes of Bermuda Unit
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2011-12-23T17:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/cvc-drops-takeover-of-convergex-amid-sec-justice-probes-of-bermuda-unit.html
ConvergEx Inc ., a trading-software
company partially owned by Bank of New York Mellon Corp., said
its July agreement to be bought by  CVC Capital Partners  Ltd. was
terminated amid regulatory investigations of its Bermuda unit.  The parallel probes by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the  Department of Justice  mainly involve certain
non-electronic trade-execution practices by the ConvergEx Global
Markets unit, which is expected to produce 7 percent of revenue
this year, New York-based ConvergEx said today in a statement.
The audit and risk committee of the board has hired outside
counsel to conduct a review, the company said.  “Since becoming aware of the matters under review, we have
taken strong actions to remedy any lapses that have occurred,”
Joseph Velli, chief executive officer of ConvergEx, said in the
statement. “We are taking additional steps to ensure that we
are in full compliance with our own policies and procedures as
well as all other regulatory requirements.”  John Nester , a SEC spokesman, and Gina Talamona, a Justice
Department spokeswoman, declined to comment on the
investigations. Claire Ellis, a spokeswoman for CVC, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  Ron Gruendl , a spokesman for
New York-based BNY Mellon, declined to comment beyond the
statement.  $1.9 Billion  CVC Capital Partners, the London-based buyout firm that
oversees a 10.8 billion-euro ($14.1 billion) fund, would have
become the largest owner of ConvergEx under the deal announced
July 20. The buyout may have been valued at $1.9 billion, two
people with knowledge of the talks said at the time.  CVC in June agreed to buy BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc., the
third-largest U.S. warehouse-club chain, with Leonard Green &
Partners LP for $2.8 billion in cash. On Dec. 15, CVC teamed up
with Johor Corp. to bid at least $1.6 billion for  KFC Holdings
(Malaysia) Bhd. (KFC)  and parent  QSR Brands Bhd. (QSR)  to gain control of
more than 900 fast-food restaurants in  Southeast Asia  and  India .  ConvergEx posted revenue of $610 million in 2010 and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
excluding certain items, of $162 million. The company, which
sells software to handle trading and risk management, also
functions as a broker-dealer. Its biggest competitors include
Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  In May, it filed with the SEC to raise as much as $400
million in an initial public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  