-- Syrian Security Buildings Hit by Bombers
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2011-12-23T17:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/damascus-hit-by-suicide-bombings-killing-30-as-arab-league-monitors-arrive.html
Suicide bombers  targeted two Syrian
security-service buildings in Damascus, killing civilians and
soldiers, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency said, after an
Arab League mission arrived to prepare for monitoring of an
accord to end nine months of violence.  More than 40 people were killed and 100 wounded, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing Syrian authorities. SANA said a
preliminary investigation reveals the attack “carries the
blueprints of al-Qaeda” and published photographs of the dead
from the scene. President Bashar al-Assad’s government
previously blamed “terrorists” and foreign provocateurs for
fomenting the anti-government protests.  “ Syria  claims it is fighting foreign-backed armed groups,
and these attacks would appear to lend credence to these
allegations,”  David Hartwell , Middle East political analyst for
London-based  IHS Jane’s , said in a note. “The fact that they
occurred the day after the  Arab League  monitoring mission began
arriving in Damascus to assess the human-rights situation in the
country is certain to be viewed with suspicion by opposition and
international observers.”  The U.S. condemns the bombings in the “strongest possible
terms,” State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in a
statement. “It is crucial that today’s attack not impede the
critical work of the Arab League monitoring mission to document
and deter human rights abuses with the goal of protecting
civilians,” Toner said. “We hope that this mission will
proceed unfettered in an atmosphere of non-violence.”  Arab League Role  Syria agreed to an Arab League protocol to allow about 500
observers into the country. The Dec. 19 signing came as Arab
League prepared to ask the  United Nations  to address a crisis
that the UN estimates has left more than 5,000 people dead.
Three were killed in Homs today, following the deaths of 40
people in the city yesterday, Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said by phone from Syria. Al
Arabiya television said 70 died the previous day.  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27,
increasing economic and political pressure on Assad. Efforts by
the U.S. and the European Union, which also have imposed
sanctions, to get a condemnation of his crackdown at the UN
 Security Council  have been blocked by Russia and  China .  The team that landed yesterday includes the Arab League’s
assistant secretary-general, Samir Seif Al-Yazal, SANA said. The
league has been given assurances that its observers will be able
to travel freely, communicating with whomever they want without
approval from Syrian authorities, Al Arabiya television said.  Assad’s ‘Massacres’  The Syrian National Council, an opposition alliance seeking
to topple Assad’s government, has called for a Security Council
meeting to address alleged “massacres” and “genocide.”  State forces have killed 250 people in the past 48 hours in
the regions of Idlib, Homs and al-Zawiyah, the council said
yesterday. The regions should be declared “safe zones,” it
said. Reports of the latest killings couldn’t be verified
because the Syrian government restricts foreign media access in
the country and places curbs on local journalists.  In a statement yesterday, the Turkish Foreign Ministry
condemned “the Syrian regime’s policy of crackdown that targets
its own people and turns the country into a lake of blood.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  