-- In Defense of Wal-Mart, or at Least Its Heiress: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2011-12-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/defending-wal-mart-or-at-least-its-heiress-commentary-by-michael-kinsley.html
In cultural commentary about the
American economy, one company at a time always seems to be the
goat. Everything it does is interpreted as evil.  In the 1950s, it was General Motors. GM’s CEO,  Charles
“Engine Charlie” Wilson , became a national figure of ridicule
for telling a congressional committee, “What’s good for General
Motors is good for America.” Except that he actually said, “For
years I thought that what was good for the country was good for
General Motors and vice versa” -- which is quite a different
proposition.  In the 1990s, the goat was Microsoft. That antitrust case
looks a bit silly in retrospect, don’t you think? Turns out it
wasn’t Microsoft that was about to take over the world: It was
Google. (And just so you know, I once worked for Microsoft.)  Who is the goat today? Clearly it’s Wal-Mart. Does anybody
really love Wal-Mart? Well, I’m a pretty big fan. It’s fun to
roam the aisles and see what people are buying. Nineteen-inch
flat-screen TVs for $98! That’s pretty great. Wish I needed one.  Last week, my colleague  Jeffrey Goldberg  launched a
 ferocious attack  on  Sam Walton ’s daughter, Alice (net worth:
$21 billion), for building a billion-dollar art museum in
Bentonville,  Arkansas , where Wal-Mart has its headquarters, and
stocking it with American art. He calls it a “moral tragedy.”
Why? Because Alice Walton’s money is tainted by its source: Wal-
Mart.  What is Wal-Mart doing that’s so wrong? Critics like
Goldberg say that Wal-Mart employees are underpaid and that many
don’t get health care. They see the museum as a symbol of the
growing gap between the haves and the have-nots.  Lady Bountiful  As for what Walton can do about any of this,  Goldberg
suggests  she could fund day-care centers or mobile dental
clinics for employees. This smacks of Lady Bountiful delivering
turkeys to the serfs at Christmastime. Wal-Mart is a profitable
business. It shouldn’t get subsidized by charity. Nor should its
employees have to depend on charity. I also suspect that most of
them are thrilled to have the new museum in town, and don’t see
it as a symbol of  income inequality .  The  growing income gap  is a big problem, but how is Wal-
Mart contributing to it? Presumably Wal-Mart pays what it has to
in order to attract workers, and doesn’t pay a lot more if it
can be avoided. Presumably, Wal-Mart scours the globe looking
for bargains, and if  China  is the cheapest producer, China gets
the business. That’s capitalism, and if we don’t like the
results, we can use the tools of government, primarily the  tax
code , to improve them. True, Wal-Mart has a reputation for being
especially ruthless in its dealings with employees and
suppliers. Goldberg talked to one employee who said she was paid
so little that she had to live in her car. Did he talk to no one
who said he or she liked working for Wal-Mart?  As for benefits, no company is obliged to offer health
care. Critics often note that Wal-Mart doesn’t offer health
insurance to employees who work less than 24 hours a week. You
could turn that around and say that Wal-Mart does offer health
care to employees who work at least 24 hours a week. Check with
your own company. My experience is that you become eligible for
benefits at about half-time. That would be 20 hours. So is 24
hours so unreasonable? It’s also true that Wal-Mart is raising
the premiums for many employees who do get health insurance. But
most companies in the U.S. are probably planning to increase the
employee contribution in the coming year. Certainly it’s nothing
unique to Wal-Mart.  There are those whose objections to Wal-Mart are more
aesthetic than economic: the barnlike quality of the stores, the
impact of a Wal-Mart  on old downtowns , even the whole culture of
consumption that some people find distasteful. They’re welcome
to those views as long as they acknowledge that higher prices at
non-Wal-Mart stores are bad for consumers -- especially poor
consumers.  Small-Business Myths  Wal-Mart’s employees seem to me at least as cheerful as
those in Target or Costco. But perhaps the company has
hypnotized them -- or possibly me -- in some sort of  Stepford
Wives  scenario.  Big companies make fat targets, but a more deserving target
might be small companies. Instead, we have the ever-inflating
myth of small business. Small businesses come and go, creating
and eliminating jobs along the way. Yes, they are an important
part of the economy, and often they come with inspiring tales of
hard-working immigrants and so on. But they’re in it to make a
profit, just like Wal-Mart. And I doubt that many offer health
care to people working less than 24 hours a week. A successful
small-business owner is more likely to be in the notorious 1
percent than an employee (or even a stockholder) of a big
corporation. They don’t need to be coddled with special tax
breaks.  Walton could have put her museum in  New York , where this
sort of thing belongs. Most of us don’t get to Bentonville as
often as we’d like. Or she could have decided not to build it at
all, for fear that journalists would start comparing her to
 Marie Antoinette . Would that have been better?  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 