-- Deutsche Bank Said to Win Loan for Solow’s Midtown 9 West
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2011-12-23T19:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/deutsche-bank-said-to-win-625-million-loan-for-solow-s-9-west.html
New York developer Sheldon Solow
secured a $625 million loan from Deutsche Bank AG to refinance
debt on 9 West 57th Street, a trophy tower in midtown  Manhattan ,
as lenders focus on the best properties.  The lender beat out  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to provide the financing, which may be
packaged as bonds to be sold to investors, said two people
familiar with the deal, who declined to be identified because
the negotiations aren’t public. The loan would refinance debt
that comes due in February that was bundled into securities in
2007 at the peak of the property bubble, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The competition underscores strong demand for prime
buildings in big cities even after the European debt crisis
roiled markets and caused lenders to pull back from financing 
skyscrapers, hotels and shopping centers. While Bank of America
Corp. vacated 9 West in 2008, leaving about half of the 1.6
million square-foot (149,000 square-meter) tower empty, tenants
include KKR & Co., Apollo Global Management LLC and luxury-goods
maker Chanel SA, Bloomberg data show.  “As far as a plaza-district office building, the location
doesn’t get any better,” said  Dan Fasulo , a managing director
at Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based firm which
tracks commercial real-estate sales.  Steve Solomon, a spokesman for Solow and  Renee Calabro , for
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , declined to comment.  Justin Perras  of JPMorgan and Mark Herr of AIG, both based in New York,
declined to comment.  Building Value  The 50-story building commands some of Manhattan’s highest
rents, particularly for higher floors that have unobstructed
views of Central Park, Fasulo said, estimating the property may
be worth as much as $1.5 billion. The building was valued at
$2.24 billion in 2007, Bloomberg data show  “He’s fortunate enough to have very low leverage on the
building which allows him to carry the vacancy,” Fasulo said.
“He could lease those floors tomorrow if he wanted too.”  The deal contrasts with the majority of commercial property
loans packaged into securities in 2007 that need to be
refinanced next year. About $55 billion of property loans sold
as securities come due in 2012, with $19 billion of those
originated in 2007, Standard & Poor’s analyst Larry Kay said in
a Dec. 19 report. As much as 50 percent to 60 percent of those
five-year loans will struggle to refinance, the New York-based
rating company forecasted, after property values decreased 42
percent from the peak.  Super Duper Index  Loan originations for the commercial-mortgage backed
 securities market  fell 48 percent in the third quarter,
according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association , as  Europe ’s
fiscal imbalances caused investors to flee risky assets.  The extra yield investors demand to own top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries reached 323
basis points, or 3.23 percentage points, on Oct. 18 from 209
basis points on July 1, according to the Barclays Capital CMBS
AAA Super Duper Index. The spread has narrowed to 259 basis
points.  Solow declined to lower rents at the building to attract
new tenants even as the financial crisis ravaged the New York
office market, the Wall Street Journal reported in an April 2010
article.  “He has a history of not being easy to work with,” Fasulo
said. “He thinks he has the ultimate product and if you don’t
accept his terms, you’re not a tenant in his building.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  