-- Dodgers Barred by Judge From Shopping TV Rights in Victory for Fox Network
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2011-12-23T19:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/dodgers-can-t-shop-television-rights-to-bidders-district-judge-says.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  can’t shop
the rights to televise the team’s baseball games to new bidders
while a court considers a challenge by Fox Sports, the club’s
current broadcaster, a district judge ruled.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports has a “strong likelihood of
success” on appeal from a ruling by the U.S.  Bankruptcy Court 
that allowed the Dodgers to market the TV rights to games
beginning with the 2014 season, U.S. District Judge Leonard P. Stark ruled today in Wilmington, Delaware.  Fox, which has the rights through the 2013 season, had
failed to convince the bankruptcy court that the existing
contract precludes the team from negotiating with another
broadcaster before October 2012. The bankruptcy judge said that
condition was unenforceable against a company in bankruptcy.  Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  is selling the team, which
filed for bankruptcy in June. To increase the value of the
franchise, the Dodgers are soliciting separate offers for the
rights to televise future games, which Fox holds through next
year.  Stark granted a stay of the bankruptcy court ruling until
he decides Fox’s appeal. The district judge accepted Fox’s
argument that the Dodgers’ ability to sell the team by April
isn’t dependent on being able to market television rights
beforehand.  Fox’s appeal is Fox Sports Net West 2 LLC v. Los Angeles
Dodgers LLC (In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC), 11-01235, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). The case is
In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  