-- Dominion, Sempra May Boost Dividends After Payout Drop
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2011-12-23T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/dominion-sempra-may-boost-dividends-after-industry-payout-drop.html
Dominion Resources Inc. ,  Sempra
Energy (SRE)  and other regulated utility owners may increase their
dividends next year after payouts fell to historically low
levels because of concern about U.S. pollution rules, a  fund
manager  for  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  said.  Utilities have been “holding off” on spending plans and
dividends while awaiting final rules from the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency to cut power-plant emissions, John Kohli, who
manages $3.6 billion as portfolio manager for the Franklin
Utilities Fund, said in a Dec. 20 phone interview.  “The dividend-payout ratio for this industry is down
around 60 percent, which is at the low end at where most
companies target,” Kohli said. The 10-year average industry
payout ratio of dividends to earnings is about 65 percent, he
said.  The EPA issued standards on Dec. 21 to cut mercury and
other toxic emissions from coal-fired  power plants , rules that
it estimates will cost $9.6 billion a year. Agency regulations
on power-plant emissions that contribute to cross-state
pollution are set to take effect in 2012 and have been
challenged in court.  Utility owners paid out  $18 billion in dividends  last year,
according to the Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-based
group representing investor-owned utilities that supply about 95
percent of U.S. power customers. The industry’s payout ratio was
59 percent for the first nine months of the year, the lowest on
an annual basis since at least 1993, according to the institute.  Dominion rose less than 1 percent to close at $52.95 in  New
York . Sempra increased 0.9 percent to $54.62.  One-Third Rise  A third of the companies in the 15-member Dow Jones
Utilities Average, including Dominion, are projected to raise
their dividend in the next quarter, according to the Bloomberg
Dividend Forecast. The  dividend yield (UTIL)  for the index is expected
to rise to 4.08 percent in 2012 from 3.94 percent in 2011,
according to Bloomberg.  Dominion sees its payout ratio next year near the top of
its target range of 60 percent to 65 percent of expected
earnings, the Richmond, Virginia-based company said on Dec. 20.  “We expect our board of directors will declare an increase
in the dividend rate in January,” Ryan Frazier, a Dominion
spokesman, said in a Dec. 21 e-mail. The quarterly dividend is
expected to rise 7.6 percent to 53 cents, according to Bloomberg
forecasts.  Sempra Energy may also raise its payout next year, Kohli
said. In February, San Diego-based Sempra raised its annual
dividend 23 percent to $1.92 a share and established a payout
ratio of 45 percent to 50 percent of earnings.  Based on the company’s 2012 outlook, this implies an annual
dividend next year in the $2 to $2.20 range, Kohli said.  Doug Kline, a spokesman for Sempra, declined to comment on
a dividend increase. Sempra’s board evaluates the dividend
policy on a regular basis, he said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  