-- Dwight Howard’s Destination Dominating Discussion in Shortened NBA Season
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/dwight-howard-s-destination-dominating-discussion-in-shortened-nba-season.html
Dwight Howard  is still in  Orlando  as
the National Basketball Association season prepares to tip off
almost two months late. How long he stays there is among the
league’s biggest questions, one month after a new labor
agreement erased the chance there wouldn’t be a season at all.  The 6-foot-11 Howard may be the dominant big man in a
league lacking so-called true centers, a three-time defensive
player of the year who has averaged 18.2 points, 12.9 rebounds
and 2.2 blocks for his career. He starts his eighth year when
the Magic host the Oklahoma City Thunder, one of five games to
open the season on Christmas Day.  Howard’s talents may make the Magic the latest NBA team to
trade its star player to avoid losing him as a free agent
without getting anything in return. Among the possible
destinations are Los Angeles and the 16-time NBA-champion
Lakers, the New York area with the Brooklyn-bound  New Jersey
Nets , or the  Dallas Mavericks .  “Let’s face it, it doesn’t make sense for Orlando to risk
losing him and get nothing next year,” Stan Kasten, a former
Atlanta Hawks president, said in a telephone interview. “What’s
interesting is if Dwight would be amenable, Orlando has a better
chance to sign him now than they had before. It just looks like
he wants to leave, which is his right.”  While Magic officials have said the team wants him to stay,
they risk losing him as a free agent without compensation after
this season if they don’t re-sign or trade him.  If Howard is traded, he would follow  Chris Paul  as the
second impending free agent All-Star dealt since ratification of
a labor deal that was supposed to help keep big-name players in
smaller markets.  Shortened Season  The season was shortened to 66 games from 82 because of the
five-month lockout. Also on the first-day schedule is a rematch
of the NBA Finals in which the Mavericks beat the  Miami Heat ,
while the Lakers host the  Chicago Bulls , the  Boston Celtics 
visit the  New York Knicks  and the  Los Angeles Clippers  play the
 Golden State Warriors .  The Heat, led by  LeBron James  and  Dwyane Wade , are 9-5
favorites to win the title, according to the Las Vegas Hilton’s
race and sports book. The Thunder are the second choice at 5-1,
followed by the Lakers and Bulls at 6-1, the Mavericks at 7-1
and the Celtics at 12-1. The Knicks have 15-1 championship odds,
while the Magic are tied for 10th among the league’s 30 teams at
30-1.  The focus on Howard’s future may prompt the Magic to make a
decision sooner rather than later to avoid distractions as well
as to get something in return. Howard was criticized for his
play in a 33-point preseason loss to Miami on Dec. 18, when he
scored five points on 2-of-9 shooting and grabbed six rebounds.  “Because of the situation that’s going on, every little
thing is going to be magnified times 100,” Howard told
reporters. “I know that. My teammates know it.”  Anthony Trade  The  Denver Nuggets  traded  Carmelo Anthony  to the Knicks in
February after months of speculation. The  Utah Jazz  surprised
Deron Williams by trading the All-Star guard to the Nets during
last season rather than see him leave as a free agent.  The Magic, Lakers, Nets and Mavericks are the only teams
where Howard would sign a long-term contract, ESPN said, citing
an unidentified person close to the situation.  The  New Orleans Hornets  sent Paul, an All-Star point guard,
to the Clippers this month after an earlier trade with the
Lakers was canceled by NBA Commissioner David Stern.  Paul’s arrival has fueled anticipation about whether he and
reigning rookie of the year Blake Griffin can make the Clippers
the more exciting team in  Los Angeles .  Seeking Stars  It has also raised questions about the Lakers, who had
sought both Paul and Howard. The Lakers this year entered into a
20-year local television contract with Time Warner Cable and are
seeking marketable stars with Bryant, at age 33, probably
approaching the latter stages of his career.  Howard could give the Lakers a dominant low-post player. He
turned 26 this month and may be the NBA’s best true center, who
stay near the basket on offense, rebound well and complement
smaller players on the perimeter.  Howard also could be the latest in a line of Lakers stars -
-- including Wilt Chamberlain, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Magic Johnson,  Shaquille O’Neal  and Bryant -- who draw celebrities
courtside. The Lakers have quality players such as Pau Gasol and
Andrew Bynum to offer in a trade, and would probably be able to
withstand the financial hit of the NBA’s increased penalties for
teams exceeding the luxury tax threshold, Kasten said. NBA teams
above a certain payroll have to pay a fine, or luxury tax, to
the league.  Superman Cape  Howard, who once donned a Superman cape during the NBA’s
slam-dunk contest, has sponsorships with companies such as
Adidas AG, McDonald’s Corp., Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile and
Coca-Cola Co.’s Glaceau Vitaminwater. A move to one of the
nation’s top media markets -- Los Angeles is second behind  New
York , while Orlando is 19th -- could further boost his
endorsement potential.  “It’s just a bigger market and so there’s more money to be
made regardless of what the team pays,” Rick Burton, professor
of sports management at Syracuse University, said in a telephone
interview. “To keep a player in a smaller market or less media-
active market, you really have to create a relationship where he
doesn’t want to leave.”  Shaq Departs  Losing Howard would be reminiscent of the Magic parting
with O’Neal, who spent his first four seasons in Orlando. He won
three NBA titles with the Lakers and another in Miami before
retiring this year as the fifth-leading scorer in league
history.  The NBA’s owners and players completed a collective
bargaining agreement last month that’s supposed to help bring
increased stability to teams in lower-revenue markets.  “The new CBA can’t create competitive balance,” Steve Kerr, an NBA analyst for Time Warner’s TNT network, said in a
telephone interview. “They can try to entice guys to stay where
they are, but beyond that you can’t get rid of free agency. If a
guy wants to go somewhere else, he’s going to go somewhere
else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  