-- Medici Banker, Sad Queen Highlight Met Renaissance Show: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/medici-banker-sad-queen-highlight-grand-renaissance-show-lance-esplund.html
Donatello’s gilded bronze sculpture
“Reliquary Bust of Saint Rossore” (c. 1425) is a restless
surface of gleaming, golden waves enveloping a stern male
presence.  Seemingly haloed, lit from within, the glowing, spot-lit
sculpture beckons viewers into the first gallery of the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s astounding exhibition “The
Renaissance Portrait from Donatello to Bellini.”  On view is a gathering of some 160 portraits -- paintings,
drawings, bronze medals and marble sculptures, mostly Italian --
from the 15th century.  “ Saint Rossore ” is fixed, frontal, head bowed in prayer.
Yet he is a whirlwind of emotion and activity, with his neck
shooting out of his shoulders like a geyser.  In Donatello’s portrait, we sense both human countenance
and hallowed ideal -- the flowering of, and tension between, the
sacred and profane.  “ The Renaissance Portrait ,” which was jointly curated
with the  Gemaldegalerie  in Berlin, where the show originated, is
exponentially greater than the sum of its numerous masterpieces.  Big Names  The exhibition moves loosely chronologically and by subject
and region. The biggest names are here:  Fra Angelico , the
Bellinis, Botticelli, Ghirlandaio, Leonardo, Mantegna, Masaccio,
Pisanello, Rogier van der Weyden and Verrocchio.  These decades, saw great change in perception as artists
roamed outside idealized realms. The outward appearances of the
world are brought head-to-head with the inwardness of man;
notions of permanence and reverence regarding God and heaven
collide with the liberty, dignity and autonomy of the
individual.  The beauty of classical antiquity butts up against the
truth inherent in the ugliness of your neighbor. The 15th
century marks the nascence of portraiture not just for religious
purposes but, for the first time since antiquity, as a
celebration of actual people -- their accomplishments,
appearance and personalities -- for posterity.  The Medici  This exhibition brings us potentates of church and state,
patrons, poets and artists, including self-portraits -- not
“types” but, rather, individuals reborn, identifiable to
friends and family.  Included here are portraits of the Medici family, doges,
cardinals, kings, the Holy Roman Emperor, Frederick III and,
perhaps, Dante. Super-banker and Florence overlord Cosimo de
Medici shows off his gaunt boniness in several striking
portraits.  Grandson Lorenzo the Magnificent is remembered in an
unsettling cast of his death mask in which he looks deep in
thought with his teeth clenched as if chewing on a piece of
tough salami.  Willful distortion is what brings these portraits to life.
The sitters are often presented in profile, yet their heads and
chests rotate toward frontal or three-quarter views and their
eyes dart, turn and advance toward the viewer, in an attempt,
seemingly, to engage with us.  The subjects are not fixed, “captured.” They are in
constant motion. In Antonio del Pollaiuolo’s profile “ Portrait
of a Lady ” (c. 1460-65), her chest, as in an ancient Egyptian
figure, turns to face us.  Giovanni Bellini’s three-quarter portrait “Fra Teodoro of
Urbino as Saint Dominic” (1515) is elastic. The sitter’s eye
closest to us shrinks and drops back; and the eye farthest away
grows enormous and projects forward.  Caterina Cornaro  As you look into the eyes of many of the greatest
portraits, the subjects become pensive and withdrawn. Their
personalities slowly excavated by the artists, are not easily
divulged. You must work to unravel their fullness and
complexities.  In the last gallery, among a suite of masterly Bellini-
family portraits, is Gentile’s depiction of  Caterina Cornaro  (c.
1500), the tragic queen of Cyprus who was deposed by avaricious
Venetians and dispatched to the mainland in Asolo.  Written on the portrait in a trompe l’oeil plaque is a
testament from the sitter to her splendid painter:  “…I bear the name of the virgin who is buried on Sinai.
The senate of  Venice  calls me daughter. Cyprus, seat of nine
kingdoms, is subject to me. You see how important I am, yet
greater still is the hand of Gentile Bellini, which has captured
my image on such a small panel.”  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com . 