-- Education Yields Near Record Low Spur Texas Tech University to Sell Bonds
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2011-12-23T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/education-yields-near-record-low-spur-texas-tech-university-to-sell-bonds.html
Texas Tech University plans to sell
$198 million in tax-exempt and taxable bonds for sports and other
programs as similar education debt approaches record-low yields.  Interest rates  on AA rated education bonds, the same grade
Fitch Ratings assigned to the Texas Tech debt, have fallen to
2.92 percent, the lowest since Sept. 28 and near the record low
of 2.87 percent set in September 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The sale may come in as soon as two
weeks, according to the Lubbock-based university.  “From the seller perspective, how low can you go?” Jim
Brunjes, the school’s chief financial officer, said in a
telephone interview. “We didn’t think rates were going to be
this low, but we did think rates would probably go up in the
middle of 2012. So we thought to go ahead.”  Issuers may sell $347 billion of long-term municipal bonds
next year, up from $288 billion in 2011, according to a survey
from the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.
Issuance this week was the lowest since January, according to
Bloomberg data.  In addition to its third-highest rating, Fitch gave the
school a positive outlook, citing a manageable debt burden and
growing student population. More than 32,000 students attended
this semester, the most ever, Brunjes said.  First Since 2009  The bonds will be issued through the Board of Regents of
Texas Tech University System, which governs the school, its
health sciences center and  Angelo State University . The proceeds
will be used for athletic projects, academic facilities and
dormitories, Brunjes said. It’s the entity’s first bond sale
since February 2009, he said.  Part of the proceeds will also be used to buy back bonds
issued in 2001 and 2003, for savings of 24 percent and 8
percent, respectively, according to Brunjes. The taxable and
tax-exempt bonds mature from 2012 to 2031, according to the
preliminary official statement.  About $171 million of the sale is tax-exempt, according to
the preliminary statement. Texas is one of seven U.S. states
without an income tax, reducing the advantage of the debt’s tax-
exempt status for local residents.  Texas Tech is the seventh-largest public university in the
state by enrollment, according to  data  from the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board. Its football team defeated
Northwestern University 45-38 in the TicketCity Bowl in  Dallas  on
Jan. 1. This season, the team finished with a losing record for
the first time since 1992, according to the school’s sports
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  