-- SEC Backs Lehman Brokerage in $3 Billion Barclays Dispute
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-23T22:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/lehman-brokerage-backed-by-sec-in-3-billion-barclays-dispute-over-assets.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sided with the bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Inc. (LEHMQ) 
brokerage in a $3 billion dispute with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  over assets,
saying Barclays’s claim to securities in customer accounts was
correctly deemed conditional by a judge.  If the SEC’s opinion carries the day, London-based Barclays
may lose its claim to as much as $1.3 billion reserved for
customers, according to an  SEC filing  yesterday in U.S. District
Court in Manhattan.  “The commission wishes to ensure that assets held in the
special reserve bank account for the exclusive benefit of
customers, as well as other assets required to be held for the
benefit of customers, are properly administered in the event a
broker-dealer is liquidated,” the SEC said.  In October, Barclays and brokerage trustee, James Giddens,
both appealed U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck’s ruling that
told Barclays to return $2 billion in margin assets to the
bankrupt brokerage. The judge gave Barclays “only a conditional
right” to $769 million in the reserve account.  Giddens is liquidating the remnants of the Lehman brokerage
to pay  hedge funds  and institutional investors after Barclays
took over many retail brokerage clients and some of the trading
businesses. He’s fighting Peck’s order to give Barclays at least
$1.1 billion.  Pay Claims  The trustee has said he needs all the reserve assets to pay
claims, and therefore they can’t go to Barclays, the SEC said in
the filing. In addition to the $769 million, reserves include
$507 million in margin for customer transactions at the Options
Clearing Corp., the SEC said.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment
on the SEC filing.  SEC staff members told both parties in 2008, when Barclays
bought Lehman’s North American business, that they might violate
a customer-protection rule if Barclays took the assets,
according to the filing.  The duel between Barclays and Giddens follows a bankruptcy
court trial held in 2010 before Peck in  Manhattan . Both sides
are due to file court papers today in support of their appeals.  Appealing Peck’s order to return $2 billion in margin,
Barclays said in October that his ruling was “commercially
absurd” because the bank would never have taken on Lehman’s
trading assets without the margin backing them. As for the
$769 million in reserve assets, Barclays said that the deal
documents promised the U.K. bank similar assets if those weren’t
available.  Giddens said in his appeal that Peck erred in awarding
Barclays the $1.1 billion in assets held to clear trades. Peck
should have focused on which party they belonged to, Giddens
said.  The court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 11-cv-
06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 