-- Emerging-Market Stocks Post Weekly Gain on Boost From U.S. Data
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2011-12-23T22:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-fourth-day-heading-for-weekly-increase.html
Emerging-market  stocks (BUX)  rose for a
fourth day, extending a weekly gain for the benchmark index, as
U.S. durable goods orders jumped the most in four months.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 0.9 percent to
927.70 at the close in New York, bringing this week’s rally to
2.6 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa added 0.6 percent today. The  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  advanced 1.1 percent after Moody’s Investors Service said
the outlook for  South Korea ’s ratings remains stable after the
death of Kim Jong Il. Shares in  Hungary , Turkey,  Poland  and
 South Africa  advanced.  U.S. personal spending and durable-goods orders rose in
November, after a drop in jobless claims yesterday. Orders for
goods meant to last at least three years increased 3.8 percent,
exceeding the median estimate for a 2.2 percent gain among 80
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales of new U.S. homes
increased to a seven-month high.  “Positive developments in the U.S. and  China  are giving
the tailwind the market is experiencing now,” said Rico Gomez,
who helps manage $1.5 billion at Manila-based Rizal Commercial
Banking Corp. “The less bad news the better for the market as
 Europe  continues to struggle with the debt crisis.”  The MSCI emerging-market index has fallen 19 percent this
year, more than a 7.6 percent decline in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed nations, as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis threatens a
global economic slowdown. The emerging-market gauge is valued at
8.3 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 9.7 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. Economy  New unemployment claims fell by 4,000 to 364,000 in the
week ended Dec. 17, the lowest level since April 2008, U.S.
Labor Department figures showed yesterday. Durable goods orders
rose on an increase in demand for aircraft. Demand for capital
goods excluding military hardware and aircraft dropped 1.2
percent last month, the biggest decline since January.  The Bovespa extended a weekly gain as optimism about the
economic recovery in the U.S. lifted commodities and boosted the
outlook for Brazilian producers.  Oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA rose 0.3 percent and
miner Vale SA gained 0.6 percent, following crude and metals
higher.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA also gained 0.9 percent
after its unit OGX Maranhao obtained a license to produce gas in
Brazil’s Parnaiba Basin, according to a regulatory filing sent
by MPX Energia SA.  Hungarian stocks advanced 0.2 percent, led by gains in
 Gedeon Richter Nyrt. (RICHT) , the biggest drugmaker.  Taiwan, Korea  Oil company  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  climbed 2.5 percent in Johannesburg
and  South Africa (JALSH) ’s  All Share Index  rose 0.7 percent, as oil
capped its biggest weekly gain in two months.  Taiwan shares (TWSE)  jumped 2.1 percent after the country’s
president asked state-controlled funds to get ready to make
long-term stock investments.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  gained 1.5 percent in South Korea.
North Korea’s leadership transition will probably be smooth and
is unlikely to have “immediate substantive impact” on other
North Asian financial markets, Franklin Templeton Investments’
 Mark Mobius  wrote in his blog. The Kospi benchmark has risen 5.1
percent since slumping 3.4 percent on Dec. 19 following the
death of the North’s leader Kim Jong Il.  South Africa ’s rand advanced 0.3 percent against the dollar
and the won added 0.5 percent. The ruble appreciated 0.5
percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 407, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  