-- Let's Hear It for Lousy 2011 Forecasts: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2011-12-23T00:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/here-s-hoping-for-more-lousy-forecasts-in-2012-caroline-baum.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph to reflect real gross domestic
income.)  It’s that time of year again when
people in my line of work (“profession” is probably a stretch
given the low esteem in which the media is held) look back and
offer up top-10 lists or reminisce about the most memorable
moments, good and bad.  For the economic forecasting community, year-end provides
an opportunity to gaze into the crystal ball, or tweak the
econometric model, and tell us what to expect in the next 12
months.  In an effort to combine the two traditions, I compiled a
handful of forecasts that that didn’t come to pass in 2011 --for
which we should be grateful!  1. Recession Redux  When the  Bureau of Economic Analysis  released its annual
benchmark revisions to gross domestic product in July, it pared
first-quarter U.S. growth to 0.4 percent from 1.9 percent.  The fear of an impending double-dip was palpable. Stocks
tanked. Forecasters marked down their 2011 GDP forecasts. The
 Federal Reserve  started to think about additional quantitative
easing.  There was no recession in 2011, and the year is ending on a
positive note. The economy is growing at an estimated 3.5
percent to 4 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter. And
there’s a decent chance the first quarter won’t look quite as
bad after the BEA’s benchmark revisions this summer. The
increase in first-quarter gross domestic income, the other side
of the ledger, was revised from 1.2 percent to 2.4 percent after
relevant source data on wages and salaries became available.  Policy makers see downside risks from the European debt
crisis and weaker foreign demand. With U.S. exports to the
region accounting for less than 2 percent of GDP, the economy
may weather  Europe ’s gathering storm if our banking system isn’t
affected.  2. Vive L’Euro!  The European currency union did not come apart in 2011,
although it had a few near-death experiences requiring multiple
summits. The end of the monetary union, or the departure of some
of its members, may be a forecast ahead of its time.  In fact, the only surprise regarding the 11 countries that
hitched their wagon to the common currency in 1999 and the six
that joined subsequently is not that structural flaws emerged
but that they took so long. The idea of 17 disparate countries
living in peace and prosperity with a one-size-fits-all monetary
policy, individual fiscal policies and no mechanism, or will,
for cross-border transfers, seemed unworkable from the start.  3. Hundreds of Billions of Bunk  On Dec. 19, 2010, superstar banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  appeared on a segment of CBS’s “60 Minutes,” titled
“ Day of Reckoning .” Whitney warned millions of viewers to
expect a “spate” of municipal bond defaults in 2011, amounting
to “hundreds of billions of dollars.”  The total outstanding par value of muni bonds that went
into default for the first time this year is $1.68 billion,
according to a Dec. 13 report from Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. The U.S. Census Bureau just reported that state and local
government  tax collections  rose 4.1 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the eighth consecutive increase. The
improved fiscal position prompted  Fitch Ratings  to raise its
credit outlook on the states’ municipal bond ratings to stable
from negative.  Although the future is always uncertain and Whitney’s
forecast may yet prove prescient, for the moment 2011 looks to
be her day of reckoning.  4. Hiding Under a Rock  The Fed’s  balance sheet  ballooned from about $900 billion
in mid-2008 to $2.9 trillion today. Even though banks continue
to hold $1.5 trillion of the new money as  excess reserves , on
which they earn 0.25 percent, gold bugs and hard-money types
have been waiting for hyperinflation.  They’re still waiting. The annual increase in the  consumer
price index  peaked at 3.9 percent in September before tapering
off. The core CPI, which the Fed considers to be a  better
measure  of inflation (until it looks worse than the overall
index), continues to accelerate. November’s year-over-year
increase of 2.2 percent is the biggest in three years and above
the Fed’s implicit target.  Even if the policy makers stay too easy for too long, as is
their wont, they have some breathing room before inflation goes
hyper.  5. QE3 Stays in Port  The Fed’s growth forecasts have been falling as quickly as
its balance sheet has been expanding. In an effort to do
something, the Fed  decided  in September to lengthen the maturity
of its Treasury portfolio while keeping its options open on QE.  The door may be closing on that option. The recent decline
in weekly  unemployment claims  is signaling an improving labor
market. Even  housing  is emitting faint signs of life. Pretty
soon, Fed policy makers may find themselves contemplating a
different sort of QE: quick exit.  6. Baked Alaska  Last year, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin looked like a
front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination. Palin,
who clearly prefers tweeting to greeting heads of state, decided
not to run before she could self-destruct, a lesson some other
presidential hopefuls had to learn the hard way.  With forecasts and outcomes like these, let’s hope for more
of the same in 2012.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 