-- Ethical Coffee Pursues Nespresso Case After Losing Swiss Appeal
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2011-12-23T16:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/ethical-coffee-pursues-nespresso-case-after-losing-swiss-appeal.html
Ethical Coffee Co.  said it will
appeal a ruling by a court in the Swiss canton of Vaud upholding
a nationwide injunction against sales of the company’s capsules
that that fit in Nespresso machines.  The decision earlier this month barring sales of Ethical
Coffee capsule by  Metro AG ’s Media Markt stores doesn’t match a
ruling in a  St. Gallen  cantonal court that overturned a similar
prohibition against another retailer, the Fribourg, Switzerland-
based manufacturer said today in a statement.  “We are very surprised by the court decision,” Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Gaillard said in the statement. The
cases against the two retailers are, on a factual and legal
basis, “totally similar, and we do not see any reason for
upholding a decision which was not upheld in St. Gallen.”  Nespresso’s owner, Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN) , has
pursued legal action against Ethical Coffee and U.S. foodmaker
 Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  since they began last year offering coffee-filled
capsules compatible with its machines. The St. Gallen dispute
centered on Swiss supermarket chain Denner, which was allowed to
resume selling Nespresso-compatible capsules made by another
supplier, Alice Allison SA, after a temporary halt was ordered
in July.  Ethical Coffee is also developing its own coffee machines
and may begin selling them “over the summer,” with initial 12-
month sales in the first markets of France and  Germany  targeted
at about 100,000 units each, Gaillard said in an e-mail. A
second machine is also under development, he said.  Nespresso must provide a deposit of 2 million Swiss francs
($2.1 million) for potential damages in the event a ruling
allows Ethical Coffee capsules to be sold, Ethical Coffee said.
Nespresso must ask the court by late February to decide on the
merits of the case, Ethical Coffee said.  Nestle is “pleased” with the decision in the Media Markt
case, the company said in a statement. “This ruling, which is
subject to the final decision of the court, supports the
Nespresso arguments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  