-- European Union Nears Deal for $40.5 Million Midtown Manhattan Office Lease
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2011-12-23T14:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/eu-nears-deal-to-take-40-5-million-manhattan-office-lease-at-666-5th-ave-.html
The European Union is negotiating a
$40.5 million lease in midtown  Manhattan  to replace  office space 
it must vacate by late July.  The Brussels-based alliance is near an agreement for
its United Nations delegation to take about 45,000 square feet
(4,200 square meters) at 666 Third Ave., known as the Chrysler
East tower, said Christopher Matthews, an EU spokesman. The 32-
story property and its neighbor, the iconic Chrysler Building,
are controlled by Tishman Speyer Properties LP.  The EU seeks to complete the deal so it can move from its
current home, two blocks away at 222 E. 41st St., before it has
to pay holdover fees, according to two people with knowledge of
the plans. Those costs could be substantial, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  The fees are “certainly a consideration” in the lease
negotiations, said Matthews, who is based in New York. “We need
to be out of here by the end of July, and that depends on the
readiness of the new space. It’s all part of the deal.”  The EU would avoid the charges if it or Tishman absorbed
the cost of paying overtime to construction workers to expedite
the needed renovations, one of the people said.  Bud Perrone , a spokesman for New York-based Tishman,
declined to comment.  Under lease terms, which are still being negotiated, the EU
would pay about $60 a square foot annually for 15 years, with an
option for an additional five years, Matthews said. That would
be a commitment of at least $40.5 million, or 31 million euros,
the currency the organization seeks to stabilize as it grapples
with its sovereign-debt crisis.  Rent About Same  The  rent  would be about the same on a per-square-foot basis
as the rate for the EU’s current 41,000-square-foot office at
222 E. 41st St., a 25-story tower between Second and Third
avenues, according to Matthews.  Both buildings are within walking distance of the UN
headquarters, at the East River end of 42nd Street. The EU has
permanent observer status at the international body.  The offices need to accommodate about 60 people, and ample
conference space is a priority, especially during the UN’s
“ministerial week in September, when we get a huge flood of
visitors and VIPs from Brussels,” Matthews said.  “We have 27, soon to be 28,  member states  that come and
meet at this location,” he said. “This is, if you will, the
rallying point where EU coordination takes place, so it has to
be somewhere central.”  The New York Observer reported earlier this week that the
EU is in talks for space at 666 Third Ave.  Expiring Lease  The EU was notified in the first quarter that its current
landlord, Wells Real Estate Investment Trust II Inc. of Atlanta,
wasn’t going to renew its lease, which expires in July. The
building’s largest tenant, the international law firm  Jones Day ,
is expanding into that space, according to one of the people
with knowledge of the EU’s lease negotiations.  Terrell McCollum, a Wells spokesman, declined to comment.
David Petrou, a  Jones Day  spokesman, didn’t immediately return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment. Beth Atkinson, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Studley, said she would have to
check with executives there before commenting.  The EU also looked at offices at 757 Third Ave., a 27-story
property near East 47th Street, and 885 Second Ave., a 50-story
tower a block west of the UN that’s also known as 1 Dag
Hammarskjold Plaza, among other locations, Matthews said.  The EU’s rent would be lower at 757 Third Ave., according
to Mitchell Konsker, a broker with  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  who
represents the building’s owner, RFR Holding LLC. The asking
rate at the tower is $55 to $59 a square foot and “a couple
hundred thousand” square feet are available, Konsker said.  Cost isn’t the EU’s only consideration, Matthews said,
citing security as another priority. The organization is
concerned that any move may complicate its mission, he said.  “There could be some disruption if things don’t go well,”
he said. “It’s a busy time, and we’re doing all we can to avoid
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  