-- European Stocks Gain in Week on U.S Economy; Faurecia Climbs, Banks Climb
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2011-12-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/european-stocks-post-weekly-gain-on-u-s-economy-faurecia-climbs.html
European stocks  rose this week as
reports showing a decline in U.S. jobless claims and increases
in consumer confidence and durable-goods orders spurred optimism
that the world’s biggest economy is strengthening.  Faurecia SA (EO) ,  Europe ’s largest maker of car interiors, and
CRH Plc led gains in automobile and construction companies as
stocks most sensitive to economic expansion climbed.  Banks , this
year’s worst-performing industry group, rebounded as the
 European Central Bank  lent them a record amount to keep credit
flowing to the economy.  Credit Agricole  SA and Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA rallied more than 7 percent.  The  Stoxx 600 Europe Index  advanced 3.5 percent to 241.86
this past week. The gauge has risen 13 percent from this year’s
low on Sept. 22 as euro-area leaders attempted to stem the
region’s debt woes. The measure has still fallen 12 percent this
year as the fiscal crisis spread from  Greece  to Italy and  Spain .  “It’s a relief to see stabilization in the  U.S. economy ,”
said Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas
SA in Luxembourg. “This stabilization allows us to focus less
on the debt crisis in Europe. That’s favorable for the market,
but it’s not time to become euphoric.”  Fitch Ratings  on Dec. 19 lowered  France ’s credit outlook
and put the grades of nations including Spain and Italy on
review for a downgrade, citing Europe’s failure to find a
“comprehensive solution” to the debt crisis.  CAC, DAX  National benchmark indexes rose in all of Europe’s 18
western markets, except Iceland. France’s CAC 40 Index surged
4.4 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained 2.3 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX Index increased 3.1 percent.  The  volume  of shares changing hands across Europe declined
this week as the Christmas holiday approaches. Trading on the
Stoxx 600 was 31 percent below the average for 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly dropped to the lowest
since April 2008, a sign that the U.S. labor market is
strengthening. Claims fell by 4,000 to 364,000 in the week ended
Dec. 17, Labor Department figures showed on Dec. 22 in
 Washington . The median forecast of 45 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected an increase to 380,000.  Another report that day showed American  consumer confidence 
rose more than forecast in December, to a six-month high. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
sentiment climbed to 69.9 from 64.1 at the end of November.  Durable Goods  Orders for U.S. durable goods rose in November by the most
in four months as demand for aircraft outweighed declines in
spending on computers and equipment.  Bookings  rose 3.8 percent
after no change in prior month that was previously reported as a
decline, data from the Commerce Department showed yesterday.  In Germany, business confidence increased in December,
suggesting Europe’s largest economy is weathering the euro
area’s debt crisis. The sentiment gauge, based on a survey of
7,000 executives, rose to 107.2 from 106.6 in November, the
Munich-based Ifo institute said on Dec. 20. The median economist
forecast called for a drop to 106.  U.K. economic growth accelerated more than previously
estimated in the third quarter in an increase that the  Bank of
England  says is unlikely to be repeated as the euro-area debt
crisis curbs bank lending and dents confidence. Gross domestic
product rose 0.6 percent from the previous quarter, faster than
the 0.5 percent previously estimated, the Office for National
Statistics said.  Automakers Advance  Automobile shares gained 6.2 percent for the biggest
increase among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. Faurecia
advanced 11 percent.  Daimler AG , the world’s third-largest maker
of  luxury vehicles , added 8.2 percent and PSA Peugeot Citroen,
Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, rose 5.3 percent.  Construction shares rallied 5.2 percent as CRH, Ireland’s
biggest cement maker, jumped 12 percent. YIT Oyj, Finland’s
largest builder, climbed 11 percent and  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA (SGO) ,
Europe’s biggest supplier of building materials, increased 5.5
percent.  Banks (SX7P)  in the Stoxx 600 added 4.8 percent as a group.  Credit
Agricole (ACA) , France’s third-largest lender, advanced 9.2 percent
and Italy’s Intesa Sanpaolo increased 7.7 percent.  The ECB awarded euro-region banks 489 billion euros ($638
billion) in three-year loans, more than economists’ median
estimate of 293 billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey. The
central bank lent the funds at the average of its benchmark rate
over the term of the loans.  The banks borrowed enough cash to refinance almost two-
thirds of the debt they have maturing next year amid concern
that markets will remain frozen.  Aggreko, PGS  Aggreko Plc (AGK) , the world’s largest provider of mobile power-
supplies, gained 10 percent for the biggest advance since July
2010. Citigroup Inc. recommended buying the shares, citing
“impressive local business momentum.”  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA rallied 11 percent as the
world’s third-biggest surveyor of oil and gas fields said it
bought 250,000 of its own shares.  Wavin NV jumped 20 percent after Mexichem SAB, a Latin
American chemicals maker, increased its takeover bid for the
Dutch manufacturer by 11 percent to 10 euros a share.  Bayer AG  increased 6.9 percent. The company said that four
of its drugs in development may become blockbusters, ultimately
contributing 5 billion euros to annual revenue.  SGL Carbon SE, a maker of carbon and graphite products,
sank 19 percent for the biggest drop since 2008 and the worst
performance in the Stoxx 600.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, bought a 15.7 percent  stake  in SGL, though it
doesn’t plan to increase the holding for the next 12 months. SGL
sees a full takeover by BMW and the carmaker’s heiress Susanne
Klatten as unlikely, Chief Financial Officer Juergen Muth told
the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung.  BMW shares gained 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  