-- European Stocks Advance as U.S. Durable Goods Orders Allay Crisis Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2011-12-23T16:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/european-stock-futures-rise-as-u-s-orders-poised-to-offset-debt-concern.html
European  stocks rose, capping the
first weekly rally since Dec. 2, as U.S. durable-goods orders
and new home sales increased, reinforcing optimism that the
recovery in the world’s largest economy is gathering strength.  Wavin NV jumped 22 percent after Mexichem SAB raised its
bid for the Dutch manufacturer by 11 percent to 10 euros a
share.  BP Plc (BP/)  led oil and gas producers higher as crude headed
for its biggest weekly gain in two months.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.9 percent to 241.83 at
the close in London. The gauge has advanced 3.5 percent this
week and rebounded 13 percent from this year’s low on Sept. 22
amid optimism that U.S. economic growth is holding firm and
euro-area leaders are moving to stem the region’s debt crisis.  “The U.S. is beginning to show signs of life,” said John Haynes, the head of research at Investec Wealth & Investments in
London. “There is some positive momentum in the  U.S. economy .”
He spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Mark Barton .  Orders for U.S. durable goods rose in November by the most
in four months as an increase in demand for aircraft outweighed
declines in spending on computers and equipment.  Bookings for equipment  meant to last at least three years
rose 3.8 percent after no change in the prior month that was
previously reported as a decline, data from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington .  U.S. Property Market  A separate report showed sales of new  U.S. homes  rose to a
seven-month high in November. Purchases of single-family
properties increased 1.6 percent to a 315,000 annual pace,
pushing the number of new homes on the market to a record low.  Data yesterday showed new  unemployment claims  unexpectedly
fell by 4,000 to 364,000 in the week ended Dec. 17, the lowest
level since April 2008.  Despite this week’s rally, the Stoxx 600 has still tumbled
12 percent this year as the crisis spread to Italy and  Spain .
Banks and commodity companies have posted the largest declines
among 19 industry groups on the gauge, both slumping more than
30 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands across Europe has
fallen this week as the Christmas holiday break approaches.
Trading on the Stoxx 600 this week was 22 percent below the
average for 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes climbed in all 18 western-
 European (SXXP)  stock markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 1
percent, Germany’s DAX gained 0.5 percent and France’s CAC 40
gained 1 percent.  Quantitative Easing  European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said that policy makers shouldn’t shirk from using
quantitative easing if deflation becomes a danger to the euro
region. Unlike the U.S. Federal Reserve and the Bank of England,
the ECB has offset liquidity created by purchases of  government
bonds  so that such operations don’t amount to quantitative
easing that stokes inflation.  “I do not understand the quasi-religious discussions about
quantitative easing,” Bini Smaghi, who will leave his post at
the end of the month, said in an interview published yesterday
by the Financial Times. The ECB confirmed the comments. “It is
appropriate if economic conditions justify it, in particular in
countries facing a liquidity trap that may lead to deflation.”  Wavin (WAVIN)  soared 22 percent to 9.58 euros as it granted access
to Mexichem to carry out due diligence, after the Latin American
chemical producer increased its bid for Wavin to 10 euros from 9
euros.  BP rose 2.1 percent to 459.70 pence, while  Total SA (FP)  added
2.1 percent to 38.64 euros. Crude oil climbed for a fifth day in
 New York , the longest stretch of gains since Nov. 8.  EDP-Energias de Portugal dropped 0.3 percent to 2.32 euros,
erasing an earlier gain of 3.7 percent, after  Fitch Ratings 
reaffirmed the company’s long-term credit rating at BBB+. EDP
had advanced after Portugal said China Three Gorges Corp. will
pick up a stake in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  