-- Ex-Marine’s Afghan Tour Included Rescuing Dogs Forced to Fight
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/ex-marine-s-afghan-tour-included-rescuing-dogs-forced-to-fight-commentary.html
Over a pint of  Brooklyn Brewery  ale
at the Half King in  Manhattan ’s Chelsea district, Pen Farthing
recounts his tour of duty in Afghanistan. He was in the U.S. to
drum up support not for soldiers, but for dogs.  “Sadly, dogfighting in Afghanistan is a national sport,”
said Farthing, an author and former sergeant in Britain’s Royal
Marines.  In late 2006, he arrived in the Afghan province of Helmand,
where he was stationed with Kilo Company. Within a few weeks,
Farthing was appalled to find the Afghan National Police staging
brutal dogfights, something that hadn’t been allowed under
Taliban rule.  He broke up one fight and eventually adopted a fierce and
scarred Alsatian-looking dog the Marines named Nowzad, after the
battle-scarred town in which they were based.  “We went into Now Zad thinking we were going to be there
for 3 weeks,” he says. “We were there for 33.”  During those months of hardship, homesickness and Taliban
attacks, Farthing and his men began taking in stray dogs. Soon
after Nowzad came RPG (rocket-propelled grenade), Jena and Tali,
the latter -- named for the Islamist militants -- with six
puppies.  Canine Exodus  The soldiers built a shelter and fed the dogs leftover
rations. Though the commanding officers of Kilo Company turned a
blind eye to the makeshift kennel, eventually the dogs had to be
moved. Farthing found an animal shelter hundreds of miles to the
north and was able to pay a series of taxi drivers to deliver
the dogs in an exodus that lasted several days.  In May 2007, Farthing founded  Nowzad Dogs , which helps
wartime soldiers save dogs or cats they’ve adopted against
military regulations. It also educates local communities on
animal welfare, no small trick in a culture with mixed feelings
about dogs.  “Within days of starting the charity, we had our first
American soldier asking us for help,” Farthing says. Nowzad
Dogs helps find rescued dogs homes in the U.K. and elsewhere,
and has expanded to help with rescues in  Iraq . Farthing says
he’s getting e-mails from “a wave of people from  Iran ” who are
looking for ways to save abused and abandoned dogs there.  Profound Value  In his books and presentations, Farthing speaks of a simple
but profound value he and other soldiers derive from dogs. After
the typical day of extreme boredom, terrible food and dodging
Taliban fire, there is something calming and necessary about the
time spent just petting a dog.  “There was s--t going on outside the wire,” he says,
speaking of the perimeter surrounding his base. “For five
minutes I didn’t have to think about that.”  He was aware of the ameliorative effects on other soldiers.
“That little dog, for that brief period, it’s a positive thing.
That’s the general feeling.” Farthing is convinced that simply
spending quiet time with a loving dog may help prevent post-
traumatic stress.  The ex-soldier returns to  Afghanistan  periodically, in part
to relieve the one volunteer overseeing the animal shelter, a
woman who manages to function despite cultural constraints, such
as not being allowed to attend meetings with community leaders.  The animal shelter is near Kabul, but some secrecy is
necessary to prevent being targeted by the Taliban. Nor does
Nowzad publicize the names of active soldiers who have flouted
regulations to adopt pets.  About 230 dogs and 10 cats have been saved. One American
soldier wanted to bring back a cow.  “To him it became a bit like a dog, I suppose,” said
Farthing, who couldn’t accommodate that request.  Orphaned Pegasus  Other stories are heart-wrenching. Conrad Lewis was a
British paratrooper who adopted a dog he named Pegasus. Lewis
was killed in action last February, and the dog was orphaned.  Farthing recalls the appeals from Lewis’s distraught
parents, who knew of Pegasus: “They said, ‘You’ve got to get
this dog. It’s the only connection we have we have to our son,’
When they got the dog back it was quite emotional. Almost like
their son came back.”  Farthing’s 2009 book,  “One Dog at a Time,”  recounts the
perils of rescuing dogs in a war zone and reads like James
Herriot with gunfire. A follow-up published this year,  “No
Place Like Home,”  describes the transplanted dogs’ lives in the
U.K. A portion of sales goes to support his work.  Farthing is setting up a U.S.-based version of Nowzad Dogs,
something he hopes can be done within months. Until then, donors
can contribute via  American Dog Rescue .  “We’re not just fanatical dog-lovers,” he says. “We want
to make a difference in Afghanistan.”  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike  Di Paola  at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 