-- MF Global Holdings Creditors and CFTC Dispute Priority of Customer Funds
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2011-12-23T15:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/mf-global-holdings-creditors-and-cftc-dispute-customer-funds.html
MF Global Holdings Inc. ’s creditors
can’t put their private interests ahead of customers, a lawyer
for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in a dispute
over how the law treats customer claims in relation to those of
creditors.  A lawyer for creditors of the brokerage’s bankrupt parent
company uses an “erroneous interpretation of the law” that
would privilege creditors over customers of the failed operating
unit, MF Global Inc., the CFTC said in a letter filed in
 Manhattan  bankruptcy court yesterday. Customers are seeking the
return of an estimated $1.2 billion in funds missing from
segregated accounts since the futures broker failed on Oct.31.  “The trustee shall distribute customer property ratably to
customers on the basis and to the extent of such customers’
allowed net equity claims, and in priority to all other
claims,” Robert Schwartz, a lawyer for the commodities
regulator wrote, citing CFTC regulations.  MF Global Holdings, once run by former New Jersey Governor
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman Jon Corzine, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations.  Customer Distributions  While it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy to apportion
returns to creditors, including bondholders and lenders such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act, James Giddens, is overseeing
distributions to customers at MF Global Inc.  Martin Bienenstock , a lawyer for a committee of unsecured
creditors of MF Global Holdings, had said in a letter to Judge
Martin Glenn on Dec. 21 that rules governing the commodity
industry conflict with the bankruptcy code, and “move general
property into customer property beyond the extent” permitted by
bankruptcy law.  Bienenstock also said that some rules regulating
commodities exchanges wouldn’t apply to MF Global Inc. because
the brokerage doesn’t qualify as a Chapter 7 debtor under
bankruptcy law.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 