-- MF Brokerage Trustee Disputes $700 Million of Assets With U.K. Affiliate
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-23T15:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/mf-trustee-disputes-700-million-with-u-k-affiliate.html
The trustee for the  MF Global Inc. 
brokerage said he’s disputing as much as $700 million in
customer assets with the administrators of a U.K. affiliate.  Trustee James Giddens, who has said he’s trying to retrieve
U.S. commodity customers’ assets from foreign affiliates, told
the administrators the funds were held for customers’ foreign
trades and should be returned, he said in a statement today. The
administrators said the assets didn’t fit the classification of
segregated funds under U.K. law, he said.  Their “position will significantly affect, in the near
term, my ability to return a substantial amount to U.S.
customers dealing in foreign futures,” he said. “We will
actively and expeditiously pursue the resolution of this
issue.”  Monica Fiumara, a spokeswoman for KPMG LLP, administrators
of MF Global’s U.K. unit, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Giddens’s third transfer of assets to customers of $2.1
billion is underway, he has said. Two previous payouts to
commodity customers totaled about $2 billion. The transfers
would still leave customers short of about 28 percent of their
assets, he has said.  Customer Property  The assets he’s fighting for in the U.K. aren’t part of an
estimated shortfall in customer property of at least $1.2
billion, Giddens said in the statement.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion. Giddens
controlled reported customer assets of about $5.8 billion, he
has estimated.  Corzine, the former co-chief executive officer of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4. He has said
he doesn’t know where the missing money is.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 