-- Fair Trade Proving Anything But in Growing $6 Billion Market
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2011-12-23T20:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/fair-trade-proving-anything-but-to-farmers-with-6-billion-sales-at-stake.html
In a coffee-scented conference room
near Lake Geneva, Ramon Esteve, a sixth-generation commodities
trader, sits amid his father’s collection of centuries-old
grinders and explains why he’s helping impoverished farmers grow
more coffee, cotton and cocoa.  He’s embracing a goal, first laid out by fair-trade
activists, so he can secure more sustainable supplies for his
company and clients such as Nestle SA, the world’s largest food
company, and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the biggest coffee-shop operator.  “For us it was survival,” said Esteve, 56, chairman of
Pully, Switzerland-based Ecom Agroindustrial Corp., one of the
largest coffee traders. “We’re not philanthropists. We’re
businessmen.”  Esteve’s blunt acknowledgement shows how a mission-driven
movement is transforming into a corporate push for productivity
and profit. The cause begun in the 1980s by a Dutch priest and
his activist-acolyte to help coffee farmers in the southern
Mexican state of Oaxaca now includes some of the world’s biggest
sellers of coffee (Nestle), lingerie (Limited Brands Inc.),
chocolate ( Kraft Foods (KFT)  Inc.’s Cadbury unit) and bananas (Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.), to name a few.  Lucrative Label  New research has quantified the benefits to the bottom
line: In a study released earlier this year, researchers at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,  Harvard University  and
the  London School  of Economics found they could boost bulk
coffee sales by  10 percent  just by adding a fair-trade label on
the packages. Sales of goods approved by Fairtrade
International, the world’s largest certifier of such products,
soared 27 percent in 2010 to more than $5.7 billion.  The push to increase sales of goods deemed to be free of
child labor and other practices has divided the movement, raised
questions of whether going mainstream will undermine the
cooperative farmers it was created to help and, most of all,
strained the integrity of the certification systems that vouch
for the fair-trade stamps that allow companies to charge
consumers more.  “The fair-trade movement has profoundly lost its way,”
said Aidan McQuade, who has advised Cadbury on cocoa buying as
director of London-based  Anti-Slavery International , a human
rights organization founded in 1839. “Its focus on volume --
unless they have got all their systems in place to address
fundamental issues like ethical trade, child labor and child
slavery -- is problematic.”  Policing Trouble  The strains are evident in the work of  Fairtrade
International , a Bonn-based network of 25 organizations that
certifies more than 100 products from cotton to gold around the
globe. The labeling group approved cotton in a Burkina Faso
program that Bloomberg News recently found is using child labor.
That program supplies fiber to Limited Brands’ Victoria’s Secret
division, which said it is investigating the issue.  Fairtrade also signed off on soccer balls made in  Pakistan 
by suppliers that violated fair-trade standards, according to an
 International Labor Rights Forum  report last year by the
Washington-based nonprofit. Over the years, Fairtrade’s auditors
have found breaches of standards in the industry that led to the
suspension of certification until the necessary corrective
action was taken, said Barbara Crowther, spokeswoman for the
Fairtrade Foundation, a nonprofit that licenses use of the
Fairtrade brand in the U.K.  Children Harvesting Cocoa  Fairtrade International took a year and a half to
commission an independent review after BBC disclosures in March
2010 that children harvested Ghanaian cocoa certified by the
group for suppliers to Cadbury and other companies, McQuade
said.  “It has taken longer than we originally planned to get
this underway,” Crowther said of the independent review, which
she described as not just a response to the BBC report, but “an
assessment of Fairtrade’s whole approach to tackling child labor
in cocoa in the region.”  In a  statement  today, Fairtrade International said that as
the organization has grown, “we have strengthened our
certification systems and our global operations so that
Fairtrade is more robust now than ever before.”  Still, the problems illustrate the difficulty in broadening
the reach of ethical commerce.  Challenge of Mainstreaming  “To spread the benefits of fair trade we have to
mainstream,” Crowther said. “It’s challenging, but we are 
determined to do that with integrity.”  The group’s struggles to police its own system come as the
number of so-called ethical labels has mushroomed. The creation
of 202 new ones in the past decade boosted the total tracked by
 Ecolabel Index  to 424. That includes those created by companies,
such as Starbucks’s own stamp for its producers, CAFE Practices.  The growth has thrown into question the very definition of
fair trade and exposed rifts between the movement’s founders.  What evolved into Fairtrade International began in 1985
when the Dutch missionary priest, Frans van der Hoff, and a
trade-campaigner friend, Nico Roozen, met in Utrecht in the
Netherlands. In a local supermarket, they discussed how to bring
coffee grown by Mexican cooperative farmers to consumers.  “Our coffee belongs on these shelves,” Roozen recalls van
der Hoff telling him.  The pair developed a system where farmers were guaranteed a
minimum price and a social premium to be used for projects such
as health clinics and schools. They dubbed their label Max
Havelaar, after the idealistic Dutch colonial officer in a 19th-
century novel about the coffee trade.  Founding Fathers Split  Fairtrade International still uses their model, paying
farmers premiums totaling 126 million euros ($164 million) from
2007 to 2010. Fairtrade estimates 1.15 million farmers and
workers were in the system last year.  Today,  van der Hoff  and Roozen are at odds over how best to
help producers amid the surge in demand for fair-trade goods.  “The two founding fathers of the movement are taking
different positions,” said Roozen, 58, the son of a tulip
farmer. “He is criticizing fair trade because it is making
compromises with big companies like  Nestle. (NESN)  And I am criticizing
fair trade because they haven’t taken the lead in mainstreaming
fair trade.”  Fair-Trade Alternative  Farmers must be trained to partner with major corporations
so they can boost volume, said Roozen, director of the Dutch
nonprofit  Solidaridad . He works with Ecom, where Esteve’s
chief adviser on sustainability issues,  David Rosenberg , 
considers Roozen a mentor. They say they can offer farmers 
better prices and help in boosting yields without a formal
fair-trade system.  Van der Hoff and his allies say corporations will offer
those prices only until fair-trade cooperatives wither and die.  “It just ends in fair-washing and smokescreens,” said van
der Hoff, 72, who still lives with the Oaxaca farmers he started
helping three decades ago. “They are deceiving themselves.”  Fair trade is increasingly becoming a marketing strategy
where the farmers’ poverty is a necessary ingredient to make
consumers feel good about themselves, said Bill Fishbein, who
founded Coffee Kids in 1988 to provide health and education
services to poor coffee growers.  “We are way overpromising and under-delivering,” Fishbein
said. “Those farmers have become a sales tool.”  Shared Value  Different companies use different language -- fair trade,
sustainability, shared value. They say they’re working toward a
similar goal: improving the quality of farmers’ products and
lives.  Fairtrade International tries to ensure farmers more of a
product’s final price by giving them a social premium.  “There is another way,” Harvard University Professor
Michael Porter said in a debate at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, Switzerland in January. “Why are farmers poor? Because
they have lousy yields. Because the quality isn’t good enough,
and therefore the prices are very low.”  Nestle announced a plan last year to double purchases of
coffee from growers for its Nescafe brand to help guarantee
supply and boost quality.  “We are trying to buy more coffee directly from farmers
because then we can track where it comes from and give technical
assistance,” said Nestle spokeswoman Melanie Kohli. “We want
to build long-term trust.”  Ecom  is expanding programs to help farmers improve their
harvests because it has seen its supply base dwindle when
growers don’t make enough money.  Taming the Coyotes  “What do you do to keep them on the land? You train
them,” said Esteve, a Spanish national who was born in  Dallas 
and lives in  Switzerland . “These people could easily, easily
double their yields by enrolling in these programs and following
the best practices we are trying to promote.”  Esteve said he understands the concerns of Mexican farmers
and advocates such as van der Hoff. In the 1990s, fewer growers
were selling beans to Ecom’s buyers because they weren’t paid
enough money by independent middlemen, known as coyotes, who
were “probably a usurer in some cases,” he said.  To establish trust, Esteve said, he hired some of the
coyotes and trained them as agronomists, who teach the 
science and economics of better crop production. Agronomists
now outnumber traders at Ecom, whose Mexican unit, 
Agroindustrias Unidas de  Mexico , is certified to buy and 
sell Fairtrade coffee.  Historic Change  The move to work directly with farmers is a historic change
for Ecom. The founder of the family business, Jose Esteve Tomas,
got out of textile production to become a cotton trader in
Barcelona partly because employing people directly was too
risky. The family started trading cotton in Barcelona in 1849
and still owns 92 percent of Ecom.  “Why mess with labor issues?” Esteve said of his
ancestor’s thinking. “The riots in  Spain  in the 19th century
were terrible.”  Esteve wouldn’t disclose a financial statement for the
closely held company, though it has average annual sales of $2.7
billion, according to a document on the website of the World
Bank’s International Finance Corp., which is considering lending
Ecom $50 million to develop its services to farmers.  Like Nestle, which is based in Vevey a few miles from Ecom,
Esteve said his company’s programs are too new to provide
evidence that they’re helping farmers. Ecom is starting to
compile information on its farmers and how they work.  Proving the Benefits  Surrounded by more than 100 coffee grinders dating to the
1600s, Esteve and Rosenberg sit in the conference room in Pully
and describe the difficulty in proving their approach will help
small-plot growers.  “It’s not a gimmick,” said Esteve, his glasses and wavy
gray hair setting off a beige cardigan.  “But we can’t prove it,” adds Rosenberg.  The disagreement over how best to boost fair trade recently
led to the departure of Fairtrade International’s U.S.
affiliate. Paul Rice, an American who helped farmers during the
Nicaraguan Sandinista revolution in the 1980s, wants his Fair
Trade USA group to work much closer with large companies. He
proposes certifying coffee grown on estates, rather than just on
cooperatives.  “Many executives are realizing that old-school
globalization, by which I mean going around the world looking
for the cheapest labor and the lowest environmental standards,
doesn’t work,” Rice said. “Their long-term financial success
depends on sustainable supply chains, so there is no longer a
trade-off between social responsibility and profitability.”  Isolating Farmers  Certifying larger coffee producers would cut small farmers
off from international markets, said Merling Preza, president of
the Latin American and Caribbean Coordinator of Small Fair Trade
Producers, an association of cooperatives selling coffee, fruit
and cocoa. Buyers will switch to larger, lower-cost farms able
to invest in higher yields and deliver larger volumes than
farmers who in some cases live on $2 a day, she said.  “When someone big competes against someone very small,
what we say in  Nicaragua  is that it’s a competition between a
tethered donkey and a loose tiger,” Preza said. “It’s a threat
for everyone. It would distort the fair-trade system.”  The future of fair trade boils down to Roozen’s and van der
Hoff’s rival visions. A test of their arguments can be measured
in southern Mexico, birthplace of the fair-trade labeling
movement and the center of its burgeoning organic-coffee
production.  View from Chiapas  It’s here that Juan Carlos Lopez, 24, an adviser to the
Café Guerrero Maya cooperative in Chiapas, said he can quantify
the cost to farmers if big companies win the day. The difference
between the market price for coffee and prices paid for Arabica
beans by intermediaries buying for Ecom’s Mexico unit, known as
Amsa, amount to at least 30 percent of a farming family’s
revenue, he said.  “All they do is buy it cheap and sell it at a high
price,” said Lopez, now an economics student at a university in
Mexico City.  Lopez got his start in the coffee business on his father’s
farm, wielding by age 8 a worn machete as long as his arm to
clear weeds in the mountains of Chiapas. Sixteen years later,
Lopez is on a mission to cut out the middlemen coyotes by
linking his father’s cooperative to the fair-trade movement.  Café Guerrero Maya farmers are also beginning to eliminate
the use of insecticides and weed killer, taking steps to avoid
soil erosion and protect native plants and animals with the aim
of becoming certified as organic growers, he said.  Finding Fresh Buyers  The cooperative found buyers this year in Mexico City who
paid 72 pesos ($5.20) per kilogram after transport and
processing costs, compared with about 50 pesos per kilogram in
Chiapas. Lopez is skeptical that Amsa will aid producers in
Chiapas, where for decades poor wages meant indigenous families
lacked access to enough health care, food and schooling.  “They are looking for earnings,” he said in a phone
interview from Mexico City, “not to provide for people’s
needs.”  In an e-mailed response, Ecom officials said they wouldn’t
have market share if they didn’t pay competitive coffee prices,
which they publish daily at their Mexico mills. Greater
productivity is key to helping coffee farmers in a country where
three decades of fair trade has “apparently not lifted” many
of them out of poverty, the statement said.  Some of the poorest towns in Mexico are located in the
coffee-growing states of Veracruz, Oaxaca and Chiapas, the last
a mountainous state known for the uprising there in 1994 of the
Zapatista Army of National Liberation that protested the
treatment of peasant farmers and indigenous groups.  Veracruz Protest  Farmers in white cowboy hats and baseball caps protested
against traders earlier this month in the state of Veracruz.
Hoisting signs that read “Coffee Growers Angry Over Price
Abuse,” they said companies are inflating the costs that are
subtracted from payments to growers.  For Lopez, whose family depends on coffee for its only cash
income, cutting out middlemen like Esteve is key to improving
 living conditions  in Chiapas.  “We have to find the best profit, which is through selling
directly to the consumer and not some intermediary that pays
whatever price they want,” he said.  His family and the more than 200 other indigenous producers
who make up the Café Guerrero Maya cooperative aim to sell fair-
trade coffee overseas at higher prices -- and, one day,
challenge the Esteves with a producer-owned supply system
featuring a chain of shops modeled after fair trade that would
sell coffee beans purchased directly from farmers.  Alternative to Fields  Such moves could transform lives otherwise spent toiling in
the fields, said Lopez, the first in his family to go to college
and one of the few of his neighbors to make it past elementary
school.  “It might mean not having kids work, and sending them to
school instead,” he said. “They could have breakfast, shoes,
whatever they need.”  Perhaps even the chance to go all the way to Mexico City to
study a better way of selling coffee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net 
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net 
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  