-- Forint Declines for Second Week as Orban Defies EU, IMF on Aid
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-12-23T16:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/forint-heads-for-second-weekly-loss-as-orban-defies-eu-imf.html
The forint weakened a third day,
extending a second week of declines as  Hungary ’s prime minister
rejected European Union conditions attached to an aid package.  The forint depreciated 0.2 percent to 307.1 per euro by
4:13 p.m. in Budapest, extending the weekly loss to 1 percent.
The forint has slumped 9.3 percent this year, set for the worst
performance since 2003, the year before Hungary joined the
European Union.  The EU and the  International Monetary Fund  broke off talks
with Hungary on an aid package a week ago, saying draft
legislation may limit the central bank’s independence. The
European Commission doesn’t have the right to object to the laws
and negotiating financial assistance “isn’t so significant,”
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said late yesterday.  “This will do little to ease investor nerves as we head
into the New Year,” Tradition Analytics wrote in a research
report today on Orban’s comments. “Continued uncertainty will
weigh on investor sentiment.”  The government asked for IMF aid last month to ensure
financing next year as yields soared, debt auctions fell short
of targets and the forint weakened to a record against the euro.
An IMF-led aid package would bolster Hungary’s policy
credibility,  Standard & Poor’s  said on Dec. 21, when it followed
Moody’s Investors Service in downgrading Hungary’s sovereign
credit to junk.  The European Commission hasn’t decided whether to resume
financial aid talks with Hungary, the EU executive’s
representative in Budapest, Tamas Szucs, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  ‘Not Realistic’  Hungary’s 10-year  government bonds  were little changed
today, capping a third straight weekly slump which lifted yields
32 basis points to 9.39 percent, according to  generic prices 
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield has risen 144 basis points this
year, the most since 2003.  “It’s not realistic to cut the country’s debt if the yield
remains above 9 percent for long,” Gergely Tardos, head of
research at OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest lender, and
colleagues wrote in a research report today. “Therefore it
looks vital to make use of an international assistance
package.”  Hungary’s five-year credit-default swaps, which measure the
cost of insuring state debt against non-payment, rose one basis
point to 610, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers.  “We may be headed for a catastrophic scenario, which is
the inability to finance the economy or to do it at yields well
into the double-digits, which is unsustainable,”  Daniel Bebesy ,
who helps oversee $1.5 billion mostly in Hungarian government
bonds at Budapest Fund Management, said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  