-- Former Galleon Manager Swartz to Start Technology Hedge Fund for Fortress
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2011-12-23T17:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/former-galleon-manager-swartz-to-start-technology-hedge-fund-for-fortress.html
Peter Swartz, a former Galleon Group
LLC portfolio manager, is starting a new technology hedge fund
for Fortress Investment Group LLC.  Swartz will be chief investment officer of the Fortress TMT
Fund, which will make bets on technology, media and
telecommunications stocks, according to a December investor
presentation, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
Former Galleon colleagues  Michael Levine  and Murali Abburi will
join him on the fund as equity analysts.  The new fund will invest as much as 50 percent of its
assets in U.S. companies, with the rest allocated to  Europe ,
 China ,  Taiwan , Korea and  Japan , according to the presentation,
which didn’t include a fundraising target. The fund expects to
take about 25 long and short positions, wagering on both rising
and falling prices.  Gordon Runte, a spokesman for New York-based Fortress,
declined to comment. The publicly traded firm has $43.6 billion
in assets under management, including hedge funds, private
equity and other investments.  Swartz has been a senior portfolio manager for the Fortress
Asia Macro Fund since March. He was hired in 2010 as a managing
director and equity analyst covering technology, media and
telecom for the Fortress Macro Fund. The Fortress Asia Macro
lost a net 1.2 percent since March, according to the
presentation.  Levine and Abburi, who will be managing directors of the
fund, were hired by Fortress in March 2010, according to the
presentation.  CEO Takes Leave  Fortress Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  this week took
a leave of absence following a lawsuit by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission over his role as the former head of
 Fannie Mae . He was replaced on an interim basis by Randal A. Nardone, the company’s co-founder.  Galleon was the target of a nine-year investigation by U.S.
officials, culminating in the May conviction of co-founder Raj Rajaratnam on insider-trading charges. Rajaratnam, 54, this
month began serving an 11-year sentence at a federal prison in
Massachusetts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  