-- Iphone Maker Foxconn’s Entry Into Solar May Cut Industry Margins
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-23T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/foxconn-s-entry-into-solar-power-might-narrow-margins-for-chinese-makers.html
Foxconn Technology Group’s decision
to start making solar power modules may speed the rate at which
margins are narrowing for Chinese manufacturers, another blow
for an industry already coping with a plunge in prices.  The Taiwanese company that’s the world’s biggest contract
maker of electronics including Apple Inc.’s IPhone started work
on a solar-module plant in  China ’s eastern province of Jiangsu
near the headquarters of  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the largest
silicon-based module manufacturer.  “Foxconn plans to build new factories with undreamed-of
scale and lower cost,” Jenny Chase, who leads a team of six
solar analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said yesterday.
“It will push capacity higher and prices lower.”  Prices for solar cells have skidded 62 percent this year as
Chinese companies led by Suntech boosted production and won
market share from European and Japanese rivals. Foxconn’s gross
margin of 5.6 was less than half Suntech’s in the third quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chase said Foxconn’s  Ebitda margin (2354)  ranges from 2 percent to
5 percent compared with as much as 30 percent enjoyed by the
companies purely manufacturing solar products.  “Foxconn is good at operating with low margins in
electronics and can replicate the success it has there to the
solar industry,” Lian Rui, a senior analyst for the research
company Solarbuzz, said by phone from  Shanghai . It “will make
the competition fiercer and drive margins down further.”  Foxconn’s Plans  Foxconn will begin trial production in May, the government
of Funing county, where the plant is, said in a website
 statement  on Dec. 22. The company’s  Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co. (2317)  unit will invest $30 million as registered capital to set up
Fuyu Energy Technology (Funing) Co. in the county, according to
a Dec. 20 filing to the Taiwan exchange. The unit will make
solar cells. No details about the plant’s capacity were given.  Two calls to the office of  Edmund Ding , spokesman for
Taipei-based Hon Hai, during regular business hours yesterday
weren’t answered.  Suntech’s gross margin declined to 13.3 percent in the
third quarter from 17.9 percent a year earlier.  JA Solar
Holdings Co. (JASO) , based in Shanghai, had a negative 4.3 percent
gross margin in the third quarter compared with 22.5 percent
last year.  Solar Margins  Asian solar companies enjoyed high margins in the industry
as shipments surged last year. The average gross margin for the
10 Asia-based solar companies in Bloomberg Industries’ Large
Solar Index was 24.6 percent last year.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  had a
gross margin of 33.2 percent and  Yingli Green Energy Holding (YGE)  Co.
31.5 percent, the Bloomberg data shows.  Foxconn’s gross margin was 5.6 percent in the six months
through June 30, down from 6.8 percent in the second half of
2010, Bloomberg data also shows.  The average price for solar modules has declined 47 percent
this year to $0.94 a watt, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. Three U.S. companies led by Solyndra LLC filed for
bankruptcy this year. In  Germany ,  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s
biggest solar maker, is looking for a partner after its earnings
and margins plunged.  “Foxconn’s entry into the solar industry has been rumored
for a long time,” Chase said. “The company’s formal entry at a
time when ingot, wafer and cell makers are not making their cash
costs must be bad news for the incumbent companies.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  