-- Fracking Opens Fissures Among States as Drillers Face Many Rules
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2011-12-23T05:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/fracking-opens-fissures-among-states-as-drillers-face-many-rules.html
Pennsylvania  regulators ordered
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  to install pressure gauges costing as
little as $600 on 114 of its wells after natural gas
contaminated drinking water last year.  Officials rejected a call from environmental groups to
order safety devices for all similar natural-gas wells, a
requirement in neighboring Ohio.  A boom in gas production using hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, has led to a patchwork of local drilling standards.
Now, several states are revising or formulating rules, and the
U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency  is studying the effects of
fracking on drinking water and weighing nationwide regulations.  “What you’re seeing now is the federal government trying
to get into the game of regulating hydraulic fracturing for the
very first time,” Ken von Schaumburg, a Washington-based
attorney and former EPA deputy general counsel in  George W. Bush ’s administration, said in an interview.  States are moving more aggressively as gas extracted from
shale has expanded to a third of total U.S. production, up from
2 percent in 2001.  West Virginia Governor Earl Ray Tomblin backed a bill
approved by the state legislature on Dec. 14 that he said
“provides clear rules to the natural gas industry.” Colorado
regulators on Dec. 13 approved requiring drillers to disclose
every chemical used in fracking.  Extracting gas from shale will support 870,000 U.S. jobs
and add $118 billion in economic growth in the next four years,
according to a Dec. 6 report from IHS Global Insight, a
forecaster based in Englewood,  Colorado .  Rules Vary  Rules on using gas-pressure gauges vary, as do regulations
on the types of cement used for the wells, how close to
drinking-water sources companies can drill and how they dispose
of the waste after injecting millions of gallons of water and
chemicals underground to free the gas.  “Part of it is a matter of commitment,” Scott Anderson,
senior policy adviser for the  Environmental Defense Fund  in
Austin, Texas, said in an interview. “Some states are more
diligent than others about systematically reviewing all their
rules and updating them.”  The disparities led Anderson to join gas producers such as
 Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN)  and groups including the  Natural
Resources Defense Council  and the  Sierra Club  to develop
voluntary state drilling standards.  The collaboration will help the industry “gain the public
trust and acceptance,” Mark Boling, executive vice president
for Houston-based Southwestern Energy, said in an interview.  Fracking Since 1949  Fracking has been used in states such as  Texas  and Oklahoma
since 1949. Its use has expanded with the adoption of horizontal
wells that branch off to tap into more gas.  Producers now are targeting the Marcellus Shale, a
formation from  New York  to  Tennessee  that may contain enough gas
to supply the U.S. for two decades, according to Terry Engelder,
a professor of geosciences at  Pennsylvania State University  in
 State College .  Pennsylvania was first among northeastern states to embrace
the boom. Since 2008, the state issued permits for 8,461 wells
and 4,100 have been drilled, according to the website of the
state  Department of Environmental Protection .  Drilling in Pennsylvania has drawn complaints about
drinking-water contamination and drilling wastewater disposal.  Former New York Governor  David Paterson  put a moratorium on
drilling while regulators draft rules planned for completion
next year.  Ohio  is expected to issue rules on well construction
early next year, according to Heidi Hetzel-Evans, a department
spokeswoman.  ’Learned From Pennsylvania’  “What We Learned From Pennsylvania” is the headline on a
New York Department of Environmental Conservation  website  that
sets out ways the state plans to avoid its neighbor’s mistakes.  Republican Governor  John Kasich  said Ohio has “learned
from Pennsylvania” about mistakes that led to contamination.  “Pennsylvania has just had trouble keeping up with the
rate of expansion,” Hannah Wiseman, assistant professor of law
at the University of Tulsa College of Law, said in an interview.
“New York has chosen to be more precautionary.”  States have regulated the oil and gas industry for decades
and differences are appropriate, said Aubrey K. McClendon,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Oklahoma  City-based
Chesapeake Energy, the most active U.S. oil-and-gas driller.  Geological Differences  “Are they inconsistent from state to state? Sure,”
McClendon told reporters at an energy conference that Kasich
convened in Columbus, Ohio, in September. “But they’re
inconsistent in a good way, in the sense that they reflect the
differences in local geology that we find from state to state.”  Lobbying also plays a role, said Amy Mall, a senior policy
analyst for the  Natural Resources Defense Council  in  Washington .
Oil and gas companies constitute “arguably the most politically
powerful industry on Earth,” Mall said.  In the past decade, natural-gas companies contributed $20.5
million to current members of Congress and spent $726 million on
lobbying at the federal level, according to a Nov. 10 report by
Washington-based  Common Cause .  In Pennsylvania, the industry gave $2.85 million to
candidates from 2001 to March 2010, and spent $4.2 million on
lobbying since 2007, according to a May 11, 2010, report from
Common Cause Pennsylvania.  State regulations also differ on requiring “baseline
testing” before drilling to document whether water quality
changes, said Wiseman, who is writing a study to be published in
February comparing drilling regulations in 16 states.  New York Tests  New York has proposed testing within 1,000 feet of a well
pad, compared with Ohio’s requirement of testing within 300 feet
and in urban areas only, the report found. In Pennsylvania,
drillers are considered liable if water contamination occurs
within 1,000 feet and six months of drilling, which encourages
voluntary testing, Wiseman said.  Production in the Marcellus Shale is complicated by layers
of gas released while drilling through the ground toward the
formation, which runs about 5,000 feet (1,524 meters) deep,
according to Fred Baldassare, a former inspector with the
 Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection . In many
cases, drillers opt not to produce the shallow, or stray gas, he
said.  Pressure gauges, which let operators see if stray gas has
seeped into a well, are a “fundamental” safety component,
according to Baldassare, who owns Echelon Applied Geoscience
Consulting, a Murrysville, Pennsylvania, company that works with
homeowners and drillers. Stray gas can escape poorly built wells
and enter drinking-water sources, he said.  Gas Complaints  When Bradford County residents complained last year of gas
in their water, state regulators determined that Chesapeake
wells had failed. Chesapeake agreed to pay a $900,000 fine and
to install gauges in the 114 wells in the affected area,
according to a settlement.  State differences in standards don’t justify a federal role
in fracking rules, according to the University of Tulsa’s
Wiseman.  “We do need to ensure that states are justifying these
differences and perhaps reconsidering them if it appears that
one state has come up with something better,” Wiseman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  