-- France Telecom to Sell Swiss Unit to Apax for $2.1 Billion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2011-12-24T10:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/france-telecom-is-said-to-enter-exclusive-talks-to-sell-swiss-unit-to-apax.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  agreed to sell its
Orange Switzerland mobile-phone unit to buyout firm Apax
Partners LLP for 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion), the first
major step in Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard’s plan to
unload slow-growing European operations.  The deal, which is subject to approval by Swiss
authorities, will be submitted to  France Telecom ’s board in the
week starting Jan. 9, the company said in a statement today.
London-based Apax beat rivals including EQT Partners AB,
Providence Equity Partners Inc. and French telecommunications
billionaire Xavier Niel, people with knowledge of the
transaction said yesterday.  France  Telecom is shedding assets in  Europe , where phone
companies are vying for a shrinking pool of new customers amid
tightening regulation, to embrace faster-growing markets in
Africa and the  Middle East . France’s largest mobile operator is
also in talks to sell its Orange Austria unit to Hong Kong-based
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , people familiar with the situation said
in October, and is planning to exit Portugal.  “It makes sense to exit the difficult Swiss market and may
give them more flexibility on the cash-flow side,” said
Giovanni Montalti, a London-based analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux. The deal will leave France Telecom with European
operations in countries including Spain, Poland, and the U.K.,
along with its home market, while its emerging-market footprint
includes Kenya, Cameroon, and Tunisia.  Perella Weinberg Partners LP and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  advised France
Telecom on the Swiss sale. EQT and Providence couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Apax Deals  Apax has participated in more than 20 deals this year,
including last month’s $6.5 billion buyout of U.S. wound-
treatment company Kinetic Concepts Inc., its largest in 2011,
according to Bloomberg data. The firm has amassed about half the
9 billion euros it’s seeking for its latest fund, three people
with knowledge of the plans said this month.  France Telecom’s decision to exit  Switzerland  follows an
attempt to merge its operations there with rival Sunrise that
was rejected by competition regulators last year. Sunrise’s
owner, London-based  CVC Capital Partners , was excluded from the
Orange Switzerland sale process, although the firm discussed
assisting Providence with arranging financing in the hopes of
attempting another merger, people with knowledge of the talks
have said.  A combination of Orange Switzerland with Sunrise would
leave the country of about 8 million residents with just two
mobile operators: the merged entity and  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , the former
Swiss phone monopoly. By comparison, the U.K., Germany and Italy
all have four full-service mobile-network providers.  Orange Suisse  Today’s deal values Orange Switzerland, which had revenue
of 1.3 billion Swiss francs ($1.39 billion) last year, at 6.5
times its estimated 2011 earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to France Telecom. That
compares with a median Ebitda multiple of 5.6 paid for Western
European telecommunications assets in the last 3 years,
Bloomberg data show.  Europe’s mobile operators are struggling to find avenues
for growth as mobile penetration reaches its maximum and
economic uncertainty crimps  consumer spending .  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
this month cut its dividend for the first time in a decade,
citing worsening market conditions, while France Telecom
reported a 6 percent decline in third-quarter profit as a
revenue decline at home overshadowed stronger performances in
Africa.  Protect Dividend  The French company’s shares have fallen 23 percent this
year, outpacing a 15 percent decline in the Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunications Index, valuing it at about 32 billion euros.
Still, in October France Telecom raised its outlook for
operating cash flow this year, and has pledged to protect its
dividend.  Almost half the mobile operator’s 45.5 billion euros in
sales last year came from France. In October, France Telecom
agreed to acquire Congolese mobile operator Congo-China Telecom,
entering its third new country in about a year after earlier
deals in Morocco and  Iraq .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  