-- Freeport Says Starts ‘Ramp-Up’ of Grasberg Milling Operation
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2011-12-23T09:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/freeport-indonesia-says-starts-ramp-up-of-milling-operations.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX) ’s Indonesian unit has begun “ramping-up” milling
operations at its Grasberg mine in Papua and repairs to damaged
pipelines are “substantially completed.”  Shipments of concentrate are expected to be limited until
full operations are restored, which is expected by early 2012,
Ramdani Sirait, a Jakarta-based spokesman for PT Freeport
Indonesia, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The labor union will begin to mobilize workers and remove
roadblock to Grasberg as part of a joint agreement on a two-year
labor contract signed today, Sirait said. Virgo Solossa, head of
organizational affairs at the labor union that represents
Freeport workers, didn’t answer two calls and a mobile-phone
text message seeking comment. Workers blocked access to the mine
site in October.  The workers union and Freeport  Indonesia ’s management signed
a deal to raise wages on Dec. 14, ending a three-month strike.
The employees will receive a 24 percent increase in the first
year of the new wage agreement and another 13 percent in the
second year.  About 8,000 workers at Grasberg, which holds the world’s
largest recoverable reserves of copper, started a strike on Sept.
15, demanding higher wages. The stoppage, which Freeport said on
Oct. 26 forced it to declare force majeure on some shipments,
raised concern it may widen a global metal deficit and boost
prices.  Milling, the processing of ore to prepare it for shipment
to smelters, was suspended at Grasberg after concentrate
pipelines were damaged during protests related to the strike,
Freeport said Nov. 1. Its Indonesian unit processed an average
of about 120,000 tons of ore a day in October, 31 percent less
than the daily rate planned for the fourth quarter, it said at
the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  