-- Gasoline May Rise Above $4 a Gallon as Northeast Plants Shut
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2011-12-23T20:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/gasoline-may-rise-above-4-a-gallon-as-plants-shut-morse-says.html
Gasoline prices may rise above $4 a
gallon next summer as refineries along the U.S. East Coast
close, reducing fuel supply, said Edward Morse, New York-based
head of commodities research at Citigroup Global Markets Inc.  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  have idled two plants and
plan to shut a third that together can process more than 700,000
barrels a day of oil, or about 46 percent of the region’s
refining capacity. That will increase the dependence on imports
to meet fuel demand in the region that includes the delivery
point for  New York Mercantile Exchange  futures contracts, the
basis for national prices at the pump.  Cargoes arriving from abroad accounted for 19 percent of
demand in the East Coast, or Padd 1 region, in September, Energy
Department data show. Shipments from the  Gulf Coast  and Midwest
met another 51 percent of consumption, with local refineries
supplying the rest.  “We have a real supply problem ahead this summer because
these refineries have not made money and they are shutting
down,” Morse said yesterday in a Bloomberg TV interview with
 Tom Keene . “Summer gasoline is harder to make than winter
gasoline, and we could see $4 as a floor price rather than a
ceiling limiting demand.”  Gasoline for January delivery on the Nymex rose 1.8 percent
to settle at $2.6872 a gallon on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the highest settlement price since Nov. 8.  Pump prices 
in the U.S. averaged $3.224 a gallon yesterday, 7 percent higher
than a year earlier, according to AAA data.  Summer Gasoline  Analysts at Citigroup and  Barclays Capital (BARC)  recommended
buying gasoline contracts for delivery in summer months after
Sunoco announced Dec. 1 the immediate idling of its 194,000-
barrel-a-day Marcus Hook refinery in  Pennsylvania .
ConocoPhillips stopped processing  crude oil  at the 190,000-
barrel-a-day Trainer plant Sept. 30.  “The area could be left vulnerable to price spikes if
there are ever any unplanned outages or supply disruptions,”
said  Tom Bentz , director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc.
in  New York .  Sunoco idled Marcus Hook, moving up an earlier July
deadline to find a buyer, because of “deteriorating market
conditions,” the company said in a Dec. 1 statement. The July
deadline remains to sell or shut the 355,000-barrel-a-day
Philadelphia plant, the company said.  The three plants combined produced 315,000 barrels a day of
gasoline, the Energy Department said in a report  today . The
shutdowns may increase regional petroleum product price
volatility and may be “problematic” as supply sources shift,
the report showed.  Higher Prices  The shuttered refineries, which processed mostly imported
crude from  Europe  and West Africa, faced higher prices than
their counterparts in the U.S. Midwest and Gulf Coast able to
use less-expensive domestic oil. North Sea Brent increased to a
record  premium  of $27.88 a barrel over West Texas Intermediate
oil on Oct. 14.  The East Coast imported 596,000 barrels a day of gasoline
in September out of 3.1 million barrels supplied daily, Energy
Department data show. That’s poised to rise as suppliers seek to
replace local production.  “The tanker market had already anticipated the prospect of
an increase of gasoline to New York harbor,” said George Los,
an analyst at Charles R. Weber Co., a Greenwich, Connecticut-
based ship broker. “With the acceleration of Sunoco’s plans for
the  Marcus Hook  idling by some eight months this is likely to
boost demand, mostly for medium-range tankers.”  Prices may also rise in New York versus the Gulf Coast in
order to attract more shipments from the Gulf, where about half
of U.S. refining capacity is located. Reformulated 87-octane
gasoline in New York was 7.75 cents a gallon  above  the Gulf
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, up from 4.53
cents Nov. 30.  Colonial Pipeline  Colonial Pipeline Co., the largest pipeline linking the
U.S. Gulf Coast with Northeast markets, delivers 2.35 million
barrels a day of oil products from Houston to Greensboro,  North
Carolina . The main lines from North Carolina deliver about 1.4
million barrels a day to Linden,  New Jersey .  “I would assume the Colonial line space just got a lot
more valuable,” said Andy Milton, vice president of supply at
Gainesville, Georgia-based Mansfield Oil Co., which supplies
more than 2 billion gallons of fuel per year.  Colonial announced Dec. 21 that it plans to increase
capacity on its main gasoline pipeline by 100,000 barrels a day
by the first quarter of 2013.  “We foresee some significant tightness” ahead for Nymex
gasoline, analysts at Barclays including Miswin Mahesh in  London 
said in a Dec. 6 report. The analysts suggested buying the
gasoline contract for August delivery and selling heating oil
for the same month, according to the note.  Narrower Spread  Gasoline’s discount to heating oil narrowed to 20.35 cents
from 45.37 cents Nov. 30. The spread  reached  62.69 cents a
gallon on Nov. 14, after diesel and heating oil inventories in
the U.S. dropped to the lowest level since December 2008.  “Now is the time to look at selling heating oil and buying
gasoline for the summer,”  Citigroup (C)  analysts led by Seth Kleinman said in a Dec. 6 report. “The outlook for gasoline is
challenging, but summer values for the spread are already
extremely cheap.”  The gap between contracts for delivery in August was 13.58
cents a gallon, from 28.71 cents Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  