-- GE Will Pay $70.4 Million to Settle U.S. Probe Into Muni-Bond Bid Rigging
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2011-12-23T17:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/ge-funding-capital-settles-u-s-municipal-bond-bid-rigging-investigation.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  agreed to pay
$70.4 million to settle a criminal probe and civil claims for
conspiring to rig bids on U.S. municipal-bond deals,
overcharging state and local governments on investments.  GE Funding Capital Market Services, a former unit, is the
fifth company to settle in a more than five-year federal
investigation. The deal will resolve probes by the Justice
Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
 Internal Revenue Service  as well as  attorneys general  in 25
states, the Justice Department said today in a  statement .  “GE Funding’s former traders entered into illegal
agreements to manipulate the bidding process on municipal
investment contracts,” said Sharis A. Pozen, acting assistant
attorney general in charge of the  Justice Department ’s antitrust
division. “This anticompetitive conduct harmed municipalities
as well as taxpayers.”  The settlement will bring to $743 million the amount that
banks have paid to end the case, some of which is being returned
to localities that were overcharged, the SEC said in a  news
release .  Bank of America Corp., (BAC)   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  previously settled similar cases.  1999 to 2004  GE’s settlement stems from an investigation that centered
on three now-former employees at a unit the finance division
discontinued in April 2010, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company said in a statement today. The conduct took place
between 1999 and 2004, GE said.  The settlement won’t have a “material impact” on
earnings, according to GE, the world’s biggest maker of  jet
engines  and power-generation equipment. It takes about $100
million in profit to yield 1 cent in per-share earnings at GE,
whose operations span energy, aviation, health care,
transportation and financial services.  The Justice Department said it agreed not to prosecute GE
Funding because it admitted its illegal conduct, cooperated with
the investigation and took steps to address anticompetitive
conduct. The department also cited GE Funding’s commitment to
make restitution.  ‘Widespread Corruption’  The federal investigation has exposed “widespread
corruption” in a segment of the municipal market that deals
with the investment of proceeds from bond issues, the SEC said.
States and local governments purchase investment contracts,
allowing them to earn a return until the cash is needed for
public-works projects.  The contracts were supposed to be awarded to banks that
offered the highest return at competitive auctions arranged by
financial advisers.  So far, the Justice Department said it has brought criminal
charges against 18 former executives of financial-services
firms, nine of whom have pleaded guilty. The department said it
is continuing to investigate.  The SEC said GE Funding generated millions of dollars by
rigging at least 328 transactions in 44 states and  Puerto Rico .
The firm won deals by getting information about competitors’
bids from brokers that handled the auctions. It either raised a
losing bid to a winning bid or reduced its winning bid to a
lower amount so that it could make more money on a transaction,
the SEC said.  GE Funding also deliberately submitted losing bids allowing
other pre-selected firms to win auctions, the SEC said.  In July 2010, three former GE Funding bankers, Dominick Carollo, Steven Goldberg and  Peter Grimm , were charged with
fraud and conspiracy. They have pleaded not guilty.  The bankers allegedly paid kickbacks to brokers in exchange
for their help in controlling and manipulating the bidding
process. The kickbacks were then disguised as fees on derivative
transactions.  One of the brokers, CDR Financial Products Inc., its
founder and two former executives are scheduled to go on trial
next month in federal court in  Manhattan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  