-- German Two-Year Yields Near Record Low
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2011-12-23T16:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/german-two-year-yields-approach-record-low-amid-concern-on-european-growth.html
German two-year note yields fell to
a record low as a report showed the French economy expanded less
than initially estimated, underscoring concern that European
growth is stalling.  French  10-year government bonds  rose after the nation’s
statistics office in Paris said  France ’s economy grew 0.3
percent in the third quarter, revising down a previous reading
of 0.4 percent. The euro-region economy will stagnate next year
after a 1.6 percent expansion in 2011, Bloomberg surveys show.
Italian 10-year  government bonds  fell, pushing yields up toward
the 7 percent level that forced  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to
request international bailouts.  “Fundamentals for the euro region have deteriorated,”
said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “We have seen a slowing of
the economy and that’s helped bunds do very well.”  German two-year  note yields  were little changed at 0.23
percent at 4:22 p.m. London time, after falling to a record
0.201 percent. The 0.25 percent securities due in December 2013
traded at 100.045. Ten-year yields were one basis point higher,
at 1.95 percent.  Growth prospects in  Europe  have worsened since September,
U.K. central bank Governor Mervyn King said yesterday after a
 risk assessment  by regional officials. The  European Central Bank 
cut its 2012 euro-area growth forecast this month to 0.3
percent.  European Summits  Ten-year German rates have dropped about 1 percentage point
this year as the euro-region debt crisis deepened, boosting
demand for assets perceived to be the safest. Fifteen European
summits in two years have produced five plans that failed to
stop turmoil that started in Greece from threatening Italy,
Spain and France.  The yield on the French 10-year bond fell six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.01 percent, with two-year yields
sliding eight basis points to 0.89 percent. France’s economy is
probably already in recession, with output shrinking this
quarter and next, Insee said last week.  Italy’s 10-year yields rose five basis points to 6.97
percent. They have advanced more than 2 percentage points this
year amid concern the nation won’t be able to meet its funding
needs.  Spanish two-year note yields were five basis points higher
at 3.69 percent. The securities headed for a weekly drop amid
fading optimism that the ECB’s three-year loans to banks will
restore confidence in sovereign borrowers. Euro-region lenders
took 489 billion euros from the Frankfurt-based ECB in 1,134-day
loans on Dec. 21, more than economists predicted.  ‘Quasi-Religious Discussions’  Unlike the  Federal Reserve  and the Bank of England’s
quantitative-easing programs, the ECB has offset liquidity
created by purchases of government bonds so that such operations
don’t stoke inflation. ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said that policy makers shouldn’t shirk from using
quantitative easing if deflation becomes a danger to the euro
region.  “I do not understand the quasi-religious discussions about
quantitative easing,” Bini Smaghi, who will leave his post at
the end of the month, said in an interview published yesterday
by the Financial Times. The ECB confirmed the comments. “It is
appropriate if economic conditions justify it, in particular in
countries facing a liquidity trap that may lead to deflation.”  The ECB lowered its key rate by 25 basis points on Dec. 8,
matching an all-time low of 1 percent. It also loosened
collateral rules so that banks can borrow more from the ECB.  ‘Room to Cut’  “In a nut shell what Bini Smaghi said is that there’s more
the ECB can do,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London . “We’ve seen the ECB
being relatively active in recent months, which is a good thing.
On the macroeconomic side things are awful. Bund yields will
stay low, the ECB has room to cut rates more.”  Slovenia had its local- and foreign-currency government
bond ratings cut by one level to A1 from Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited factors including the strain on
government finances from the possible need for support for local
banks. The outlook is negative, the ratings company said
yesterday in a statement.  The yield on the 4.375 percent bond maturing in January
2021 was 16 basis points lower at 7.56 percent.  German government bonds have returned 9 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. French debt has
returned 4.4 percent, Spanish debt has gained 5.1 percent and
Italian bonds have fallen 5.8 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  