-- GM Record Profit No Balm for Obama Nursing Loss on Shares: Cars
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2011-12-23T21:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/gm-record-earnings-no-balm-for-obama-nursing-taxpayer-loss-on-shares-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , saved by the
Obama administration with a $50 billion bailout, is making more
money than it has in its history, adding jobs and gaining market
share. It’s still a headache for  Barack Obama .  GM closed today at $20.50 a share, less than half the $53
price that the U.S. Treasury Department needs to break even. The
shares fell on Dec. 19 to their lowest price since the Detroit-
based automaker’s initial public offering in November 2010. The
stock needs to rally almost 50 percent to reach $30 a share, the
minimum price the Treasury Department would consider for a
secondary offering, said three people familiar with the matter.  That puts Obama in a quandary. When Republicans nominate a
candidate in August, the government will probably either still
own a substantial portion of GM or will have sold the stock at a
loss that could be more than $10 billion. Obama’s opponents can
criticize him either way, said Dan Ikenson, an economist at the
 Cato Institute , a Washington think tank.  “The administration is in a Catch-22,” he said. “They
want to hold on and get the best price, but the longer they hold
onto it, they come open to the scorn that the administration
still has a horse in the race and could make policy that is
favorable to GM.”  Investors are holding back on buying GM while they expect
that the U.S. will be selling hundreds of millions of shares
that may push down the price, said Adam Jonas, a New York-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley. After the government sells, the
shares should rally, he said.  Pension Costs  In  Europe , GM’s operations will lose money in 2011, the
company said last month, after assurances earlier in the year
that it would break even. Now GM management is talking about
possible restructuring plans for its Ruesselsheim, Germany-based
Opel unit. That makes investors nervous, said Peter Nesvold, a
New York-based analyst at Jefferies and Co.  With economic struggles in Europe, GM’s exposure to its car
market makes investors even more concerned, he said.  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , also exposed to European risk, has fallen 35 percent this
year through yesterday, while GM dropped 44 percent.  GM’s pension plan is underfunded. The plan was $22.2
billion short at the end of 2010. Analysts will get an update
when fourth quarter earnings are announced in the next two
months. Investors probably will remain wary until then, Nesvold
said in a phone interview.  Next year will also be a transition year for new models. GM
is preparing to introduce new pickups in 2013. That means GM
will temporarily lower production of its profitable Chevrolet
Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups while retooling factories for
the new models. That will lower profits, Nesvold said.  Loaded Lots  While GM built up its inventory of trucks in anticipation
of that switch, a Bloomberg Industries analysis says U.S.
automakers may increase cash discounts to clear out vehicle
stockpiles and maintain market share as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
Honda Motor Co. run plants overtime to make up for production
lost this year to natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand .  GM’s profitability this year, as measured by earnings
before interest and taxes relative to revenue, lags behind Ford,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , according to an analysis by
Morgan Stanley Investment Banking.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is trying to hold down
costs to improve those EBIT margins, including by turning down
heat in offices. The automaker hired Hackett Group to identify
back-office savings at headquarters and throughout  North
America , including salaried job cuts, two people familiar with
the matter said this week.  Stock Outlook  Nesvold expects GM shares to reach $24 within 12 months.
The average of 13 analysts’ estimates issued in the last two
months, including Nesvold’s, is $32.04. Selling at that price
would add up to a $10.5 billion loss for the government.  The Treasury Department wants a minimum of $30 a share for
its 32 percent stake and would prefer to sell above the IPO
price of $33 a share, according to the three people, who asked
not to be identified revealing private plans. If the analysts
are right, GM shares won’t reach the IPO price before the
election.  Steve Rattner, who led Obama’s automotive task force that
oversaw the restructuring of GM, said in an interview that
Republicans will try to use the auto bailout against Obama and
the Democrats. The president will have to make a case that the
bailout saved the economy from a deeper recession, Rattner said.  Election ‘Centerpiece’  “The  auto industry  will be a centerpiece in this election
in terms of what Obama did and what the Republicans say they
would have done,” Rattner said. “Obama will have to say that
if he hadn’t done it, things would be worse. Whether the
American public will believe that, we’ll find out.”  This year, Obama and some of his staff members made stops
in  Michigan  and  Ohio  to tout saving GM, Chrysler Group LLC and
many of the parts makers that rely on  Detroit ’s car companies.
In May,  Ron Bloom , who at the time was Obama’s special assistant
for manufacturing policy, gave a speech at a Chrysler plant
outside Detroit and cited an independent study that said the
bailout saved 1 million jobs.  The Treasury Department has said that losses on the auto
rescue are probably inevitable.  “We’re going to lose money in the auto industry on net,
but we did this for the jobs we were going to save, not to
maximize return,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
at a Detroit Economic Club event on April 28. “We’re not a
private investor. Our job was to protect the country.”  Bush First  GM has hired or called back 13,000 workers since August
2009 and plans to add 6,300 more workers over the next four
years. The George W. Bush administration provided GM with cash,
starting with $4 billion on Dec. 31, 2008, that kept the
automaker solvent until the Obama administration could manage
the 2009 bankruptcy.  “My view with regards to the bailout was that, whether it
was by President Bush or by President Obama, it was the wrong
way to go,” Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  said at a Nov. 9
debate in Rochester, Michigan. Romney has said U.S. bankruptcy
laws work fine without White House involvement.  With GM solidly in the black and poised to take the global
sales crown back from Toyota, the public is less focused on the
automaker or its government ownership, said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin ,
president of the American Action Forum, a conservative think
tank in  Washington . Republicans will still try to rekindle the
issue, he said in a phone interview.  “By and large the public has moved on, but that doesn’t
mean the Republicans won’t try to make it an issue,” Holtz-
Eakin said. “The Republicans are actively taking surveys and
doing focus groups to see how they can attack the Democrats.
It’s easy to remind the public about the bailout.”  Saving Jobs  The Obama campaign, meanwhile, is planning to put
Republicans on the defensive for not supporting the industry.  “While the Republican candidates would have let the
American auto industry be liquidated by uniformly opposing the
rescue loan, the president made the tough decision to extend the
loan in order to save 1.4 million jobs and require a
restructuring plan that has led American automakers to produce
the cars of the future,” said  Ben LaBolt , a spokesman for the
campaign.  Selling GM’s 500 million shares at today’s price would mean
a loss of about $17 billion. That would create a political
fallout that neither GM nor Treasury wants, said Morgan
Stanley’s Jonas.  “It would be difficult to stand that big of a taxpayer
loss,” Jonas said in a phone interview. “If Treasury were to
sell at these prices, it would be a political issue and would
tarnish GM’s commercial image. If we were the financial adviser
to Treasury, we’d say, ‘Don’t sell.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  