-- Go-Go Dancers, Dadaists, Nijinsky Jive in Paris Show: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2011-12-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/go-go-dancers-dadaists-nijinsky-jive-in-paris-exhibit-jorg-von-uthmann.html
On the night of Aug. 26 to 27, 1869,
an enraged prude hurled an inkpot at “La Danse,” Jean-Baptiste
Carpeaux’s group of nude dancers on the facade of the Paris
Opera.  It was the climax of a noisy campaign against the excesses
of modern art. Only the war of 1870-71 and the demise of the
Second Empire saved the sculpture from being replaced with one
that was more chaste.  There was worse to come.  A photograph, dated 1914, on display in a new exhibition,
“Danser Sa Vie,” at the  Centre Pompidou  shows three naked
dancers with the caption: “We were young. And those carefree
summer weeks, together with the sun-drenched beauty of the
landscape, set our limbs free and threw open the spiritual gates
of our vivacity.”  The words are from Mary Wigman, who invented what Germans
call Ausdruckstanz, or expressive dance. The location is the
Monte Verita near Ascona in  Switzerland , a meeting place for
anarchists, vegetarians, nudists and artists. In the 1920s, it
was the favorite holiday destination of the Bauhaus staff.  The 450 items -- paintings, photographs, films, documents
and books -- seek to illustrate the dialogue between modern
dance and the visual arts in the 20th century.  They are grouped along three thematic axes: dance as self
expression; the relationship between dance and abstraction; and
performance art, and mixing theater, music and visual arts.  Summer Camp  The first section is dominated by German choreographers and
dancers from Rudolf von Laban’s revolutionary summer courses in
Ascona to Pina Bausch’s  Tanztheater  in Wuppertal. They appear
side by side with paintings by Emil Nolde, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner
and other Expressionists.  Also here are Vaslav Nijinsky, the Ukrainian dancer whose
lascivious contortions in Debussy’s “L’Apres-midi d’un Faune”
caused a “succes de scandale,” as well as San Francisco-born
Isadora Duncan who performed barefoot and shocked audiences by
dancing, clad in scarlet, the socialist anthem L’Internationale.  The second part of the show includes Loie Fuller, Oskar
Schlemmer and Alwin Nikolais. Dressed in yards of diaphanous
silk and bathed in the glow of multicolored lights of her own
design, Fuller, a regular performer at the  Folies Bergere , seems
suspended in space.  Geometric Designs  Schlemmer, who taught at the Bauhaus in the sculpture and
stage-design workshops, choreographed a Triadic Ballet, to music
by Paul Hindemith, in which the dancers appeared as marionettes
in geometric costumes.  Similarly, Nikolais invented a sort of total theater in
which dancers, props, lights and sounds were equally important
parts of a sculptural Gesamtkunstwerk.  Performance art already started with the Dadaists, who
staged provocative events to promote their work.  In 1959, Allan Kaprow coined the term “Happening” for an
art form that rejected the traditional principles of
craftsmanship and permanence. Other people say that the first
Happening was organized in 1952 by John Cage at the Black
Mountain College in  North Carolina .  Kaprow, Cage and his lifetime partner Merce Cunningham,
Robert Rauschenberg, Trisha Brown and Anna Halprin’s nude
“Paper Dance” figure in the last section of the show.  Even  Jackson Pollock ’s Action Painting is presented as a
form of dance. Conversely, disco and go-go dancing are hailed as
new art forms, “the alchemy of bodies in electronic ecstasy,”
according to the catalog.  That notion is disputable. Yet there’s no doubt that the
Pompidou Center has hit on a thought provoking, amusing topic.  “Danser Sa Vie -- Art et Danse de 1900 a Nos Jours,”
which is supported by Longchamp, runs through April 2, 2012.
Information:  http://www.centrepompidou.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 