-- Go Daddy Backtracks to Join Google in Opposing Piracy Bill
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2011-12-23T23:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/godaddy-says-it-no-longer-supports-proposed-online-piracy-legislation.html
Go Daddy Group Inc.  joined  Google (GOOG) 
Inc. in opposing a Hollywood-backed online-piracy bill,
reversing its position on U.S. legislation designed to combat
illegally copied films and TV content.  “What we wanted to do was step aside and watch other
leaders in the technology industry, the position they take, the
commentary they offer,” Warren Adelman, chief executive officer
of the Internet domain-name and hosting company, said in a
telephone interview today. “We were getting customers asking
questions about SOPA, expressing concerns” about where the Stop
Online Piracy Act could lead.  Google and other Internet companies have said the
legislation will encourage censorship of Web content and harms
technology innovation. They’re pitted against movie studios,
including  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., which are trying to
censure non-U.S. websites selling illegally copied films and
television shows.  Go Daddy, based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , has proposed
changes to limits on domain-name filtering, the consequences of
“frivolous” claims on the Internet, as well as tweaks to
provisions in the bill that protect free speech, the company
said in a  statement  today.  The measure, introduced in October by Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican, would let the  Justice Department  ask
the courts to order Internet-service providers,  search engines ,
payment services and advertising networks to block or stop
business with such websites trafficking in stolen content or
counterfeit goods.  ‘Negative’ Move  The bill also would allow private copyright holders to seek
court orders forcing payment and ad companies to cut ties with
such sites.  Companies aligning with Google will make it harder for
Hollywood studios to push the bill through Congress, said Kerry Rice, an analyst with Needham & Co. in  San Francisco .  “Go Daddy is a significant Internet infrastructure
provider to small and medium businesses and losing their support
is a negative,” Rice said in a telephone interview.  Lawmakers on the House Judiciary Committee debated more
than 25 of 60 proposed amendments for the bill this month. The
hearing will resume when Congress is next in session.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  