-- Lies, Damn Lies and the Four Whoppers of 2011: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2011-12-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/lies-damn-lies-and-the-big-whoppers-of-2011-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
“Have It Your Way,” the Burger King
slogan goes. And most politicians do, twisting words to fit
their interests. But sometimes they go beyond french-frying
facts to serving whoppers.  Two reputable nonpartisan organizations,  FactCheck.org  and
 PolitiFact , have helped to keep everyone honest in the holiday
season by pointing out “death panels” (Sarah Palin) and
Obamacare as a “government takeover” (Frank Luntz) as the top
lies of recent years.  In 2011, Mitt Romney claimed that President  Barack Obama 
“went around the world and apologized for America,” Obama
claimed that his administration’s review of obsolete regulations
was “unprecedented,” and  Michele Bachmann  claimed that the
vaccine to prevent human papillomavirus can “cause mental
retardation.”  These and other contenders for this year’s Lie of the Year
title are worth cataloguing, but let’s remember that not all big
fat ones inflict equal damage on our politics. I’m more
concerned with what bloggers call “memes,” which are ideas -- or
in this case, lies -- that may not be attributable to an
individual, but penetrate our consciousness through repetition
and are soon assumed to be true. My Four Fat Ones are:  No. 1. “The financial crisis was caused not by Wall Street
but by the federal government, namely  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie
Mac .”  This is a convenient argument made by conservatives trying
to gut regulation of Wall Street (or attack Freddie “consultant”
 Newt Gingrich ), one that draws its force from Fannie and
Freddie’s role as a piggy bank for ex-officials from both
parties over the last 20 years. The two institutions performed
abominably and attempted to conceal their mistakes and thwart
regulators; so far, six of their former executives have been
sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  But the abuses of Fannie and Freddie did not cause our
woes. David Min of the Center for American Progress makes
 mincemeat  of  Peter Wallison , a lonely dissenter on the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission who has loudly and fallaciously
insisted that the government’s affordable housing policies lie
at the root of the entire financial crisis. Min points out that
bubbles in  commercial real estate  and  consumer credit  developed
independent of housing, and that the crisis extended around the
globe to regions and institutions with no U.S. residential
housing exposure. Besides, mortgages from private lenders
defaulted at higher rates than those from Fannie and Freddie,
which got into the securitization racket much later and at lower
levels than  Wall Street , the true source of the mess. This
week’s $335 million settlement in the Countrywide case, where
private lenders preyed on blacks and Hispanics, is a reminder
that Fannie and Freddie were hardly the only miscreants and
shouldn’t be immortalized as the direct cause of the crisis.  No. 2. “Republicans voted to end Medicare.”  That line from the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee recently won top honors as PolitiFact’s 2011 “Lie of
the Year,” with good reason. Almost all Republicans in Congress
voted this year in favor of a plan introduced by Representative
 Paul Ryan  that privatizes Medicare for those younger than 55.
Their support has many Democrats licking their chops for 2012
and twisting “privatize” into “end,” even though seniors’ health
care would still be subsidized by  Washington , which is the
essence of Medicare.  I didn’t favor Ryan’s original privatization plan, but the
whopper told about it looks even worse now that Ryan has joined
with Democratic Senator  Ron Wyden  on an intriguing compromise
that would allow seniors to shop for insurance on exchanges or
stay in traditional Medicare if they wish. The idea is
essentially to extend Obama’s Affordable Care Act to older
Americans, which would help shift the system away from the fee-
for-service model that drives its unsustainable costs. Already,
Ryan-Wyden has the support of many of the same Republicans who
despise “Obamacare” for everyone younger. Go figure. Democrats,
meanwhile, crassly reject it because they don’t want to lose an
election-year issue.  No. 3. “Democrats’ tax increases on millionaires are a
‘job-killer’ for small business.”  Republicans this year have argued that Obama’s proposal for
a surtax on millionaires would hurt as many as half of all
small-business owners. It’s the only reason they have (other
than paying off wealthy campaign contributors) for placing the
protection of the rich at the very top of their agenda.  But the Treasury Department’s Office of Tax Analysis (made
up of career, not political, staff) recently issued a technical
 report  that details who among the 392,000 Americans reporting
more than $1 million in annual income could reasonably be called
“small-business owners.” The answer was about 51,000, or 13
percent -- a long way from half of all small-business owners.  Moreover, there’s no evidence to suggest that even those
51,000 job creators would dismiss workers if they paid taxes at
Clinton-era levels. In fact, at higher levels of taxation during
the 1990s, these and other employers were creating a record 22
million new jobs. In the last decade, when they were paying
lower taxes,  job creation  was little changed.  Another big GOP talking point is that expiration of the
Bush tax cuts would mean that half of all small-business income
would be taxed at higher rates. According to the Treasury study,
this is also false. The number applies only if all American
businesses -- big and small -- are included. In truth,  according 
to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation, the end of those
cuts for the wealthy will affect only 3 percent of all taxpayers
with net positive business income.  No. 4. “We’re inches away from no longer having a free
economy.”  This line from  Mitt Romney , now close to gospel in
Republican circles, is untrue even by the standards of a
conservative think tank. The U.S. ranks ninth out of 179
countries in the Heritage Foundation’s Economic Freedom  Index  of
2011. Of major economies, only  Canada  ranked above the U.S.
( Hong Kong  and  Singapore  were No. 1 and 2.)  You wouldn’t know it from the GOP campaign rhetoric, but
the total local, state and federal tax burden is lower than it
was when Obama took office,  according  to the  Tax Foundation .
It’s now among the five lowest in the industrialized world. And
 government spending  as a percentage of  gross domestic product 
was stable in recent decades before rising five or six points to
a hardly unprecedented 37 percent after the economic crisis hit.
If the history of American wars and recessions is any guide,
this increase will be temporary.  The holidays are a time not just for gift-giving but also
for throwing out the trash that has become part of the national
conversation. Let’s make sure there’s only one Fat One at
Christmas -- the guy coming down the chimney.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed here are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 