-- Higgs Boson Born of Physicists’ Love of Metaphor: Mark Buchanan
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2011-12-23T00:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/higgs-boson-born-of-physics-love-of-metaphor-commentary-by-mark-buchanan.html
It’s an iconic image: the professor
of physics, wild hair, Einstein-like, standing before a
chalkboard covered with arcane equations. It could be Einstein
himself, the scribbled mathematics describing his theory of
relativity and the link between mass and energy, E=MC2.  Or, later, Paul Dirac, the English physicist who, seeking
mathematical elegance, forged bonds between Einstein’s
relativity and the quantum theory, and set the stage for physics
today.  The tentative discovery at CERN’s Large Hadron Collider of
the Higgs boson -- among the key missing links in our
fundamental theories of matter -- again shows the surprising
power of mathematics to illuminate nature’s secrets. But the
discovery also points to the value of scientific metaphor, of
guessing that things we know nothing about might turn out to be
surprisingly similar to things we’re familiar with. Indeed, the
theory behind the Higgs boson owes as much to what’s already
known about mundane things like iron magnets and metals as it
does to exotic mathematics.  In 1895, French physicist Pierre Curie showed in extensive
experiments that magnets made of iron (and many other materials)
abruptly lose their magnetic power when they get too hot. Below
about 770 degrees Celsius, a temperature easily achieved in a
wood fire, an iron magnet will tug on nails, but it loses this
power at higher temperatures, and regains it again if cooled.
This is a “phase transition” -- an abrupt change in the
properties of a material, akin to ice melting into liquid.  Something From Nothing  I suspect that Plato might have found this phenomenon
fascinating, as it’s an indisputable example of something coming
directly from nothing. After all, a piece of iron above 770 C
lacks magnetism, has no north or south poles, no orientation in
space whatsoever. All directions are equal. Yet, on cooling, the
iron suddenly points as a magnet in just one direction.  Physicists refer to this kind of thing as spontaneous
symmetry breaking, because the initially equal and symmetric
status of all directions in space spontaneously crumbles. One
direction gets chosen as special, and magnetism appears where
there was none before.  It’s the power of such examples that really drives physics,
and science more generally. Seeing a something-from-nothing
phenomenon in one place, it’s natural to wonder whether it might
happen elsewhere, too. It was this idea, with further
inspiration from the behavior of ordinary metals, that led
scientists to predict the existence of the Higgs boson.  A metal like tin or aluminum will also undergo various
phase transitions with changing temperature. Above about 232
degrees Celsius, tin melts. Below about -269 C (4 degrees
Kelvin), it becomes superconducting. That is, it conducts
electricity with absolutely zero resistance. And, more
profoundly, it refuses to let any magnetic field penetrate to
its interior. Put some tin in a magnetic field, then cool it to
make it superconducting, and the field inside will be readily
expelled.  The onset of superconductivity is another example of
spontaneous symmetry breaking. In this case, the symmetry
involved is a little more abstract -- it’s what physicists call
gauge invariance -- but what’s important is that something very
new emerges in the superconductor, and it has surprising
consequences.  Physicists constructed a complete theory to explain
superconductivity in 1957, and this theory showed that what
emerges inside the metal to make it superconducting is a kind of
supersensitive liquid of electrons. This supersensitive liquid
responds strongly to any applied fields, such as those from a
magnet brought close, by stirring up currents that cancel out
fields in the superconductor’s interior. This is the essence of
superconductivity, and it causes a total change in the way
electricity and magnetism work on the inside of the material.  Suddenly There’s Mass  Most important, this changes the very character of the
photon -- the quantum particle of light. In empty space, photons
have no mass, and this lack of mass is closely related to the
ability of magnetic fields to penetrate matter and extend over
long distances. But inside a superconductor, where no fields can
penetrate, photons effectively acquire a mass. The details of
all this are quite complicated, but the implications are not:
Superconductivity clearly demonstrates how a particle with no
mass can suddenly come to have mass. In essence, its free
movement becomes impeded by the abrupt appearance of an
engulfing substance with which it interacts very strongly.  If any of this rings a bell from recent stories about the
Higgs boson, it is no accident. Early work on the Higgs field --
a hypothetical field that fills all space and gives mass to
most particles -- first appeared in the early 1960s. This
was just after physicists had come up with the first successful
theory of superconductivity, as they worked to explain why
certain other particles -- the W and Z bosons involved in the
so-called weak interactions responsible for radioactivity --have
large masses.  Lessons learned from the magnet and from metals were put
together to outline possibilities for physics on a larger scale.
Perhaps, British physicist Peter Higgs and others proposed, the
entire universe might be closely akin to a superconductor we
cannot get out of, which is filled with a mysterious field akin
to that supersensitive electron liquid. Particles have mass by
virtue of their interactions as they move through it. Without
knowing its historical setting, this sounds like a preposterous,
crazy idea.  But it’s an idea fully inspired by concrete examples of how
nature works. It is the result not only of mathematics, but also
of metaphor and analogy. The world -- if the claims for the
Higgs boson turn out to be right -- may indeed be rather like a
cosmic superconductor.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 