-- Indianapolis Colts Rally in Final Minute to Beat Texans 19-16 for 2nd Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2011-12-23T05:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/indianapolis-colts-rally-in-final-minute-to-beat-texans-19-16-for-2nd-win.html
Dan Orlovsky connected with Reggie Wayne on a one-yard touchdown pass with 19 seconds left in the
Indianapolis Colts’ come-from-behind 19-16 home victory against
the Houston Texans.  The Colts got their second straight victory after starting
the season with 13 consecutive losses. They became the first
team with one win or fewer to beat a competitor with at least 10
wins this late in an NFL season.  Houston (10-5), which already has clinched a playoff spot,
lost its second straight game after a seven-game winning streak
that gave it the American Football Conference South division
title.  Trailing 16-12 with less than two minutes remaining in the
game at Lucas Oil Stadium and no timeouts left, the Colts
started their winning drive from their 22 yard line. A 34-yard
pass from Orlovsky to Wayne moved the ball to the Houston 20,
and three Houston penalties left the ball at the 1.  “This is two weeks in a row our defense has carried us,”
Orlovsky said in a televised interview. “Reggie always walks by
my locker and says ‘throw left.’ He made a great play.”  Orlovsky, subbing for starter  Peyton Manning  who is
recovering from neck surgery, completed 23 of 41 passes for 244
yards against his former team.  Houston opened the scoring less than a minute into the game
on a 9-yard run by  Arian Foster , the only touchdown of the night
for the Texans. Adam Vinatieri kicked four field goals for the
Colts and Neil Rackers had three field goals for Houston.  T.J. Yates completed 13 of 16 passes for 132 yards for
Houston.  “We’re playing with a young quarterback,” said Houston
coach  Gary Kubiak . “We haven’t been as explosive as we have
been. We’re struggling to find some points.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  