-- Indonesia’s Economic Resilience ‘Credit Positive,’ Moody’s Says
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2011-12-23T10:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/indonesia-s-economic-resilience-credit-positive-moody-s-says.html
Christian de Guzman, assistant vice
president at Moody’s Investors Service in  Singapore , comments on
Indonesia’s potential for a credit rating upgrade.  Fitch Ratings  raised Indonesia’s long-term foreign and
local currency rating to BBB-, the lowest investment-grade level
on Dec. 15. Standard and Poor’s will may follow Fitch’s move if
the government continues to improve fiscal, administrative and
structural reforms, the rating company said Dec. 20.  De Guzman commented in an e-mail Dec. 22.   On a possible upgrade:  “We have noted the macroeconomic resilience of the country
and believe that it is credit positive and would support the
case for an upgrade.  “The shallow depth of  capital markets , governance, and the
prospects for infrastructure development continue to be concerns
that we continue to monitor in  Indonesia .”  On Indonesia versus  Philippines :  “Indonesia has established a longer track record of
prudent fiscal management, with average deficits from 2001 to
2010 at just over 1 percent of GDP, as compared to over 3
percent of GDP for the Philippines over the same period. This is
also reflected in Indonesia’s much lower debt burden as a share
of GDP.  “However, the Philippines’ healthier external surpluses
over the past few years, among others, has led to deeper capital
markets which has allowed for a more stable source of local
financing for the Philippine government.  “Nevertheless, Indonesia’s growth has proven to be more
resilient to external shocks than the Philippines.”  On risks to  Asia :  “The most prominent risks Asian nations face in 2012 are
mainly external: How will economic growth in Asia cope with
weaker demand conditions from the west and whether financing
conditions could be affected by continued turmoil in the
Eurozone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  