-- China City Woos Apple Supplier With Workers, Low Wages
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-24T01:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/inland-china-city-woos-apple-supplier-with-workers-lower-wages.html
(Corrects year to 2010 in seventh paragraph of story
published Dec. 23.)  The Chinese city of Zhengzhou will
help Foxconn Technology Group recruit more than 100,000 workers
next year for its local factory, matching the number it helped
the maker of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and iPads hire in 2011.  Zhengzhou has a large workforce, with labor costs that are
about two-thirds of those in China’s wealthier coastal cities,
Deputy Mayor Xue Yunwei said in an interview. That’s given
Zhengzhou, the capital of the mostly rural province of  Henan , an
advantage luring investment from manufacturers, he said.  “You can’t find entry-level workers in  Shanghai  offering
only 1,500 yuan ($237) of monthly salary,” Xue said in Beijing
yesterday. “But we can.”  Efforts to sway companies including Foxconn,  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to invest inland instead of moving production
to nations such as Vietnam and  Bangladesh  as wages rise in
China’s coastal areas may help sustain  economic growth  that’s
averaged 10 percent in the last three decades. In addition to
helping find workers, authorities are offering reduced tax rates
and preferential access to land to attract companies.  “In the past 30 years,  China  created what might be the
world’s greatest miracle by attracting global capital to its
coastal cities,” Xue said. “The new story for the next few
decades will be the inland story.”  Economic Growth  Zhengzhou’s economy may grow 13 percent this year and
maintain a double-digit pace of expansion for the “next few
years,” Xue said. The national economy may grow 9.2 percent
this year and 8.5 percent in 2012, according the median of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Foxconn, which began exporting goods from its Zhengzhou
factory in August, has been a major factor for the city’s growth,
Xue said. Zhengzhou’s exports and imports combined will exceed
$15 billion this year, triple what it was in 2010, he said.  Foreign direct investment in the city, with a population of
more than 8 million, has grown 43 percent in the first 11 months
of the year, Xue said. Nationally, foreign investment gained 13
percent during the same period.  To help Foxconn, Nissan Motor Co.’s local vehicle venture,
and other companies to find workers, Xue said, the Zhengzhou
government has encouraged some of the more than 21 million
people from Henan working in other parts of China to return to
the province. The government has also organized students from 40
universities and over 100 technical-training high schools in
Henan to do internships at the plants in the city, he said.  Intel and Ford  Edmund Ding , a spokesman for Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.,
the Taipei-based flagship of Foxconn, didn’t answer several
calls to his mobile phones today.  Intel announced plans in February 2009 to close down its
assembly and test operations in  Shanghai  and move the work to
the western city of  Chengdu , capital of Sichuan province. In
September of this year, Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan
Mulally  broke ground on an engine transmission plant in the
western municipality of Chongqing.  Annual wages of private companies’ urban manufacturing
workers in coastal  Guangdong province  averaged 21,644 yuan last
year, compared with 16,391 yuan in Hunan and 15,495 yuan in
Henan, according to government data.  “Nobody was available to meet us three to five years ago
when we wanted to persuade them to do business here,” Xue said.
“But now, all kinds of foreign and domestic companies visit us
every week.”  Airport Plans  To make Zhengzhou even more attractive, Xue said the city
also wants to spend as much as 30 billion yuan in the next
decade to expand its airport to accommodate more cargo transport.
The  National Development and Reform Commission , China’s top
economic planner, and the nation’s aviation regulator have
already approved plans to start building a second runway at
Zhengzhou’s airport next month, he said.  Local authorities want five runways as part of a 30-year
blueprint for developing the city, Xue said.  The local government hasn’t taken on much debt to make
these investments, Xue said. Zhengzhou plans to merge about 10
companies the city set up to finance products into three larger
entities, each with assets in the tens of billions of yuan, he
said. These three companies will focus on investing in selected
industries, infrastructure projects and property development, he
said, without giving more details.  Xue said the city government wants to make Zhengzhou an
industrial base, a transportation hub and a large metropolis.
“That’ our vision,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  