-- Intel’s February Antitrust Trial Canceled by U.S. Judge
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/intel-won-t-face-new-york-state-s-february-antitrust-trial-judge-rules.html
A federal judge ruled that  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  won’t face a February trial in an antitrust suit filed by
 New York  state officials who claim the chipmaker attempted to
monopolize the market.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Stark in Wilmington, Delaware,
yesterday canceled the Feb. 14 trial while lawyers for Intel,
the world’s largest semiconductor maker, and the state of New
York set up a schedule to hold arguments about whether the case
should be dismissed.  New York sued  Santa Clara , California-based Intel in
November 2009, accusing it of using threats and billions of
dollars in illegal payments to pressure and unfairly persuade
computer manufacturers to use the company’s chips.  An Intel spokeswoman, Laura Anderson, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment on the judge’s ruling yesterday.
Danny Kanner, a spokesman for New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , declined in an e-mail to comment on the decision.  Intel has battled allegations over the years that its
salespeople engaged in anticompetitive behavior. The company has
paid more than $2.7 billion to resolve antitrust litigation over
its chips.  Schneiderman’s predecessor,  Andrew Cuomo , accused Intel of
engaging in illegal business practices to cement its dominance
of the market for microprocessor chips. Those tactics stifled
competition from Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and artificially
inflated the prices consumers paid for computers, Cuomo, who is
now New York’s governor, said in the suit.  Stark already threw out some of the claims, including one
seeking triple damages for anticompetitive acts. The judge also
narrowed the scope of the case by saying New York can only focus
on computer purchases for a three-year period. State officials
had sought to use a six-year period.  The case is State of New York v. Intel Corp., 09-cv-827,
U.S. District Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 