-- Israel Didn’t Know High-Tech Gear Was Sent to Iran
-- B y   B e n   E l g i n
-- 2011-12-23T18:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/israel-didn-t-know-high-tech-gear-was-sent-to-iran-via-denmark.html
The clandestine arrangement worked
smoothly for years. The Israeli company shipped its Internet-
monitoring equipment to a distributor in  Denmark . Once there,
workers stripped away the packaging and removed the labels.  Then they sent it to a man named “Hossein” in Iran, an
amiable technology distributor known to them only by his first
name and impeccable English, say his partners in Israel and
Denmark.  Israeli trade, customs and defense officials say their
departments didn’t know that the systems for peering into
Internet traffic, sold under the brand name  NetEnforcer , had
gone to a country whose leaders have called for the destruction
of the Jewish state. Israel’s ban on trade with its enemy
failed, even though a paper trail on the deals was available in
Denmark.  The transactions illustrate how ineffective governments
have been in blocking a global trade in new, intrusive
surveillance technologies that authoritarian regimes can use as
weapons for repression. Such gear from Western companies --
including tools that intercept e-mails and text messages, record
Internet activity and map cell phone locations -- has been used
to track and torture dissidents in countries including  Iran ,
 Bahrain , Syria and  Tunisia , a Bloomberg News  investigation  this
year showed. It’s unclear who Hossein’s customers were, or how
the technology may have been used in Iran.  ‘Dirty Trade’  “The fact that the most murderous regimes are using
Western technologies for surveillance highlights the fact that
the current framework for controlling this dirty trade is not
working,” says Brett Solomon, executive director of Access, a
New York-based nonprofit that promotes online freedom. “How
long are the innocent people of Syria and Iran to wait before
Congress and the EU turn words into law?”  Yet there are ways to stem the flow of such technology,
which can be used as a weapon but isn’t regulated like one. Many
companies selling surveillance equipment that connects to the
Internet have the ability to monitor their own customers, and
governments could require them to do so while tightening export
laws.  Anything connected to the Internet “can phone home and
provide some sort of location data,” says Jon Oltsik, senior
principal analyst at Milford, Massachusetts-based  Enterprise
Strategy Group , a technology consulting firm. Companies often
stay in touch with their products to send software updates, and
can also examine customers’ Internet addresses to determine
where the equipment is, he says.  The method has already proved effective, stymieing Syrian
efforts to circumvent the U.S. embargo during a crackdown that
has killed more than 5,000 people.  ‘Is Ignorance Bliss?’  San Diego-based  Websense, Inc. , a maker of Internet-
filtering software, routinely scans the Internet addresses of
prospective buyers, as well as its 40,000 existing customers, in
order to prevent its products from going to embargoed countries
or falling into the wrong hands, says Michael Newman, the
company’s general counsel and interim chief financial officer.  In October, Websense blocked sales to two potential buyers,
who listed their physical addresses in  Switzerland  and the
 United Arab Emirates , but who asked for the product to be
downloaded to Internet addresses that the company traced to
 Syria .  “Companies should be taking these steps,” Newman says.
“The question is, how much are you trying to know? Or is
ignorance bliss?”  Spotting Locations  Such steps could have helped  Blue Coat Systems Inc. , a
Sunnyvale, California-based maker of Web security and filtering
products.  Telecomix , a group that promotes online freedom,
earlier this year uncovered computer logs that showed the
company’s machines being used in Syria to filter Internet sites.  Blue Coat says its products were illegally shipped to Syria
by a distributor and it had been unaware they were there.
Spokesman Steve Schick declined further comment on the Syria
sales, citing an ongoing investigation by the  Department of
Commerce .  Had Blue Coat been paying attention to the Internet
addresses when connecting with its deployed machines, it would
have spotted the suspect locations, says Peter Fein, a Chicago-
based member of Telecomix.  “Claiming a lack of knowledge is no excuse anymore,” says
Solomon, of Access. “Technology can be used as a weapon and
should be treated with the same care and sold with the same due
diligence.”  Violent Repression  In this growing industry, with sales estimated at $3
billion to $5 billion, the potential for human rights abuse is
profound. The 10-month investigation by Bloomberg News
documented use of Western surveillance technology in political
crackdowns and violent repression by governments across the
 Middle East  and North Africa.  In Bahrain, authorities used European equipment to
intercept phone calls and  text messages  of activists, who were
confronted with details of their communications while being
arrested and tortured. Amid Syria’s uprising, construction moved
forward on a $17 million Internet surveillance system built with
U.S., French, German and Italian technology.  “Stopping this trade is a shared responsibility across
government and business,” says Meg Roggensack, an adjunct
professor at the Georgetown University Law Center in  Washington ,
D.C., and a senior advisor to  Human Rights First , a non-profit
organization based in  New York  and Washington. “It is extremely
urgent. This is playing out in real time with real consequences
for real people.”  Restricting Trade  Western governments are now trying to better regulate the
trade. The European Union restricted sales of the technology to
Syria after Bloomberg News exposed the project in that country.
A bill introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives on Dec. 8
would bar sales of surveillance technologies by American
companies to repressive regimes.  The U.K.’s Business Minister, Judith Wilcox, said the
government was examining a block on the sale of mobile-phone
surveillance software to Iran and Syria after Bloomberg News
reported a British company sold location-tracking technology to
Iran this year for use by the regime’s law enforcement.  Yet efforts to date have stumbled. After the  U.S. Congress 
in 2010 prohibited government business with any company selling
equipment to Iran that would restrict the flow of information or
speech of its citizens, no companies were identified. Under
current EU rules, each member state makes its own export
decisions, which allows regulatory gaps.  Trusting Distributors  “Right now, we’re not even trying,” says Marietje
Schaake, a Dutch member of the European Parliament who is
pushing for EU-wide standards. “The digital arms trade needs
more scrutiny and regulations.”  Even when they impose bans, governments struggle to track
surveillance sales. Often, technology vendors rely on
distributors to sell their products, and simply trust that it
isn’t falling into hands that will abuse it.  The shipments of Internet-inspection equipment from  Israel 
to Iran illustrate the enforcement loopholes.  Allot Communications Ltd. , a Hod Hasharon, Israel-based
firm whose stock trades on  Nasdaq  and the Tel Aviv Stock
Exchange and which reported $57 million in sales last year, sold
its systems to a Randers, Denmark-based technology distributor.  Workers at that company,  RanTek A/S , repackaged the gear
and shipped it to Iran, according to four former employees of
Allot and RanTek. The shipments were legal under Danish law.  Skirting a Ban  A sale as early as 2006 is corroborated by an export
license application filed by RanTek, though the name of the
customer in Iran was redacted by Danish authorities who provided
the document to Bloomberg News.  The former employees identified the buyer as the technology
distributor, Hossein.  The sales skirted a strict Israeli ban that prohibits
“trading with the enemy,” including any shipments that reach
Iran, Syria and Lebanon.  “This covers everything,” says Gavriel Bar, manager of
the Middle East department at Israel’s Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Labor. “Imports, exports, direct, indirect. An
Israeli company is not allowed to trade with Iran in any way.”  Israeli lawmaker Nachman Shai called for a parliamentary
investigation today, and the country’s Defense Ministry said it
had begun to examine the report. Allot shares fell 5.1 percent
to $15.84 at 11:04 a.m. in New York, after earlier plunging as
much as 13 percent.  Three former sales employees for Allot say it was well
known inside the company that the equipment was headed for Iran.
Allot officials say they have no knowledge of their equipment
going there and are looking into RanTek’s sales.  ‘Breach of Contract’  “We do not authorize any sales to Iran,” says Jay Kalish,
executive director of  investor relations  at Allot. If its
products were shipped there by RanTek, it would be a “breach of
contract,” he says.  Kalish says it’s challenging to track where its products go
after they’ve been sold. Customers often don’t connect digitally
to Allot, making electronic tracking difficult. The company has
hundreds of distributors and their products have even appeared
for sale on eBay, he says.  Allot said in a statement today that its policy is to
comply fully with Israeli and non-Israeli laws, including all
applicable export laws and regulations.  The product sold by Allot, NetEnforcer, conducts “deep-
packet inspection” of networks. The technology has commercial
uses, such as helping a mobile network operator prioritize
certain types of traffic or eliminating spam.  Deep-Packet Inspection  But deep-packet inspection has also been used to snoop into
e-mails in countries including Tunisia, even allowing officials
to change the contents, Bloomberg News found. It can also
prevent activists from using the Web anonymously, leading to
arrest and torture in countries such as Iran, says Ben Wagner,
of the  European University Institute  near Florence,  Italy , who
has studied the technology.  “I cannot conceive a way that DPI could be exported to
Iran without a concern,” he says.  Allot’s Kalish says the equipment sold through RanTek was
best suited for managing a company’s  Internet traffic  and lacked
the capacity for wide-scale Internet surveillance.  RanTek officials didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls
seeking comment.  The lax controls on the Israeli technology shipments, which
didn’t require export licenses, contrast with tighter
restrictions on weapons sales, which do need licenses.  Companies such as Allot are almost on an honor system to
comply with the rules, says Rifat Azam, a professor of
international business law at the  Interdisciplinary Center , a
private university in Herzliya, Israel.  Reputational Risk  In the absence of strong laws and policing, bad press and
the threat of reputational damage has spurred companies to curb
dealings with repressive regimes.  Area SpA called off construction of the Internet
surveillance system in Syria only after Bloomberg’s story was
picked up by Italy’s major newspapers and sparked a protest by
Syrian and Internet-freedom activists outside the company’s
headquarters near Milan. The coverage also spurred an online
petition by Access that gathered more than 10,000 signatures
calling for a stop to the Syria project.  Paris-based  Qosmos SA , which had supplied deep-packet
inspection probes for Area’s Syria system, said when contacted
for the story that it had already decided to pull out. Qosmos’s
head of marketing, Erik Larsson, later added that the company
would exit all work in interception and focus on other uses of
the technology, such as market research and network management.  Suspending Business  “We don’t want to be in that business because we don’t
have the control and there’s not enough regulation,” he said.
“If you’re using it to track down opponents and torturing them
and killing them, then the technology is in the wrong hands.”  In the case of Iran, Dublin-based  AdaptiveMobile Security
Ltd.  had sold and proposed systems for blocking and filtering
text messages. When asked about the Iran business for a
Bloomberg News story, the company said it plans to cease doing
business in Iran when its contract is up in 2012, because
continuing in the country’s current political climate could
damage its reputation.  Measures that governments could take include examining the
trade records of foreign customers. Such checks of public
records in Denmark would have exposed the shipments of Israeli
goods to Iran.  For now, self-regulation by companies may be critical to
any recipe for change.  In a Dec. 8 speech, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said lawmakers’ efforts to employ sanctions and control
surveillance exports will only go part of the way.  Remote Shut-Down  “In the 21st century, smart companies have to act before
they find themselves in the crosshairs of controversy,” she
said.  Websense says self-policing kept it from falling afoul of
Syria sanctions in October. The company also can refuse to
provide updates, shutting down a product within weeks if it
moves to a location where Websense doesn’t want it or if the
company finds it’s being used for repression, Newman says.  It took such steps in 2009, for example, when it learned
that two of its customers in Yemen were using its products to
carry out government censorship of the Internet, says Newman.  In a digital arms race that pits repressive regimes against
their citizens, says Access executive director Solomon, anything
that loosens the tyrants’ grip on electronic communications
might just save lives.  -- With assistance from Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv, Vernon Silver in  Rome  and Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen. Editors:
Marcia Myers, Melissa Pozsgay  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Marcia Myers at   mmyers20@bloomberg.net  