-- Italian Consumer Confidence Declines to 16-Year Low on Austerity: Economy
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-12-23T11:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/italian-consumer-confidence-declines-to-16-year-low-on-austerity-economy.html
Italian  consumer confidence  fell in
December to the lowest in 16 years as  Europe ’s debt crisis
forced austerity measures and intensified households’ concerns
about a probable recession.  The sentiment index declined to 91.6, the lowest since
January 1996, from a revised 96.1 in November, national
statistics office Istat said in Rome today. Economists forecast
a reading of 95.3, according to the  median  of 11 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Euro-area confidence fell to the lowest
in more than two years, according to a Dec. 21 report.  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King said yesterday that
growth prospects in Europe “have deteriorated” and there are
signs stresses in financial markets are feeding through to the
economy. In  Italy , lawmakers gave final approval to a 30
billion-euro ($40 billion) budget package, including a pension
overhaul, a levy on primary residences and higher gasoline
prices, that may push the euro area’s third-biggest economy
deeper into a recession.  “All the leading indicators in the euro zone are pointing
to recession across the region,” said  Jonathan Loynes , chief
European economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .
“Conditions in Italy and the other peripheral economies are
difficult because of the austerity program and lack of economic
growth, and there’s concern about how things are going to
develop for the next year.”  Italy’s economy shrank in the third quarter and the
government forecasts a contraction in the current three-month
period. The European Commission forecast last month that Italy
will expand just 0.1 percent in 2012, compared with a projected
0.5 percent for the 17-nation euro area as a whole.  Italian Yields  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s budget plan is aimed at taming
surging  borrowing costs  and balancing the budget in 2013. The
yield on Italy’s 10-year bond yield was at 6.9 percent as of
12:36 p.m. in Rome. It reached a euro-era record of 7.48 percent
on Nov. 9.  “It’s also essential for our economy to return to
growth,” Monti told lawmakers before the Senate vote yesterday.
He said the government will now focus on overhauling the labor
market and welfare system to spur economic expansion.  Company Pressure  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, agreed with unions
in November on a plan to close its Termini Imerese factory. On
Dec. 13, the Turin-based carmaker signed a deal with its 86,000
Italian employees that increases shifts and shortens breaks in
exchange for a 20-billion euro investment plan.  Italian  consumer spending  declined 0.2 percent in the third
quarter as gross domestic product fell 0.2 percent, Istat said
in a Dec. 21 report. Unemployment jumped to a 17-month high of
8.5 percent in October, with youth joblessness topping 29
percent.  Continuing turmoil in the euro area is clouding growth
prospects across Europe. In the U.K.,  services output  fell the
most in six months in October, official data showed today. A
separate report by the British Bankers’ Association showed
mortgage approvals fell in November, as households focused on
repaying debt rather than increasing borrowing.  France ’s third-quarter economic growth was revised down to
0.3 percent from a previous estimate of 0.4 percent, the Insee
statistical institute said. Meanwhile, the Swiss central bank
said companies expect sales to weaken further over the coming
months due to strength of the franc. In  Russia , the central bank
unexpectedly cut its  benchmark interest rate  in a bid to shield
the economy from the slump.  Asian nations are also being caught up in the downturn.
Singapore’s industrial production unexpectedly declined in
November, as evidence of a weakening Asian outlook prompted
 Fitch Ratings  to cut its growth forecasts for the region.  “Emerging  Asia ’s growth prospects remain relatively
favourable, though the region is not immune from problems
elsewhere in the world,” Fitch said. It lowered its 2012
projection to 6.8 percent growth from 7.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome   at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  