-- Khazanah Said to Bid $900 Million for Turkish Hospital Stake
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2011-12-23T10:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/khazanah-said-to-bid-900-million-for-turkish-hospital-stake.html
Khazanah Nasional Bhd ., Malaysia’s
state investment company, offered more than $900 million for a
majority of Turkey’s largest hospital chain,  Acibadem Saglik
Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS (ACIBD) , according to two people with knowledge
of the offer.  Integrated Healthcare Holdings Sdn, controlled by Khazanah,
will buy 60 percent of Acibadem from Abraaj Capital Ltd., and
Khazanah will buy another 15 percent, the people said, asking
not to be identified ahead of an agreement, which may be signed
today.  Khazanah has spent $3.7 billion on acquisitions of health-
care services providers since 2005, according to Bloomberg data.
In July 2010, Khazanah offered S$3.5 billion ($2.7 billion) for
the 76.1 percent of  Singapore ’s Parkway Holdings Ltd. it didn’t
already own, beating New Delhi-based Fortis Healthcare Ltd. to
 Asia ’s biggest hospital operator.  Khazanah Managing Director Azman Mokhtar couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment when phoned at his office in
 Kuala Lumpur  today. Dubai-based Abraaj couldn’t be reached
outside of normal business hours.  Mehmet Ali Aydinlar, chairman of Acibadem Saglik
Yatirimlari Holding AS, also known as Almond Holding AS, which
controls 92 percent of Acibadem Saglik Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS,
couldn’t be reached by telephone. His office in Istanbul said he
is traveling.  Market Value  Acibadem shares fell 0.4 percent to 23.70 lira, giving the
company a market value of 2.37 billion lira ($1.26 billion). A
75 percent stake is valued at $945 million, based on yesterday’s
closing price. Khazanah didn’t offer a significant premium
because the Turkish company’s shares have surged 88 percent this
year, one person said.  Integrated Healthcare and Acibadem on Sept. 30 entered into
a non-binding agreement to explore a joint partnership with the
intention of creating an international partnership, according to
a statement at the time. Three people with knowledge of the
talks said last month that Khazanah may buy a stake in Acibadem.  Integrated Healthcare may raise as much as $2 billion in an
initial public offering next year, according to people with
knowledge of its plans. Its  Parkway Pantai Ltd. (PWAY)  unit runs 16
hospitals in Singapore, Malaysia,  India  and Brunei, and
Integrated Healthcare also owns a stake in India’s  Apollo
Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. (APHS)   Abraaj’s Stake  Abraaj, the biggest private equity firm in the Middle East
and North Africa, bought the Acibadem stake for about $606
million in 2007 and 2008. Abraaj has a 46 percent stake in
Almond Holding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s growing health-care industry has attracted
international investors including Carlyle Group, the world’s
second-largest private-equity firm, which bought 40 percent of
hospital operator Medical Park Saglik Grubu AS for $150 million
in 2009. Asia Debt Management Capital of  Hong Kong , PGGM NV and
the World Bank’s International Finance Corp. agreed to buy a 26
percent stake in Turkish hospital chain Universal Saglik
Yatirimlari Holding AS for $140 million in May.  The Khazanah offer was earlier reported by the Nikkei
newspaper, which said the value of the transaction is around
$650 million.  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ,  Japan ’s second-biggest trading
company, owns 30 percent of Integrated Healthcare.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Singapore at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  