-- King Says Crisis Threatens Europe’s Economy as Stability Outlook Worsens
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-12-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/king-says-crisis-threatens-europe-s-economy-as-stability-outlook-worsens.html
Mervyn King , vice chairman of the
European Systemic Risk Board, said Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis is threatening to hurt the real economy and the outlook
for financial stability has worsened.  Growth prospects “have deteriorated” since September,
King, who is also governor of the  Bank of England , said at a
briefing hosted by the  European Central Bank  in  Frankfurt 
yesterday. “Investors lack confidence to continue to provide
normal levels of funding. Dependence on central banks has
risen.”  The ECB loaned banks a record 489 billion euros ($636
billion) for three years on Dec. 21 to avert a credit crunch
from the sovereign debt crisis. The central bank said earlier
this week that the turmoil has taken on systemic proportions not
seen since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  King said the outlook for financial stability has
“worsened” since the last ESRB meeting in September, and while
intervention by the ECB is expected to “assuage funding
problems in the near term, in the longer term private funding
markets must be revitalized.”  Bank shares have suffered this year as borrowing costs
surged in the euro region. The Stoxx 600 Banks Index has fallen
28 percent since the end of June, compared with a 12 percent
decline by the  Stoxx Europe 600 .  Capital Plea  King also appealed to banks not to “reduce lending to the
real economy” as they increase their capital levels to meet new
standards set by regulators.  “We are very conscious there is extreme  risk aversion  in
private financial markets,” he said. “We want a more robust
banking system so that whatever risks crystallize, whatever
their source, the banking system is in a better position than
2008.”  There was “no discussion” at the ESRB meeting of any
country leaving the euro area, King said. Still, “all financial
institutions are advised to prepare for a wide range of
contingencies,” he said.  Andrea Enria, the second ESRB vice chair who is also the
chairman of the European Banking Authority, said he is
“disappointed” by European leaders dithering over putting
rescue measures in place, effectively delaying  Europe ’s bank
recapitalization.  “We have always been quite adamant in all occasions, also
in the debate running up to the decision, that this should have
been a comprehensive package,” Enria said. This includes
“recapitalization, some measures -- funding guarantees --
addressing the funding problems and strengthening of the
European Financial Stability Facility and of the tools to deal
with the sovereign crisis.”  The ESRB, which aims to warn of brewing risks in the
financial system, was set up in January as part of a new
European architecture designed to ward off another financial
crisis such as that which followed the Lehman collapse. Its 65-
member board is headed by ECB President  Mario Draghi .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  