-- Kynikos, Third Point Are Dismissed From $8 Billion Fairfax Suit
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/kynikos-third-point-are-dismissed-from-8-billion-fairfax-suit.html
James Chanos ’s Kynikos Associates LP
and Daniel Loeb’s  Third Point  LLC won dismissal from an $8
billion lawsuit accusing the two hedge funds of spreading
negative information to drive down  Fairfax Financial Holdings
Ltd. (FFH) ’s stock price.  New Jersey  Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury in
Morristown granted their requests yesterday, saying they
couldn’t be sued in New Jersey. Hansbury also dismissed
Institutional Credit Partners LLC. All three firms are based in
 New York . In addition to Chanos and Loeb, also dropped from the
suit were Jeffrey Perry, an analyst at Third Point, and William
Gahan, who was an analyst at ICP.  In September, Hansbury dismissed billionaire  Steven A. Cohen  and his Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital Advisors
LP from the case.  “One must establish that the defendants purposely availed
themselves of the State of New Jersey and that the alleged
improper conduct was expected or intended to be felt within the
State of New Jersey,” Hansbury wrote. He said Fairfax didn’t do
that.  Fairfax, a Toronto-based insurer, sued the  hedge funds  in
2006, alleging they acted to harm the company because they were
betting its stock price would decline. The hedge funds named in
the suit have denied Fairfax’s accusations.  ‘Forum Shopping’  “We thought Fairfax was engaged in some pretty blatant
forum shopping and it took a while but the judge saw through
it,” Bill Carmody, a lawyer for Third Point at Susman Godfrey
LLP in New York, said in a phone interview.  “We are gratified by the court’s decision, but otherwise
have no comment,” Chanos said in an e-mail.  Michael Bowe, a lawyer for Fairfax, said in an e-mail that
the dismissal of its claims against the funds was “entirely
incorrect.” He said the evidence shows that “these parties
engaged in a vicious and unrelenting attack” on Fairfax.  Fairfax plans to appeal the judge’s decision, said Bowe,
who is a partner at Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP in New
York.  Fairfax said the funds coaxed John Gwynn, a former
insurance analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co. in Memphis,  Tennessee ,
into giving them his negative Fairfax reports before they were
published. It also said they hired an outside analyst, Spyro
Contogouris, to spread false Fairfax information.  Research Disclosed  Morgan Keegan, a unit of Birmingham, Alabama-based bank
company  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , fired Gwynn in 2008 for
disclosing research on Fairfax to selected clients before
publication. He has since died.  Defendants still named in the case include Morgan Keegan
and hedge fund Exis Capital Management Inc.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 