-- New Year Allows for Optimism Even in a Pessimistic World: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/new-year-allows-for-an-optimistic-case-even-in-a-pessimistic-world-view.html
For pessimists, the new year offers
an embarrassment of riches.  In the U.S., a bruising presidential election will distract
Congress from the crucial business of solving the country’s deep
 fiscal problems . Europe is teetering on the brink of a financial
disaster that could sink the global economy.  China  may be
entering a real-estate bust. The Arab Spring has given way, in
places, to a violent winter. Russia could be next in line for
full-bore rebellion.  It’s far too easy to see how things could go terribly
wrong. Hence, in the spirit of the holiday season, we at
Bloomberg View thought it would be more interesting to imagine
how they might go right. Here, point by point, is our optimistic
case.  United States  No doubt, worries about Europe and recurring displays of
political brinkmanship are weighing on U.S. households,
investors and corporate executives. Such concerns are also
getting tiresome. What if businesses and consumers up and decide
to get on with life?  There are signs that may be happening.  Indicators  of hiring
intentions are looking better than they have since mid-2008. The
 housing  market and  auto sales  are recovering from a summer lull.
Gasoline  prices , down 16 percent from their peak of more than $4
a gallon in May, are less of a burden on consumers. Economists
have been raising their estimates for growth in the current
quarter.  Desolate as the political landscape may appear, the
election will be fought at least in part on a fundamental issue:
how to fix the U.S. government’s finances, and who will pay.
Democracy was never intended to be pretty. If the winner emerges
with a clear mandate, the U.S. could be in a better position to
balance its long-term budget than at any point in the past
decade.  Europe   Europe’s sovereign-debt troubles differ from other recent
crises in one important way: Almost everybody involved seems to
recognize how devastating it would be if euro-area governments
failed to act. The threat of Armageddon is pushing Europe’s
leaders, step by inadequate step, toward the closer union
required to make the currency area viable. Indeed, it’s possible
to see the crisis as just the bitter medicine Europe needed.  Success could be transformative. Markets would boom, easing
the task of fixing government  finances  and giving a much-needed
boost to the global recovery. Ultimately, if euro-area countries
pursue the creation of collectively backed  government bonds , the
vast new market might help rebalance the world’s economy by
providing central banks and investors with an alternative to
U.S. Treasuries.  Even if Europe’s leaders can’t reach agreement on a new
fiscal compact before markets lose patience, the  European
Central Bank  may yet have the firepower to prevent a breakup of
the euro -- if only it’s willing to use it. The ECB’s move this
week to make 489 billion euros ($639 billion) in three-year
loans available to banks suggests it might be.  China  Recent data on real-estate prices suggest China might be
facing the burst bubble many had feared. Although nobody would
wish that on the Chinese people or the global economy right now,
the shock could provide a useful lesson in the limits of
authoritarian rule. Monolithic government and state-directed
investment can be effective in pulling countries out of poverty,
but not in building a middle class or in reaching the ranks of
the world’s wealthy nations.  If economic troubles spur China’s 1.3 billion people to
demand more freedom and more of a voice in the way they are
governed, the result could be a step in the right direction.  Middle East   It’s hard to know what will come of new regimes in  Egypt ,
Libya and  Tunisia . The renewed bloodshed in Cairo’s  Tahrir
Square , together with ongoing battles in Syria and Yemen,
suggest the Arab world’s democratic struggle could be long and
tortuous. Still, it’s possible that by the end of 2012,
revolutions in the Middle East will have toppled five dictators.
That could open the way for free elections -- as protests have
in Tunisia and Egypt -- with moderate (albeit Islamist)
governments similar to  Turkey ’s.  On the economic front, greater openness to foreign
investment could allow some countries to kick-start growth, much
as  Morocco  did in the previous decade. Also, the imperative of
reconstruction will push Iraq and  Libya  to accelerate oil
production as fast as possible. Their contributions could help
keep prices down if  Iran ’s standoff with the rest of the world
intensifies.  Russia  The intransigence of  Vladimir Putin , who is showing no sign
of ceding to protesters’ demands for free and fair elections,
might be just the impetus Russia’s civil society needs to spur
it into existence.  In one positive sign, the organizers of Moscow’s protests
have gone to great lengths to avoid violence. They also have at
least one leader, anti-corruption blogger Alexei Navalny, who
appeals to the country’s liberal intelligentsia and might be
able to channel rising nationalism in a constructive direction.  The political turmoil has  spooked (INDEXCF)  investors, but a Russian
Spring could ultimately be a great buying opportunity. Navalny
made his name as an activist shareholder, campaigning against
embezzlement in big Russian companies. Picture a country in
which entrepreneurs no longer face crushing bribery costs,
shareholders have rights and investing is more about value than
guessing whom the Kremlin will favor. Revolution could bring an
economic renaissance.  We recognize, of course, that it would be irresponsible --
and hardly in character for journalists -- to assert that all or
any of the above will prove correct. Better to be prepared for
the worst. The beauty of pessimism, after all, is that it allows
reality to exceed expectations.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 