-- New Bubble May Be Building in 30-Year Mortgages: Edward Pinto
-- B y   E d w a r d   P i n t o
-- 2011-12-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/new-bubble-may-be-growing-in-30-year-mortgages-commentary-by-edward-pinto.html
The 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage , the
most common way U.S. buyers finance a home purchase, isn’t the
ideal instrument its supporters claim it to be.  First, its dominance requires permanent government
subsidies. Second, it amortizes slowly, exposing homebuyers to
years of unnecessary default risk. Third, it was responsible for
two taxpayer bailouts in the last 20 years.  Most important, these mortgages may be behind a new bubble.  The combination of a federal  funds  rate of almost 0 percent
since late 2008 and injections of money into the economy through
quantitative easing by the  Federal Reserve  has kept borrowing
rates artificially low. Federally insured banks, thrifts and
 credit unions  hold $1.7 trillion in Fannie Mae-, Freddie Mac-
and Ginnie Mae-guaranteed securities, while an additional $2.2
trillion are held by local, state and federal governments and
agencies. Both categories have increased by about 30 percent
since 2007. As a result the government, banks and other
financial institutions backed by the  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.  now hold 52 percent of outstanding agency securities. Most
are backed by 30-year fixed-rate mortgages.  Federal policy has, in effect, created a closed system
whereby the government subsidizes the rate on 30-year mortgages,
guarantees the credit risk and then puts itself on the hook for
most of the interest-rate risk. Although government protects
holders from credit or  default risk , these investors are exposed
to potentially sizable losses due to changes in the price of the
security if interest rates go up.  Concentration of Risk  This system simultaneously drives down mortgage rates on
guaranteed loans and permits lenders to back them with minimal
capital. This encourages banks and other deposit-taking
institutions to hold more mortgage securities than would
normally be justifiable, a recipe for both bubbles and bailouts.  Rather than diversifying risk, these government policies
promote a concentration of risk. A single national event,
specifically an abrupt increase in interest rates, would
adversely affect prices for this entire asset class. Banks may
attempt to hedge this risk, but hedging gains and losses can be
uneven, particularly in the case of volatile markets or when
many participants are forced to sell at the same time. For
example, Fannie and Freddie have had a combined $17 billion in
hedging-related losses during the first three quarters of 2011.  How might this bubble burst?  Most of these  government securities  are backed by 30-year
fixed-rate mortgages yielding the lowest rates seen in
generations. For example, the average security yields about 4.5
percent, down from about 7 percent as recently as 2000.  Because of the government guarantees, banks that hold these
securities qualify for favorable capital treatment under risk-
based-capital rules. Securities of  Ginnie Mae , a government-
owned entity that subsidizes affordable housing, carry a risk
weight of 0 percent, meaning a bank doesn’t have to hold any
capital against them. Fannie and Freddie securities carry a risk
weight of 20 percent, meaning 1.6 percent capital is required
rather than the normal of about 8 percent. These same capital
rules allowed European banks to load up on the 0 percent risk-
weighted debt of  Greece  and other countries on the periphery of
the euro area.  Depository institutions make money on these long-maturity
investments by using short-term funding. Because these
securities are backed by the government, they are considered
highly liquid. But being highly liquid doesn’t protect against
wide price swings, and securities tied to 30-year mortgages are
notorious for price volatility. If mortgage-loan rates went up
only by a moderate amount, say from 4 percent to 5.5 percent,
the value of the securities held by banks and other financial
institutions would go down by about 6 percent, or $100 billion
based on the size of their holdings. A larger increase in
mortgage rates -- to say 9 percent -- may put us on the verge of
another financial meltdown.  Not First Time  This wouldn’t be the first financial crisis in which the
30-year fixed-rate mortgage played a large role. Twice in the
last 20 years we have seen spectacular failures of U.S. housing
finance, each at enormous cost to taxpayers. Both the savings
and loan crisis and the Fannie-Freddie bailouts can be traced to
congressional support for, and subsidization of, the 30-year
fixed-rate mortgage.  The S&Ls invested in 30-year mortgages that they funded
with short-term deposits. By 1981, when deposit rates soared as
high as 15 percent, the thrift industry found itself insolvent
due to portfolios stuffed with 9 percent mortgages.  Fannie and Freddie were set up to support the 30-year
fixed-rate mortgage market, buying the loans from lenders,
packaging them into securities and selling some of them to
investors -- all with an implicit federal guarantee that helped
to lower  mortgage rates . In 2008, both were taken over by the
government, costing taxpayers more than $160 billion and
counting.  Freddie, and Fannie to a lesser extent, suffered a classic
liquidity squeeze. In the late summer of 2008 as debt markets
became concerned about the two companies’ solvency, yields on
their debt relative to U.S. Treasuries ballooned. That imperiled
their ability refinance hundreds of billions in debt used to
back its huge mortgage portfolio.  The solution is to wean the housing market from its
dependence on subsidized 30-year fixed-rate mortgages, starting
with winding down Fannie and Freddie over a period of five to
seven years. A private market focused on prime quality mortgages
would offer borrowers a wider variety of loan choices. These
loans would have varying amortization terms, prepayment options
and periods of protection against changes in  interest rates . In
flush times, lenders should be required to build capital to
better cover credit risk. Finally, risk weights should be
increased to reflect price volatility inherent in securities
backed by long-term mortgages.  The 30-year mortgage has a place in the U.S. housing
market, but all things in moderation. Congress needs to ask the
housing industry why we should continue subsidizing a product
with this kind of track record.  ( Edward Pinto , the former executive vice president and
chief credit officer of  Fannie Mae , is a fellow at the  American
Enterprise Institute . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Edward Pinto at  Edward.Pinto@AEI.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 