-- News Corp. Said in Talks to Hire General Counsel Amid Phone-Hack Inquiry
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2011-12-23T15:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/news-corp-said-in-talks-to-hire-gerson-zweifach-as-new-general-counsel.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is in talks to hire
Gerson Zweifach, a partner with the Washington law firm of
Williams & Connolly LLP, as general counsel, a person with
knowledge of the situation said.  The discussions are at an advanced stage, according to the
person, who declined to speak publicly because the talks are
private. In more than 29 years at Williams & Connolly, Zweifach
has tried antitrust, securities, libel and commercial cases,
according to the firm’s  website .  As top legal officer, a new general counsel may become
point person for News Corp.’s handling of the phone-hacking
scandal that led to the closing of the company’s News of the
World tabloid in the U.K. and at least 21 arrests. Board member
 Joel Klein , a former federal prosecutor, is overseeing the
company’s internal probe of its newspaper journalists’ actions.  Zweifach would replace  Lawrence Jacobs , who left in June to
pursue other opportunities. Janet Nova, a board member of the
company’s News International publishing unit, has served as
interim general counsel. The Wall Street Journal, owned by News
Corp., reported the talks with Zweifach yesterday.  Jack Horner , a spokesman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment. Officials with Williams & Connolly couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment by telephone after normal
business hours. Zweifach didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  News Corp., also owner of the Fox television network and
Twentieth Century Fox film studio, rose 0.5 percent to $17.45
at 10:18 a.m. New York time. The Class A shares have gained 19
percent this year before today as the company has repurchased
more than $2.4 billion of its stock.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  