-- U.S. November Durable Goods Orders Climb 3.8% on Aircraft
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-23T14:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/november-durable-goods-orders-in-u-s-climbed-3-8-on-aircraft-purchases.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods rose
in November by the most in four months as an increase in demand
for aircraft outweighed declines in spending on computers and
equipment.  Bookings for equipment  meant to last at least three years
rose 3.8 percent after no change in prior month that was
previously reported as a decline, data from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . Demand for  business
equipment  excluding military hardware and aircraft dropped 1.2
percent in November, the biggest decline since January.  The decrease in demand for capital goods signals
manufacturers may be growing hesitant to boost investment
because of political gridlock in the U.S. and  Europe ’s debt
crisis. Support to manufacturing from a government tax incentive
that allows for 100 percent depreciation on new equipment this
year may be coming to an end.  “You got a big bump from Boeing orders but the drop in
business investment implies a very weak manufacturing base with
little traction,” said Bricklin Dwyer, an economist at BNP
Paribas in  New York . “Manufacturing will have a tough time
regaining its footing.”  The median forecast of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 2.2 percent increase in orders following an
initially reported 0.5 percent decline in October. Estimates
ranged from a drop of 2 percent to a gain of 7 percent.  Consumer spending  rose less than forecast in November as
wages declined, another report from the Commerce Department
showed. Purchases rose 0.1 percent for a second month. Incomes
also grew 0.1 percent, the weakest in three months, after a 0.4
percent rise in October. The November gain in income was limited
by a 0.1 percent drop in wages and salaries.  Stock Futures   Stock-index futures pared gains after the report, with the
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in March
rising 0.4 percent to 1,254.2 at 8:40 a.m. in New York. The
yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed to 1.96
percent from 1.95 percent late yesterday.  Durable orders excluding transportation equipment, like
commercial aircraft, rose 0.3 percent after a 1.5 percent gain,
the report showed.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the largest U.S. aircraft maker,
said it received 96 orders in November, up from 7 the prior
month and the most since August.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for business investment in items such as computers,
engines and communications gear, fell after a 0.9 percent
decline.  Capital Goods Sales  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, decreased 1 percent
after falling 0.8 percent.  “Based on all we’re seeing and hearing, 2012 will be a
more challenging economic environment,”  David Anderson , chief
financial officer at Honeywell International Inc., said on a
Dec. 15 conference call. “On the industrial side, we’re not
seeing obviously conditions getting markedly better or worse.”  The support for factory production may come from businesses
rushing to qualify for a government credit aimed at spurring
investment. A tax break that allows companies to depreciate 100
percent of investment in capital outlays in 2011 falls to 50
percent in 2012.  The tax break that allows companies to depreciate 100
percent of investment in capital outlays in 2011 falls to 50
percent in 2012.  The  Federal Reserve ’s gauge of factory output declined in
November for the first time in seven months, reflecting drops in
auto production that may have been hindered by flooding in
 Thailand  that swamped auto-parts suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  