-- Obama Returns $70,000 in Corzine Donations
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/obama-returns-70-000-in-corzine-donations.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign returned campaign contributions from Jon S. Corzine,
former chairman and chief executive officer of  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. , according to a Democratic official.  Obama for America and the  Democratic National Committee 
refunded the money from the former New Jersey governor out of an
abundance of caution, said the official, who requested
anonymity. Republicans have criticized the president for keeping
contributions from the head of a firm that collapsed and filed
for bankruptcy.  Corzine, 64, and his wife, Sharon Elghanayan, each
contributed $30,800 to the Democratic National Committee and
$5,000 to Obama’s campaign, the maximum amounts that individuals
are allowed to give, said the official. Corzine, who testified
before a congressional panel about MF Global’s bankruptcy and
$1.2 billion in missing customer funds, has been one of Obama’s
top fundraisers this election cycle. In April, Corzine hosted a
fundraiser for Obama at his Manhattan home.  Corzine was one of 41 donors who bundled more than $500,000
this year for Obama’s re-election effort, according to documents
released by the campaign Oct. 14. So-called bundlers arrange for
contributions from other people and funnel the money to
campaigns.  Bundled Contributions  Obama’s campaign doesn’t plan to return those bundled
donations and will evaluate other contributions from MF Global
employees on a case-by-case basis, according to the Democratic
official.  Over the past 20 years, Corzine, along with his first and
second wives, directly contributed $917,000 to Democratic
committees and candidates, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics in  Washington , which tracks political
giving.  “While he returned the money after enormous political
pressure, this still doesn’t change the fact that Corzine was
the architect of the failed stimulus project,” said Sean
Spicer, a spokesman for the  Republican National Committee . “If
this was anything more than a political PR stunt, he would give
back the full $500,000 that Corzine bundled from  Wall Street .”  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  