-- Oil-Tanker Rates End Year 23% Lower as Fleet Surplus Expands
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2011-12-23T14:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/oil-tanker-rates-end-year-23-lower-as-fleet-surplus-expands.html
Returns  for the largest  oil tankers 
hauling 2 million-barrel cargoes of Middle East crude to  Asia 
ended the year 23 percent lower, as fleet growth exceeded cargo
demand.  Rental income for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route increased 2.5 percent
to $12,445 a day, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London.
The bourse published its last freight assessments of the year
today, and will resume Jan. 3.  Global demand for VLCCs will rise 5.2 percent to 147.4
million deadweight tons this year, according to Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker. The fleet will swell 8.6 percent to 173.9 million
tons, it said. Two more ships were added to the VLCCs available
in the  Persian Gulf  for the next four weeks, commodities broker
Marex Spectron Group Ltd. said by e-mail today.  “With sufficient number of vessels available rates should
again be steady today,” Marex Spectron said.  Hire costs  for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage declined 0.1
percent to 57.91 Worldscale points, according to the bourse. The
points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat rate, for
more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for every voyage,
quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually by the
Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel costs,
port tariffs and exchange rates.  Owners can boost returns by reducing a ship’s speed on a
return journey after unloading of cargo, saving on fuel costs.
The exchange’s earnings estimates don’t reflect speed
alterations. The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, advanced 29
percent this year to $653.75 a metric ton, data compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed yesterday.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , an overall measure of
shipping crude that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, slid 1
percent to 930 points, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  