-- Oil Futures Cap Biggest Weekly Gain in Two Months on U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-12-23T19:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/oil-futures-head-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-10-months-on-u-s-economy.html
Oil in  New York  rose, capping its
biggest weekly gain in two months, as U.S. economic reports
signaled that growth in the world’s biggest crude-consuming
country will accelerate.  Futures gained 6.6 percent this week, the biggest gain
since Oct. 28, as durable goods rose in November by the most in
four months. Initial  jobless claims  fell to the lowest level
since April 2008 and leading indicators advanced more than
forecast last month, data showed yesterday.  “Recent U.S. economic data has been has been more positive
than negative lately,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“This has a set a more positive tone for the market going into
the New Year.”  Crude oil for February delivery rose 15 cents to $99.68 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Dec. 13. Futures have climbed 9.1 percent this
year after increasing 15 percent in 2010.  Nymex energy contracts closed at 1:30 p.m. New York time
because of the Christmas holiday. Electronic trading begins at 6
p.m. on Dec. 26 and floor trading at 9 a.m. Dec. 27.  Brent oil for February settlement gained 7 cents to end the
session at $107.96 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European contract’s premium to Nymex crude
narrowed to $8.28 a barrel, the smallest differential based on
closing prices since March 8. The spread surged to a record
$27.88 on Oct. 14.  Durable Goods  Bookings for equipment  meant to last at least three years
rose 3.8 percent, data from the Commerce Department showed today
in  Washington . The previous month was revised to unchanged from
a decline.  Sales of new U.S. homes rose in November to a seven-month
high, adding to evidence of stabilization in the housing market.
 Purchases  of single-family properties increased 1.6 percent to a
315,000 annual pace, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in Washington.  U.S. initial unemployment claims fell by 4,000 to 364,000
last week, Labor Department figures showed yesterday. The
Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three to
six months rose 0.5 percent, versus a median forecast of 0.3
percent in a Bloomberg survey. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index of consumer sentiment increased more than
expected in December.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was up 0.6 percent at 2:02
p.m., the fourth straight increase.  Congressional Vote  The  U.S. Congress  passed a two-month payroll tax cut
extension a day after  House Republicans  surrendered on whether
to endorse the measure days before its scheduled Dec. 31
expiration.  “The passage of the payroll tax extension is certainly
supportive,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF
Advisors in Houston. “Equities will remain the main driver of
the oil market and we’ve also had some very supportive inventory
numbers recently.”  U.S. crude oil stockpiles fell 10.6 million barrels last
week, the largest decrease since February 2001, an Energy
Department report on Dec. 21 showed.  Volume on the Nymex totaled 136,876 contracts as of 2:03
p.m. Volume was 281,092 yesterday, the lowest level since Dec.
29, 2010, and 56 percent below the average of the last three
months. Open interest was 1.31 million contracts.  “Low volume could exaggerate any movement through the end
of the year,” Cooper said.  Pressure on  Iran   The European Union and the U.S. are seeking support from
the  Middle East  and  Asia  for sanctions to increase pressure on
Iran to abandon a suspected nuclear weapons program. Iran’s navy
will hold 10 days of maneuvers east of the Strait of Hormuz,
state-run Fars news agency reported yesterday, citing Navy
Commander Habibollah Sayari.  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day flows through the
waterway between Iran and Oman at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf ,
according to the U.S. Energy Department. Sayari said Iran’s
military has the capability to “control” the strait, according
to a second Fars report. Whether it chooses to close the channel
“depends on the decision of Iran’s higher officials,” he said.  “It’s hard to see anyone going away short for three days
with all of this turmoil in the Middle East,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.3 billion. “The
risks of something going bad are above normal at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  