-- OmniGuide Woos Hospitals With Flexible Lasers That Make Surgeries Safer
-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 2011-12-23T14:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/omniguide-woos-hospitals-with-flexible-lasers-that-make-surgeries-safer.html
 In 2007, Dr. Elias M. Michaelides, of Yale University’s
Hearing & Balance Program, operated on a 27-year-old suffering
from hearing loss due to a collapsed ear drum. To get the drum
to vibrate again and send sound waves to the tiny bones of the
inner ear, Michaelides had to lift the drum off one bone and
remove scar tissue.  Rather than use scissors as per traditional technique, he
operated with a flexible laser scalpel that a small
manufacturer called OmniGuide had started selling earlier that
year. It enabled Michaelides to avoid touching the inner ear’s
delicate bones, which could cause more damage and more hearing
loss. “It’s very accurate because you can place the tip of the
instrument exactly where you want, change angles, and deliver
precise amounts of cutting energy and coagulation throughout
the middle ear,” says Michaelides. “The bottom line is that it
is very precise and safe.”  Operating with flexible lasers isn’t new—surgeons have
been using versions powered by carbon dioxide since the 1980s.
Compared with a metal scalpel, carbon dioxide laser cuts are
shallower, which means patients experience less postoperative
pain, heal more quickly, and scar less. OmniGuide’s laser is
one of the first to use optical fiber to guide its beam;
previous versions used hollow metal tubes. The fiber permits
even more precision, says OmniGuide founder Yoel Fink, making
tricky procedures in challenging areas of the body safer.  OmniGuide, which has $80 million in venture capital
investment, is one of a handful of companies that make
flexible optical lasers. While competitors such as LuxarCare
market mostly to small medical offices and
veterinarians, OmniGuide, a 130-employee Cambridge (Mass.)
manufacturer, has been gaining traction at hospitals across
the U.S. So far, surgeons in about 500 hospitals are using
OmniGuide's devices to perform about 1,400 surgeries a
month—mostly for surgeries above the neck.  Now the company, which Fink expects will generate $21
million to $22 million in 2011 revenue, up from $18 million in
2010, is expanding its factory and developing a new line of
laser fibers for procedures to treat disorders such as
fibroids and other gynecological disorders.  Dr. Sharyn Lewin, a gynecologist specializing in oncology
at  Columbia University Medical Center , has used OmniGuide’s
system to treat growths from papilloma virus and sees
potential advantages for other procedures, such as
endometriosis. “It’s a little more flexible for getting into
smaller crevices,” says Lewin, comparing it with a traditional
carbon dioxide laser. “It’s more precise, and there’s less
tissue trauma. It’s easy to use and appears to be quite safe.”  Laser surgery isn’t without hazards. Accidents can happen
if, for example, the laser beam touches a patient's sterile
coverings or if oxygen and anesthetic gases build up while a
surgeon is operating on the patient’s airway, says
Michaelides. “But these instances are rare. It’s not a
dangerous tool any more than a scalpel is, and surgeons are
trained to use both to minimize risk.”  OmniGuide’s laser scalpel, which attaches to a small
machine typically mounted on a rolling stand in an operating
room, costs about $80,000, including two years of service. The
laser, controlled by the doctor holding the fiber, acts as a
scalpel to cut tissue close to the fiber’s tip. The
fibers, which are designed to be used during a surgery and
then thrown away, cost $500 to $1,500, depending on the
procedure. "We try to be as [clinically] specific as we can,"
says Fink. "It's important because we want to do value pricing
... obviously the amount a patient or insurance agency will
pay to restore hearing is less than to remove cancer from your
brain."  Worldwide sales for surgical lasers will be $1.3 billion
this year, up from $96 million in 2000, according to a 2010
report on medical laser systems by market research firm Global
Industry Analysts.  Fink’s invention was sparked by a 1996 challenge by the
 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency  to scientists to
design a highly reflective mirror. Then-graduate student
Fink’s winning structure reflected objects from all
angles, what he calls a “perfect mirror.” Fink’s mirror worked
on differently shaped surfaces—flat, cubic, tubular. He
reasoned that alternating rings of the chemical linings—an
insulator and a semiconductor—would transmit the light through
a hollow glass fiber. Because the laser beam could be
controlled with the fiber’s tip, he envisioned, it would
enable surgeons to reach difficult nooks and crannies more
easily.  Fink, who holds a PhD in materials science from
MIT, returned to academia this fall to run MIT’s Research
Laboratory of Electronics, passing the reins at OmniGuide to
Chief Executive Scott Flora, formerly a division president at
surgical products maker Covidien. Fink’s lab is looking for
other applications for his fibers, using funding from the U.S.
Army to research material that images surroundings and
garments that capture information from the body such as blood
flow, temperature, and calories burned. And he envisions
clothing woven of fibers that recharge cell phones, as well as
chameleon-like apparel that changes color when the wearer
leaves work. “Material will become a high-tech object, or the
object of high-tech,” says Fink.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel
at  kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick
Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net 
