-- Money-Market Funds That ‘Break the Buck’ Can Be a Memory: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-23T00:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/money-market-mutual-funds-that-break-the-buck-can-become-a-memory-view.html
Most of us can reel off the
institutions behind the financial crisis, names like  Lehman
Brothers ,  Fannie Mae  and American International Group. Often
missing from the roll call of ignominy is the Reserve Primary
Fund, a money-market mutual fund. When it almost collapsed in
the fall of 2008, the  U.S. economy  was pitched into a credit
crunch that almost brought on the sequel to the Great
Depression.  It turns out that money-market funds can detonate as easily
as the nation’s biggest banks and securities firms. Unlike those
too-big-to-fail institutions, money-market funds were all but
ignored in last year’s Dodd-Frank Act. Regulators should address
this oversight by ending the inherent flaw in such funds, which
have amassed $2.7 trillion in assets and play a crucial role in
the credit markets.  For almost four decades, the industry has operated under a
pretense: Funds maintain an artificial price of $1 a share,
promising investors a dollar in, a dollar out, plus interest, on
demand. The funds tend to offer higher returns than banks
because they don’t have the expense of paying for  deposit 
insurance.  But the Reserve Primary Fund, for only the second time in
the history of money-market funds, “broke the buck” during the
financial crisis. It held $785 million in commercial paper
issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. When Lehman failed on
Sept. 15, 2008, the fund no longer had enough assets to assure
that customers could retrieve all their money.  Customer Run  Even though the fund estimated its post-Lehman-bust share
price at 97 cents, investors raced each other to withdraw their
money. The fund tried to meet redemptions by selling its
investments into a panicked market. The contagion spilled over
to other money-market funds. In the span of two weeks, $400
billion was pulled out of the funds, and the flow of short-term
credit from the funds to companies froze. Only a promise by the
 Federal Reserve  and the  U.S. Treasury  to backstop the entire
industry stanched the run.  As these events show, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, which regulates mutual funds, should make them less
susceptible to mass withdrawals. The need for an overhaul is
magnified by  Europe ’s debt crisis. According to  Fitch Ratings ,
the 10 largest U.S. money-market funds have more than a third of
their assets invested in European banks.  The SEC took an initial step last year by adopting several
changes, some based on industry recommendations. Money-market
funds now must hold at least 10 percent of their assets in cash
or investments that can be swapped for cash within one day.
Other changes include holding investments with shorter
maturities, letting funds get their hands on cash more quickly.  At least the SEC recognizes that it didn’t go far enough.
Last month, Chairman  Mary Schapiro  offered two additional
proposals: requiring money-market funds to build a capital
cushion and allowing share prices to float.  Capital cushions, required for banks, would help the funds
absorb losses. Current proposals envision capital of 1 percent
to 3 percent of a fund’s assets. This is less than half the
level of banks. If regulators go this route, they should require
a larger amount, say 5 percent. Reserve Primary Fund blew up
after just a 3 percent loss, which would have been much bigger
without a government rescue.  A floating share price, reflecting the value of a fund’s
underlying assets, would help convey that the funds are
investments, not a safe deposit box. It might also ease the
pressure for investors to bolt at the first sign of  distress. (VIX)   But no one knows for sure. For that reason, regulators
might consider a dual system with some funds having constant
share prices while others float. Floaters would be allowed to
take more risk and offer higher returns in exchange for higher
 capital ratios . Those with fixed share prices would have less
risk and lower yields, but also lower  capital requirements .  Close the Door  It’s far from clear that either of these proposals would
have prevented the run that threatened to bankrupt Reserve
Primary Fund and denied companies the short-term credit they
needed to meet payrolls, finance inventories and pay suppliers.  To add another level of security, regulators should
consider one other change the industry has  proposed : Allow funds
to quickly close the door on redemptions when management deems
it necessary.  Hedge funds  routinely used this lifesaver during
the financial crisis. Few failed as a result. We would prefer
that, instead of the industry deciding whether to shut the gate,
which could leave millions of small investors in a cash crunch,
the SEC make that decision in consultation with the Fed and the
Treasury.  These remedies may seem tailored to the last financial
crisis and may not prevent the next one. That may be so, but
avoiding a repeat of the crisis we did have is a worthy goal.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 