-- Morgan Stanley Said to Relinquish Multi Stake in $1.1 Billion Debt Accord
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2011-12-23T07:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/morgan-stanley-said-to-relinquish-multi-mall-stake-in-debt-deal.html
A  Morgan Stanley (MS)  real estate fund
relinquished its 80 percent stake in European mall developer
Multi Corp. BV as part of an 850 million-euro ($1.11 billion)
debt restructuring this week, two people with knowledge of the
agreement said.  NIBC Bank NV  led a group of 11 lenders that took over
Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund V International’s holding in a
deal that was completed Dec. 20, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the information is private.  As part of the accord, the Morgan Stanley fund gained a
stake of more than 10 percent in the Forum Turkey Fund, which
owns seven malls in the country, the people said. Canada Pension
Plan Investment Board previously held 27 percent of Forum  Turkey 
Fund and Multi owned the rest.  Multi spokesman Mark Cunningham declined to comment, as did
Morgan Stanley spokesman Tom Walton.  The banks agreed in September to back Multi Chairman Hans van Veggel and the company’s senior management. Together the
executives hold the remaining shares in the Gouda, Netherlands-
based company, which owns, manages and develops malls in 14
European countries.  Morgan Stanley may recover its losses in Multi through the
stake in Forum Turkey Fund, which plans to get real estate
investment trust status in Turkey and sell shares in an initial
public offering in Istanbul in coming years.  Morgan Stanley was part of the group that acquired Dutch
publicly traded real estate developer AM Development BV in early
2006.  AM Development was split in two, with the Morgan Stanley
fund backing the separate international mall development
business led by van Veggel and his management team. That became
Multi, while  AM Development  remained a separate company
specializing in residential and office projects.  Multi reduced its debt in October after raising about 300
million euros from the sale of two malls in the  Czech Republic 
to a venture between Meyer Bergman BV and Healthcare of Ontario
Pension Plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  