-- Total ‘Doubling Down’ on Solar by Increasing Stake in SunPower
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2011-12-24T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/total-increases-sunpower-stake-with-164-million-share-purchase.html
Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-largest oil
producer, raised its bet on  solar energy  by boosting its stake
in SunPower Corp. and selling its renewable energy development
unit to the U.S. company.  Total, which already owns 60 percent of the second-largest
U.S. solar-panel maker, agreed to pay $163.7 million for an
additional 6 percent, SunPower said yesterday in a statement.
The solar company agreed to acquire Total’s Tenesol SA unit for
$165.4 million in cash.  Total will pay a 50 percent premium over the Dec. 22
closing price for the SunPower shares, a move that  Pavel Molchanov , a Houston-based analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc., said was a vote of confidence in the company. Its plans
contrast with BP Plc,  Europe ’s second-largest oil company, which
is shuttering its solar unit after 40 years.  “Total not only made a big bet” on solar with its $1.3
billion investment in SunPower in June, Molchanov said. “It’s
now doubling down by investing more money.”  Increasing its stake may be more symbolic than practical,
he said. “I’m not sure the 6 extra percent means much, but they
are putting their money where their mouth is.” Total is
“telegraphing that they remain committed to SunPower.”  Total may refrain from buying the remainder of SunPower,
Molchanov said, so the solar company will continue to have its
own stock.  Potential SunPower investors may not know how the solar
business is performing and “shareholders and employees won’t be
motivated in the company if its shares are all in Total, an  oil
company ,” he said.  SunPower shares have  plunged  72 percent since April 29, the
day after Total announced that it would buy its majority stake.  Slumping Solar Prices  Solar panel prices have  slumped  47 percent this year.
Global supply increased as producers, especially in  China ,
boosted production while demand growth slowed after  Germany ,
 Italy  and other important markets cut incentives.  That’s helped drive three U.S. solar companies into
bankruptcy this year including Solyndra LLC, which received a
$535 million U.S. government loan guarantee. Two German
companies, Solon SE and Solar Millennium AG filed for insolvency
this month.  BP told staff this month it’s closing its solar business
because the division has become unprofitable.  Other companies are moving into the solar industry.  Warren
Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings purchased this month a $2
billion solar project under development in  California  and 49
percent of a $1.8 billion plant being built in  Arizona .  Global investment in renewable energy was $195 billion in
2010 and is expected to more than double to $395 billion in
2020, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Underrepresented Markets  Buying Tenesol will bring “added flexibility and a
stronger marketing presence in key markets where we currently
are underrepresented,” SunPower Chief Financial Officer Dennis
Arriola said Nov. 3 on an earnings conference call, when
SunPower was still considering the acquisition.  Tenesol has installed more than 500 megawatts of solar
systems worldwide, mostly in Europe and  emerging markets .  “Combining the activities of Tenesol with SunPower is a
step forward in Total’s strategy to become a world power in the
promising solar industry,” Philippe Boisseau, president of the
oil company’s gas and power division, said in the statement.  Helen Kendrick, a SunPower spokeswoman, said the company
wouldn’t comment on the deal beyond the statement.  Total will purchase the SunPower shares when the Tenesol
acquisition closes, which is expected in early 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  