-- BofA’s Moynihan Says Lender Has Prepared for ‘Turbulent Times’
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2011-12-24T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/moynihan-says-bank-of-america-is-prepared-for-any-turbulent-times-ahead.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  told employees in a year-end
letter that he bolstered the firm against risk and will make
more improvements in 2012.  “We greatly strengthened our risk culture in 2011, and
that work has laid the foundation that will carry us through
whatever turbulent times may lie ahead,” Moynihan wrote in a
letter posted yesterday to an internal employee website. A copy
of the message was obtained by Bloomberg News.  The bank is “simplifying our business model and
organization, continuing to shed non-core assets and businesses,
and reducing risk-weighted assets,” he wrote. “2012 will be a
year for continued improvement in risk-management practices
across the company.”  Moynihan, 52, plans to trim about $5 billion in annual
costs by 2014 at the second-biggest U.S. lender to combat
stagnant revenue and a sagging stock price. Shares of the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank dropped 58 percent this
year amid rising costs tied to faulty mortgages and concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will derail the global economic recovery.  Bank of America cut riskier assets by $117 billion from the
third quarter of 2010 and reduced risks tied to European
sovereign and corporate debt by 43 percent since 2009, Moynihan
wrote in the letter.  His predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , spent more than $130
billion on acquisitions to create the largest U.S. lender by
assets, a rank the company held until this year. To improve
capital levels ahead of stricter international rules, Moynihan
has agreed to sell more than $47 billion in assets and units
since taking over at the start of 2010. The bank is mostly done
with such divestitures, he wrote.  “We can focus all our energy and $3 billion in technology
investments -- the ‘peace dividend’ that derives from no
acquisitions/integrations -- on increasing the pace of
innovations” and improving service, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  