-- Pakistan Army Denies Coup Plot After Gilani’s Warning
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2011-12-23T18:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/pakistan-s-army-chief-denies-coup-plot-as-gilani-sees-threat-to-government.html
Pakistan’s military denied that it
is plotting to stage a coup, a day after the nation’s prime
minister,  Yousuf Raza Gilani , warned that there is a conspiracy
to remove his government.  Pakistan’s “army has and will continue to support
democratic process in the country,” General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the military chief, told soldiers in a question-and-
answer session in the northwest tribal region today, according
to a statement issued by the army. These rumors “are misleading
and are being used as a bogey to divert the focus from the real
issues,” Kayani said.  Gilani warned yesterday of a conspiracy to remove his
elected administration, his second such statement in a week amid
heightened tensions between civilian and military leaders.  “I want to tell you clearly that conspiracies are under
way to remove this elected government,” Gilani said at a youth
gathering in Islamabad. “Now people have to decide whether you
want elected people or dictatorship.”  State Department deputy spokesman Mark Toner said the
political turmoil should be settled by the Pakistani people
through the democratic process.  “We support the democratic process in  Pakistan ; we support
the constitution and the rule of law, as well as the will of the
Pakistani people,” Toner said today. “We believe that this is
a matter for the Pakistani people to resolve within their own
political process.”  Supreme Court  Investigation  Pakistan’s Supreme Court, backed by military chiefs and the
principal opposition party, is investigating claims that
President Asif Ali Zardari’s envoy to the U.S. sought American
help to prevent a possible coup following the killing of  Osama bin Laden  in May, an account that widened a rift between
Gilani’s administration and the army.  The court’s probe into a memo requesting U.S. assistance
was triggered by opposition leader  Nawaz Sharif  and has been
supported by Kayani. Gilani’s government opposed the
investigation on the grounds that it has already announced a
parliamentary inquiry.  “Irrespective of all other considerations, there can be no
compromise on national security,” Kayani told soldiers,
according to the statement posted on the army’s website.  In a sign that Gilani’s government is willing to challenge
the generals, he said yesterday that his government won’t
tolerate “a state within a state” and that institutions must
accept the parliament’s supremacy. Pakistan has been ruled by
the army for more than half of the 64 years since independence.  Conflicting Claims  Pakistani-American businessman  Mansoor Ijaz  has said he
helped Pakistan’s then-ambassador to  Washington ,  Husain Haqqani ,
send a May plea for U.S. pressure against Pakistan’s military,
as the army stood humiliated for failing to detect or halt the
U.S. raid that killed bin Laden.  Haqqani, who was dismissed over the issue, and the
government deny involvement. Haqqani served as an adviser to
Zardari and in the 1990s was a spokesman for Zadari’s wife,
Benazir Bhutto, during her tenure as prime minister. Haqqani’s
wife, Farahnaz Ispahani, is a spokeswoman for Zardari.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  