-- Paulson Gold Fund Said to Lose 10.5% in 2011 Even as Metal Heads for Gain
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2011-12-23T20:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/paulson-gold-fund-said-to-lose-10-5-in-2011-even-as-metal-heads-for-gain.html
John Paulson , the billionaire money
manager mired in the worst slump of his career, lost 10.5
percent in his Gold Fund this year even as the metal heads for
its 11th straight annual gain, according to people familiar with
the fund’s performance.  The fund, which invests in mining stocks and other gold-
related securities, remains the best performer in Paulson’s $28
billion fund family this year. His Paulson Advantage Fund, which
seeks to profit from corporate events such as takeovers and
bankruptcies, has fallen about 35 percent. The performance
numbers for the two funds are from Dec. 28, 2010, through Dec.
20, 2011, and may not reflect returns for all shareholders, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, declined to comment
on the firm’s returns.  Paulson & Co., based in New York, has lost money this year
on investments including Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp.
and Sino-Forest Corp., the Chinese forestry company accused by
short-seller Carson Block of overstating timberland holdings.
Paulson, 56, cut the so-called net exposure in his main  hedge
funds  to 30 percent last month and reduced bullish bets across
all his funds.  Net exposure is calculated by subtracting the percentage of
a hedge fund’s short positions, or bets on falling securities,
from its longs, or wagers on rising stocks and bonds.  Gold BUGS Index  Gold has climbed 13 percent this year, holding onto gains
after peaking at $1,891 an ounce on Aug. 22. The 17-company NYSE
Arca Gold BUGS Index fell 11 percent as investors fled equities
amid the turmoil caused by the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Paulson was the largest holder of American depositary
receipts in AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., the third-biggest gold
producer. Paulson also owned shares or ADRs of Gold Fields Ltd.,
NovaGold Resources Inc., Randgold Resources Ltd., Agnico-Eagle
Mines Ltd., Iamgold Corp., Barrick Gold Corp. and International
Tower Hill Mines Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  