-- Philippine Peso Halts Two-Week Decline on Higher Remittances
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2011-12-23T08:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/philippine-peso-halts-two-week-decline-on-higher-remittances.html
The  Philippine peso  gained, halting
a two-week loss, on speculation Filipinos living abroad are
sending more money home as the Christmas holidays approach.  Benchmark 10-year bonds also advanced after central bank
Governor Amando Tetangco said Dec. 21 an easing of monetary
policy is possible early next year as inflation cools and the
growth outlook deteriorates. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has
refrained from cutting interest rates this year.  “Real flows due to remittances are coming and there is
more supply than demand for dollars,” said Rafael Algarra,
executive vice president and treasurer at Security Bank Corp. in
Manila. “If there were no worries in  Europe , we would have had
a stronger peso. Bonds are also gaining as people prepare for
lower interest rates next year as worries shift to growth rather
than inflation.”  The peso climbed 0.8 percent this week to 43.48 per dollar
at the close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency gained 0.3 percent today.  The yield on the government’s 7.375 percent bonds due March
2021 slid 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 5.08
percent this week, according to Tradition Financial Services.
The rate climbed three basis points today.  Remittances rose 6.2 percent to $1.78 billion in October
from a year earlier, a central bank report showed last week.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 4.5 percent for a fifth meeting this month. The
growth outlook has dimmed as Europe struggles to resolve its
debt crisis, central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told
ABS-CBN News Channel late last night.  The government had a 22 billion peso ($506 million) deficit
last month, compared with 21.3 billion pesos in October, a
report showed this week. The 11-month shortfall was 96 billion
pesos, compared with 269.8 billion pesos a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  