-- Queen Elizabeth’s Husband Prince Philip Receives Stent for Blocked Artery
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2011-12-24T12:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/prince-philip-taken-to-hospital-for-tests-after-chest-pains-palace-says.html
Queen Elizabeth’s husband, Prince Philip, remains in a specialist heart hospital in eastern
 England  after undergoing treatment for a blocked artery,
 Buckingham Palace  said in a statement.  Philip, 90, also known as the Duke of Edinburgh, “has had
a good night” after receiving a coronary stent, the Palace said
in a statement today issued through the Press Association. ``He's
in good spirits.'' He will remain in the hospital for observation, 
the palace said in a statement yesterday.  Philip was staying at  Sandringham  in Norfolk, where the
royal family regularly gathers to celebrate Christmas, when he
was taken to Papworth cardiothoracic hospital for medical tests
after suffering from chest pains.  “The Duke of Edinburgh was found to have a blocked artery
which had caused his chest pains,” the palace said. “This was
treated successfully by the minimally invasive procedure of
coronary stenting. Prince Philip will remain in hospital under
observation for a short period.”  The Queen and her eldest son, Prince Charles, arrived
separately at the hospital to visit Philip, the British
Broadcasting Corp. said.  A coronary stent procedure involves pushing a balloon into
the artery and blowing it up to remove the blockage. The stent
is a metal sleeve fitted over the balloon, which remains inside
the body when the balloon is removed. The patient is usually
conscious during the procedure.  Engagements  The prince began to scale back his royal engagements when
he turned 90 this year, though there has been no indication that
his health has worsened. The queen, who is 85, will celebrate
her 60th year on the British throne in 2012, when the royal
couple is due to tour the U.K.  Papworth describes itself  as the U.K.’s largest specialist
cardiothoracic hospital and the country’s main heart and lung
transplant center. The hospital is close to the university city
of Cambridge.  In 2009, Philip became the U.K.’s longest-serving royal
consort, surpassing the 57-year, 70-day record set by Queen
Charlotte, wife of King George III, in the 18th and early 19th
centuries.  The Queen and Prince Philip married on Nov. 20, 1947, in
 London ’s Westminster Abbey. Charles is next in line to the
throne, and they have three other children, Anne, Andrew and
Edward.  The Queen is due to celebrate her Diamond Jubilee next
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  