-- Quiet Iraq Exit Won’t Have a Replay in Afghanistan: Noah Feldman
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2011-12-23T00:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/quiet-iraq-exit-won-t-have-afghanistan-replay-commentary-by-noah-feldman.html
Rarely in U.S. history has the end
of a war been marked with less fanfare than the withdrawal of
the last troops from  Iraq  in time for Christmas. Indeed, you
could almost be forgiven for failing to notice it at all, so
arbitrary does the timing seem.  U.S. interests in Iraq will be no different in the first
week of 2012 than they are now. Iraq’s government remains shaky,
and the dangers of instability and civil war remain. About
16,000 Americans are still there, too, including an unspecified
number of military contractors who bear arms.  What happened? How, exactly, does an eight-and-a-half-year
war end with no one noticing?  The immediate answer is a failure to communicate. The
agreement between the Iraqi and U.S. governments about troop
numbers was scheduled to expire at the end of the year, and a
new one was needed. The U.S. demanded that any new status of
forces agreement give its troops immunity from prosecution under
Iraqi law.  Based on several prior rounds of negotiations, the Iraqis
thought they knew the script. The U.S. would compromise,
accepting de facto immunity without firm legal guarantees. That
would allow troops to remain and also let the Iraqi government
tell its voters that the country had refused immunity to the
perpetrators of the Abu Ghraib prison abuses.  When the U.S. threatened to pull its troops, as it had in
the past, the Iraqis didn’t believe it. But this time, the
Barack Obama administration was very happy to allow the Iraqis
to demand withdrawal. This absolved the White House of the
charge that it had abandoned Iraq before it was ready for true
self-determination.  A Convenient Withdrawal  From the standpoint of principle, the Obama administration
can’t be faulted. Whatever we owe Iraq after invasion,
occupation and botched nation-building, surely we must leave
when its elected government tells us to get out.  The withdrawal was also good politics. The “home for
Christmas” line will be forgotten after the new year. But the
bottom line is that no one on the political spectrum can
criticize the withdrawal.  Republicans would like to focus the public’s attention on
the struggling economy. The last thing they want is to remind
voters that their party initiated the war of choice that helped
spend us into the poorhouse. Nor would they like to see
President  George W. Bush ’s unfortunate “Mission Accomplished”
episode freshly remembered.  Democrats, for their part, think they need to keep quiet
about Iraq for a different reason: anticipatory worry about
Afghanistan.  The withdrawal from Afghanistan is still a couple of years
away. But it’s likely consequences are much more troubling than
those we can expect in the near future in Iraq.  All the Iraqis need to do for Obama is to avoid a full-on
civil war before the presidential election in November. The
Afghans actually need to create a stable, functioning government
that will not fall to the Taliban. If they don’t, a second Obama
administration, if there is one, is going to be plagued by
disaster that will make the fall of Saigon look modest by
comparison. The  Democratic Party  will almost surely pay a price.  Even the Iraqis won’t have an easy time of it. Exactly one
day after the Americans left, the Shiite-led administration of
Prime Minister Nouri Kamil al-Maliki turned on its Sunni
partners in what was supposedly a government of national unity.
It issued an arrest warrant for a vice president and demanded a
no-confidence vote in Parliament for a deputy prime minister,
the two highest ranking Sunnis in the country.  These decisions, and their timing, can only be read as a
Sicilian message to the Sunni minority: Your leadership sleeps
with the fishes.  Power-Sharing Ruse  Maliki is gambling that the Sunnis are too weak to restart
the insurgency and too wary of al-Qaeda infiltration to rely on
those bloodthirsty allies again, as they did in the years of
civil strife before the U.S. military surge. The high stakes
gamble tells the world that coexistence was a front to please
the Americans. The Sunnis who bought into power-sharing were
suckers -- and now they are no longer needed.  Even if no one in the U.S. seems to be watching, one can be
confident that the Taliban are. The so-called reconciliation
process in  Afghanistan  is supposed to persuade the Taliban to
join some sort of national unity government and renounce their
al-Qaeda connections. If they go along, the U.S. could withdraw
without appearing to leave the Afghans to their fate at the
hands of resurgent Taliban.  The question for the Taliban has always been whether the
process offers them any advantages compared with waiting out the
U.S. and trying to take out the government of President  Hamid Karzai . The situation of the Sunnis in Iraq shows the
disadvantages of cooperation clearly enough: Give up your arms,
and you are vulnerable to being suppressed. The U.S. might be
willing to make friends with you, but its main objective is to
provide cover for its withdrawal. Erstwhile enemies will not be
so forgiving -- especially if they believe their survival
depends on getting rid of you.  Add to this that the Taliban probably believe they can
eventually defeat the Afghan army, and you can see how dim the
prospects for national reconciliation really are.  The Taliban aren’t delusional. Who really believes that
Karzai on his own -- even with another hundred thousand lightly
trained Afghan troops -- could win a war that the U.S. military
hasn’t?  Barring some huge change in circumstances, the U.S.
withdrawal from Afghanistan will be followed by intensified war.
U.S. air support can delay the inevitable, but it cannot defeat
the Taliban. They will continue their strategy of guerilla war
fought on their own terms. And their Pakistani supply lines will
flow more freely than ever.  If and when the Taliban win, things will get very ugly very
fast. Afghans who allied themselves with the U.S. will be
executed. Girls will be banned from school, and worse. The
Taliban have no doubt learned a thing or two in their decade of
war against the world’s superpower, but tolerance is unlikely to
be high on the list. The next U.S. withdrawal won’t escape
public notice.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 