-- Rand Gains on Signs of U.S. Recovery, Stronger Commodity Prices
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2011-12-23T14:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/rand-gains-on-signs-of-u-s-recovery-firmer-commodity-prices.html
The rand strengthened for a second
day as a rise in orders for U.S. durable goods offset weaker-
than-forecast  consumer spending , spurring optimism the world’s
biggest economy will sustain demand for commodities.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated as much as 0.6 percent
versus the dollar and traded 0.2 percent stronger at 8.1551 as
of 4 p.m. in Johannesburg, taking gains for the week to 3
percent. The rand has fallen the second-most this year among its
emerging-market peers, down 18.6 percent and compared with an
18.7 percent decline in the Turkish lira.  Orders  for U.S. durable goods rose in November by 3.8
percent, the most in four months, data from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . Economists had predicted
a 2.2 percent rise, a Bloomberg survey showed. Consumer spending
rose 0.1 percent in November, compared with the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of economists of a 0.3 percent advance.  “Data generally has been positive, though we are coming
off an unbelievably low base,”  Brigid Taylor , head of
institutional sales at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, said
by phone. “The market has been so badly hurt this year people
are looking for positive news to drive the market higher.”  Copper advanced for a fourth day in the best run of gains
since Oct. 28. The U.S. is the second largest consumer of
copper, used in housebuilding, after  China . Commodities make up
more than half of South Africa’s total exports, according to
Rand Merchant Bank. Gold gained as much as 0.5 percent while
platinum added as much as 1 percent.  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 declined for the
first time in seven days, with the yield climbing 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.82 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  