-- Republican Security Advisers Tied to $40 Billion in Contracts
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2011-12-23T05:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/republican-security-advisers-tied-to-40-billion-in-contracts.html
National security advisers to the
Republican presidential candidates have ties to defense,
homeland security and energy companies that have received at
least $40 billion in federal contracts since 2008.  Five of former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney’s 41
national security and foreign policy advisers have links to
companies that last year alone received at least $7.9 billion in
federal contracts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Government analyst Christopher Flavelle. Of that, $7.3 billion
came from the Department of Defense.  Romney and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of
 Georgia , who are leading in the polls, have advisers who sit on
the board of directors of BAE Systems Inc., which has received
at least $37 billion in U.S. government contracts since 2008,
the most of any of the companies with ties to Republican
national security advisers.  William Schneider, an adviser to Gingrich, and Michael Chertoff, who counsels Romney, serve on the board of the U.S.
subsidiary of  BAE Systems Plc ,  Europe ’s largest defense
contractor. The American company makes the Army’s Bradley
Fighting Vehicle and provides information technology systems to
American intelligence agencies and repair services to the U.S.
Navy.  Missile Maker  Schneider, a former State Department undersecretary for
security assistance, science and technology under President
 Ronald Reagan , is head of International Planning Services Inc.,
a consulting firm based in Arlington, Virginia.  He also serves on the board of MBDA Inc., the U.S.
subsidiary of Europe’s largest missile maker. MBDA, which has at
least $12 million in U.S. contracts, according to the Bloomberg
data, is owned by BAE Systems Plc, Paris and Munich-based
 European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co. (EAD)  (EADS) and  Italy ’s
 Finmeccanica SpA. (FINMY)   Schneider also serves on the board of  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based Defense Group Inc., whose focus includes research
and development in intelligence and cybersecurity. Defense Group
has received about $208 million in contracts since 2008 from
agencies that include the Defense and Homeland Security
departments and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , according
to data reviewed by Bloomberg. In 2010, the company had $82.2
million in federal contracts, according to the data.  Gingrich has called for securing U.S. borders to “prevent
terrorist organizations from sneaking agents and weapons” into
the country. During a national security debate on Nov. 22, he
said the U.S. must strengthen the tools to detect and deter
threats because “all of us will be in danger for the rest of
our lives.”  A Bigger Toolbox  As a presidential candidate, “you want a competition of
information,” Gingrich said in Manchester,  New Hampshire , on
Dec. 21. “I want a wide range of advice from a wide range of
people.”  Schneider didn’t respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  The BAE Systems board is comprised of “some of the most
experienced national security experts” who have advised
“presidents, secretaries of defense and other prominent
national security officials for both Republican and Democratic
administrations, as well as members of Congress,” said Brian Roehrkasse, a BAE spokesman, in an e-mailed statement. “All of
our board members adhere to conflict of interest agreements.”  It is not uncommon for candidates to recruit advisers with
ties to the defense industry, said  Steve Ellis , vice president
of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a Washington-based organization
that tracks  government spending .  More Voices Needed  “These are the people who have knowledge of the industry,
but those can’t be the only voices in the room,” Ellis said in
a telephone interview. “The candidates have to get a diversity
of views from other areas if they want to have a responsible
national security policy.”  The Romney advisers with ties to military contractors
include Chertoff, a former Homeland Security secretary; former
National Security Agency Director Michael Hayden; former CIA and
State Department Counterterrorism Director Cofer Black; former
Undersecretary of Defense Dov Zakheim; and former Assistant
Secretary of Defense Mary Beth Long.  In addition to BAE Systems, those former government
officials are linked to companies that include Alion Science &
Technology Corp. and Blackbird Technologies Inc.  Romney has called for boosting shipbuilding and missile
defense and a strategy to defend against cyber attacks,
terrorism and espionage.  Romney Shipbuilding Initiative  He has said that, as president, he would announce an
initiative to increase the shipbuilding rate to 15 a year, up
from the current nine ships annually. The Navy paid $3.2 billion
in contracts last year to companies now associated with Romney
advisers. Those companies include BAE and Alion, according to
the Bloomberg Government analysis.  At least six companies that are tied to advisers to
Romney’s campaign provide cybersecurity services to the federal
government, the data shows. They include BAE, InfoZen Inc., and
security-clearance company KeyPoint Government Solutions Inc.,
all of which count Chertoff as a board member;  Motorola
Solutions Inc.  and Alion, whose boards include Hayden; and
Blackbird, where Black is a vice president.  Romney advisers also have business ties to each other.
Hayden is a principal at Chertoff’s consulting company, the
Chertoff Group, which in turn is a client of Metis Solutions,
owned by Mary Beth Long, another Romney adviser. Another client
of Metis, according to the company’s website, is Alion, on whose
board Hayden sits.  Final Decisions  Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, said in a statement to
Bloomberg Government that the final defense policy decisions
rest with Romney.  “ Mitt Romney  has assembled a diverse group of highly
respected foreign policy thinkers. He fields their opinions,
evaluates them and ultimately makes his own decisions on
policy,” she said.  Gingrich has called for the implementation of an energy
plan “to reduce the world’s dependence on oil from dangerous
and unstable countries, especially in the  Middle East ,”
according to his campaign website.  R. James Woolsey, the former CIA director who serves as an
adviser to Gingrich, is a venture partner at Lux Capital, an
investment firm focused on emerging technologies, including
energy. Woolsey also leads the strategic advisory group of
Paladin Capital Group, a private equity fund in  Washington  with
a portfolio that includes alternative energy and cyber security.
Woolsey serves as the chairman of his own firm Woolsey Partners
LLC.  Republican presidential candidate  Rick Perry  has several
informal foreign policy and national security advisers with ties
to  oil companies .  John Bolton , a former U.S. ambassador to the
 United Nations , is on the board of  Diamond Offshore Drilling,
Inc. (DO) , a Houston-based deep-water drilling contractor. Another
adviser to Texas Governor Perry, Zalmay Khalilzad, a former U.S.
ambassador to Afghanistan and Iraq, is a director on the board
of United Arab Emirates-based Rak Petroleum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  