-- Romney Plan to Keep Tax Return Private Breaks With Past
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2011-12-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/romney-no-plans-now-to-release-tax-forms.html
Mitt Romney , a multimillionaire who
is by far the wealthiest of the Republican presidential
candidates, said he has no plans to release his income tax
returns if he wins his party’s nomination, setting himself apart
from past nominees in both parties who have routinely done so.  Romney, whose most recent disclosure in August estimated
his personal wealth at as much as $250 million, said Dec. 22 he
had already released extensive financial information and had no
“current plans” to make his tax returns public.  If the former Massachusetts governor wins the nomination
and sticks to his plan, he would be one of the only presidential
nominees in the last three decades to withhold his income  tax
return . While income tax information is private and there is no
legal obligation to disclose it, presidents and nominees for the
office have regularly done so since the 1970s.  “We follow the tax laws, and if there’s an opportunity to
save taxes, we -- like everybody else in this country -- will
follow that opportunity,” Romney told reporters in Lancaster,
 New Hampshire , according to a partial transcript of his remarks
provided by his campaign.  “Down the road, we’ll see what happens if I’m the
nominee,” he added, saying that while he had no “immediate
plans” to release tax returns, “that may change in the
future.”  The day before, he had been more definitive in an interview
with  MSNBC ’s Chuck Todd, saying “I doubt it,” when asked about
releasing his tax return, and adding, according to a transcript:
“I don’t intend to release the tax returns.”  ‘Different Set of Rules’  President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign swiftly
criticized Romney on the issue.  “Why does Governor Romney feel like he can play by a
different set of rules?”  Ben LaBolt , Obama’s campaign
spokesman, said in a statement. “What is it that he doesn’t
want the American people to see? Previous candidates have
disclosed their returns so Americans could be aware of potential
conflicts of interest and gauge whether a candidate had gamed
the tax system to their advantage.”  Then-Republican presidential nominee  George W. Bush  and his
running mate,  Dick Cheney , were exceptions in 2000, both
releasing only partial returns. In 2003, before their re-
election bid, they released their full returns.  Kerry’s Returns  Massachusetts Senator John F. Kerry, Bush’s Democratic
opponent in 2004, also released part of his wife’s tax return
after his campaign came under pressure to disclose details of
her personal fortune, which was helping to fund his bid. Kerry,
who had released his own full return, released portions of the
tax return of Teresa Heinz Kerry -- heiress to a fortune
estimated at $500 million -- three weeks before the election.  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee whose wife, Cindy, is also an heiress,
released a portion of her tax return a few weeks before that
year’s election.  Paul Caron, a tax law professor at the University of
Cincinnati College of Law, said a refusal by Romney as a
presidential nominee to make his income tax return public likely
would “become a narrative that sets him up really badly” in
the campaign and he’d have to back down eventually.  “It’s sort of unsustainable -- it flies in the face of an
awful lot of history,” said Caron, who edits the TaxProf Blog.
“As one of the wealthier folks to ever run, there’s probably a
heck of a lot there that he’s not excited about having analysts
be able to comb over, so it makes a lot of sense that he’s wary
of doing it.”  A $10,000 Bet  Romney has drawn criticism for appearing out of touch with
ordinary Americans because of his affluence, particularly after
a rhetorical flourish he used in a Dec. 10 televised debate in
which he offered Texas Governor Rick Perry a $10,000 wager while
defending his health-care record.  Obama’s campaign and Romney’s Republican primary opponents
ridiculed him for the bet. He has also come under scrutiny for
the way he earned his fortune -- as head of the private equity
firm Bain Capital LLC, where he bought and sold companies to
make money for investors and sometimes eliminated jobs in the
process. Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  suggested
last week that Romney might return the money he made
“bankrupting companies and laying off employees over his years
at Bain.”  ‘Gekko’ Photo  Romney said on Dec. 18 that if he wins the nomination, he
knows that a  photo  in which he appears grinning with other Bain
executives posing with cash spilling out of their hands, jackets
and mouths will come back to haunt him. Some Democrats call the
1980s-era image the “Gordon Gekko” photo, referring to the
antihero in the 1987 film “ Wall Street ” whose character is the
personification of greed run amok.  Romney said on “Fox News Sunday” that if he is the
nominee, he expects that free enterprise will be “on trial” in
his contest with Obama.  The  Democratic National Committee  this week started a
website,  www.whatmittpays.com , that calls attention to the 15
percent tax rate -- far less than the top 35 percent rate the
wealthiest Americans owe on some of their income -- that
executives at private-equity companies like Bain pay on their
investment profits, known as “carried interest.” Obama has
proposed closing what critics call the “carried interest
loophole,” which also benefits hedge-fund managers.  “Want to know why Mitt Romney won’t release his tax
returns?,” the Democrats’ site says. “Well, one of the reasons
is that he probably pays less taxes than you do.”  After Romney made his latest comments, R.C. Hammond, a
spokesman for Gingrich, contacted reporters unprompted to
declare that if the former House speaker became the nominee, he
planned to release his income tax returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  