-- TD Bank Played ‘Critical’ Role in Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2011-12-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/rothstein-said-td-bank-played-critical-role-in-1-2-billion-ponzi-scheme.html
Scott Rothstein, the Florida lawyer
convicted in a $1.2 billion investment fraud, said  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD)  played a “critical” role in his Ponzi scheme,
according to a transcript of a sworn deposition made public
yesterday.  Rothstein, sentenced to 50 years in prison, said that on a
scale from one to 10, the assistance he got from  Canada ’s
second-biggest bank rated a 10.  “They were assisting me in putting fake balance statements
into the hands of my investors,” he said, according to a
transcript of the deposition taken this month at the federal
courthouse in Miami as part of Rothstein’s former law firm’s
bankruptcy case. A copy of the transcript was provided by the
law firm Conrad & Scherer, which represents some of the
investors seeking to recover money invested in the scheme.  Rothstein, formerly of Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA in
Fort Lauderdale,  Florida , pleaded guilty in January 2010 to five
counts of racketeering,  money laundering  and  wire fraud  after
admitting he sold investors interests in bogus settlements of
sexual-harassment and whistle-blower lawsuits.  “We fundamentally disagree with many of the
characterizations contained in Mr. Rothstein’s deposition and
will continue to vigorously defend the bank against claims
related to Rothstein’s acts,” Maria Leung, a spokeswoman for
Toronto-based TD Bank, said in an e-mail. “Beyond that, we
cannot comment on pending litigation.”  ‘Real Letters’  TD Bank was “critical in providing real letters to go on
top of the fake balance statements,” Rothstein said, according
to the transcript. “They were critical in the fact that they
had TD Bank employees actually handing me those phony statements
in front of the investors.”  Rothstein also said that the size of TD Bank was important
to the scheme because some investors worried about the solvency
of a smaller bank he had been using.  The bankruptcy trustee liquidating the  law firm  sued TD
Bank in July, alleging that the institution let Rothstein use
its name, facilities and accounts to deceive investors. The
trustee, Herbert Stettin, accused the bank of ignoring “red
flags” and letting Rothstein open accounts and transfer “huge
sums” of money among them.  Regular Overdrafts  In his deposition, Rothstein said that if the bank had ever
investigated the way he was moving money into and out of
accounts, including his regular overdrafts from trust accounts
that are prohibited under Florida law from being overdrawn, it
would have ended his scam.  “They were our main banking institution for literally
hundreds of millions of dollars,” he said. “Had they notified
anybody, cut off our banking, it would have been impossible, at
that time, to recover.”  In his guilty plea, Rothstein said he used the law firm to
run a scheme that financed his lavish lifestyle and let him buy
political influence.  In portions of his deposition released Dec. 21, Rothstein
said two of his former law firm partners knew of his illegal
acts.  ‘They Knew’  “They knew that we were moving money illegally in and out
of the law firm,” Rothstein said of ex-partners Stuart Rosenfeldt and Russell Adler, according to the transcript of the
deposition. “At various points in time, they came to know that
there was a  Ponzi scheme  going on, although the word Ponzi was
never utilized.”  Bruce Lehr, a lawyer for Rosenfeldt, said Dec. 21 in a
phone interview that his client wasn’t aware of the Ponzi
scheme.  “Stuart Rosenfeldt had absolutely no idea of the
wrongdoings of Scott Rothstein until Mr. Rothstein fled the
country,” Lehr said. “Mr. Rothstein, who pleaded guilty and
was sentenced to 50 years in prison, had no credibility then.
The fact that after spending some time behind bars, he has
decided to throw his law partner under the bus has not awarded
him new credibility.”  Adler’s attorney, Fred Haddad, said Rothstein was lying
about his client.  “He didn’t know anything about what Rothstein was doing,”
Haddad said. “I like Scott personally. I’ve gotten drunk with
Scott. But he said at the beginning of his depo that this would
be the first time in his life that he’s told the truth. I think
he still hasn’t reached the first time in his life to tell the
truth.”  Rosenfeldt and Adler haven’t been charged with wrongdoing.  Eight Charged  Eight people, including Rothstein, have been charged in the
probe by the U.S. Of those, Rothstein and five others have been
convicted. Two of the men who pleaded guilty worked as
technology assistants at Rothstein’s law firm and set up a fake
TD Bank website showing Rothstein had $1.1 billion in a trust
account, according to prosecutors.  Investors who relied on that information ended up investing
more than $35 million, Assistant U.S. Attorney Lawrence LaVecchio said in June in federal court in  Fort Lauderdale .  Rothstein testified in the deposition that he often brought
investors to TD Bank branches so they could see bank employees
handing him envelopes with a cover letter a bank employee wrote
at his behest and a fake balance statement
his office produced. He described how these “shows” would work
at the bank and how bank employees allowed him to use conference
rooms.  He also testified that he employed an associate to pose as
a banker. That man, Stephen Caputi, has also pleaded guilty in
connection with the scam.  The bankruptcy case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA,
09-34791, and the trustee’s case is Stettin v. TD Bank NA, 11-
ap-2368,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Southern Florida
(Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  