-- Russia’s Unexpected Interest-Rate Decrease Signals Concern Over Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-12-23T16:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/russia-unexpectedly-cuts-refinancing-rate-to-8-0-after-earlier-increases.html
Russia unexpectedly reduced its
benchmark rate, suggesting policy makers see a global economic
slump posing greater risks than inflation to the world’s biggest
energy exporter.  The refinancing rate was reduced to 8 percent from 8.25
percent, Bank Rossii said in a  statement  on its website today.
The move was forecast by two of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey . Separately, the difference between the main lending and
deposit rates was cut a quarter-point to 1.25 percentage points,
the narrowest ever.  Russia joins nations from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  that are
easing borrowing costs to manage the fallout from a slowdown in
 China  and Europe’s deepening debt crisis. Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin , who will run for president next year, is seeking
annual expansion of as much as 7 percent while the central bank
plans to reduce inflation to at least 5 percent by 2014.  “The central bank noticeably softened the tone of its
statement, signaling that it will pay more attention to economic
risks going forward,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist at ING
Groep NV in Moscow, said by telephone today.  The ruble extended gains against the dollar after the
announcement and closed 0.5 percent stronger at 31.21 in Moscow.
The currency has weakened 6.8 percent against the central bank’s
target dollar-euro basket since the end of July.  Investors are betting  interest rates  will remain unchanged
over the next three months, compared with expectations of as
much as 21 basis points of increases on Nov. 24, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg.  Ignatiev ‘Surprised’  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said yesterday he was
“surprised” by the slow inflation even as the ruble’s recent
slump may affect price growth next month. Risks to economic
expansion “are strengthening” while inflation is at an
acceptable level,  Alexei Ulyukayev , a central bank first deputy
chairman, said last week.  The overnight auction-based repurchase rate, Bank Rossii’s
main lending tool, will stay at 5.25 percent and the overnight
deposit rate, used to withdraw cash, will increase a quarter-
point to 4 percent. Today’s moves are “neutral” to monetary
policy, according to Bank Rossii.  Russia ’s ruble bonds due 2016 rose, pushing the yield four
basis points lower to 8.12 percent, the least since Dec. 16.  Shortage of Rubles  Policy makers also reduced the rate on fixed repurchase and
Lombard auctions by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point,
to 6.25 percent. While the facilities are less important to
banks than the auction-based rates, they have grown in
importance because of the shortage of rubles, Polevoy said.  The MosPrime overnight rate, an average of what Moscow’s
largest lenders offer to lend to one another, fell to 6.34
percent today after surging yesterday to 6.46 percent, the most
since December 2009.  Bank Rossii is giving banks less short-term cash, with
overnight repo auctions offering an average of 159 billion
rubles ($5.1 billion) so far this month, down from 476 billion
rubles in November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s helping drive up interbank rates and in turn hurting
demand for ruble-denominated bonds, Dmitry Pikin, a bond-fund
manager at Moscow-based Gazprombank Asset Management that
oversees more than 200 billion rubles of investments, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Curbing Inflation  The shortage of rubles in the banking system since
September will help curb inflation next year, policy makers said
in the statement. The government’s decision to delay price
increases for utilities to July from January will bring a
“substantial slowdown in the annual inflation rate” early next
year, according to the statement.  Inflation eased to 6.4 percent from a year earlier as of
Dec. 19, down from 6.8 percent in November, the regulator said.
Year-to-date price growth was at 6 percent as of that date, the
government said this week.  Record-low inflation may help Putin solidify voter support
after his ruling  United Russia  party won less than half of the
vote in a Dec. 4 parliamentary poll. Tens of thousands of people
joined protests in Moscow after allegations of ballot-box
stuffing.  “Inflation risks associated with eased fiscal policy and
election populism remain high,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of
research at BNP Paribas in Moscow, said by e-mail.  Russia’s federal budget surplus, which swelled to as much
3.2 percent of economic output in the year through October, will
narrow to no more than 0.8 percent for the full year, Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov said this week.  Shelter from Europe  Inflation at the lowest since August 2010 is bolstering
purchasing power and helping shelter the economy from a slowdown
in  Europe . GDP may expand 4.5 percent this year and 3.7 percent
in 2012, according to the  Economy Ministry . Even so, more than
half of Russians still see the inflation level as “very high,”
a poll showed last month.  Putin told business leaders this week that he wants growth
of as much as 7 percent to help turn Russia into one of the
world’s five largest economies in five years.  Economic output will grow a “subdued” 3.5 percent next
year with “significant downside risks” from Europe’s debt
crisis, Juha Kahkonen, the head of the International Monetary
Fund’s mission to Russia, said Dec. 8.  Weighing on Investment  “While consumer demand remains strong, supported by growth
in public wages, a liquidity shortage and increased political
uncertainty are weighing on investment activity and industrial
production,”  Natalia Novikova  and Elina Ribakova, economists at
Citigroup Inc. who correctly forecast the refinancing rate cut,
said in an e-mailed note. They predicted the repo rate may be
reduced “in early 2012.”  Since the auction-based repo rate “is the most relevant
policy rate in the current times of tight liquidity conditions,
we interpret the decision as an attempt from the central bank to
deliver the most cautious of easings possible,”  Ivan Tchakarov ,
chief economist at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by e-
mail.  In September, Bank Rossii lifted the deposit rate by a
quarter point while cutting the overnight auction-based
repurchase rate by the same amount. That narrowed the so-called
rate corridor in which money-market costs tend to fluctuate to
1.5 percentage points from 2 percentage points. The next rates
meeting is planned for the first 10 days of February.  “We believe the ‘true’ easing of monetary policy by
cutting the actively used repo rates is imminent,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in Moscow, said
in an e-mailed note. “We expect the bank to wait until the end
of March to avoid a potential unpleasant inflation surprise on
the eve of March 4 presidential elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  