-- South Carolina Voter Law Blocked
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/s-c-voter-id-law-blocked-as-discriminatory.html
South Carolina’s new law requiring
voters to show photo identification at the polls was blocked by
the U.S.  Justice Department , which said it would
“significantly” burden non-white voters.  The Justice Department’s decision, announced in a letter
yesterday to South Carolina Assistant Deputy Attorney General C.
Havird Jones, is the first time the Obama administration has
intervened against any of the eight states that enacted new
voter ID laws or tightened existing ones this year.  The decision is the latest turn in a partisan feud over
voter-identification rules that flares in presidential election
years. Republicans press for stricter photo identification as
crucial to upholding the integrity of elections, while
Democrats, who count minority voters as part of their political
base, oppose the statutes as attempts to disenfranchise people.  “It is outrageous, and we plan to look at every possible
option to get this terrible, clearly political decision
overturned so we can protect the integrity of our electoral
process and our 10th Amendment rights,”  South Carolina ’s
Republican Governor Nikki Haley said in a statement.  The new laws, adopted largely in states controlled by
Republican lawmakers, have the potential to swing the outcome of
races in 2012, said Lawrence Norden, deputy director of the
democracy program at the Brennan Center for Justice.  Close Race Concerns  “Our estimate is tens of thousands of people could be
prevented from voting based on this kind of law and in a state
like  Wisconsin  in a presidential race that’s close, the race
could be determined by a few hundred votes or certainly a few
thousand,” Norden said.  The Justice Department’s decision may preview an aggressive
stance against efforts to tighten voting requirements, said
Glenn Totten, a Democratic consultant.  “This could be the first shot of an attempt to battle back
against what generally has been a free ride to put up obstacles
to voters,” Totten said.  Under the  Voting Rights  Act, South Carolina is among 16
states or parts of states that have a history of voting rights
violations and must obtain permission from the Justice
Department or a federal court before redrawing their district
lines or changing election procedures.  Alabama,  Texas   The Justice Department’s decision doesn’t affect Alabama
and Texas, which also come under the Voting Rights Act
requirement and have passed voter ID laws similar to South
Carolina’s. Other states that have enacted similar laws include
Kansas and  Tennessee .  Attorney General Eric Holder injected himself into the
debate last week during a speech on voting rights at the Lyndon
B. Johnson Library Museum in Austin, Texas, where he said he had
concerns about the South Carolina and Texas voter ID laws.
Holder said both would receive a “thorough and fair” review.  The  Democratic National Committee  accused Republicans of
trying to “limit the right to vote” and praised yesterday’s
decision.  “The Justice Department’s action helps make sure that
people who should be able to vote can,” DNC spokesman Patrick Gaspard said in an e-mailed statement.  The  Republican National Committee  said the Obama
administration was playing politics.  ‘Scare Tactics’  “The Democrats’ scare tactics of voter disenfranchisement
have no basis in fact,” Kirsten Kukowski, an RNC spokeswoman,
said in a statement.  South Carolina’s law, which Haley signed into law in May,
requires voters to show government-issued photo ID.  Non-white voters would be “significantly burdened” by the
law’s requirements and “disproportionately unlikely to
possess” the necessary identification, said Assistant Attorney
General  Thomas Perez , who oversees the Justice Department’s
 civil rights  division, in the letter yesterday.  South Carolina can submit additional information and ask
the Justice Department to reconsider its decision or instead
seek approval from a three-judge panel of the U.S. District
Court in  Washington , according to the department’s letter.  Calls to the offices of South Carolina Attorney General
Alan Wilson and Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  weren’t
immediately returned.  ‘Reasonable Impediment’  The law exempts people who vote absentee, have religious
objections to being photographed or have a “reasonable
impediment” such as a physical disability, said Chris Whitmire,
a spokesman for the South Carolina State Election Commission.  Voters who forget to bring the proper ID could vote using a
provisional ballot, which would count if they presented their
identification at a county election commission office prior to
the election being certified, Whitmire said.  Civil rights groups had asked the Justice Department to
block South Carolina’s law, arguing it would suppress turnout
among minorities.  “It will send a signal to other states” that they “need
to think twice about pursuing this type of plan,” said Tanya
Clay House, public policy director for the Lawyers’ Committee
for Civil Rights Under Law, in an interview before the decision
was announced.  ‘Instill Confidence’  Requiring voters to show photo ID “will instill confidence
in the electoral process” and not adversely affect minority
voters, said Chip Campsen, a Republican state senator in South
Carolina, who sponsored the measure.  “There’s a lot of hyperbole about voter ID laws,” Campsen
said in an interview before the decision. “They’re really distorting
the intent and the effect.”  Critics of the laws say talk of major voter fraud is
overblown.  “If you look at every court case regarding voter ID, there
is no evidence ever submitted to any court showing any massive
voter fraud anywhere,” said Luis Roberto Vera Jr., general
counsel of the Washington-based League of United Latin American
Citizens. The Justice Department, Vera said, should similarly
block enforcement of the Texas law.  Rogan Kersh, associate dean at New York University’s Wagner
School, said studies of voter fraud “in states ranging from
Washington to  Ohio  to  Florida , suggest that actual incidences --
of individuals fraudulently casting multiple ballots, or voting
under a false/illegitimate identity -- are about as frequent in
the U.S. as people being killed by lightning.”  Other Cases  The South Carolina decision didn’t provide clues about how
the Justice Department may handle other voting laws submitted
for approval under the Voting Rights Act, said Samuel Bagenstos,
a  University of Michigan  law professor who served as the civil
rights division’s principal deputy assistant attorney general
between 2009 and 2001.  “People will necessarily look to this as an indication of
the department’s direction,” said Bagenstos. “But at the same
time, it’s really going to be about this state and these facts
and each state may be different.”  Texas has submitted its law to the Justice Department for
approval.  Alabama , where the new law doesn’t go into effect
until 2014, hasn’t yet asked either the Justice Department or a
three-judge panel of the U.S. District Court in Washington to
pre-clear its plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  