-- Santos Obtains $1.2 Billion in Debt Financing to Help Fund LNG Projects
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2011-12-23T00:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/santos-obtains-1-2-billion-in-debt-financing-to-help-fund-lng-projects.html
Santos Ltd. (STO) , the Australian energy
company building the $16 billion Gladstone liquefied natural gas
project in Queensland state, obtained $1.2 billion in debt
facilities backed by three government export credit agencies.  The financing means  Australia ’s third-biggest oil and gas
producer has more than $7 billion of funding available, Andrew Seaton, Adelaide-based Santos’s chief financial officer, said
today in a statement. Export credit agencies from Australia,
Canada and  Italy  helped obtain the loans.  Santos is among energy companies in Australia building or
planning about A$200 billion ($203 billion) of LNG ventures to
meet rising Asian demand for the fuel. Aside from Gladstone,
Santos is also involved in the proposed Bonaparte LNG project
off northern Australia with GDF Suez, and is a partner in the
$15.7 billion Exxon Mobil Corp.-led LNG venture in  Papua New
Guinea .  The new facilities include a $280 million loan from
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc
and Citigroup Inc., which was supported by Italian state-owned
export-credit agency SACE SpA, according to the statement.  The same banks also provided a facility of as much as $250
million backed by Australia’s Export Finance & Insurance Corp.  ANZ, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia , National Australia Bank Ltd. and Export
Development Canada provided a $670 million facility, which
matures in 2019, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  