-- Sex Toy Designer Screaming O Pushes Past Novelty Shops into Walgreens Aisles
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2011-12-24T00:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/sex-toy-designer-screaming-o-pushes-past-novelty-shops-into-walgreens-aisles.html
     (This story has been corrected to change the description
of the deal in the third paragraph to show it was a licensing
deal, not a distribution deal.)  When Justin Ross first showed Keith Caggiano his
business plan in 2005, Caggiano thought he was joking.
Inspired by a Brazilian girlfriend, Ross, a former portfolio
manager at New York City hedge fund Millennium
Partners, wanted to start a sex toy distribution business.  Ross eventually persuaded Caggiano, a serial entrepreneur
he knew through a mutual friend, to make the leap with
him, and the duo invested $120,000 in combined personal
savings and a loan from Ross’s parents. Today the 20-employee
Torrance (Calif.) company, which imports most of its products
from  China , is profitable. Ross projects $15 million in
 revenue this year, mostly through adult novelty retailers and
online.  Screaming O's desire now is to sell through mainstream
channels while maintaining its racy branding. In late
2009, Walgreens signed a licensing deal to sell one of
Screaming O's brands in 7,000 drugstores. Their products, with
bright, explicit packaging, are also sold through
 Amazon.com, Drugstore.com, and RiteAid.com, as well as stores
in 27 foreign countries. “We stand right at the edge. We want
to market and brand ourselves as a company that sells fun,”
Ross says, “without becoming so demure" that customers
overlook the products.  It’s a tricky balance to achieve. Trojan, which has sold
condoms for more than eight decades, first introduced
vibrators to its product line a year ago. It’s taking a
low-key approach, with television commercials that feature
girlfriends chuckling knowingly over their “personal
massagers” and packaging designed to disappear on the grocery
store conveyor belt. In contrast, with a name like Screaming
O, Ross, 38, and Caggiano, 44, can hardly be accused of
subtlety.  “When people see our brand, the barriers go down and we
melt their defenses,” says Caggiano, who developed the
company’s online advertising and offline promotions, which
mostly center on sponsoring international sporting
events, spring-break hot spots, and safe sex forums on college
campuses. “We want to find a way to help people be comfortable
with themselves and their sexuality,” he says.  Despite cultural bias and a handful of states that ban
the sales of sex toys under obscenity laws, the duo is adamant
that mainstream America will buy its wares. Hamilton Beach
patented the first electric vibrator in 1902, about a decade
before it introduced the electric iron and vacuum cleaner.
Surveys from 2009 conducted by  Indiana University  and the
Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex, Gender, & Reproduction
show more than half of women and nearly half of men ages 18 to
60 reported using a vibrator either alone or with a partner.  Accurate revenue numbers for the entire adult industry
are elusive, since business research firms do not track the
market. Joanne Cachapero, communications director at the Free
Speech Coalition, an adult industry trade group, says that
until five years ago, the industry estimated its own revenues
at $14 billion worldwide. But overall revenues are down about
30 percent since 2008, she says, led by a 50 percent drop in
DVD sales. A handful of outside research studies a decade ago
put total U.S. adult revenues between $1 billion and $4
billion.  Dave Levine, a 43-year-old Los Angeles man who founded
$13 million sex toy wholesaler CNV.com in 1995, estimates the
U.S. sex toy business alone at $750 million to $1 billion
annually. His 25-employee company supplies products and also
does direct sales through SexToy.com. He says adult film
companies are now getting into novelties in a “big way,”
partly to make up for revenue lost to piracy and the
availability of free porn online.  Ross and Caggiano’s first product was a pack of
disposable vibrating rings priced as an impulse buy at $5. The
two men began attending adult industry trade shows and found
distribution at adult novelty retailers on the third try, when
they secured one-on-one meetings with 27 distributors at the
Pasadena Novelty Expo in 2005. By the end of the show, they
had $70,000 worth of orders, but only $10,000 worth of product
in a guest house garage. “We had to spend $18,000 in air
freight from China to fill those first orders,” Ross recalls.
But once the product hit retail shelves, “it started
steamrolling. We paid off all our debt within nine months.”  Screaming O’s newest line, The Studio Collection, could
appeal to merchandising managers at big-box retailers, the duo
hopes. With cleverly disguised packaging, the collection hides
sex toys in lipsticks, eye shadow, and face powder containers.
The collection includes high-quality materials and stylish
designs that justify a higher price point and higher  margins
than Screaming O's earlier merchandise, Ross says.  Screaming O is frequently approached by competitors — it
estimates that half a dozen companies are in the same business
— pitching mergers and investors inquiring about getting a
piece of the action, Caggiano says. The partners want to stay
independent for now, convinced, Caggiano says, that “our brand
has the potential to make a space for itself in pop culture.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at
 karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick
Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net  