-- SNB Says Franc Cap Won’t Prevent Job Cuts as Companies Grow Less Confident
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2011-12-23T10:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/snb-says-franc-cap-won-t-prevent-job-cuts-as-companies-grow-less-confident.html
The Swiss central bank said
companies expect sales to weaken further over the coming months
as the global economy falters and the franc hurts export orders.  “Uncertainty about future developments has increased
perceptibly,” the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  in Zurich said in its
 quarterly report  today. “The caution being exercised by
companies is expressed in their restrained employment and
investment plans. Their turnover expectations for the next few
months have diminished substantially.”  The SNB, led by Philipp Hildebrand, maintained its franc
ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro on Dec. 15 and pledged to take
further measures if needed to protect the economy. While a
government panel is also looking at ways to weaken the currency,
such as  capital controls  and negative  interest rates , the ruling
coalition doesn’t plan to implement them, Finance Minister
Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said on Dec. 21.  The SNB reiterated today that it will defend the ceiling
with “the utmost determination” and is ready to buy foreign
currencies in “unlimited quantities.” The Swiss currency “is
still high and should continue to weaken over time,” it said.  The franc, seen as a haven in times of turmoil, traded at
1.2222 against the euro as of 10:35 a.m. in Zurich. It reached a
record 1.0075 against the euro on Aug. 9.  Franc Ceiling  “Although the introduction of the minimum  exchange rate 
for the franc against the euro eased the situation for companies
and gave them planning security, the exchange rate situation
remained a focal point of attention,” the SNB said, citing
results of its quarterly survey of companies. “The fragile
state of the global economy depressed confidence.”  With the franc eroding earnings just as export demand
falters, the Swiss economy is showing increasing signs of
slowdown.  Manufacturing output  dropped for a third month in
November and the KOF leading economic indicator fell to the
lowest in more than two years.  The Swiss economy will probably stagnate in the current
quarter, the central bank said today. Gross domestic product may
rise between 1.5 percent and 2 percent this year and 0.5 percent
in 2012, it said.  Asked in the survey about the negative impact of franc
gains, almost half of companies said they are lowering domestic
costs, with 21 percent implementing or considering job cuts.
More than 30 percent of companies hurt by the currency are also
considering options including relocation.  ‘Significantly Negative’  Sixty-three percent of survey participants reported
negative effects from the franc’s appreciation, up from 58
percent in the previous quarter, the SNB said. Thirty-nine
percent said the impact was significantly negative. Almost two-
thirds of exporters reported lower profit margins in export
markets, with 47 percent reporting lower sales.  “The level of margins was still a problem” in the fourth
quarter, the SNB said. “The main reasons for this situation are
the continuing strength of the Swiss franc, increasing prices
for some commodities and a weakening in demand. The pressure to
optimise costs increased further,” with companies considering
measures including “recruitment freezes, investment freezes and
the introduction of longer working hours for the same wage.”  The SNB surveyed 228 companies in October and November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  