-- South Korean Won Strengthens on U.S. Data, Moody’s Outlook; Bonds Decline
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2011-12-23T06:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/south-korean-won-strengthens-on-u-s-data-moody-s-outlook-bonds-decline.html
South  Korea ’s won rose, halting a
two-week loss, as signs of an improving U.S. economy and easing
concern over stability in  North Korea  bolstered demand for
higher-yielding assets. Bonds fell.  Unemployment claims declined by 4,000 to 364,000 in the
week ended Dec. 17, the lowest level since April 2008, Labor
Department figures showed yesterday in Washington. Moody’s
Investors Service said in a statement yesterday that the outlook
for Korea’s ratings remains stable despite geopolitical risks
linked to the death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il .  “Investment sentiment is improving after U.S. data sent
some signal that the world’s largest economy is holding out
well,” said Hwang Sun Min, a currency dealer in  Seoul  at
Kookmin Bank, Korea’s largest lender. “Moody’s confirmation of
sovereign ratings is also helping push the won higher. Still,
trading is dull as most players are already in a holiday mode.”  The won strengthened 0.5 percent to 1,150.20 per dollar in
Seoul by the close and rose 0.7 percent this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Moody’s cited Korea’s “very high degree of economic
strength, as well as high degree of institutional and government
financial strengths” as reasons for keeping its ratings stable.  The Bank of Korea and  Finance Ministry  said today in a
joint statement after a meeting in Seoul that they will try to
reduce the won’s volatility and expand trade financing for
exporters so that they can cope with the global economic
slowdown. Financial markets have restored stability after the
death of Kim, the statement said.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 3.5 percent bonds due September
2016 rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, this week
to 3.53 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. It added two
basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  