-- Corn Rebounds as Hot, Dry Weather May Follow After Downpours in Argentina
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2011-12-23T14:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/soybeans-corn-decline-on-forecast-rains-to-ease-south-america-s-dry-spell.html
Corn rose for a sixth day in
Chicago, the longest rally this year and reversing an earlier
decline, on expectations that rain in  Argentina  will be followed
by hot and dry weather that may affect the crop.  Argentina may be drier than normal in the next 10 days and
hot temperatures may return next week, after thunderstorms
yesterday and overnight that brought rain to some of the driest
growing areas, DTN Telvent Inc. wrote in a report today.  “The weather conditions in Argentina remain fragile, with
certainly some rains for the end of this week, but forecasts for
a return to warm and dry weather next week,” Paris-based farm
adviser Agritel wrote in a comment. “It’s for corn that the
situation is the most worrisome.”  Corn for March delivery rose 0.2 percent to $6.185 a bushel
on the  Chicago  Board of Trade by 2:52 p.m. Paris time, reversing
an earlier 0.4 percent drop. The most-active contract has
slipped 1.7 percent this year.  The six-day rally for corn is the longest since the grain
advanced nine consecutive sessions through Dec. 29 last year.  “At this stage there are no significant damages yet, but
the situation could tighten if the dry conditions last into
January,” Agritel wrote.  Soybeans for March delivery gained 0.3 percent to $11.75 a
bushel in Chicago, reversing a 0.5 percent drop and limiting the
decline this year for the most-active contract to 16 percent.
The oilseed rose for a seventh session, the longest series of
gains since July 15.  Argentina Downpours  Argentina’s corn and soybean crops will receive downpours
through Dec. 29, improving soil humidity in the Pampas
agricultural zone after the dryness in past weeks, the Buenos
Aires Cereals Exchange said yesterday. North and central areas
of the Pampas will receive up to 75 millimeters (2.95 inches) of
rainfall, while southern areas won’t get rains, it said.  “There was overnight rain in Argentina with some handy
falls in patches and where that rain was experienced they’re
certainly going to see an improvement in crop conditions,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of
 Australia , said by phone from Sydney today. Crop stress may
continue next week even after the rainfall forecast, he said.  The U.S. was the world’s largest producer and exporter of
corn and soybeans in the season that ended Sept. 30. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  says  Brazil  will top the U.S. this
year as the largest shipper of soybeans. Argentina is the
second-biggest corn exporter after the U.S.  Wheat for March delivery rose 0.4 percent to $6.24 a bushel
in Chicago. Prices have slumped 21 percent this year as global
production expanded.  Milling wheat for March delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris advanced 0.1 percent to 186.25 euros (243.26) a metric
ton, falling 26 percent this year. Commodity-futures trading was
halted early in Paris today before the Christmas holidays, and
will resume on Dec. 27.  Morocco is expected to have record stocks of more than 1.6
million tons of soft wheat at the end of the year, enough to
cover more than four months of milling demand, state grain buyer
ONICL reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net .
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  