-- Spain Will Raise Pensions in Line With Inflation to Meet Election Pledge
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2011-12-23T15:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/spain-will-raise-pensions-in-line-with-inflation-to-meet-election-pledge.html
Spain’s new government will increase
pensions next year in line with forecast inflation, meeting an
election pledge, even as it plans to cut the  budget deficit  in
half over two years.  The Cabinet will pass emergency budget measures at its next
meeting on Dec. 30. It will also approve an “update of all
pensions in line with the forecast for the  consumer price
index ,” Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria told
reporters today after the government’s first meeting in Madrid.  Spanish consumer prices  rose 2.9 percent from a year
earlier in November, according to the National Statistics
Institute.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-
biggest bank, estimated last month that inflation will slow to
an average rate of 1.2 percent in 2012.  Raising pensions, which were frozen in 2011 and accounted
for 112 billion euros ($146 billion) in this year’s budget,
reduces the government’s room for maneuver as it seeks to cut
the euro region’s third-largest shortfall. Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro will make emergency spending cuts next week to
carry  Spain  through until March, when the 2012 spending plan
goes to Parliament.  Economic Policy   Spain has pledged to cut the deficit to 4.4 percent of
gross domestic product next year and 3 percent in 2013. The
outgoing Socialist administration had aimed for a shortfall this
year of 6 percent, which the European Commission says will be
missed as it estimates a shortfall of 6.6 percent.  Rajoy will lead the weekly economic-policy meeting and
oversee economic issues himself, rather than delegating to a
deputy prime minister, as previous leaders have done, Saenz de
Santamaria said. The People’s Party’s economy secretary Alvaro Nadal was appointed to lead Rajoy’s economic bureau.  The Cabinet named Fernando Jimenez Latorre as deputy
minister for economy and companies, and Jaime Garcia-Legaz
Ponce, secretary general of the Faes research institute, as
deputy minister for trade.  Antonio Beteta Barreda, a minister in the regional  Madrid 
government, was named deputy minister for public
administrations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  