-- Spielberg’s ‘War Horse’ Races Car; Tom Hanks’s 9/11 Key: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/spielberg-s-war-horse-races-car-tom-hanks-s-9-11-key-movies.html
Bought at auction by a poor English
farmer on the eve of World War I, Joey is a rambunctious colt
with a white forehead-patch. Though he’d rather race against a
car than pull a plow, he soon becomes a beloved member of the
family.  So when cash-strapped owner Ted Narracott (Peter Mullan)
sells Joey to a British cavalry officer heading off to fight in
the Great War, it devastates his son Albert (Jeremy Irvine), who
vows to get the horse back.  The heart-tugging story is told in “ War Horse ,”  Steven Spielberg ’s rousing adaptation of the popular children’s novel
and smash play now at New York’s  Lincoln Center . It’s an
unapologetic tearjerker that combines Spielberg’s passions for
history, adventure and seeing the world through youthful eyes.  While the film lacks the magic horse puppets of the stage
production, it does capture the fairy tale vibe of Michael
Morpurgo’s novel.  Albert’s dogged mission to find Joey on the battlefields of
 France  includes more emotional twists and turns than a season’s
worth of soap operas. After his rider is killed, Joey gets ping-
ponged among the British, French and Germans, who force him to
pull heavy artillery.  At one point, Joey is rescued from barbed wire by two
soldiers, one British and one German, who temporarily cooperate
to cut the horse loose from his death trap.  When Albert and Joey are finally reunited -- this can
hardly be considered a spoiler -- the horse is seemingly on his
last legs. Albert, wounded in a shelling attack, has his eyes
covered with cloth.  Schmaltzy, yes, but Spielberg pulls it off.  “War Horse,” from  Walt Disney Studios , opens Dec. 25
across the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Extremely Loud’  Ten years later, it’s still a daunting challenge to make a
sensible movie about 9/11.  “ Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close ,” based on Jonathan
Safran Foer’s novel about an 11-year-old boy whose father died
in the World Trade Center that day, is a noble but unsuccessful
effort.  Dramatizing the impact of 9/11 through a mildly autistic
child who roams  New York City  trying to find the meaning of a
key his father left behind proves elusive for director Stephen Daldry, a three-time Oscar nominee for “ Billy Elliot ,” “The
Reader” and “The Hours.”  Tambourine, Gas Mask  The main problem is the book, whose sprawling narrative
isn’t well suited to the big screen. But Daldry and screenwriter
Eric Roth make matters worse by overemphasizing the most cloying
aspects of the story and turning the son, Oskar, into a  New York 
version of “Rain Man.”  Particularly overdone are the many scenes in which Oskar
(Thomas Horn) listens to phone messages left by his father while
he was trapped in one of the towers. Rather than heighten our
anxiety, the repetition dulls it.  Horn, whose precocious, high-strung character plays the
tambourine and carries a gas mask, has to carry too heavy a load
in his film debut.  Tom Hanks  and Sandra Bullock lend star power but little
else as Oskar’s parents. Max von Sydow is graceful as a silent
old man who befriends the boy and the always wonderful Viola Davis plays an unhappily married woman who bonds with Oskar.  “Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close,” from  Warner Bros.
Pictures , opens Dec. 25 in New York and  Los Angeles . It will be
released across the U.S. on Jan. 20. Rating: **  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 