-- Sales Seen Up 3.8% as U.S. Weather Helps Year-End Surge: Retail
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2011-12-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/store-sales-seen-rising-3-8-as-u-s-weather-helps-year-end-surge-retail.html
As Bing Crosby croons “White
Christmas” in malls around the U.S., retailers from  Chicago  to
 Boston  are betting on a snow-free weekend to cap a strong
 holiday shopping season .  Last year, a blizzard that began on Christmas closed
thousands of stores on the East Coast the next day, when
millions of consumers typically make exchanges and redeem gift
cards.  The calendar is also lending a potential boost. Christmas
Eve lands on a Saturday, and Macy’s Inc., Toys “R” Us Inc. and
 Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  are all extending their hours. The day
after Christmas, one of the biggest shopping days of the year,
is Monday. Last year, it fell on Sunday, when religious services
and football games kept people away from malls.  “It’s going to be hugely better after last year was a
wipeout for about 15 percent of the country,” said  Craig Johnson , president of consulting firm Customer Growth Partners.
That could boost sales in stores and on the Web Dec. 26 from an
estimated $20 billion last year to $29 billion and make it the
year’s largest shopping day, he said in an interview.  No major snowstorms are forecast for the U.S. this weekend,
continuing one of the warmest and driest holiday seasons on
record. U.S. snowfall this month is projected to be as little as
450 inches, about half the amount that fell last December,
according Berwyn, Pennsylvania-based Planalytics Inc.  U.K.’s Boxing Day  Same goes in the U.K., which has had above-average
temperatures and little snow after several blizzards, including
one in late December, hit the country last year. While holiday
retail sales are projected to be little changed, store visits
rose 0.6 percent last week from a year ago, according to
Experian FootFall, a research firm based in Solihull,  England .
 London  may be disrupted if transit workers proceed with a strike
beginning on Dec. 26, which is called Boxing Day and has been
one of the nation’s biggest shopping events.  “The 48 hours before Christmas from Friday to Saturday
will be mega,” Jace Tyrrell, a spokesman for London’s New West
End Company, which represents more than 600 fashion brands, said
in an interview.  One of the effects of the balmy weather, including  North
America ’s fourth-warmest November of the past 50 years, is less
demand for sweaters and jackets. As a result, such U.S. apparel
chains as  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and  Gap Inc. (GPS)  have been
discounting cold-weather gear, with markdowns of as much as 70
percent last weekend, Stacy Pak, a San Francisco-based analyst
for  Barclays Capital , said in a Dec. 20 note to clients.  Super Saturday  In the U.S., the final holiday push comes as consumers
ended the traditional shopping lull after Thanksgiving weekend
by spending $26 billion on the Web and in stores on Dec. 17,
according to Johnson. That day, marketed by retailers as Super
Saturday, with some of the best deals of the season, fell just
short of the $27 billion spent on Black Friday,  New Canaan ,
Connecticut-based Customer Growth said.  Revenue during Thanksgiving weekend increased 16 percent to
a record $52.4 billion, prompting the Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index to advance 3.1 percent on Monday, Nov. 28, for
the biggest gain in a month. Since then, the measure has risen
another 2 percent, compared with a 5.2 percent increase for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  November same-store sales rose 3.2 percent, topping
analysts’ expectations. That performance prompted the  National
Retail Federation  and ShopperTrak to raise their projections for
holiday sales in retail stores to gains of 3.8 percent and 3.7
percent, respectively. Customer Growth Partners, which includes
online sales, left its estimate unchanged at an increase of 6.5
percent.  Last-Minute Shoppers  On top of that, 30 percent of consumers had holiday
shopping left to do entering this week, an increase from 26
percent a year ago, according to the International Council of
Shopping Centers.  Chains are trying to attract those last-minute shoppers by
extending store hours. Closely held  Toys “R” Us  planned to
keep almost all of its 600 U.S. locations open for 112
uninterrupted hours from Dec. 20 to Christmas Eve. The Wayne,
New Jersey-based retailer’s flagship in  New York ’s Times Square
will push that to more than 200 hours.  Macy’s (M) , the second-largest U.S. department store chain, is
opening some locations for 83 straight hours and extending
closing hours to 2 a.m. at others.  Family Dollar, based in Matthews,  North Carolina , will
operate on Christmas for the first time by opening about half of
its 7,000-plus stores from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This came after it
added an extra hour to all its stores for this entire month.  Extended Hours  These extended hours are the latest example of retailers
going after sales by any means necessary, according to Poonam Goyal, a Bloomberg Industries analyst in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Consumers started seeing Black Friday deals just after
Halloween, a month before the actual Black Friday. Several
chains, including Kohl’s Corp., opened at midnight on
Thanksgiving for the first time while  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  moved
its release of Black Friday deals to two hours before that. Most
of the industry offered some kind of free shipping deal. When
shopping events passed, a few chains repeated them.  “There aren’t many more buttons they can push,” Goyal
said in an interview. All of this will drive sales, she said,
while “margins are a different question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  