-- Sundance Seen Doubling Money on Takeover Betting Today: Real M&A
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n ,   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2011-12-23T14:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/sundance-resources-seen-doubling-money-today-betting-on-takeover-real-m-a.html
Australia ’s  Sundance (SDL)  Resources Ltd.
is giving traders a chance to double their money on the richest
mining takeover in five years.  Sundance rose as much as 34 percent after Sichuan Hanlong
Group offered in July to buy the owner of the Mbalam iron ore
project in Africa. The stock has since lost all its gain on
concern the Chinese conglomerate won’t be able to pay for the
$1.4 billion purchase. With Sundance cheaper than it was before
Hanlong announced its bid, traders can reap a 65 percent return
betting on the deal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Hanlong has yet to secure a financing commitment five
months after agreeing to pay what is now the biggest premium for
a mining company since 2006, the Chinese government helped
Hanlong buy its initial Sundance stake, according to CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets. That helps to make it the “most significant
opportunity” to profit from acquisitions in Australia’s mining
industry, CLSA said. If Hanlong’s bid unravels, it could prompt
companies such as  Glencore International Plc , Anglo American Plc
or Xstrata Plc to step in with offers, IG Markets said.  “From a risk-reward perspective, you’d definitely be
looking to buy,”  Chris Weston , a dealer at IG Markets in
 Melbourne , said in a telephone interview. “It’s got some
fantastic assets and it would suit a number of companies. There
would potentially be a few others running the ruler over them.”  Paul Armstrong , a spokesman for Sundance, declined to
comment and referred to Chairman  George Jones ’ Nov. 25 speech at
the Perth, Australia-based company’s annual shareholder meeting,
where he said that Hanlong’s offer “continues to be in the best
interest of all shareholders.”  Acquisition Detail  Michael Vaughan, a Sydney-based spokesman for Hanlong, said
in an e-mail that it “continues to work closely with Sundance
on completing the transaction.”  Hanlong, located in  Chengdu  in  China ’s southwestern
province of Sichuan, has investments in highway and power
projects and said last year it will spend as much as $5 billion
on resource assets to feed China’s demand for commodities.  After becoming Sundance’s largest shareholder, closely held
Hanlong made an unsolicited bid of A$1.2 billion ($1.3 billion),
or 50 cents a share in  cash (XTA) , in July. Hanlong raised its
proposal in October to 57 cents a share, a 68 percent premium to
its 20-day average before the initial offer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The premium was the largest for any metals or mining deal
over $1 billion since Xstrata paid a 110 percent premium to buy
Falconbridge Ltd. in 2006, the data show.  ‘Handful of Believers’  While  Sundance  climbed as high as 53.5 cents in July, the
stock has since lost more than a third of its value and ended at
34.5 cents yesterday. When Hanlong first announced its takeover
proposal, Sundance traded at 40 cents a share.  The stock climbed as much as 4.3 percent  today , before
closing up 2.9 percent at 35.5 cents.  The decline has accelerated in the past month, sparked by
speculation that Hanlong hasn’t been able to persuade its
bankers to lend it money to acquire Sundance. The mining company
said on Nov. 25 that it waived a condition that required Hanlong
to obtain a “highly confident letter” for financing from China
Development Bank Corp. by Nov. 28.  Sundance estimates that its Mbalam rail, port and mine
project straddling the Republic of Cameroon and Republic of
Congo will produce 35 million  metric tons  a year and cost $4.7
billion to develop.  “There are a handful of believers, but there’s a large
part of the market which is putting it in the ‘too hard’
basket,” Giuliano Sala Tenna, who manages $40 million at Katana
Asset Management Ltd. in Perth, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s a massive capital expenditure requirement.”  Chinese Money  Sundance still expects the deal to close by the end of May,
meaning that traders buying the stock now stand to gain the
biggest payout of any billion-dollar deal in the world,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On an annualized basis,
the 65 percent return balloons to 149 percent, the data show.  “You can’t find an investment that can give you such an
upside,” said Alick Wong, a quantitative research analyst at
Louis Capital Markets in  Hong Kong .  Michael Evans , a Sydney-based analyst at CLSA, says the
financing concern is misplaced partly because the Chinese
government assisted Hanlong in acquiring its initial holding in
Sundance. Hanlong owns 18 percent of Sundance, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s interest and investments in  Africa  may also help
Sundance secure approvals from Cameroon and the Republic of
Congo. Cameroon has received “substantial” interest-free loans
from China, while the world’s fastest-growing major economy is
the biggest buyer of Congolese timber, CLSA said in October.  Ties That Bind  Sundance  said in a regulatory filing last month that it is
close to completing negotiations with both countries for
clearance to start developing the mine. Leaders of both African
nations have also voiced their support, it said.  “China’s substantial business interest and aid packages
that already exists with both these countries and the high level
of discussions that have already taken place, should give
investors a high level of confidence a deal can be done,”
CLSA’s Evans wrote in a report to clients dated Dec. 14.  In April, Sundance said that it intended to build a 510-
kilometer (320-mile) heavy-haulage railroad through Cameroon and
a deep-water port for bulk  iron ore  carriers and aimed to start
shipping iron ore by 2014. Based on the present value of future
profits, Evans estimates that  Sundance  could be worth A$1.95
billion, or 66 cents a share.  That’s almost double the company’s current market value.  National Interest  While shares of Sundance have also depreciated on
speculation an investigation into allegations of  insider trading 
by two of Hanlong’s former employees in Australia will delay the
 Foreign Investment Review Board ’s ruling on the takeover,  Gavin Wendt , senior resource analyst at Sydney-based Mine Life Pty,
said the board will probably approve the deal because Sundance’s
mine isn’t a strategic asset to Australia.  The review board will “separate out whatever is going on
with Hanlong’s situation from the actual deal itself,” he said
in a telephone interview.  The  FIRB , as the review board is commonly known, considers
“the character of an investor and its corporate governance
practices,” the Australian Treasury department’s media office
wrote in an e-mailed response.  Vaughan, Hanlong’s spokesman, reiterated this week that the
company isn’t under investigation. Sundance said on Nov. 22 it
wasn’t aware of anything that might bar the approval.  Even if the agreement with Hanlong collapses, Sundance
could make sense for Glencore,  Anglo American (AAL)  or Xstrata,
according to IG Markets’ Weston.  Glencore, Anglo American  Several parties conducted extensive due diligence on the
Mbalam project and were still doing so when Hanlong made its bid
in July, Sundance’s Jones said at its annual meeting.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said in
August that the largest publicly traded commodities company is
“aggressively” seeking acquisitions. Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore had $1.6 billion in cash and short-term investments at
the end of June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Anglo American, the London-based miner of coal, platinum
and diamonds with about $6.8 billion in cash, is always looking
for acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said
in September. She also said in July that it studied several
potential deals in the first half of the year.  Xstrata, co-owner of the $6 billion Zanaga iron ore project
in the Republic of Congo, said last year it was seeking more
deals to build up its iron ore business. The Zug, Switzerland-
based company has about $1.35 billion in cash on hand.  ‘Risk-Reward Ratio’  Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Glencore, declined to
comment on whether the company is interested in Sundance. Anglo
American’s James Wyatt-Tilby and Alison Flynn of Xstrata also
declined to comment.  “There are still some expectations that if not this deal,
there will be another one shortly,”  Peter Sorrentino , a senior
 fund manager  at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, which
oversees $14.5 billion of assets, said in a telephone interview.
“The deposits are there, they are proven. Somebody could buy
these assets and be very grateful for having done so two years
from now. The risk-reward ratio is pretty favorable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 