-- Services Decline the Most in Six Months as Recovery Ebbs in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-23T09:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/u-k-services-fall-most-in-six-months-as-economic-recovery-ebbs.html
U.K.  services output  fell the most
in six months in October, indicating a rebound in economic
growth lost momentum at the start of the fourth quarter.  Services, which account for about three quarters of the
economy, fell 0.7 percent from September, when the industry was
unchanged, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. Output rose 1.1 percent from a year earlier.  Data yesterday showed the  economy  grew 0.6 percent in the
third quarter, more than previously estimated.  Bank of England 
policy makers have said the pace of expansion is unlikely to be
repeated and forecast stagnation in the current three-month
period as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis dents confidence and
curbs demand.  The third-quarter GDP data “masks underlying fragility”
in the U.K.,  Simon Hayes , an economist at  Barclays Capital  in
London, said in a note yesterday. “The near-term economic out
look is rather bleak” and “recovery hopes rest on the
avoidance of a full-blown euro crisis.”  Business services and finance, which account for about 40
percent of the index, fell 0.7 percent in October from the
previous month, according to the statistics office. Within that,
financial services excluding insurance and pension services
dropped 1.5 percent.  Transport, storage and communications plunged 2.5 percent
on the month, led by telecommunications and computer
programming, while the distribution, hotels and restaurants
category slipped 0.2 percent.  In the three months through October, services rose 0.2
percent compared with the previous three months.  BOE Stimulus  The pound fell as much as 0.1 percent against the dollar
after the report and was trading at $1.5679 as of 9:36 a.m. in
 London , little changed on the day. Bonds stayed higher, with the
yield on the two-year gilt down 2 basis points to 0.32 percent.
It fell to a record-low 0.302 percent on Dec. 16.  The Bank of  England , which restarted bond purchases in
October to aid the recovery, has said that the U.K. economy may
stagnate in the current quarter and the first part of 2012. In
addition to turmoil in Europe, expansion in Britain may be
restrained by  unemployment  at a 17-year high and the
government’s ongoing fiscal squeeze and some officials have said
more stimulus may be needed.  Logica Plc (LOG) , an Anglo-Dutch computer services provider, said
on Dec. 14 that some clients have cut back on short-term
spending amid uncertainty about the economy.  Thomas Cook Group
Plc (TCG) , Europe’s second-largest tour operator, said the same day
that it’s closing branches and cutting jobs in the U.K.  In a separate release today, the statistics office said
output per worker rose 1.2 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months. It was up 0.9 percent from a year
earlier. Productivity as measured by output per hour was up 0.2
percent on the quarter. Unit labor costs increased 0.5 percent.
In manufacturing, labor costs were down 0.4 percent after
falling 1.6 percent in the previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  