-- Regulators Extend Comment Period on Volcker-Rule Proposal
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2011-12-23T20:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/u-s-regulators-delay-comment-period-on-volcker-rule-proposal.html
U.S. regulators will extend the
comment period for the so-called Volcker rule, giving lawmakers
and banks more time to seek changes in the proposed  proprietary
trading  ban required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The comment deadline, initially set for Jan. 13, will be
pushed back 30 days to Feb. 13, according to a joint statement
released today by the four agencies that issued the proposal in
October. The change may extend the comment period until a vote
by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the last of five
agencies required to approve the measure. CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said on Dec. 20 that the vote may come next month.  The proposed rule, named for former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the regulatory overhaul
to rein in risky trading by banks that benefit from  deposit
insurance  and Fed borrowing privileges. The Fed, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and
Securities and Exchange Commission released a joint notice of
proposed rulemaking for the measure that would take effect on
July 21, with a two-year transition period.  “The current proposal twists a simple concept into an
overly complex and burdensome regulation,” Representative  Randy Neugebauer  said yesterday in a letter urging a delay. “Going
significantly beyond Congressional intent, this proposal will
make it difficult for banking entities to manage risk
prudently,” the Texas Republican said in the letter signed by
121 House lawmakers, including four Democrats.  Neugebauer sought a 30-day extension and an interim
proposed rule reflecting comments from banks and the CFTC.  Impact on Banks  The proposed rule would ban banks from making trades for
their own accounts while allowing them to continue short-term
trades for hedging or market-making. It also would limit banks’
investments in private-equity and hedge funds.  Industry groups and lawmakers cited the complexity of the
proposal and the lack of coordination with the CFTC in seeking
the comment-period extension. Banks including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have shut or
made plans to spin off proprietary-trading groups to prepare for
the rule.  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s European division said this month
that it stepped down as a market maker for U.K. government
bonds, citing the Volcker rule as a reason.  “Ultimately, the significance of any final rule for
American businesses, and by extension American households,
cannot be overstated given the direct impact on the U.S. capital
markets, which today are the deepest and most liquid in the
world,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter, which said the
economic impact would be $45 billion for corporate bonds alone.  Bachus Letter  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who
leads the House Financial Services Committee, requested a
similar extension in a Dec. 7 letter, noting that some agencies
had refused to testify on the issue at a hearing originally set
for Dec. 13 and saying his panel would be unable to reschedule
the hearing until after the Jan. 13 comment deadline.  In a Nov. 30 letter, trade groups including the  American
Bankers Association  and the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association asked for a 90-day extension.  “Our members are deeply concerned about the potential
impact of the proposal on capital formation, markets and
liquidity for a range of asset classes and on the safety and
soundness of banking entities and the businesses in which they
engage,” five lobby groups said in their letter.  The extension was opposed by groups including Better
Markets Inc., a nonprofit research organization that promotes
Dodd-Frank regulations.  ‘Weak as Possible’  “The financial industry worked the entire legislative
process in 2009 and 2010, first to prevent the Volcker rule from
being included and then to make it as weak as possible,” Dennis
M. Kelleher, president and chief executive officer of Better
Markets, wrote in a Dec. 9 letter to regulators. “By any
definition of reasonableness, the industry has had ample time to
make their views known.”  The industry groups found common ground with former FDIC
Chairman  Sheila Bair , who cited the complexity of the proposed
rules in urging regulators to scrap the current plan.  “The regulators should think hard about starting over
again with a simple rule based on the underlying economics of
the transaction, not on its label or accounting treatment,”
Bair said at a Senate Banking subcommittee hearing on Dec. 7.
“If it makes money from the customer paying fees, interest and
commissions, it passes. If its profitability or loss is based on
market movements, it fails.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  