-- U.S. Personal Spending Rises Less Than Forecast
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-23T21:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/u-s-personal-spending-increased-less-than-forecast-in-november.html
Consumer purchases rose less than
forecast in November as a drop in wages encouraged Americans to
seek discounted merchandise at the start of the  holiday shopping
season .  Personal spending climbed 0.1 percent for a second month,
while wages and salaries fell 0.1 percent from October, Commerce
Department data showed today in Washington. Durable goods orders
jumped 3.8 percent in November as a surge in aircraft bookings
masked a drop in demand for business equipment.  “The consumer is moderately upbeat but we’re not out of
the woods yet,”  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist
at State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “As the bonus
allowance is expiring, we have seen a slight cooling of the
orders book for manufacturing, and the slowing in the  euro zone 
seems to be impacting manufacturing on the margin.”  Target Corp. (TGT)  is among retailers using holiday promotions as
limited job and income gains hold consumers back. While spending
this quarter will improve from the previous three months,
manufacturing is at risk of cooling as the tax incentive on
equipment purchases comes to an end next week and shipments to
 Europe  ease.  Today’s figures cap a week in which some of the data showed
the economy picking up. First-time  jobless claims  fell in the
week ended Dec. 17 to the lowest level since April 2008 and the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index posted its biggest seven-day
gain since January. Real estate may be on the mend as housing
starts increased to the highest level since April 2010.  Range of Estimates  A 0.3 percent gain was the median projection in a Bloomberg
News survey of 79 economists. Estimates ranged from increases of
0.2 percent to 0.6 percent.  Stocks rose, erasing the 2011 decline for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.9 percent to 1,265.33 at
the close in New York.  Europe’s economy is taking a toll on the U.K. services
industry. Output in the services that account for about 75
percent of the economy fell 0.7 percent in October, the  Office
for National Statistics  said in  London  today.  In  Asia ,  Singapore ’s  industrial production  unexpectedly
decreased in November for the first time in six months, adding
to evidence of a weakening Asian outlook. Manufacturing, which
accounts for more than 20 percent of the Singapore economy,
dropped 9.6 percent from a year earlier, the  Economic
Development Board  said today.  Spending Forecast  After today’s U.S. figures, Nomura Securities International
Inc. economists in New York said in an e-mail that  consumer
spending  would grow at a 3 percent annual rate in the current
quarter. Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said consumption was
“tracking weaker,” at the lower end of a 2.5 percent to 3
percent forecast range.  The economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate from July
through September as household purchases expanded at a 1.7
percent pace.  Business investment may slow in the fourth quarter,
reflecting a second straight decline in shipments of capital
goods excluding aircraft. Deliveries of business equipment
excluding military hardware and aircraft dropped 1 percent in
November after a 0.8 percent decrease, today’s durable goods
report showed.  The drop in U.S. wages in November restrained overall
income, which climbed 0.1 percent after a 0.4 percent October
gain. Disposable income adjusted for changes in prices and taxes
was unchanged in November after a 0.3 percent.  Savings Rate  The  savings rate  fell to 3.5 percent from 3.6 percent in
October.  “In the absence of a significant pickup in income, we
won’t see a big boost in spending,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, an
economist at BNP Paribas in  New York . “The momentum will slow
in the fourth quarter, but the economy is still growing.”  Adjusted for inflation, which are the figures used to
calculate gross domestic product, consumer spending rose 0.2
percent for a second month.  Target began a three-day “Almost Last Minute Sale” on
Dec. 8 with markdowns on such items as Stanley Black & Decker
Inc. coffee makers and gift card giveaways. A week earlier, the
discount chain held the “Big Toy Event” offering half off a
second item.  Americans will be helped by Congress’ decision today to
pass a two-month payroll  tax cut  extension today, eight days
before its scheduled expiration.  Tax Cut  House Speaker  John Boehner  agreed late yesterday to extend
the tax cut, capping a month of wrangling that led to a revolt
by House Republicans over the bipartisan deal passed by the
Senate on Dec. 17 in an 89-10 vote.  Meantime, the housing market may be stabilizing. Purchases
of single-family properties increased 1.6 percent to a 315,000
annual pace, figures from the Commerce Department showed today
in  Washington . The gain pushed the number of new homes on the
market to a record low.  At the same time, 2011 may surpass last year as the weakest
ever for new-home sales. Demand is on pace to reach 304,000 this
year, less than the 323,000 in 2010 that was the lowest since
data-keeping began, according to Bloomberg calculations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  