-- Hungary’s IMF Talks May Fail as Orban Rejects EU Demands
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2011-12-23T15:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/hungary-s-imf-talks-may-fail-as-orban-rejects-eu-demands-2-.html
Hungary’s failure to obtain an
international bailout loan wouldn’t be “so significant” even
after the country received its second debt downgrade to junk in
a month, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said.  The European Union and the  International Monetary Fund 
broke off talks with Hungary on an aid package a week ago,
saying two bills lawmakers plan to approve this year may curb
the central bank’s independence. European Commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso asked Orban in a letter to withdraw the
draft laws, which the Hungarian leader rejected in his reply.  “There is nothing in those laws to which he has the right
or the means to object,” Orban said in a  HirTV interview 
yesterday, noting for the first time that bailout-loan talks may
fail. “This whole thing isn’t so significant. If we reach an
agreement with the IMF, we have a safety net. If we don’t, then
we don’t have one. The country will still stand on its feet and
will continue to function.”  The government asked for IMF aid last month to ensure
financing next year as yields soared, debt auctions fell short
of targets, the forint weakened to a record against the euro and
Standard and Poor’s signaled a potential downgrade. An IMF-led
aid package would bolster  Hungary ’s policy credibility, S&P said
on Dec. 21, when it followed Moody’s Investors Service in
downgrading Hungary’s sovereign credit to junk.  The European Commission is studying Hungary’s reply “in-
depth” because of the “importance of the matters at stake,”
Dennis Abbott, a duty spokesman at the commission, said in an e-
mail today. The commission will decide on its next steps after
completing its analysis, he said.  Forint Drops  The forint weakened 0.2 percent to 306.91 per euro at 4:14
p.m. in Budapest. The currency has fallen 13 percent since June
30, the worst performance among more than 170 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Hungary sold 30 billion forint ($128 million) in 12-month
bills yesterday, 10 billion forint less than planned, as the
average yield surged to 7.91 percent, the highest in almost 2
1/2 years.  Hungary’s five-year credit-default swaps, which measure the
cost of insuring state debt against non-payment, rose 38 basis
points to 609 yesterday, the highest in more than three weeks
and the ninth-highest in the world, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers.  ‘Road to Default’  “We may be headed for a catastrophic scenario, which is
the inability to finance the economy or to do it at yields well
into the double-digits which is unsustainable,”  Daniel Bebesy ,
who helps oversee $1.5 billion mostly in Hungarian  government
bonds  at Budapest Fund Management, said by phone today. “This
is the road to default.”  The probability of such a scenario is “impossible to
calculate because of the unpredictability of economic policy,”
Bebesy said. “Still, the events of the recent weeks and months
show that policy makers are not aware of their maneuvering room
and are running into a wall.”  Hungary’s sovereign-credit ratings were cut one step to BB+
from BBB- by S&P, which assigned a negative outlook. The country
lost its investment grade after 15 years. Moody’s lowered its
assessment to Ba1, the highest junk grade, on Nov. 24, while
 Fitch Ratings  has assigned its lowest investment grade, BBB-,
with a negative outlook.  ‘Unorthodox’ Measures  Hungary will have the highest debt level and slowest
economic growth among the EU’s eastern members next year, the
European Commission  forecast  on Nov. 10.  Orban shunned IMF aid after taking office last year to
protect what he called “unorthodox” measures from oversight.
The steps included the effective nationalization of $13 billion
of private pension-fund assets and extraordinary industry taxes
to control the budget, which had a deficit of 182 percent of the
Cabinet’s full-year target at the end of November.  Hungary also forced banks to swallow losses on foreign-
currency mortgages. The measures may hinder economic growth and
are “likely to depress investment and job creation in the short
term,” S&P said.  Orban, backed by a two-thirds parliamentary majority that
allows him to unilaterally change the constitution, pressed
ahead with consolidating his power.  The latest measures are plans to take away central bank
President Andras Simor’s right to name deputies, expand the
rate-setting Monetary Council and weaken the bank’s leadership
and add a new vice president. A separate bill would make it
possible to demote the central bank president if the institution
is combined with the financial regulator.  ‘Almost Total Takeover’  The bills would amount to an “almost total takeover” of
the central bank, Simor said on Dec. 15. Previously, he rejected
what he called “bullying” by a government official to quit
before his term ends in 2013.  Ruling-party lawmakers ousted the chief justice of the
 Supreme Court , narrowed the jurisdiction of the  Constitutional
Court , wrote a new constitution, replaced an independent Fiscal
Council with one dominated by the premier’s allies, created a
media regulator led by ruling-party appointees and chose a party
member to lead the State Audit Office.  ‘Harming’ Prospects  “Changes to the constitution and the functioning of some
independent institutions, including the central bank and the
constitutional court, have undermined Hungary’s institutional
effectiveness,” S&P said. “The predictability of Hungary’s
policy framework continues to weaken, harming Hungary’s medium-
term growth prospects.”  The central bank raised its  benchmark interest rate  to 7
percent on Dec. 20 from 6.5 percent, which was already the EU’s
highest. Policy makers said they may increase borrowing costs
further if risk perception and the inflation outlook deteriorate
“substantially.” The Economy Ministry criticized the rate
increase, saying it harms growth.  Investors are shunning riskier assets and demanding higher
yields as European leaders grapple with the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis, which started in  Greece  more than two
years ago and is threatening to infect weaker economies.  S&P is studying the outcome of an EU summit this month to
streamline fiscal policies before deciding whether to go ahead
with its threat to cut the credit rating of 15 euro-region
nations, the company said on Dec. 9.  “All of  Europe  is under attack,” Orban said. “Everyone
is continuously being downgraded and we’re slowly getting used
it and it’s therefore losing its significance.”  Hungary wants a “precautionary  credit line ” which it
would only tap if “international money markets became
paralyzed,” the prime minister said.  Orban plans to cut debt from 81 percent of economic output
last year and is seeking to keep the  budget deficit  within 2.5
percent of gross domestic product next year.  Hungary’s economic growth may slow to 0.5 percent in 2012
from 1.4 percent this year, the European Commission said Nov.
10. Debt may fall to 75.9 percent of GDP this year before rising
to 76.7 percent in 2012, the EU’s executive branch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  