-- Turkey Stocks: Afyon, Anadolu Sigorta, Garanti, Tesco Kipa Move
-- B y   A y d a n   E k s i n
-- 2011-12-23T15:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/turkey-stocks-afyon-anadolu-sigorta-garanti-tesco-kipa-move.html
Turkey ’s benchmark  ISE National 100
Index (XU100)  rose 0.7 percent to 51,948.62 at the 5:30 p.m. close in
Istanbul, gaining for the first time in three days.  The following stocks were active on the Turkish stock
market today. Stock symbols are in parentheses.  Acibadem Saglik Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS (ACIBD)  ,
Turkey’s largest hospital chain, fell 0.2 percent to 23.6 liras,
bringing losses in the last three days to 2.3 percent.  Khazanah
Nasional Bhd. ,  Malaysia ’s state investment company, agreed to
buy 75 percent of the owner of Turkey’s largest hospital chain,
Acibadem Saglik Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS. Integrated Healthcare
Holdings Sdn, controlled by Khazanah, will purchase 60 percent
of Acibadem Saglik Yatirimlari Holding AS from Abraaj Capital
Ltd. and Turkey’s Aydinlar family, and Khazanah will buy another
15 percent, the companies said today in a statement.  Afyon Cimento Sanayi TAS (AFYON)  , the cement maker owned
by Italcementi SpA’s Ciments Francais, fell 5.5 percent to 94
liras, in the biggest decline since August. Afyon said a
possible stake sale by its owner is at the bidding phase and no
accord has been signed, in a filing with the bourse after the
market closed yesterday.  Anadolu Anonim Turk Sigorta Sirketi (ANSGR)  , Turkey’s
biggest listed non-life insurer, jumped 4.3 percent to 73 kurus,
gaining the most in more than two months. The company’s premiums
in the first 11 months were 1.65 billion liras ($880 million),
it reported to the bourse yesterday. The premiums rose 35
percent from year ago, compared with a 21 percent growth in the
industry as of end-October, “indicating that Anadolu Sigorta
clearly outperformed its peers,” Erkan Savran, head of research
at Ak Investment in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note to
clients today.  Tesco Kipa Kitle Pazarlama Ticaret & Gida Sanayi AS (KIPA)  , Tesco Plc’s Turkish unit, climbed 2.5 percent 6.68 liras,
rising for a second day. Tesco Kipa signed an agreement to
acquire leases to the Ardas supermarket chain which operates 21
stores in the Thrace region in northwestern Turkey.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  , Turkey’s biggest
listed bank by market value, climbed 1.7 percent to 5.98 liras.
Garanti will repay a $500 million, 10-year subordinated loan on
Feb. 6, exercising an early repayment option after five years,
it said in a statement to the bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  