-- Vanity Fair’s Carter Adds Pickled Pear at Monkey Bar: Interview
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/vanity-fair-s-graydon-carter-swaps-lobster-for-pickled-pears-at-monkey-bar.html
Graydon Carter, who has edited
 Vanity Fair  for almost 20 years, walks around the large desk in
his corner office to answer questions about the Monkey Bar.  “What do you want to know?” he asks, checking if I am OK for
water and coffee and anything else an interviewer might want. He
is courteous and amusing, with a disarming manner that might put
you at your ease and doesn’t quite in my case.  The editor was impressed enough with the 90-year-old
Midtown restaurant to take it over in 2009. He called on another
New York celebrity for help. Ken Friedman -- owner of the
Spotted Pig, former manager of U.K. rock band the Smiths --
brought in a new chef and a new team. At that time, tables were
like gold in a crisis. Two years on, they were more like the
euro in a pickle and Carter decided to plan a makeover.  (Carter got into the restaurant business five years ago
when he took over the Waverly Inn in  Greenwich Village , where he
would dine with friends. His partners at the Monkey Bar
originally included Chris Corbin and  Jeremy King , who own the
Wolseley in London. They have since pulled out.)  “The restaurant, was doing very well but if I hadn’t met
Ken Friedman we probably wouldn’t be at this stage,” he says.
“Ken’s really good and we wanted to improve the food but I
didn’t know how to do it. I don’t have a massive food Rolodex.
We had a beautiful room, we have great clientele and I wanted to
ramp the food up and wanted two more stars.  “The restaurant business in New York has changed. One-star
food was acceptable five years ago. Most of the restaurants I
went to were one star. But it’s become a real food town in the
same way  London  sort of changed overnight in the late 1980s,
early 1990s foodwise. We always had temples of food here but it
wasn’t my thing: Fine for anniversaries or special occasions.”  Baltimore Chef  Carter’s solution was to bring in the chef Damon Wise, a
Baltimore native who honed his cooking skills at Taillevent and
other restaurants in  France  before spending 12 years working for
 Tom Colicchio  at Craft, where he was group executive chef.  I’d thought the Monkey Bar, in the Elysee Hotel, might
still be a bit stuffy. Its history dates to the Great
Depression. Tallulah Bankhead was a regular and  Tennessee
Williams  choked to death in the hotel,  according to the Website .
As I arrive, the sound is of laughing children as they are
entertained by “ Curious George ,” the mischievous monkey.  Wise, 40, turns out to be entertaining company, too, as we
spend the afternoon trying some of the dishes on his menu,
including frisee with soft egg, pickled pear, smoked bacon and
vinaigrette; and sweet ricotta ravioli with field mushrooms and
parmesan. He smiles as he recalls arriving at the Monkey Bar,
whose menu featured dishes such as lobster thermidor.  Old School  “It was a mess,” he says. “I saw a restaurant that
needed a lot of love. They were trying to do old-school New
York-style food: American and French food and it really broke my
heart what was going on down in the kitchen. When I took this
job, I thought I’ll take these dishes and put a spin on them,
but for this beautiful venue and this dining room, it needed
more.  “I didn’t change the menu for about two weeks after I got
here and I cooked some of that food. Oh my goodness” -- he
laughs and shakes his head -- “Oh my goodness.”  “I try to keep the lunch menu simple because it’s mostly
business people that come in and dine, so most of the dishes at
lunch are very fast,” he says. “The dinner menu is a little
more intricate. The food here’s not crazy, like abstract or
anything. It’s just good cooking and that’s basically what we’re
doing.”  The reviews are now in and the Monkey Bar won a second star
from Bloomberg’s Ryan Sutton and  from Eric Asimov  in the  New
York  Times. Wise is now preparing to open his own restaurant
next year with business partner Hayden Felice, with whom he
worked at Craft. It will be a casual, neighborhood venue on
Hudson Street, just below the Meatpacking district, he says.  Just don’t try ordering lobster thermidor.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 