-- Visa to Deposit $1.57 Billion Into Litigation Escrow Account
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2011-12-23T15:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/visa-to-deposit-1-57-billion-into-litigation-escrow-account.html
Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest bank-
card network, will deposit $1.57 billion into its litigation
escrow account, the biggest addition in three years as the
company prepares to resolve price-fixing accusations.  Visa will draw on funds allocated to a $2 billion Class A
share-buyback announced this year, the San Francisco-based
company said today in a statement. Because of Visa’s multiple-
class system of shares, the move will have the same effect on
earnings per share as repurchasing Class A stock, it said.  Merchants sued Visa, MasterCard Inc. and banks including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2005, claiming that the companies
squelched competition by banning merchants from steering
customers to cheaper forms of payment. An accord may cost $4
billion, and in February, the defendants agreed that Visa would
be responsible for two-thirds of any settlement.  Transferring money away from buybacks “will exhaust all
funds available under that program,” Visa said. Class A shares
rose 50 cents to $101.40 at 10:27 a.m. in  New York .  A settlement of the case, which involves interchange or
“swipe” fees on credit cards, may be at least $4 billion,
according to  MasterCard (MA) ’s estimate in November of a possible
loss of at least $500 million. Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard would be responsible for about one-eighth of the
settlement.  Visa didn’t specify a purpose for today’s addition to the
escrow account. The company deposited $1.2 billion into the
account in its 2011 fiscal year, which ended on Sept. 30, and
paid out $280 million, increasing the size to $2.86 billion.  The firm said in its November annual regulatory filing that
the $2.7 billion uncommitted balance of the account was
deposited “primarily with a view toward resolving” the price-
fixing litigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  