-- Volkswagen Employees Wary of Burnout Win Reprieve From BlackBerry Messages
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2011-12-23T12:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/volkswagen-employees-wary-of-burnout-win-reprieve-from-blackberry-messages.html
Volkswagen AG ’s BlackBerry-wielding
employees now get a break at the end of the work day from the
constant allure of the  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  device’s blinking
red light.  Yielding to demands from its works council,  Europe ’s
largest carmaker agreed to stop its e-mail server from routing
messaging traffic to the smartphone 30 minutes after a shift and
resume half an hour before the next day begins. The accord
affects about 1,150 employees in Germany who use the device and
are covered by collective labor agreements, the  Wolfsburger
Allgemeine Zeitung  reported.  Markus Schlesag, a spokesman for VW in Wolfsburg, Germany,
confirmed the accord and said the carmaker needs to balance
the benefit of being able to reach its staff at all times with
the protection of employees’ private life.  VW, with about 191,600 workers in  Germany  as of Sept. 30,
in one of the country’s biggest employers. German media
including Der Spiegel magazine have run cover stories on burnout
in recent months following the Sept. 22 resignation of
Bundesliga soccer coach Ralf Rangnick over exhaustion from work.  Gunnar Kilian, a spokesman for Volkswagen’s works council,
didn’t immediately reply to a voicemail message left on his
mobile phone. VW employees can continue to use their BlackBerrys
for phone calls when the message traffic is halted, Schlesag
said.  RIM’s BlackBerry has become a symbol of around-the-clock
availability, having evolved from being a gadget for roving
executives to a tool many lower-level employees consider vital
to their work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  