-- Was the Arab Spring a Victory for Extremism?: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2011-12-23T20:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/was-arab-spring-a-victory-for-extremism-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
There was a time in Cairo, just a
few months ago, when it was considered slightly outre to suggest
that  Egypt ’s religious conservatives might take advantage of
 Hosni Mubarak ’s demise to engineer their way into power.  We were told that battalions of tweeting secularists were
steering this revolution, and that the people of Egypt did not
want sharia, or Islamic law, to govern their lives. They simply
wanted freedom. This was Selma on the Nile.  One night in a ragged, badly lit cafe just off the square,
one of the revolution’s “Google kids” -- not an actual
employee but someone who could plausibly be employed by Google -
- explained to me how the Mubarak regime manipulated Western
opinion. “They wanted you to believe that the only thing
stopping the Muslim Brothers from taking over the whole country
was them,” he said. “This is how they scared you. Then you
gave them guns they used to kill us.”  Both statements were true. Mubarak did invoke the specter
of Islamism to Western visitors; a dozen years ago he told me,
“My people expect a firm hand. If we don’t lead strongly, they
will turn to the mosque for leadership.” And the regime’s thugs
did deploy American weaponry against the demonstrators in  Tahrir
Square  and elsewhere in Egypt. This was America’s shame. It is
also a shame -- a lesser shame, a shame of poor analysis--that
the Arab Uprising went entirely unpredicted in  Washington  and
elsewhere. To compound the shame, few people, even in the midst
of the uprisings, forecast the rise of Islamist parties to power
not only in Egypt but also in Tunisia,  Morocco , Libya, and
coming soon, in  Syria , when the Assad regime finally falls.  Dignity and Respect  In many ways the Arab Uprising -- or Arab Awakening, or
Arab Spring; freedom means we can call it what we want -- should
thrill the American soul. Millions of Arabs, their fear of
torture and persecution finally conquered by anger at the
regimes that oppressed them, rose up and, in countless acts of
astonishing bravery, defeated or are attempting to defeat the
despots and the massive secret police apparatuses under their
command. The protesters sought dignity and respect and the
freedom to choose their own path, and these are things that
resonate with Americans.  Then came a problem. It turns out Mubarak was right. The
only thing standing between Egypt and the rise of fundamentalist
Islam was … Mubarak. The path the Arab people seem to want, at
least for the moment, is the path of Islam.  The big news out of Cairo late this fall was not the Muslim
Brotherhood’s triumph in parliamentary elections, even though
the Brotherhood-affiliated party took 37 percent of the popular
vote. The main news was made by the more extreme Nour Party,
which is affiliated with Egypt’s Salafists. The Salafists, who
believe that the world should be made over to look as it did
during the time of the  Prophet Muhammad , took almost 25 percent
of the popular vote. In other words, the majority of voters in
the Arab world’s most populous country chose either a party
whose motto is “Islam is the Solution” or a party that
believes that medieval Arabia is an appropriate state model.  There have been two predictable Western responses to the
rise of Islamism in Egypt and across the Arab world: panic and
rationalization. Panic is self-explanatory: The Muslim
Brotherhood and its more radical cousins are, generally
speaking, anti-Western, anti-Semitic, hostile to Christians in
their midst, and have a view of women that most Westerners find
abhorrent. It is not difficult for creative minds to place the
Muslim Brotherhood on a continuum that ends at al-Qaeda, even
though al-Qaeda was created in part as a corrective to what
Osama bin Laden & Co. viewed as the unforgivable moderation of
the Brotherhood. The panic felt in some quarters is precisely
what men such as Mubarak, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in  Tunisia ,
and even the late-stage  Muammar Qaddafi  in Libya hoped to
cultivate in their Western interlocutors.  Rationalizing Fundamentalism  The other predictable response among Westerners has been to
rationalize the rise of Muslim fundamentalism by arguing that
the Muslim Brothers and even the Salafists are not the bogeymen
we think they are. Scratch a Muslim Brother, the argument goes,
and you’ll find the Middle Eastern analog of a European
 Christian Democrat . This argument elides the misogyny and anti-
Semitism of Islamists, not to mention their embrace of various
baroque and pathetic conspiracy theories, including the notion
that the attacks of 9/11 were plotted by the  Mossad  or the CIA.
On the other hand, the Egyptian Brothers no longer have to look
to  Iran  to see how Islamists govern; they can look, and are
looking, to  Turkey , where the ruling AKP party has come closest
to maintaining a commitment to traditional Islam without turning
its back on the West or completely cutting off the oxygen to
liberal-minded secularists.  A set of less predictable responses to the upheaval in the
 Middle East  would include, at the outset, a strong dose of
analytical humility. No one knows how these newly empowered
Muslim political parties might govern. Never having governed
before, the parties themselves don’t know. There are reasons for
conditional anguish: The (now contracting) economy of Egypt
can’t afford to be led by people who believe “Islam is the
solution,” and it certainly can’t be brought into the 21st
century by leaders who want to build a bridge to the 7th. But no
one has yet offered compelling proof that the Brotherhood would
break Egypt’s treaty obligations or press its views through
violence.  Another less predictable response might come in the form of
fatalism: What will happen in the Middle East is going to
happen. The crisis in the region this year was, indirectly, of
America’s making: On the advice of the camp of cynics known as
foreign policy realists, successive U.S. Administrations
believed that the best American policy in the Middle East was to
make alliance with the most amenable Arab despots, who would
ensure stability. Well, stability turned out to be chimerical.
The Arab masses, less interested in geopolitical stability than
in dignity and free expression, have rebutted the realist
argument.  Military Hangs On  All this assumes Egypt’s brutal military will actually cede
power to elected parties. Either way, the outcomes won’t be
determined by the U.S. The people of the Arab world are going to
spend the next 10 (or 20 or 30) years deciding for themselves
how they wish to be governed. It will often be messy and
unpleasant, but in the end, once they complete their experiments
in theocratic rule (or revert back to other forms of
authoritarianism), I’m reasonably sure (as an American optimist,
rather than as a fatalist) that they will turn to a type of
liberal democracy informed by faith, but without the intolerance
associated with fundamentalism.  This is not to say the West must ignore the Arabs as they
sort out the future. The U.S. still has the ability to shape
certain outcomes -- the intervention in  Libya  is a case in point
-- and protect those who need protecting. (The aggrieved
Christians of Egypt spring to mind.) And the U.S. should work
more assiduously to speed Assad’s downfall in Syria, which would
leave America’s main nemesis in the Middle East--Iran--without
an Arab friend. The uprisings offer opportunities for the U.S.
None is greater than the chance to see the Arab world find its
way to freedom, if we only have the patience and fortitude to
watch as it detours through fundamentalism.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions
expressed are his own. This article appears in the Dec. 26 issue
of  Bloomberg Businessweek .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 