-- Women’s Tour Set to Lose Tennis’s Biggest Sponsor
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-12-23T13:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/women-s-tour-set-to-lose-tennis-s-biggest-sponsor.html
The women’s tennis tour will lose
its biggest sponsor after mobile-phone maker  Sony Ericsson 
Mobile Communications AB said it won’t extend its agreement when
it expires next year.  Sony Ericsson signed a six-year contract worth $88 million
in 2005, the largest sponsorship in tennis history and women’s
professional sports, to become the WTA Tour’s title sponsor. The
company, a joint venture between Sony Corp. and Ericsson AB,
dropped the naming rights last year when it signed a two-year
extension until Dec. 31, 2012.  “After seven years partnering with the WTA, we have
decided not to renew the partnership,” Sony Ericsson
spokeswoman Graciela Pineda said in an interview today. “We
feel that after seven years our brand has evolved and our
business as well.”  In October,  Sony Corp. (6758)  agreed to buy Ericsson AB’s stake in
the joint venture for 1.05 billion euros ($1.4 billion). Sony
Chairman  Howard Stringer  said at the time he wanted to change
the mobile venture’s brand following the deal. Sony Ericsson has
turned to smartphones based on Android to lessen market share
losses amid competition from Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  “They have been a great partner and we will miss them,”
the  WTA Tour  said in a statement emailed to Bloomberg News. “We
look forward to the next phase of growth with our existing and
future partners.”  The Sony Ericsson deal “has over the past seven years
taken women’s tennis to new heights of popularity and success,
and broadened the audience for the sport across the globe,” the
WTA Tour said.  A record 5 million people attended women’s tennis events in
2011, half a million more than in 2005. Prize money will be a
Tour record $96 million next year, up from almost $60 million in
2005.  Under the guidance of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
 Stacey Allaster , the WTA Tour has secured $160 million in total
revenue in the past 18 months.  That includes five new deals with companies including
French bank  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Swiss watch brand  Rolex Group , as
well as renewals of existing agreements. Earlier this week, the
WTA announced it signed a four-year deal with digital sports
media company  Perform Group Plc , which it said will double media
exposure for women’s tennis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  