-- Yanzhou Coal Buys Gloucester for $2.1 Billion to Gain Port, Mines Access
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2011-12-23T08:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-23/yanzhou-coal-agrees-to-buy-gloucester-for-2-1b.html
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171) ,  China ’s
fourth-biggest coal producer, agreed to buy Gloucester Coal Ltd.
for about A$2.1 billion ($2.1 billion) in cash and shares to
gain more mines and port access in  Australia .  The deal values Gloucester at as much as A$10.16 a share,
subject to conditions, according to a statement from the Sydney-
based company. That’s 45 percent more than its Dec. 19 close,
the day before the stock was halted.  Buying Gloucester, controlled by commodity trader  Noble
Group Ltd. (NOBL) , will almost double Yanzhou’s coal mines in
Australia, the world’s biggest exporter, as well as expand its
access to ports. The proposed deal looked more expensive than
recent industry transactions, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a
report before the deal announcement.  “There is an overall premium to recent share prices and I
think the market has captured a good proportion of that,”
Lawrence Grech, a resources analyst at Austock Group Ltd. in
 Melbourne , said by phone. “There is an indication of value
which Yanzhou is obviously signaling but the benefits of that
are more than 18 months into the future.”  Under the plan, Gloucester will merge with Yancoal
Australia Ltd. and its shareholders will get A$3.20 cash and 23
percent of the stock in a new company that combines most of
Yanzhou’s Australian assets with Gloucester’s. The remaining
stake in the company will be held by Yanzhou and it will become
publicly traded in Australia.  Yanzhou also offered a payment of as much as A$3 a share
should stock in the new company drop below A$6.96 in the 18
months after the deal closes, according to the statement.  Merger Ratio  “The value of the deal all comes down to what you value
the Yancoal assets in Australia at,”  James Stewart , resources
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Sydney, said by phone.
“To me the merger ratio looks about right.”  Gloucester Coal rose 22 percent, the most since April 2010,
to A$8.55 at the close in Sydney. Yanzhou climbed 6.6 percent to
HK$16.74 at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong and Singapore-listed
Noble advanced 0.4 percent. The deal needs regulatory approval
in China and Australia.  Rising demand for coal in China and  India  has pushed deals
globally to a record $35 billion this year, compared with $30.3
billion last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yanzhou, which bought Felix Resources Ltd. for A$3.1 billion in
2009 in China’s biggest takeover of an Australian company,
agreed in September to acquire two coal units of Wesfarmers Ltd.
for A$296.8 million.  Noble has stated to Gloucester’s independent directors that
it intends to vote in favor of the proposal, subject to approval
by its board of directors, Gloucester said in the statement.  Coal Consumption  Producers are seeking to expand as demand from utilities
and steelmakers rises, while asset prices drop. Global
consumption of the fuel is projected to climb by an annual 2.8
percent in the six years to 2016, driven by China’s economic
growth, the  International Energy Agency  said this month.  Yancoal will fold about $2.7 billion in debt maturing in
2014, 2017 and 2018 into the merged company, Gloucester said in
the statement.  The deal is conditional on the combined company obtaining a
listing on the Australian stock exchange, according to the
statement.  Yancoal is required to list at least 30 percent of its
local assets by the end of 2012 as part of conditions attached
to its takeover of Felix Resources.  Australian Listing  “Upon completion of the merger proposal we will have made
a significant step toward meeting all the undertakings including
a listing of Yancoal core assets,” Yanzhou said in a statement
yesterday.  Yanzhou is being advised by Citigroup Inc., UBS AG and
Goldman Sachs ( Asia ) LLC, as well as by law firms Freehills,
 Baker & McKenzie  and King & Wood.  Gloucester (GCL)  is advised by
Lazard Ltd. and Noble by Blackstone Group LP.  Yancoal and Gloucester plan to boost annual output to about
25 million metric tons by 2016, Yancoal said in a presentation
on its website.  Noble, a Singapore-listed commodities supplier, owns 64.5
percent of Gloucester, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Noble, whose main business involves trading and shipping bulk
commodities including coal, took control of the company in 2009
when it offered A$7 a share. Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Leiman quit last month after Noble reported a quarterly loss.  Buying Gloucester will be Yanzhou’s fourth acquisition in
Australia following the Felix takeover, the purchase of coal
developer Syntech Resources Pty for A$202.5 million in August
and the two units of Wesfarmers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  