-- Taiwan Threatens Filipino Hiring Freeze After Sea Shooting
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-05-13T02:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/taiwan-threatens-to-halt-filipino-hiring-over-fisherman-s-death.html
Taiwan President Ma Ying-Jeou
threatened to recall his representative from the  Philippines  and
freeze worker applications if the government doesn’t apologize
within 72 hours for the killing of a fisherman at sea.  Ma demanded the Philippines investigate the May 9 shooting,
compensate the man’s family, punish those responsible and start
talks to resolve a dispute over the waters where the incident
occurred, his office said on its website May 11. The Philippines
government expressed “heartfelt sorrow” over the shooting
while stopping short of an apology.  Limiting Filipino workers may slow President Benigno Aquino’s push to cut the jobless rate and pressure employers in
Taiwan, where Filipinos make up the third-largest foreign group.
The Philippines’ overseas workforce accounts for 10 percent of
its gross domestic product.  The commander and crew of the vessel that opened fire on
the fishing boat have been have been relieved of duty, Aquino
spokeswoman Abigail Valte said in an e-mail. While declining to
comment on Ma’s ultimatum, Valte said the Philippines expresses
“heartfelt sorrow on the unfortunate situation that occurred
during one of the anti-illegal fishing patrols conducted by a
Philippine fishery law enforcement vessel.”  If the Philippines fails to respond by the end of May 14,
Ma may halt worker applications, recall his representative and
send the Philippine envoy back home, according to the statement.  $20 Billion  Almost 1.7 million overseas Filipinos remit approximately
$20 billion every year. The Philippines’ jobless rate climbed to
7.1 percent in January from 6.8 percent the previous month with
about 660,000 positions lost since October 2011.  Taiwan  had more than 85,000 Filipino residents as of March,
61 percent of whom were women, according to Taiwan’s National
Immigration Agency.  Taiwan yesterday sent three armed ships and a vessel
carrying a helicopter to conduct patrols in the waters, China’s
official Xinhua News Agency said, adding that Ma visited the
dead man’s family and vowed to protect fishermen.  China, which considers Taiwan part of its territory and
also claims waters near the Philippines, said May 10 it’s
“deeply concerned about the Philippines’ repeated shooting at
unarmed fishermen.” In April last year, Chinese ships blocked
the Philippines from inspecting Chinese fishing boats in the
area.  The Philippines asked the United Nations in January to rule
on its maritime disputes with  China . A tribunal was appointed
last month and will decide by July if it has jurisdiction,
Foreign Affairs Secretary Albert del Rosario said April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  