-- Asian Currencies Snap Four-Week Advance as Yen Slides Beyond 101
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-05-11T00:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/asian-currencies-snap-four-week-advance-as-yen-slides-beyond-101.html
Asian currencies completed the first
weekly loss in more than a month on speculation the yen’s slide
to beyond 101 per dollar will prompt some regional policy makers
to weaken their exchange rates to protect exports.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index lost 0.3 percent
since May 3, the first decline since the period ended April 5,
and dropped by the most in nine months on May 9. The Bank of
 Japan ’s stimulus measures to fight deflation have contributed to
a 15 percent drop in the yen against the dollar this year,
threatening the exports of nations that compete with Japan in
international markets.  “With the yen’s weakness, there’s generally downward
pressure on regional currencies,” said  Yuji Kameoka , chief
currency strategist at Daiwa Securities Co. in  Tokyo .
“Intervention is possible in some countries where their
currency has been rising.”  The won dropped 0.8 percent this week to 1,106.39 per
dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The currency fell 1.4
percent yesterday.  India ’s rupee lost 1.6 percent to 54.80 and
the Philippine peso weakened 0.6 percent to 41.13.  Thailand ’s
baht lost 0.2 percent to 29.75, falling 1.2 percent yesterday.  The BOJ’s aggressive monetary easing has a big impact on
South Korea, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said at a
briefing on May 9 after the central bank unexpectedly cut its
benchmark seven-day repurchase rate by a quarter percentage
point to 2.5 percent. The won has strengthened 13 percent
against the yen this year and weakened 3.8 percent against the
dollar.  Intervention Speculation  “Speculation is rising that authorities may intervene in
the market to protect the won,” said Choi Sung Hyun, a currency
trader at Woori Bank Co. in  Seoul . “Exporters may repatriate
their income from overseas, which may support the won above the
1,100 level against the dollar.”  The baht fell for a second day yesterday as Finance
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said the Bank of Thailand should
reduce its benchmark rate by more than a quarter of a percentage
point or implement capital controls to stem gains.  “The baht fluctuates based on what officials have been
saying and Kittiratt’s comment moved it,” said Disawat
Tiaowvanich, a foreign-exchange trader at  Bangkok Bank Pcl. (BBL) 
“Rate cuts by central banks in Asia also put pressure on the
Bank of Thailand to follow suit. Speculation of a rate cut in
Thailand is growing.”  China ’s  yuan  halted a three-day advance yesterday as the
central bank lowered its fixing by the most in 10 months,
forcing the currency to weaken to stay within the permitted
trading range. The yuan fell 0.18 percent to 6.1417 per dollar
in  Shanghai , paring this week’s gain to 0.23 percent.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.6 percent this week
NT$29.8 against its U.S. counterpart and Indonesia’s rupiah was
little changed at 9,734. Malaysia’s ringgit rose 1.4 percent to
2.993 after Prime Minister Najib Razak’s ruling coalition
prevailed at elections held last weekend. Vietnam’s dong was
steady at 20,935.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  