-- Beijing Auto Releases First Saab-Based Model Ahead of Listing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-11T13:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/beijing-auto-releases-first-saab-based-model-ahead-of-listing.html
Beijing Automotive Group Co., which
makes vehicles with Daimler AG and Hyundai Motor Co., started
selling its first sedan based on Saab technology today as it
prepares to list its BAIC Motor Corp. unit in Hong Kong.  The Senova, with a 2-liter engine and a starting price of
139,800  yuan  ($22,762), is the company’s first car developed
using the technology it bought from Saab Automobile in 2009, Han
Yonggui, president of BAIC Motor, said in an interview in
Beijing today. It is also the company’s first self-developed
medium-to-high-end model car, he said.  Beijing Automotive, known as BAIC, has said it plans to
make “world-class” cars by 2025 and hired Ferrari designer
Leonardo Fiorvanati to improve its brand appeal. The company is
seeking an initial public offering in Hong Kong as early as this
year to help expand vehicle sales more than 70 percent by 2015
from a target of 2.1 million units this year, Chairman Xu Heyi
said in March.  “Adding the Senova to our product lineup will boost
investors’ confidence,” Han said today. “It will help our
efforts” to sell shares in Hong Kong “in line with our
schedule,” he said without giving a time frame.  State-owned BAIC hired actor Nicolas Cage as brand
ambassador to help promote the Senova D series. The 49-year-old
Academy Award winner will appear in a television commercial to
be aired this month, the company said.  The company will also benefit from government measures to
promote domestic brands in official fleets, Liang Guofeng, vice
president of BAIC Motor, told reporters today. “This is a great
opportunity for us; we’ve got to get a slice of the official
fleets,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in London at 
 emailtv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  