-- Berlusconi Faces Down Protesters at Rally Against Prosecutors
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-05-11T16:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/berlusconi-holds-rally-against-judges-after-conviction-upheld.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  faced down protestors as he led a rally against the
country’s prosecutors and judges whom he says are out to destroy
him politically.  “If you think you can scare me, you are very mistaken,”
Berlusconi told a crowd of thousands in Brescia,  Italy , as young
protestors in the front rows whistled and shouted insults. “If
you think you can intimidate me, you are very mistaken.”  Berlusconi also said that a part of the judiciary was
trying to “eliminate” him because he was the “only thing
preventing the Left from coming to power.”  The three-time former prime minister’s legal headaches are
mounting with his trial on charges of engaging in sex with a
minor and abuse of power resuming on May 13, with a verdict
possible within weeks. Prosecutors in Naples called for another
indictment against him for corrupting a lawmaker, news agency
Ansa reported on May 9.  Berlusconi entered into a coalition government with
political adversary Enrico Letta, who was sworn in as prime
minister last month thanks to Berlusconi’s backing. Letta’s
 Democratic Party  has defended the independence of the judiciary
and today’s protest threatens to strain ties between the two
camps.  “These verdicts come at a crucial time in which we are
trying to drag Italy out of its difficulties with a
collaboration with the Democratic Party that is not easy,”
Berlusconi said in an interview with TGCOM24 on May 9.  Avoiding Jail  The Milan court this week upheld the tax-fraud conviction
that stemmed from the accounting of television rights at Milan-based  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the media company Berlusconi founded.  In Italy, convictions are not definitive until all appeals
are exhausted, and Berlusconi has the right to one more petition
in the Mediaset case to the country’s high court.  Even if the verdict is upheld again before the statute of
limitations expires next year, Berlusconi, 76, is unlikely to
serve any prison time because sentencing guidelines for those
over 70 are lenient. His four-year jail term may be eligible for
reduction to one year due to a law passed by former premier
 Romano Prodi ’s government in 2006 aimed at stemming overcrowding
in jails.  The billionaire and media tycoon has always denied any
wrongdoing, saying activist prosecutors have been trying to
destroy him since he entered politics in 1994. Almost all of the
corruption charges, with the exception of the prostitution case
and the possible Naples indictment, are based on alleged
wrongdoing committed before he became a politician almost two
decades ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  