-- Capitals Defeat Rangers in Overtime to Lead 3-2 in NHL Series
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-11T06:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/capitals-defeat-rangers-in-overtime-to-lead-3-2-in-nhl-series.html
Mike Ribeiro scored in overtime and
the  Washington  Capitals took a three-games-to-two lead in their
National Hockey League playoff series with a 2-1 victory against
the visiting New York Rangers.  The Los Angeles Kings defeated the St. Louis Blues 2-1 to
advance to the Western Conference semifinals. Also last night,
the Toronto Maple Leafs defeated the  Boston  Bruins 2-1 to stay
alive in their series and the Detroit Red Wings topped the Ducks
4-3 in overtime to force a decisive Game 7 tomorrow in Anaheim.  The Capitals and Bruins can reach the Eastern Conference
semifinals with Game 6 road wins tomorrow. Tonight, the
Pittsburgh Penguins bring in a 3-2 series lead as they try to
eliminate the host  New York  Islanders .  At the Verizon Center in Washington, Brian Boyle scored in
the opening minute of the game for the Rangers and the Capitals’
Joel Ward tied it 1-1 on a power-play goal midway through the
second period.  At Staples Center in Los Angeles, Drew Doughty scored in
the first period and Dustin Penner added a goal in the second
period for the Kings, who took their series four games to two.
Chris Porter scored in the second period for the Blues.  The Toronto Maple Leafs won 2-1 at Boston to remain in
their series, which the Bruins lead 3-2. Tyler Bozak and Clarke MacArthur had goals for the Maple Leafs, while Zdeno Chara
scored for Boston.  Henrik Zetterberg fired his second goal of the game, a 48-foot slapshot, with one minute, four seconds gone in overtime
for the Red Wings, who had lost a two-goal advantage in the
third period at Joe Louis Arena in  Detroit .  Pavel Datsyuk gave the Red Wings a 1-0 lead in the first
period and Kyle Palmieri tied the game at 1-1 in the second
period.  Zetterberg and Daniel Cleary scored goals in the third
period for a 3-1 lead before Emerson Etem and Bobby Ryan tallied
goals within less than a minute late in the game to force
overtime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  