-- Chelsea Beats Villa 2-1 in Premier League as Lampard Sets Record
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-11T15:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/chelsea-beats-villa-2-1-in-premier-league-as-lampard-sets-record.html
Frank Lampard  set Chelsea’s career
scoring record by netting both goals in a 2-1 win at  Aston Villa 
that virtually secured a place in the Champions League.  Lampard’s goal in the 88th minute at  Villa Park  gave
Chelsea the come-from-behind win as both teams finished with 10
men. It was his 203rd for the west London club, moving him one
ahead of Bobby Tambling.  The win keeps Chelsea in third place with 72 points, five
more than Arsenal and six ahead of Tottenham, as the three teams
battle for the final two qualifying places in Europe’s elite
Champions League next season. Though Chelsea, which has played
one game more, could finish even on points with Tottenham, its
goal difference tiebraker of plus-35 is 17 more than Spurs.  Christian Benteke scored for Aston Villa, which could still
finish among the bottom three in the 20-team league and be
relegated to the second-tier Championship next season. Villa
stays in 13th place with 40 points, five more than Wigan in the
final relegation slot.  Villa went in front in the 14th minute as Benteke took a
pass from Yacouba Sylla, ran past defender  Gary Cahill  and sent
a shot between Petr Cech and the near post.  Chelsea midfielder Ramires was sent off just before
halftime after picking up his second yellow card for a high-footed challenge on  Gabriel Agbonlahor . Benteke then received
his second yellow card for a high challenge on  John Terry  in the
58th minute to leave each team with 10 men.  Curled Shot  Lampard curled a shot into the top corner three minutes
later to tie the game and equal Tambling’s record. The Blues
almost took the lead in the 71st minute as Sylla stopped
Cahill’s shot on the line and Ashley Westwood cleared it away
before a sliding Demba Ba could knock it into the net.  Villa goalkeeper Brad Guzan stopped  David Luiz ’s free kick
with eight minutes left and Cech punched away Westwood’s shot.  Lampard then tapped in a pass from Eden Hazard with two
minutes left to win the game and become Chelsea’s greatest goal
scorer. The England midfielder ran and slid to the corner flag
with his arms up in celebration before being mobbed by his
teammates.  Chelsea plays Benfica in the Europa League final in
Amsterdam in four days, before wrapping up the Premier League
campaign at home against Everton on May 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 