-- Dollar Gains Most Since February on Jobs as Yen Falls Below 100
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/dollar-gains-most-since-february-on-jobs-as-yen-falls-below-100.html
The dollar had its biggest rally
since February as signs of labor market strength suggested the
 Federal Reserve  may reduce stimulus sooner than its peers,
driving the yen lower than 100 for the first time since 2009.  Japan ’s currency touched 101.98 against the dollar
yesterday, the weakest since October 2008, after a report said
domestic investors boosted overseas bond  holdings  for the first
time since March. The Dollar Index rose 1.2 percent during the
week, triggering plunges in oil, gold and Treasuries. The
Australian dollar dropped below parity with the buck. The Labor
Department may report May 16 that the  consumer price index 
declined 0.3 percent in April, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “As far as the fundamental set-up is concerned, the week
has been positive for the dollar,”  Richard Franulovich , a
senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Eventually higher
levels beckon. If we do see a pullback, I expect 100 will be a
pretty significant support level. It was a ceiling and now it’s
a floor,” he said of the yen versus the dollar.  The yen slumped 2.7 percent for the week versus the dollar
to 101.62. Japan’s currency slid 1.7 percent percent to 132 per
euro after reaching 132.26, the least since January 2010. The
euro dropped 1 percent to $1.2989.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, advanced 1.24 percent last week to 83.097, the
highest level since March on a closing basis.  ‘Bullish Dollar’  The gauge is forecast to increase 85.7 by the end of the
year, according to the median estimate of economists and
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. applications for unemployment insurance payments
decreased by 4,000 to 323,000 in the week ended May 4, the least
since January 2008, Labor Department figures showed May 9. The
statistics added to data, such as the unemployment  rate  at the
lowest level since December 2008, signaling to some traders that
the Fed may reduce easing sooner than policy makers in Europe
and Japan.  “The market is reviewing its stance on U.S. macro data,”
 Neil Jones , head of hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. in  London , said yesterday in an e-mail. “Numbers from the
U.S.A. are surprising to the upside. The market is bullish
dollar versus yen.”  The consumer-price index may have fallen 0.3 percent in
April after declining 0.2 percent in March, according to the
median forecast of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fed Tapering  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  cut rates to a record 2.75
percent on May 7, while the  European Central Bank  acted to ease
the previous week. Although the  Bank of Japan  and the U.S. Fed
refrained from changing policy at their last meetings, the BOJ
doubled its monthly bond purchases in April.  “The week’s surge in the dollar is probably a precursor to
people thinking about a Fed exit from its bond buying policy,
even though tapering might be quite some way down the road
yet,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist for Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “The opposing force to this is indications from
other central banks, like the Australian RBA that does have room
to move further and they proved it this week.”  Japanese investors boosted holdings of overseas bonds in
each of the previous two weeks, following six weeks of sales,
Ministry of Finance data showed yesterday. Investors bought a
net 309.9 billion yen ($3.05 billion) of foreign bonds in the
five days through May 3, and 204.4 billion yen the previous
week.  ‘Much Inevitable’  The yen has dropped 5.2 percent against the greenback since
April 4 when BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda exceeded economist
forecasts by pledging to double monthly bond purchases and buy
longer-term debt to reach a 2 percent annual inflation goal. He
said it’s natural for a currency to weaken in response to
monetary stimulus.  “This thing is probably going to head between 100 and
110,” Wilkinson said. “It will take a little bit longer to do
the next 10 yen, but it’s pretty much inevitable.”  The Japanese currency is likely to stay weaker than 100 per
dollar, with the 100 level serving as support for the dollar-yen
cross,  Alan Ruskin , Deutsche Bank AG’s New York-based global
head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy, said in a
television interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. Ruskin sees it reaching 105 in the next
two months.  Gold and oil led losses in the 24 commodities tracked by
the S&P GSCI Index, sending the gauge down 0.3 percent last week
as the stronger dollar caused declines in prices of materials
denominated in the U.S. currency.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on benchmark 10-year
Treasury notes climbed to as high as 1.93 percent, the highest
since March 26.  The yen has tumbled 23 percent in the past six months, the
biggest decline among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 1.8 percent and
the euro strengthened 4.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  