-- Draghi Says ECB Considering ABS as One of ‘Many Options’
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-05-11T14:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/draghi-says-ecb-considering-abs-as-one-of-many-options-.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the ECB is considering buying asset-backed
securities among possible options to support lending to small
and medium-sized companies.  “We looked at a variety of things, one of which was this
ABS,” Draghi told reporters after a Group of Seven meeting of
finance chiefs in Aylesbury, near  London . “We’re still looking
at that, it’s one of the many options. We don’t have a position,
certainly, on that.”  The ECB is keen to rally lending at banks, which account
for about 80 percent of corporate financing in the euro area,
compared with less than 20 percent in the U.S. Lending to
households and companies in the region contracted for an 11th
month in March, and small- and medium-sized companies, which
account for the bulk of employment in Italy and  Spain , have been
particular victims.  “On the lending side, we see that the situation is still
tight, especially in the periphery, but not exclusively,”
Draghi said. Still, “the situation is in a sense getting less
bad,” he said. “In other words it’s still tight, but it’s less
tight than it used to be.”  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said on May 8
that the central bank has discussed ABS purchases, while his
fellow board member Yves Mersch said the same day that it was
“looking at ways to restart the ABS market.”  ‘Moral Hazard’  Acquisitions in the ABS market are “not easy for the ECB
to do because we’re in a completely different set-up from the
U.S., where you have a  capital market ,” Draghi said today. “So
the ABS in this case would have to contain assets from the
banking system of the euro system and you can understand what
sort of moral hazard there is there.”  Last month, the ECB Governing Council tasked technical
committees at the central bank to investigate ways to stimulate
lending to small- and medium-sized businesses.  The ECB’s role in this is “going to be mostly catalytic
because the ECB works with the EIB, with the commission,”
Draghi said, referring to the  European Investment Bank  and the
European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union.
“It’s going to be very much up to these actors to act, rather
than the ECB. So European Commission, the EIB and national
governments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Aylesbury at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  