-- East Europe Bad Debt Legacy Holds Back Recovery, Raiffeisen Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-05-11T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/east-europe-bad-debt-legacy-holds-back-recovery-raiffeisen-says.html
Delinquent loans in eastern European
countries including  Hungary , Ukraine, Slovenia and the Balkans
are holding back economic recovery and may prevent capital from
being spent productively, a study showed.  A total of 135 billion euros ($175 billion) of loans, or 10
percent of all borrowings, are overdue in the former communist
part of Europe, according to a study by  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , the Vienna-based lender that’s the second-biggest in the region. In countries with rates exceeding 10
percent, regulators and lenders need to prevent knock-on effects
on the economy, the study released today in Istanbul said.  “In southeast Europe, Ukraine, Hungary and Slovenia,
fairly high non-performing loan stocks and double-digit ratios
in the range of 15 percent to 25 percent seem to become more and
more a burden for the banking sectors and the economic
recovery,” Raiffeisen analyst Gunter Deuber said in the study.
“In these markets joint efforts to tackle NPLs and to improve
the NPL workout” would be “reasonable.”  Western European lenders including Raiffeisen,  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  bankrolled eastern Europe’s boom
with cheap loans before the 2008 credit crunch. In many
countries, banks lent to households in euros or Swiss francs to
bypass higher local interest rates, exacerbating the economic
downturn when the region’s currencies weakened. Bad loans shot
up since 2009 and are weighing on bank balance sheets.  Regulators and international lenders that have propped up
countries in the region with emergency loans since 2008 are
calling on banks and national regulators to resolve the bad debt
issue by encouraging banks to write them off and move on.  Balanced Restructuring  “A well-balanced NPL restructuring within some challenging
central and eastern European banking markets seems to be in the
interest of all relevant stakeholders,” Deuber said in the
report. “Nevertheless, any NPL resolution has to factor in the
currently reduced earning capabilities in some of these
markets.”  In several of the countries most affected by bad loans, the
non-performing debt is linked to real-estate assets that lost
value when property bubbles burst, Raiffeisen’s Deuber said.
That leads to banks ending up with assets they seized as
collateral for overdue loans, and are now waiting for prices to
recover, instead of pursuing new lending business, he said.  “Capital remains locked in unproductive use,” Deuber said
in the report. “A high NPL stock may even lead to unintended
structural developments, as not the most productive investments
will be financed, but just the ones that do not need large scale
and long-term debt financing.”  Growth Prospects  Eastern Europe’s economic growth prospects have worsened as
Russia and  Poland  are slowing significantly, the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development said yesterday.  The 30 eastern European and central Asian countries where
the EBRD invests will expand 2.1 percent this year, the London-based lender said, cutting its January forecast of 3 percent.
The economies, which expanded 2.5 percent last year,  will grow
3.1 percent in 2014, the EBRD predicted.  The western-owned lenders that control the banking system
in eastern Europe outside the former Soviet Union didn’t cause a
credit crunch in the region or engaged in “deleveraging,”
Raiffeisen said.  Total lending in euro terms rose 15 percent in 2012,
bringing cumulative growth since 2010 to 22 percent, the study
said. In the five years to 2017, loan growth will be briskest in
Russia and Poland, at 13 percent and 10 percent a year,
respectively, Raiffeisen estimates.  The bad debt burden isn’t present in the entire eastern
European region. In Russia and Poland, the biggest banking
markets, only 4.8 percent and 7.7 percent of loans are overdue,
respectively, according to Raiffeisen. In the export-oriented
Czech and Slovak republics, the rate is between 5 and 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  