-- Messi’s Barcelona Wins Spanish League Title After Real Draws
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-05-12T09:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/messi-s-barcelona-wins-spanish-league-title-after-real-draws.html
Lionel Messi ’s Barcelona won its
fourth Spanish soccer championship in five years, and 22nd in
total, after second-place Real Madrid drew 1-1 at Espanyol.  Barcelona, for whom four-time world player of the year
Messi scored a La Liga-leading 46 goals, has an unassailable
seven-point advantage with Real having just two games to play.
Barcelona has lost two of its 34 matches this season, while Real
was beaten in five of 36 games.  It’s the first league title for coach Tito Vilanova after
Barcelona was routed 7-0 last month by  Bayern Munich  over two
games in the Champions League semifinals. That result led to
questions about whether the most successful period in the
Catalan club’s 144-year history is coming to an end.  Vilanova, 44, was promoted from assistant coach when Pep Guardiola quit after last season. Vilanova spent two months mid-season being treated for throat cancer in New York, handing over
control to Jordi Roura. Defender  Eric Abidal  was cleared to play
in February after a  liver transplant .  It’s one of the “most special” of Barcelona’s 22 titles
because of the complications players and coaches have overcome,
club president  Sandro Rosell  said, according to the team
 website . “If I had to engrave a name in the cup it would be
Abidal and Tito,” he said.  Rosell, a former  Nike Inc. (NKE)  marketing executive who became
Barcelona president in 2010, said it had been an “excellent”
season even after the reverse against Bayern.  Economic Slump  “This year, we’ll go down as the best team in Spain and
among the best four in Europe,” Rosell said.  Barcelona and Real Madrid, soccer’s richest clubs by sales,
have won the last nine La Liga titles between them as previous
winners such as Valencia and Deportivo La Coruna that mainly
rely on domestic sales to bankroll their squads are hampered by
Spain’s six-year economic slump.  Deportivo, the 2000 champion, is facing relegation after
having revenue seized to pay back taxes, while 2002 and 2004
winner Valencia has had to trade its top players as it struggles
to pay debts to lender  Bankia SA. (BKIA)   Real, coached by  Jose Mourinho , last season won its record-extending 32nd La Liga title. Guardiola will take over as Bayern
Munich coach next month after a sabbatical.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  