-- Letta’s Party Appoints Ex-Union Chief Epifani Leader in Italy
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-05-11T15:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/letta-s-party-appoints-ex-union-chief-epifani-leader-in-italy.html
Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s
 Democratic Party  appointed former union chief Guglielmo Epifani
as its new leader in a bid to revive the biggest political force
in the Italian parliament.  Epifani, 63, ex-head of Italy’s biggest union, CGIL, was
voted secretary of the Democratic Party, the party announced at
its national assembly in  Rome , which was broadcast on its
website. He replaces Pier Luigi Bersani who was forced to resign
last month after his lawmakers deserted him. The new leader may
only serve until a party congress to be held in the coming
months.  Epifani, a Rome native with a  degree  in philosophy, faces a
Democratic Party weakened by a slide in opinion polls and
divided by an alliance with long-time adversary  Silvio
Berlusconi . The party, known in Italy as PD, agreed to share
power with the three-time premier last month after it failed
under Bersani to turn an election victory into a stable
majority.  “We need to rebuild a fabric of consensus,” Epifani told
party members at their assembly today in a speech before the
vote.  The PD finished first in the inconclusive Feb. 24-25 vote
that split Parliament into three blocs. Eight weeks of stalemate
ensued as Bersani shunned a deal with Berlusconi, who finished
second in the vote, and failed to win the support of the No. 3
party, Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement.  Letta, the party’s deputy secretary, took temporary
leadership of the PD after Bersani resigned last month. The 46-year-old Letta presented the deal with Berlusconi as the best
way to end the deadlock and installed his government two weeks
ago by winning confidence votes with the support of the PD and
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty.  The PD had 24 percent public support, compared with 27.6
percent for People of Liberty, or PDL, according to a May 10
poll by SWG Institute. The PD got 25.4 percent of the vote in
the February election, while PDL took 21.6 percent.  Epifani, a member of  Italy ’s parliament, led the CGIL union
until 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  