-- Turkey Arrests Nine in Deadly Bombings Blamed on Syria
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-05-12T12:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/explosions-kill-18-in-turkey-near-syria-border-minister-says.html
Turkish police arrested nine suspects
in connection with an attack that killed 46 people in a town
near the Syrian border, which the government blamed on Turks
with ties to Syrian intelligence.  “There are still a few people at large,” Deputy Prime
Minister Besir Atalay said, according to the state-run Anatolia
news agency. Those responsible are “traitors,” government
spokesman Huseyin Celik said in an interview with TV24 today.
Turkish intelligence had warned regional officials about a
potential attack, Celik said.  The car bombs are “totally related” to  Syria  and aim to
incite sectarian clashes, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said
today. The group responsible has a history of operations in
Turkey, Davutoglu said. The Syrian Resistance militia, led by a
Turkish Alawite, Mihrac Ural, is believed to be behind the
blasts, Yeni Safak newspaper reported, citing unidentified
intelligence sources.  Yesterday’s twin car-bomb explosions in Reyhanli wounded
about 100 people, Interior Minister Muammer Guler said in
televised remarks. Fifty-two people are still being treated for
injuries, Celik said. News channels showed the charred wreckage
of overturned cars and buildings reduced to smoking rubble after
the attack.  “The group and its members who organized the attack are
linked to the al-Mukhabarat, which supports the regime in
Syria,” Atalay said yesterday, according to Anatolia. “The
group is certain, and most of the people responsible are also
certain,” he said, without providing further details. Al-Mukhabarat is Arabic for intelligence.  Building ‘Glory’  Syria denies involvement in the attacks, and  Turkey  needs
to take responsibility for what happened, Information Minister
Omran al-Zoubi said on state TV. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has no right “to build his glory on the blood of
Turks and Syrians,” al-Zoubi said.  The bombings were the deadliest in recent Turkish history.
In 2003, al-Qaeda bombings in Istanbul hit two synagogues,
killing at least 27 people. Five days later the group set off
bombs at an HSBC Holdings Plc building and the British
consulate, killing at least 30. In 1993, the Kurdistan Workers’
Party, or PKK, killed 33 Turkish soldiers in an ambush, the
group’s deadliest attack on record.  The U.S. condemns the “car bombings and we stand with our
ally, Turkey,” Secretary of State John Kerry said yesterday in
a statement. He said the attack struck a personal note because
of his close work with Turkey in his first three months as the
U.S.’s chief diplomat.  Obama Talks  Erdogan is scheduled to meet with President  Barack Obama  in
 Washington  on May 16. In an interview with NBC on May 9, Erdogan
called on the U.S. to “assume more responsibilities and take
further steps” to end the fighting in Syria.  Assad has used chemical weapons, crossing Obama’s so-called
red line for a U.S. response, Erdogan told NBC, without saying
how Turkey got the information.  Foreign Minister Davutoglu told reporters in Berlin
yesterday that it was “not a coincidence” the explosions
occurred at a critical time in efforts to end the Syrian
conflict. The deepening conflict in Syria represents the
breakdown of the United Nations Security Council system, since
inaction by the international community benefits Assad, he said.  Syrian Shelling  Turkey has sided with rebels fighting to oust Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, who has accused the Turkish
government of providing them with military support, a claim
Turkey denies. The nation’s artillery units have responded to
shelling by Syrian forces since five Turks were killed in the
border town of Akcakale on Oct. 3. Tensions escalated with
Damascus, once an ally, after Assad’s forces shot down a Turkish
plane in the east Mediterranean in June.  Turkey has opened its doors to more than 300,000 Syrians
who fled the conflict. About 25,000 refugees live in camps in
the area of the blasts, which may have been carried out by
people opposed to Turkey’s safe haven or seeking to use their
presence as a pretext for provocation, Erdogan said.  The anti-Assad Syrian National Coalition said the attacks
are in retaliation for Turkey’s support, according to an e-mailed statement. “This is a desperate and failed attempt to
create a rift between the Turkish and Syrian people,” it said.  Assad is the “usual suspect” behind the bombings,
Turkey’s Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc said on NTV
television yesterday. “A massacre was carried out,” he said.
“If proven it was Assad, we will do whatever is required.”  Border Bombing  The violence from Syria’s civil war had previously spilled
over into its northern neighbor. In February, a car-bomb attack
at the Turkish border crossing of Cilvegozu killed 14 people,
mostly Syrians, and injured more than two dozen.  In October, Turkey’s parliament approved a motion allowing
the government to order military action against Syria, after a
shell fired across the border killed five Turks.  In a Damascus interview taped on April 2, Assad accused
Erdogan of lying while harboring rebels fighting his government,
and of cooperating with  Israel  against Syria.  “Turkey’s hands have been stained with blood in Syria,”
Assad said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  