-- France Suffers ‘Adjustment Fatigue’ on Austerity, Moscovici Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2013-05-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/france-suffers-adjustment-fatigue-on-austerity-moscovici-says.html
France ’s Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said that his country is suffering “adjustment
fatigue” as he reiterated his government’s push for policies to
spur growth and fight unemployment.  “Our people, they feel that there is something of an
adjustment fatigue, and they want jobs, jobs, jobs,” he said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg Television at the Group
of Seven meeting of finance chiefs in Aylesbury, near  London .
“It doesn’t mean that now we can be relaxed -- we cannot be
relaxed. But it means we must think structural reforms. We must
first of all reduce structural deficit and at the same time we
preserve the capacity of France to grow and to create jobs.”  France and  Germany  have in the past clashed on the need to
soften austerity, though Moscovici said his German counterpart
Wolfgang Schaeuble now understands France’s push to gain
additional time to cut its deficit. European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  earlier this month
floated giving France two more years to meet EU deficit rules.  Data due on May 15 will probably show that France fell into
a recession in the first quarter, with the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News monthly survey saying gross domestic product
declined 0.2 percent, following a 0.3 percent contraction in the
final three months of 2012.  At the same time, jobless claims have climbed to a record
and the country’s budget shortfall will amount to 3.9 percent of
gross domestic product this year and 4.2 percent next year,
according to the European Commission’s May 3 predictions.  Unacceptable Recession  “If we would have too much adjustment what would it
mean?” Moscovici said. “It would mean that our economy would
be in recession and we cannot accept that.”  The French and German finance chiefs “feel exactly in
line, but of course with different situations, different
positions,” Moscovici said. “I don’t like the word austerity,
because austerity doesn’t just mean adjustment or structural
adjustment, it means more than that,” he said. “It means
cutting over what is necessary, it means getting poorer, it
means breaking the social model -- so I never use the word
austerity.”  Moscovici also said he did not advocate pushing for a
weaker euro, saying that structural reforms were needed instead
to make France more competitive.  Attempts to depreciated the 17-nation currency “would be
the wrong idea, but I plead for competitiveness,” he said.
“You know we obtained the postponements of the targets, why so?
Not because we said we don’t want it. Because we said we are a
credible country, we are reforming the country.”  Currency Manipulation  Finance ministers at the G-7 yesterday reaffirmed their
three-month old commitment not to manipulate currencies,
agreeing “not to target exchange rates,” U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said after chairing the meeting.
Members have “held to” their February pledge to avoid doing
so, he said.  While governments have succeeded in saving the euro, “the
question for the people is: can the euro zone be also a good
future for them -- can we recreate in this area growth and
employment?” Moscovici said. “And we have to concentrate on
that, without abandoning structural reforms of course.”  He also reiterated his country’s push for a full banking
union within  Europe , adding that the French banking sector was
“very solid.”  “We absolutely need to have a banking union to fight
against fragmentation of the banking sector,” he said. “To me
it is a global a full banking union that we need to achieve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Aylesbury  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in Aylesbury at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  