-- G-7 Focus on Bank-Rule Overhaul to Reduce Stability Risks
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-05-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/g-7-focus-on-bank-rule-overhaul-to-reduce-stability-risks.html
Group of Seven finance ministers and
central bankers said they are moving toward revamping banking
rules and ensuring that any lender on the brink of failure can
be shut down without threatening financial stability.  An “extensive discussion on banking regulation” included
talks about how to close banks, European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  told reporters yesterday after a G-7 meeting in
Aylesbury, near  London . The officials had a “clear sense that
the different legislations should converge as much as we can on
this point,” he said.  European Union leaders began work on a banking union last
year to break the cycle of contagion between nations and their
lenders that has plagued the euro area in the past three years.
A European bank resolution plan is due to be proposed in June.  “It is important to complete swiftly our work to ensure
that no banks are too big to fail,” U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said after leading the meeting. “We
must put regimes in place in each of our jurisdictions to deal
with failing banks and to protect taxpayers, and to do so in a
globally consistent manner.”  The finance chiefs said they also discussed the importance
of developing the EU’s banking union and cleaning up lenders’
balance sheets.  Bank Closures  A U.S. Treasury official, speaking to reporters on
condition of not being identified, said participants talked
about how to move quickly toward a banking union. Treasury
officials, led by Secretary Jacob J. Lew, have emphasized in
recent weeks that the  crisis in Cyprus  demonstrated the
importance of a full euro-area banking union with a single
supervisory mechanism and authority to shut down banks.  The U.S. also has pressed  Europe  to find ways to unclog
bank credit lines to small and medium-sized companies, and that
topic was discussed by the ministers, the U.S. official said.  Draghi said the U.S. gave a presentation on how the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. works when closing banks, “and this is
certainly going to be taken into account by our commission.”  The U.S. Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law includes so-called living wills that will lay out how financial firms are to
be unwound after a collapse and FDIC resolution authority for
failed companies. Some U.S. lawmakers and regulators have
expressed concern that Dodd-Frank doesn’t do enough to reduce
the risk of future bank bailouts.  The perception among investors that the largest U.S. banks
are still too big to fail is “a very big issue,” Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 10 at a banking
conference in  Chicago . “We will not have completed the goals of
financial regulatory reform unless we adequately address this
issue.”  Bernanke didn’t attend the G-7 meeting. The Fed was
represented by Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Aylesbury at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  