-- G-7 Reaffirms Commitment Not to Target Currencies as Yen Slides
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-11T13:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/g-7-reaffirms-commitment-not-to-target-currencies-as-yen-slides.html
Global finance chiefs reaffirmed
their three-month old commitment not to manipulate currencies,
signaling acceptance of the weakest yen in four years.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of
Seven today agreed “not to target exchange rates,” U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said after chairing a
meeting in Aylesbury near London. He said members have “held
to” their February pledge to avoid doing so.  The yen this week fell beyond 100 per dollar for the first
time since 2009, extending a decline fueled by more aggressive
monetary policy from the  Bank of Japan . While the slide may hurt
trade rivals, the G-7 officials are signaling acceptance of
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s argument that  Japan ’s bond buying is
aimed at bolstering growth and not at manipulating the currency.  “The Bank of Japan isn’t targeting the exchange rate,”
Kuroda told reporters yesterday. Finance Minister Taro Aso said
there had been no criticism of Japan’s policies at the G-7 and
he had no opinion on his currency’s value.  The BOJ last month announced it would double its monthly
bond purchases in an attempt to deliver 2 percent inflation
within two years and end two decades riddled with recession and
deflation.  “The world community has made clear that domestic tools
that are designed to deal with domestic growth are within the
bounds of what the international community thinks is
appropriate,” U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said
yesterday. “We’ve made it clear that we’ll keep an eye on
that.”  With the yen falling, nations including  Australia ,  New
Zealand  and  Switzerland  are also moving to counter climbing
currencies before they hurt their exporters. The risk is such
efforts provoke retaliation from trade partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in London at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  