-- G-7 Signals Tolerance of Yen Drop for Now as Japan Debated
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-05-11T16:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/g-7-signals-tolerance-of-yen-drop-for-now-as-japan-debated-1-.html
Group of Seven finance chiefs
signaled acceptance of the yen’s slide to its weakest in four
years, so long as it doesn’t get out of hand.  G-7 finance ministers and central bankers reaffirmed their
February commitment to “not target exchange rates” at a
meeting in Aylesbury, near  London , U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  told reporters today.  While that suggests tolerance of the yen’s decline through
100 per dollar, policy makers said  Japan ’s recovery program was
a key focus of their talks and that they will monitor the
currency’s performance. The yen has fallen 15 percent against
the dollar this year and 13 percent versus the euro as the Bank
of Japan stepped up monetary stimulus.  “Everybody watches exchange rate developments,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said. “We had a very
intense discussion about Japan with our Japanese colleagues.”  While he didn’t single out Japan, Canadian Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  said that there were “expressions of concern”
about exchange rates, although “all the countries in the G-7
consider themselves to be free-trading.”  A U.S. official said there had been an in-depth discussion
on Japan, a day after Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told CNBC
Television that he had “made it clear that we’ll keep an eye
on” ensuring countries aren’t trying to devalue exchange rates.  ‘Close Attention’  While ministers discussed recent stimulus efforts by
central banks, “there is close attention that there are no
unintended consequences on other countries both via capital
flows or exchange rate movements,” Italian Finance Minister
Fabrizio Saccomanni said in a Bloomberg Television interview
with Francine Lacqua after the talks.  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda used the G-7 talks
to reiterate that his doubling of monthly bond purchases is
aimed at meeting a 2 percent inflation target by 2015, and not
at artificially helping exporters.  “Easing will contribute to achieving our domestic
objective of ending nearly 15 years of deflation,” Kuroda said
today, adding that the G-7’s understanding of his strategy has
deepened. Finance Minister Taro Aso said there had been no
criticism of Japan’s policies from the G-7, or “any opinion”
given on the yen passing 100 per dollar.  Currency Pledge  Osborne said G-7 economies have “held to” their three-month old pledge not to manipulate currencies and that  Tokyo ’s
policies “impressed” delegates. The Japanese promised not to
violate the February agreement, Schaeuble said.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann indicated that Japan had
been told not to rely on central bank stimulus.  “Japanese problems, in the end, are mainly of a structural
kind,” he said. “It’s therefore especially important to
present a reliable path to return to sustainable public finances
and on the other hand to tackle structural challenges.”  While the yen’s weakness aids local exporters such as Sony
Corp., it risks undermining the prospects of trade partners.
Nations including  Australia ,  New Zealand  and  Switzerland  are
also moving to counter climbing currencies.  G-7 policy makers met amid signs the global economy is in
another soft patch. Data released next week will show the euro
area remained in recession in the first quarter and that U.S.
retail sales fell in April for a second consecutive month,
according to Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  ‘Uneven’ Prospects  “Growth prospects remain uneven and we can’t take the
global recovery for granted,” Osborne said.  Before a May 13 meeting of euro-area finance chiefs in
Brussels, French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  again
criticized the drive to slash budget deficits and backed more
focus on credible debt reduction and making economies
competitive.  “I don’t like the word austerity,” he told Bloomberg
Television. “It means cutting over what is necessary.”  Delegates played down public disagreements over how fast
governments should be cutting back with both Osborne and
Flaherty saying there is more common ground than generally
assumed. “Everyone is clear that there needs to be credible
medium-term fiscal consolidation,” Osborne said. “We also
agreed that there needs to be flexibility.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said euro-area
policy makers are still looking at a “variety of things” to
encourage banks to lend although he noted banks are finding it
easier to fund themselves than six months ago. One option under
discussion is buying asset-backed securities although Draghi
said that was “not easy” for the ECB to do.  ‘Ready to Act’  The ECB cut its  key interest rate  to a record low of 0.5
percent this month, and  Bank of Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco
said it is ready to “act again” if needed.  While Osborne had declared a need for “monetary
activism,” Schaeuble said finance ministers told the central
bankers that they’re “increasingly concerned” about “relative
high liquidity.”  G-7 officials also said they are moving toward revamping
banking rules and ensuring any lender on the brink of failure
can be shut down without threatening financial stability.  Europe 
was also told to continue efforts to implement a continent-wide
regulatory system.  The G-7 will also take collective action on  tax evasion  and
will work to make it easier to exchange information, Osborne
said.  Tax Talks  The discussions by finance chiefs aimed to pave the way for
more concrete steps on tax at other international gatherings
such as the Group of 20, as rich nations’ Treasuries seek to
show voters that they taking steps to combat abuse.  The use of a stately home for the talks and lack of joint
communique marked an effort by Osborne to return the G-7 to its
original concept as a relaxed forum for policy discussion.
Attending his 25th and potentially last such gathering before
retiring next month,  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King
praised the informality and recommended statements often be
avoided in the future.  “I can’t recall another G-7 meeting where the atmosphere
was one of a genuine exchange of views,” King said, adding once
outside office he won’t be “scouring the Internet” to find
communiques.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Aylesbury at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net 
Rainer Buergin in Aylesbury at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  