-- G-7 Agrees to Step Up Fight Against Global Tax Avoidance
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-05-11T23:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/g-7-agrees-to-step-up-fight-against-global-tax-avoidance.html
Group of Seven nations agreed on the
need to toughen international rules to prevent rich individuals
and corporations avoiding taxes, with greater efforts to prevent
 tax evasion  that deprives governments of billions of dollars.  The G-7’s European members -- the U.K.,  France ,  Germany  and
 Italy  -- will this week press fellow European Union nations to
sign up to the Savings Directive with the aim of improving
information sharing to clamp down on tax avoidance. The G-7 will
also seek the engagement of emerging economies on tax evasion.  “It is incredibly important that companies and individuals
pay the tax that is due and this important not just for British
taxpayers but also important for many  developing countries  as
well,” Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
yesterday after two days of talks with G-7 counterparts in
Aylesbury, outside London. “We all agreed on the need for
collective actions to tackle tax avoidance and evasion.”  The informal discussions by finance chiefs aim to pave the
way for more concrete steps at other international gatherings
such as the Group of 20, as rich nations’ treasuries seek to
show voters that they are taking steps to combat abuse. Google
Inc. is due to testify to British lawmakers on May 16 as it aims
to justify its global tax affairs.  EU finance ministers will meet on May 14, and signing the
directive would help national tax authorities fight evasion, an
illegal activity.  Seeking Support  “We Europeans used the opportunity to seek support for our
initiative to fight both tax evasion and tax avoidance,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters in Aylesbury.  The EU moved closer to agreement last month on a
coordinated clampdown on tax evasion as nine countries backed an
initiative for automatic sharing of bank details across borders.  The bloc’s six biggest nations won support from the
Netherlands, Belgium and Romania for their proposal to adopt the
U.S.’s FATCA information-exchange program. The 27-nation EU is
closing in on an updated savings-tax accord as holdouts
Luxembourg and Austria show a willingness to compromise.  G-7 finance ministers and central bank governors meeting in
England discussed the need to strengthen the crackdown on tax
evasion and combat money laundering, “and there was a broad
consensus to exchange information among national tax
authorities,” Italian Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni told
reporters.  Bermuda, Anguilla  The U.K. has signed agreements with territories including
 Anguilla ,  Bermuda  and the British Virgin Islands to fight tax
evasion. Osborne said last month that Britain’s tax authorities
had increased the amount of money collected from wealthy
individuals by 10 percent.  “We are not going to decree an end to  tax havens  but we
will start a movement,” said French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici . The G-7 agreed “to push tax evasion back in a
decisive manner. There’s a political will which is in motion and
it will not stop,” he said.  The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development is taking the first steps toward reform at the
request of the G-20 and has released a report criticizing
corporate profit shifting.  The drive to squeeze more tax from large corporations and
the rich that either violate rules or go against their spirit
comes as governments cut services and raise taxes on working
people to tame outsized budget deficits.  $845 Billion  The EU’s 27 states had a combined budget deficit of 521.6
billion euros ($678 billion) as of the third quarter of 2012,
according to Eurostat. The U.S. faces an $845 billion gap
deficit in 2013, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Since November, the U.K. Parliament has held two hearings
on corporate tax avoidance, questioning executives from Google,
Amazon.com and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , as well as tax officials from
accounting firms Ernst & Young LLP, PricewaterhouseCoopers,
Deloitte LLP and KPMG LLP. Executives from the companies and the
accounting firms defended their practices and denied wrongdoing.  In December, the European Commission, the EU’s executive
body, advised member states to create tax-haven blacklists and
adopt anti-abuse rules. Tax avoidance and evasion cost the EU 1
trillion euros a year, the commission said.  “There’s no doubt that as you look at balancing budgets to
the degree you need more revenue” that lawmakers will need to
look to the wealthy “to get a little bit more from them
proportionately than you get from people as a whole,”  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television on May 10. “I think that’s pretty likely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Aylesbury, England at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  