-- Miami Heat Top Chicago for 2-1 NBA Playoff Lead; Spurs Win
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-05-11T06:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/miami-heat-defeat-chicago-bulls-for-2-1-nba-playoff-series-lead.html
The Miami Heat and  San Antonio Spurs 
took 2-1 leads in the National Basketball Association playoffs
with road wins, regaining home court in their second-round
series.  Chris Bosh  had 20 points and 19 rebounds in Miami’s 104-94
win at the injury-depleted Chicago Bulls.  Tony Parker  had 25 of
his 32 points in the first half as San Antonio won 102-92 at the
Golden State Warriors.  In Chicago, Bulls center Nazr Mohammed was thrown out of
the game early in the second quarter for pushing Miami’s  LeBron James  to the court. Chicago coach  Tom Thibodeau  said James, who
had 25 points, overreacted to Mohammed’s two-handed push.  “From my angle, I just saw a guy flop,” Thibodeau said.
“I’ll leave it at that.”  Tonight, the Indiana Pacers host the New York Knicks with
that series tied 1-1. The Memphis Grizzlies are at home against
the Oklahoma City Thunder with their series also tied 1-1.  Carlos Boozer  had 21 points and all five starters scored in
double figures for Chicago, which got only eight points off its
bench. Miami’s reserves scored 36 points, including 18 by Norris
Cole.  Bulls guard Kirk Hinrich missed his fifth straight game
with a bruised calf and forward Luol Deng has been sidelined for
four consecutive games with an undiagnosed illness. Former Most
Valuable Player  Derrick Rose  has not played all season for
Chicago while recovering from knee surgery.  No Fatigue  Still, Boozer said in a news conference that the short-handed Bulls are not running out of energy.  “I don’t know that we were worn down, it’s the playoffs,”
he said. “I don’t think fatigue is a factor.”  Game 4 in the best-of-seven series is set for May 13 at
Chicago.  In Oakland, California,  Tim Duncan  had 23 points and 10
rebounds as the Spurs held off a fourth-quarter charge by the
Warriors. Game 4 is set for tomorrow at Golden State.  Parker was 11-of-14 shooting in the first half and the
Spurs shot 58 percent while taking a 57-48 halftime lead. Duncan
was 5-for-9 from the field in the half.  “Tony was very inspired in the first half,”  Manu Ginobili , who had 12 points off the bench for San Antonio, told
reporters. “That got us going and gave us a cushion and got us
inspired.”  The Spurs led 79-69 entering the fourth quarter, which the
Warriors opened with a 9-0 run to pull within a point. The Spurs
responded with consecutive 3-pointers by Danny Green and Parker
and the Warriors never got that close again.  “They outplayed us, outworked us, they were the
aggressor,” Warriors coach Mark Jackson said. “There were some
things we’ve got to do better. But this series is far from
over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster at Oracle Arena in Oakland, California, at
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker at United Center in  Chicago  at
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  