-- Iran Ex-President, Ahmadinejad Aide Join Race as Nominations End
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-05-11T16:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/iran-ex-president-ahmadinejad-aide-join-race-as-nominations-end.html
Registration for Iran’s June 14
presidential election closed today with two potential front
runners signing up at the last minute to determine a replacement
to President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  Former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, one of the
founders of the Islamic republic who has also expressed sympathy
with the opposition movement that grew out of the disputed 2009
post-election protests, signed up minutes before the deadline
today.  So did Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, a close aide to
Ahmadinejad, who has been promoted by the president in recent
weeks. Ahmadinejad, who has fallen out of favor with Supreme
Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and squabbled with other top
officials, is constitutionally unable to run this time.  Rafsanjani and Mashaei’s registration will change the
dynamics of a race that analysts had previously said may mostly
consist of like-minded politicians loyal to Khamenei and, as
such, are unlikely to challenge his core domestic and foreign
policies. With  Iran  engaged in a standoff with the U.S. over its
nuclear program and the economy feeling the pain of economic
sanctions, the Islamic republic’s clerical rulers have signalled
they aim to avoid a repeat of the unrest that followed the last
election four years ago.  More than 360 hopeful candidates had signed up by
yesterday, the  Interior Ministry  said on its website. Among
those who signed were Ali Akbar Velayati, Khamenei’s foreign
policy adviser, Tehran Mayor Mohammad-Baqer Qalibaf and Iran’s
top nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili. Ahmadinejad’s brother,
Davoud, and one of the president’s advisers, Ali Akbar
Javanfekr, also signed up earlier today.  The Guardian Council, half of whose members are clerics
nominated by Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , will screen
all candidates based on their qualifications and loyalty to the
Islamic Republic’s tenets, usually reducing the field to less
than 10. Iran’s Interior Ministry has said it will announce the
list of approved candidates on May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 