-- Italy to Train at Rio Soccer Stadium Closed for Dangerous Roof
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-11T03:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/italy-to-train-at-rio-soccer-stadium-closed-for-dangerous-roof.html
The Olympic stadium shuttered
indefinitely by  Rio de Janeiro ’s mayor because of concern its
roof is unsafe will be used as a training venue for soccer’s
Confederations Cup next month.  The Estadio Olimpico  Joao Havelange , also known as
Engenhao, was closed by Rio Mayor Eduardo Paes in March because
signs of wear in its roof structure suggested it risked collapse
in high winds. The arena was built in 2007.  Italy, Tahiti and one of the finalists of the World Cup
warmup event are slated to train at the arena, according to
soccer’s world governing body,  FIFA . The tournament features
World Cup 2014 host Brazil and includes reigning European and
world champion  Spain  among eight participants from soccer’s six
regional confederations.  The teams will be safe, said a spokesman for the mayor’s
office who asked not to be identified because of internal
policy.  “The stadium is opening only for training,” the official
said. “There’ll be no access to the public for viewing and no
actual matches will be played there.”  The closing of the arena is one of a series of
infrastructure problems facing organizers of the 2014  World Cup 
and the 2016  Summer Olympics  in Rio, which is slated to stage
track and field events at Engenhao. FIFA expressed concern this
week that the stadium in  Sao Paulo  scheduled to host the opening
match of the World Cup will not be finished before December’s
deadline.  Missed Deadline  FIFA had set a deadline of last December for the six
stadiums where the Confederations Cup will be played, and
several of them missed the date, including Rio’s  Maracana , which
will host the final games of this year’s event and the World
Cup. Stadiums in Recife and Brasilia are scheduled to hold their
first test events this month, weeks before the June 15 opening
of the tourney.  Paes told reporters two days ago he’s seeking to find out
who is responsible for problems with the roof, and vowed to
punish the culprits. The stadium, built for the Pan American
games, was open only six years before the mayor ordered it
closed.  For Related News and Information:
Calls to Rename Rio’s Olympic Stadium Following Bribe Scandal
(MM6MFU1A1I4H)
 Brazil  World Cup Final Venue Opens After Delays, Cost Overruns
(MLXQ396S9728)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  