-- New Zealand Plans Inquiry Into Home Building Costs, Competition
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-05-11T06:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/new-zealand-plans-inquiry-into-home-building-costs-competition.html
New Zealand will conduct an inquiry
into residential construction in an effort to lower building
costs and increase productivity and competition.  The Pacific nation’s government commissioned the study to
identify ways to boost housing affordability, the Ministry of
Business, Innovation and Employment, which is conducting the
inquiry, said in an e-mailed document.  Home-building approvals in March fell 5.4 percent, missing
economists’ estimates for a gain of 2 percent, while  house
prices  in April rose 7.1 percent from a year earlier, the
biggest gain since early 2008. The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand
doesn’t want to see financial or price stability in the country
compromised by housing demand getting too far ahead of supply,
Governor Graeme Wheeler said April 24.  “There’s significant concern that items, likes of Batts,
likes of Gib, likes of concrete, across the board are more
expensive than what they are in  Australia ,” Housing Minister
Nick Smith said, according to an e-mailed transcript of his
comments on TV3’s “The Nation” program today. “We don’t see
good reason for us not being able to be more competitive.”  Pink Batts and Fat Batts are insulation materials made by
Fletcher Building Ltd.,  New Zealand ’s biggest manufacturer of
construction products, and Gib is a brand of plasterboard made
by the company.  Entry Barriers  The study will consider barriers to entry including natural
ones associated with technology and resources, regulatory
hurdles, and strategic barriers which include steps taken by an
existing company to prevent or reduce competition, the ministry
said in the document. It will also look at whether there’s
“workable competition,” including on price, quality or
customization of goods and services, it said.  “The competition work focuses on potential barriers to
effective competition within the building materials and services
market, while the productivity work focuses on factors to
improve the overall productivity of the residential construction
sector,” Commerce Minister Craig Foss said in an e-mailed
statement.  Information for the study will come from a Productivity
Commission report released last month, other research, public
submissions and interviews with market participants, according
to the ministry document. Submissions will be accepted until
June 10, it said. The results of the study could include changes
to government regulations or practices and improved
transparency, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  