-- Obama Honors Top Police Officers in White House Ceremony
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-05-11T15:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/obama-honors-top-police-officers-in-white-house-ceremony.html
President  Barack Obama  honored the
country’s top police, recognizing 43 officers from ten states
for heroic actions in a White House ceremony this morning.  “We know that when we need you most, you’ll always be
ready to dash into danger to protect our lives, even if it means
putting your lives on the line,” said Obama, standing with the
police officers and their families. “That’s what these men and
women standing behind me have proven.”  Recipients of the 2013 National Association of Police
Organizations TOP COPS award include eight officers who
responded to the Aug. 6 shooting at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek,
Wisconsin that killed six people. One of the officers,
Lieutenant Brian Murphy, was shot 15 times by the gunman in his
effort to stop the shooting.  Obama described the actions of Ivan Marcano, a  New York 
City police detective who was off-duty when he stopped an attack
on a senior citizen and was shot in the process. While Marcano
was being driven to the hospital by his girlfriend, he again
encountered the suspects, apprehending one of them as he
continued to put pressure on his own wound.  “He wasn’t on the clock when any of this happened,” Obama
said. “This was his date night.”  Another officer from Wayne, New Jersey rescued a fellow
policeman trapped by live electrical wires and a fallen tree in
the midst of  Hurricane Sandy  last October. In  Iowa , a state
trooper chased down two bank robbers armed with assault rifles
even after being wounded.  The honorees were nominated by colleagues for actions
considered above and beyond the call of duty, according to
NAPO’s website.  Law-enforcement personnel from police departments in Los
Angeles,  Chicago , Miami-Dade,  Indiana , Las Vegas, Henderson,
Nevada, Houston, and New York City are also among the award
recipients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  