-- Obama’s Cybersecurity Lifts Check Point: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-05-12T07:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/obama-s-cybersecurity-lifts-check-point-israel-overnight.html
Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd. (CHKP)  had its longest stretch of daily gains since 2010 on
prospects demand from governments for more advanced
cybersecurity will fuel profit growth for the Israeli company.  Shares of Check Point rallied 4 percent in  New York  over
the seven days to May 10 to $48.40, fueling a 1.9 percent
advance in the Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the biggest
Israeli companies in the U.S last week.  EZchip Semiconductor
Ltd. (EZCH)  led gains on the measure last week, jumping 13 percent to a
three-month high after posting a 6.1 percent sales increase.  Check Point, based in  Tel Aviv , got 45 percent of sales
from the Americas last year and does as much as 10 percent of
its business with the public sector, according to B. Riley & Co.
President  Barack Obama  ordered a boost to U.S. cybersecurity in
February, and  Sourcefire Inc. (FIRE) , a Columbia, Maryland-based
competitor of Check Point, expects the government to be a
“very, very strong customer,” in 2013, Chief Executive Officer
John Becker told a conference last week.  “Public sector spending on cybersecurity going forward
will be faster than on other things,” Daniel Cummins, an
analyst at B. Riley in New York who rates Check Point hold, said
by phone May 10. “Check Point is the bellwether of the network
security group, and they have the lowest valuation and generate
the most cash. There’s been a bump-up in optimism.”  Lowest Multiple  Check Point trades at 13.8 times  estimated earnings , the
lowest relative to network security peers Sourcefire, Sunnyvale,
California-based  Fortinet Inc. (FTNT)  and  Santa Clara , California-based
 Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)   Cybersecurity has gained renewed attention this year after
a security breach of a U.S. Federal Reserve website, intrusions
at the New York Times and other news organizations attributed to
Chinese hackers and a wave of denial-of-service attacks that
disrupted the websites of U.S. banks.  Obama and intelligence officials have said one of their top
policy priorities is preventing cyber attacks that could disrupt
banks, telecommunications networks, utilities or other vital
services. The Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and
Terrorism held a hearing on May 8 on how the government and
private sector are responding to cyber threats.  Check Point is also focused on boosting sales from the
private sector after reporting the slowest revenue growth during
the first quarter in four years. The company introduced a
cybersecurity product last weak called 600 Appliances. Starting
at $399, it targets small businesses, according to a statement.  ‘Price Point’  “We haven’t had a product at a price point and package
that competes as much as the 600 Appliances will help us
compete,” Fred Kost, head of product marketing at  Check Point 
in  Redwood City ,  California , said in a telephone interview on
May 9. “We’re setting a new mark for that class of products.”  Spending on cybersecurity by small-to-medium-sized
companies will grow at least 10 percent a year through 2015,
twice as fast as their expenses for technology overall, a  report 
from research IDC found last year.  While demand may be growing from the government and small
business,  Israel  Hernandez, an analyst MKM Partners LLC, said
Check Point still needs to be successful at the “high end” of
the market.  “Their revenue growth has lagged,” Hernandez, who has a
buy rating on Check Point, said by phone on May 10 from  San
Francisco . “You have to move a lot of $399 product to move the
needle on Check Point’s revenue base.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index rose 1.9 percent last
week to 92.20, the highest in a year. Of the 17 companies on the
25-member gauge that have reported earnings this season,
aggregate sales trailed estimates by 0.2 percent, while earnings
beat by 0.6 percent.  EZchip Jumps  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index added 0.2 percent at 10:02
a.m. in Tel Aviv.  EZchip led the gains on the Israel-US gauge, surging 13
percent last week to $26.03. Shares in Tel Aviv today extended
last week’s 13 percent advance, adding 0.3 percent to 92.25
shekels, or $25.83. The Yokneam, Israel-based fabless chipmaker
reported May 8 first-quarter sales of $15.3 million, a 6.1
percent gain from a year earlier and above the $15.1 million
mean estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL)  slumped 11 percent to $17.06 on May
10, reversing the 9.1 percent rise the day before. The Netanya,
Israel-based company, whose founders pioneered voice-over-Internet technology, will post 2013 net revenue in 2013 of as
much as $160 million, MagicJack said in a statement on May 9.
That represents a growth rate of 1 percent compared with 2012,
when sales grew 43 percent on an annual basis.  Teva Pharmaceutical Ltd. CEO Jeremy Levin met with Israeli
Finance Minister Yair Lapid on May 10 and agreed to start
“intensive” talks on tax benefits. The world’s largest maker
of generic drugs, based in Petach Tikva, Israel, gained 1
percent in New York last week to $38.89. Shares in Tel Aviv this
morning added 0.9 percent to 137.9 shekels, or $38.62.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  