-- Rand Paul Rips Clinton on Libya Security in Iowa Speech
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/rand-paul-faults-clinton-s-libya-efforts-in-iowa-speech.html
U.S. Senator Rand Paul criticized
former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  for failing to boost
security in Benghazi,  Libya , before the attack on a diplomatic
compound there as he began what amounts to a 2016 presidential
exploratory tour.  “It was inexcusable, it was a dereliction of duty, and it
should preclude her from holding higher office,” the  Kentucky 
Republican said yesterday, drawing a standing ovation from about
500 of his party’s faithful at a dinner in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.  Clinton was secretary of state at the time of the Benghazi
attack, which killed four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador
Chris Stevens. Paul has said he’s actively contemplating a
presidential bid, and Clinton would be the presumptive
Democratic frontrunner should she decide to run.  While attacking Clinton is a sure way to score political
points with fellow Republicans, Paul has also shown a
willingness to buck his party’s orthodoxy as he seeks to expand
his base beyond the limited-government  Tea Party  movement.  The ophthalmologist and first-term lawmaker called on
Republicans to be more inclusive of minorities, as he spoke in
the state that traditionally hosts the first primary season
contest.  “As a party we need to grow bigger,” he said. “We are an
increasingly diverse nation and I think we do need to reach out
to other people that don’t look like us, don’t wear the same
clothes, aren’t exactly who we are.”  CPAC Speech  Paul, 50, was considerably more subdued than during a
speech in March outside Washington at the Conservative Political
Action Conference, an annual meeting of groups whose members are
a core part of the Republican base.  Before his remarks yesterday, Paul told reporters that he
doesn’t plan to decide until next year whether to pursue a White
House run. For now, he said, he’s planning to seek re-election
to the Senate in 2016.  “I don’t feel a time constraint,” he said. “In all
likelihood, I will be on the ballot for the  U.S. Senate  in
Kentucky, though, and we haven’t really looked beyond that.”  Paul is also scheduled to speak at a May 20 dinner in  New
Hampshire , where voters typically cast the first primary
ballots. About a month later, he’ll give a speech in another
state with a traditionally early primary,  South Carolina .  “It’s also how you have a bigger voice nationally,” he
said of his visit to Iowa. “It’s sort of a place where
political leaders come in order to try to talk about issues that
they want to resonate nationally.”  Traditional Issues  In Iowa, Paul’s challenge with potential caucus
participants is to convince them that he can be trusted on
abortion, opposition to gay rights and other issues important to
Republicans.  For many of the evangelical Christians who dominate Iowa’s
Republican presidential caucuses, Paul’s opposition to a federal
ban on same-sex marriage is troublesome. These voters, along
with abortion opponents, backed former Senator  Rick Santorum  of
 Pennsylvania  in 2012 and former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee 
in 2008, two leading voices of the party’s religious wing.  Paul told reporters that the party needs to include people
who hold opposing views on issues such as same-sex marriage if
it’s going to be successful nationally.  “I think there are going to be some Republicans in  New
England ,  California , different places where we’re not doing very
well, where we’re going to say, you can be part of our party if
you don’t agree with us on every issue,” he said.  Built-In Support  Paul ventured into Iowa even earlier than candidates did
for the 2012 presidential campaign. Former Minnesota Governor
 Tim Pawlenty , among the first Republican hopefuls to arrive in
the state, didn’t make his first major speech there until
November 2009, a full year after the 2008 election.  Despite his unorthodox positions on some Republican issues,
Paul arrived with some built-in support. That’s because backers
of his father, former U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas ,
have taken over Iowa’s  Republican Party . A.J. Spiker, who led
Ron Paul’s 2012 Iowa caucus campaign, is state party chairman.  Paul has refrained from embracing some of the positions
held by his father, who ran for president three times and was
often dismissed as a fringe candidate.  The elder Paul talked about a return to linking the dollar
to gold and a noninterventionist foreign policy, including
opposition to U.S. involvement in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya.
He also criticized the mission that led to Osama bin Laden’s
death, saying the U.S. should have worked with  Pakistan  and
shown more respect for international law.  ‘Political Infrastructure’  “I haven’t come out in favor of legalizing drugs,”
Senator Paul told reporters, citing one of his father’s past
policy positions. “But I have come out in favor of saying, you
know what, I’m not for putting kids in jail and locking them up
and throwing away the key.”  While not embracing all of his father’s views, Paul could
benefit from the political infrastructure his dad built.  Ron
Paul   won  16 of Iowa’s 99 counties and finished third in the 2012
caucuses, in part by winning over young voters and independents,
a tactic that could also boost his son’s chances.  The senator told reporters they shouldn’t dwell on
comparisons between him and the congressman, then cited other
father-son combinations who have run for president.  “Ultimately,  George W. Bush  was elected on his own
merits,” he said. “After a while, if it isn’t about what I
stand for, and if it’s always about a comparison, that means I’m
not doing a very good job and am not going to be a significant
player on the national scene.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  