-- Sharif’s Muslim League Leads in Landmark Pakistani Vote
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-05-12T10:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/sharif-s-muslim-league-leads-in-landmark-pakistani-vote.html
Nawaz Sharif said his  Pakistan  Muslim
League had won the most seats in a landmark election and would
return to power, as state-run television and other media
broadcast unofficial counts supporting his claim.  Sharif, 63, was winning 127 of 272 directly elected seats
in the 342-member lower house of parliament, according to the
tally by Pakistan Television. Imran Khan’s  Tehreek-e-Insaf 
emerged as a political force, leading in 34 seats. The Pakistan
Peoples Party, led by President Asif Ali Zardari which headed
the previous government, was ahead in 31 positions, a third of
the seats it got in 2008. The Election Commission of Pakistan
had released 25 results as of 2:45 p.m.  “It lies with the PML to form the government and this
should not be delayed,” Khawaja Saad Rafique, a spokesman for
Sharif’s party, told reporters. Parliament should also meet soon
“as the  federal budget  is around the corner.”  Sharif’s mandate would enable him to pursue an agenda
topped by fixing the country’s record energy crisis which sliced
2 percentage points off economic growth in the last financial
year, and overhauling the management of loss-making state-owned
companies. His party has vowed to seek agreement with rivals and
the armed forces over curbing militancy that killed 151 people
in election-related violence.  “For Sharif, it seems to be an easy sail,” Rashid Ahmed
Khan, a professor of politics at the University of Sargodha,
said by phone. ‘He can form a coalition government by joining
hands with nationalists from smaller provinces. The biggest
surprise is that Khan is emerging as a real political force.”  Talks Offer  A record third term for Sharif would cap a political
comeback 14 years after he was forcibly removed by General
Pervez Musharraf, who went on to rule the country for most of
the next decade. In a reversal of fortunes, Musharraf spent
polling day under house arrest in Islamabad, where he faces
possible treason charges for a declaration of emergency powers
toward the end of his rule.  “The results are still coming in but it is almost
confirmed that the Pakistan Muslim League is the biggest party
in elections,” Sharif, a two-time prime minister who was jailed
and then exiled after being ousted by the army in 1999, said in
an address to his supporters in Lahore late yesterday, offering
to hold talks with his political rivals to help resolve
Pakistan’s problems.  Over 60 percent of Pakistan’s 86 million registered voters
cast ballots in a near record turnout, state-run radio quoted
Fakhruddin G. Ebrahim, chief election commissioner, as saying.
In 2008, 44 percent voted.  The election marked an unprecedented transfer of power
between civilian governments, an achievement in a country ruled
for half its history by the army. Zardari’s party celebrated in
March as its coalition government became the first in Pakistan
to complete its five-year term.  Khan ‘Surprise’  Zardari remains president until September, when members of
the federal and local assemblies will re-elect him or vote for a
successor.  To secure a majority in the federal parliament, Sharif can
also reach out to independents, 27 of whom were expected to be
elected, PTV reported.  “The results were very surprising,” said Nadeem Afzal
Gondal, a leader of the Peoples Party, said in an interview on
Geo TV. “The energy crisis went against us.”  Seventy parliamentary spots are reserved for women and
religious minorities and will be filled in proportion to the
parties’ final poll standing. Four of the 272 constituencies
were not contested.  Assembly Votes  Khan, 60, who cut short his campaign May 7 after falling
from a makeshift lift at a poll rally, based his campaign on
ousting the established parties led by Sharif and Zardari, which
he accused of presiding over corrupt and incompetent
administrations. His appeal to young voters struck a chord with
many while failing to deliver the “tsunami” Khan predicted.  If the unofficial count is confirmed, he has ended 15 years
in the political wilderness and will now be a leading voice in
the next parliament. His party may also be able to lead the
provincial government in the violence-plagued Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa
region in the northwest where he has pledged to negotiate with
militants in the area bordering  Afghanistan .  Sharif won in Punjab, while Khan, 60, was also elected.  ‘Tiger Roars’  In elections to four regional assemblies, Sharif’s party
secured 190 of 297 seats in its Punjab stronghold, Geo reported,
citing unofficial figures. In Sindh, the Peoples Party was set
to emerge as the biggest, with 66 lawmakers out of a total 130,
it reported. Khan’s PTI, or Movement for Justice, won 31 of 99
seats in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, more than double those of the next
biggest group, it said.  The Dawn newspaper summed up Sharif’s successes with a
headline referring to his party’s symbol: “The Tiger Roars
Again.”  Sharif has vowed to seek a consensus with opposition
parties and the army if elected to counter militancy that has
led to 40,000 deaths since 2001. Like Khan, he has said he’s
open to talks with the Taliban.  The other immediate challenge the next government of the
world’s second-most populous Muslim nation will face is
repairing a shattered economy, something that might require
agreement among political parties.  Dar Signal  The new administration will have to “reform the tax
structure and raise revenue to manage the debt” that has
crippled the power sector, said Raza Rumi, political analyst and
director of policy and programs at the Islamabad-based think-tank Jinnah Institute. “This sort of program is not achievable
without multi-party consensus.”  Under Zardari’s administration, growth in the $210 billion
economy slumped to an average 3 percent as power cuts as long as
18 hours a day shut factories and terrorism deterred investment.
The growth rate was less than half the annual pace of the
previous five years.  The Karachi Stock Exchange’s 100-share  index  has surged 18
percent this year. Boosted by higher consumer spending, earnings
of companies in the benchmark gauge rose 43 percent in the past
12 months, the most among 17 Asian equity indexes, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Investors await the presentation of Pakistan’s annual
budget, an event that normally takes place in June.  “I am sure Ishaq Dar is concentrating on the new budget,”
PML spokesman Rafique said, in a possible signal Dar, who served
as finance minister for six weeks in 2008, will resume charge of
the portfolio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  