-- Indian Ministers Fired as Graft Claims Taint Singh’s Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2013-05-11T18:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/singh-fires-ministers-after-alleged-graft-censure-express-says.html
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
fired two of his Cabinet ministers to help limit the damage
caused by graft allegations against his government and the
ruling  Congress  party.  On the advice of Singh, President Pranab Mukherjee accepted
the resignations of Rail Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal and Law
Minister Ashwani Kumar, according to an e-mailed statement from
the president’s office yesterday. Congress party chief Sonia
Gandhi forced Singh to seek the exit of the two from his
council, the Indian Express reported yesterday.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  earlier this month
arrested a member of Bansal’s family on charges he accepted
money in exchange for a top post in the department. Separately,
the CBI told the Supreme Court last month that Kumar was among
officials who vetted a corruption probe report and altered its
content. Kumar told reporters yesterday that he quit to comply
with his party’s orders and to help end all controversies. Both
men have denied any wrongdoing.  The bribery allegation in the railways is the latest in a
series of corruption claims that have marked Singh’s second term
in office, hobbling his legislative agenda before national
elections due by May 2014. The parliament ended its budget
session two days earlier than scheduled last week as opposition
parties stalled proceedings, demanding the resignation of Bansal
and the law minister.  Early Elections  “They want to show that they are doing something about
corruption and more effective governance,” said N. Bhaskara
Rao, chairman of the New Delhi-based Center for Media Studies.
“They are exploring the possibility of early elections.”  Singh is planning a Cabinet reshuffle this week and until
then Road Minister C.P. Joshi will handle the rail portfolio,
while Telecommunications Minister Kapil Sibal will oversee law,
CNN-IBN television channel reported yesterday.  The  Bharatiya Janata Party  and other groups have also
demanded Singh quit over alleged interference in the probe of
coal-block allocations. Singh was in charge of the coal ministry
for part of the period under investigation and has been blamed
by opposition parties for irregularities.  The top court criticized the CBI and the government on May
8 for making changes to the report. It said the CBI has “become
a caged parrot and it has many masters,” and directed the
government to make it independent.  ‘Dramatic Message’  Singh’s party may be trying to show that it is getting
tough on graft to help build on the momentum after it swept to
power in the southern state of Karnataka this month, routing the
BJP that had faced its own share of scandals locally, Rao said.  “The government is trying to send out a dramatic message
that they are alive and alert,” he said.  The BJP, which ruled Karnataka for the past five years,
became embroiled in a $3.6 billion illegal mining scam where
companies were accused by the state’s anti-corruption ombudsman
of operating without permits and evading taxes. Chief Minister
B.S. Yeddyurappa was named in the probe and forced to step down.  Those revelations have blunted the BJP’s campaign to target
Congress over corruption as the nation faces polls.  Andimuthu Raja resigned in 2010 as telecommunications
minister after being accused by the country’s chief auditor of
favoring certain companies in the awarding of mobile-phone
licenses in a move that may have cost the exchequer $31 billion.
He is on trial and denies any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  