-- Mubarak Appears in Cairo Court for Retrial Over Protester Deaths
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-05-11T10:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/mubarak-appears-in-cairo-court-for-retrial-over-protester-deaths.html
Ousted Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  went on retrial for his alleged role in the deaths of at
least 846 protesters during the January 2011 uprising, in a case
that has become emblematic of the country’s stunted transition
to democracy.  Mubarak, who ruled  Egypt  for about three decades, appeared
in court in Cairo today on a stretcher, sitting up and wearing
sun glasses. He was joined in a metal cage in the courtroom by
his long-time interior minister, Habib El-Adli, and six other
former security officials who are also being retried.  Mubarak and El-Adli face charges of complicity in the
protester killings. Separately, the former president faced
corruption-related charges detailed by the prosecution. All the
defendants denied the charges against them.  The hearing comes after a court in January overturned a
life sentence handed down against Mubarak in the protesters’
case. The new trial began April 13, only to be halted minutes
later after a judge excused himself from the case.  The proceedings are largely a replay of the case that first
opened in August 2011, and is viewed by the relatives of those
killed as evidence that justice is still being denied more than
two years after the uprising that set Egypt on the troubled path
to democracy.  Since then, the economy has limped along at what the
 International Monetary Fund  says is the slowest pace in two
decades, and President Mohamed Mursi has faced accusations by
secularists and youth activists of ignoring the nation’s needs
while bolstering the strength of the Muslim Brotherhood
organization from which he hailed.  The first Mubarak trial, in which he was charged with
complicity in the killing of protesters, frequently descended
into chaos, with fistfights erupting in the courtroom. He was
sentenced in June last year for failing to prevent the killings,
a verdict that triggered protests with the victims’ lawyers and
their families criticizing the prosecution’s evidence as weak
and hastily gathered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  