-- Vietnam Adds U.S.-Educated Official to Party’s Politburo
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-11T13:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/vietnam-adds-u-s-educated-official-to-party-s-politburo.html
Vietnam ’s ruling Communist Party for
the first time chose a U.S.-educated government official to join
its highest decision-making body, tapping a face familiar to
Western investors as it seeks to revive the economy.  Nguyen Thien Nhan, 59, a deputy prime minister who received
a master’s degree in public administration from the University
of Oregon, was picked at a party meeting to join the Politburo,
the official Vietnam News Agency reported today. Nhan was vice-chairman of Ho Chi Minh City’s main governing body when  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  decided to locate a $1 billion plant in the city.  “I’ve gone on road trips with him to the U.S. where he
would run his own PowerPoint presentations for potential
investors, and his whole approach was just world class,” said
Fred Burke, Ho Chi Minh City-based managing director of the law
firm  Baker & McKenzie  (Vietnam) Ltd., who has known Nhan for
more than a decade. “He is from a new generation that has had
significant international exposure.”  The Communist Party is attempting to boost an economy
hampered by slow credit growth due to concern over the health of
the banking system and state-owned companies. The party began a
shift to a freer-market economy in 1986, and the country opened
a  stock exchange  in 2000 and joined the  World Trade Organization 
in 2007.  “For a younger generation of leaders, making choices such
as cutting down the state sector is not going to be as difficult
as it was for their predecessors,” said Zachary Abuza, a
professor of political science at Simmons College in  Boston , who
specializes in  Southeast Asia . “The leadership in Vietnam is
really stuck between the state and market.”  Second Female  Vietnam is one of 12 Asia-Pacific countries negotiating to
enter the  Trans-Pacific Partnership  trade accord. The
 International Monetary Fund   last month  cut its economic growth
forecasts for Vietnam to 5.2 percent for this year and next.  Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan, 59, a National Assembly deputy
chairwoman, was also promoted to the Politburo to become the
second female member along with Tong Thi Phong, who joined in
2011. The Politburo had 14 members before today’s additions,
according to the Communist Party’s news website.  Many of Vietnam’s leaders came of age during the war years
and were educated within the country or in former Soviet-bloc
nations. In a statement received on May 10, Vietnam’s Foreign
Affairs Ministry said that “up to now, there have been no
Politburo members who graduated from U.S. schools.”  Nhan, also a former education minister, hails from the
Mekong Delta. He received a degree in cybernetics from a
university in the former East Germany in 1979, and was a
professor before entering politics. Nhan was a participant in
the Fulbright Vietnamese student program, with  Oregon  his host
university, according to a posting on the U.S. State
Department’s website.  PM Candidate  Nhan’s elevation could make him a candidate for prime
minister during the political cycle that will accompany the next
party congress, according to Carlyle Thayer, an emeritus
professor at the Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra.
The last congress was held in January 2011, and meetings are
typically held every five years.  “Nhan’s primary skill is seen as dealing with the West,”
said Thayer. “This is someone who has a great network of
international contacts.”  The Communist Party’s  Central Committee  also elected Tran
Quoc Vuong, its chief administrator, to join the Secretariat,
according to Vietnam News Agency.  The Politburo is Vietnam’s most important political
institution, according to Abuza from Simmons College.  “They don’t always micromanage policy, but they set the
parameters in which policies can be implemented,” Abuza said.
“If it’s an important decision, they are the only ones who can
make it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  