-- Wigan Upsets Manchester City 1-0 in English F.A. Cup Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-11T19:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-11/wigan-upsets-manchester-city-1-0-in-english-f-a-cup-final.html
Wigan upset 10-man Manchester City 1-0 to win English soccer’s F.A. Cup for the first time in the
club’s 81-year history.  Ben Watson came off the bench to score the only goal in
second-half stoppage time at Wembley Stadium in  London  to give
the Latics, an 8-1 underdog with bookmakers, one of the biggest
upsets in the history of soccer’s oldest domestic cup
competition.  “It’s incredible, we always think about the F.A. Cup and
chasing that dream,” Wigan manager Roberto Martinez said in an
interview with ESPN. “To win the F.A. Cup is a momentous
moment.”  Manchester City finished with 10 men after defender Pablo
Zabaleta received his second yellow card in the 84th minute.
City was the overwhelming 4-11 favorite to lift the Cup for the
second time in three seasons, meaning a successful $11 dollar
bet returned $4 plus the original stake.  “There’s no need to look for excuses,” City captain
Vincent Kompany told ITV. “Wigan deserved to win it today,
congratulations to them.”  The game pitted Manchester City, one of soccer’s richest
clubs, against a Wigan team struggling to avoid relegation from
the Premier League.  City is owned by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayad Al Nahayan, a
member of Abu Dhabi’s royal family, who’s spent about $1 billion
since buying the team in 2008. City won its first league title
since 1968 last season and captured the F.A. Cup in 2011.  Top Levels  Wigan played outside the top four levels of English soccer
until 1978 and didn’t make its first appearance in the Premier
League until 2005. The northwest England club is currently among
the three teams at the bottom of the Premier League which will
be relegated to the second-tier Championship after the season.  “You never think this will happen,” Wigan chairman Dave Whelan, who suffered a broken leg while playing for Blackburn in
the 1960 F.A. Cup final, told ESPN. “Today we are taking the
F.A. Cup back to Wigan.”  Wigan’s previous best F.A. Cup finish was reaching the
quarterfinals in 1987. All six of the Latics’ wins in this
year’s competition came away from home.  “We never lacked confidence,” Martinez said. “These
players haven’t got any other way of playing football. I’m so
proud of them.”  Manchester City’s Yaya Toure forced Joel Robles into an
early diving stop and Wigan’s Callum McManaman curled a shot
wide of the far post. Robles then stretched out to save Carlos Tevez’s shot with his foot in the 29th minute.  Penalty Appeal  Referee Andre Marriner turned down a penalty appeal from
Wigan five minutes later after Roger Espinoza went down from
Zabaleta’s challenge. City goalkeeper Joe Hart saved a long,
looping shot from Arouna Kone and Robles gathered an attempt
from Gareth Barry before Robles then punched out Samir Nasri’s
shot just before halftime.  Nasri shot over the goal in the 49th minute and was
replaced by James Milner six minutes later as Mancini looked to
spark his sluggish attack. Mancini later replaced Tevez with
 Jack Rodwell , who headed a shot straight to Robles moments after
coming on.  After Wigan’s Shaun Maloney curled a free kick from an
angle off the top of the crossbar, Martinez brought on Watson
for Gomez with nine minutes left.  Zabaleta was sent off for taking down McManaman with six
minutes left, becoming the third player ejected from an F.A. Cup
final. Watson, who returned to action last month from a broken
leg, then struck in the first of three added minutes when he
headed in Maloney’s corner kick. It was the Latic’s first shot
on target in the match.  “It’s been a long six months for myself and it’s been a
dream, coming on in an F.A. Cup final and scoring the winner,”
Watson said. “From the chairman, the manager, the staff, the
players, we’ve worked hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 