-- ‘Jackass Presents: Bad Grandpa’ Tops ‘Gravity’ at Box Office
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-28T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/-jackass-presents-bad-grandpa-unseats-gravity-at-box-office.html
“Jackass Presents: Bad Grandpa,”
the comedy from Paramount Pictures, took first place at U.S. and
Canadian theaters, toppling “Gravity,” the sci-fi movie that
led sales for three weeks.  “Bad Grandpa” collected $32 million in its opening,
researcher  Rentrak Corp. (RENT)  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “The Counselor,” a violent, action thriller
starring Michael Fassbender and Brad Pitt, opened fourth with $8
million for  Twentieth Century Fox. (FOXA)   “Bad Grandpa,” starring Johnny Knoxville, is the fourth
film since 2002 based on the “Jackass” MTV reality series
known for its cast’s self-injuring stunts and pranks. The new
film, made for $15 million, is based on a recurring character,
Irving Zisman, who goes on a road trip with his grandson. It was
projected to collect $30 million, according to BoxOffice.com.  “We’ve been waiting for something to beat ‘Gravity,’ which
has had just tremendous legs over the past couple weeks, and got
that with ‘Bad Grandpa,’” said James Marsh, a research analyst
at Piper Jaffray Cos. “If the word of mouth stays positive, it
could threaten $100 million, but R-rated theatrical movies
usually don’t have long legs, and the audience is probably
thinner for this movie.”  The previous installment, 2010’s “Jackass 3-D,” had the
series’ best opening and generated $117.2 million in domestic
theaters for Paramount, owned by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  “Bad Grandpa” was
the second-best debut for a “Jackass” movie, Rentrak said. All
the films were directed by Jeff Tremaine and star Knoxville.  Critical Acclaim  “Bad Grandpa” garnered a 62 percent favorable rating on
 RottenTomatoes.com , which aggregates reviews. Knoxville, as the
title character, takes a cross-country road trip to deliver his
grandson to his deadbeat dad. On the way they stage stunts, and
the bemused reactions of real-life bystanders are captured on
film.  “The movie is hysterical in the worst possible ways; ones
that make you feel as if a public apology is due,” Betsy
Sharkey  wrote  in the Los Angeles Times.  “Gravity,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.,
collected $20.3 million, falling to second in its fourth
weekend. The movie has won critical acclaim for its star, Sandra Bullock, and director Alfonso Cuaron, while packing in
audiences.  Last weekend, the film became the first to hold the No. 1
spot for three straight weeks since “The Hobbit: An Unexpected
Journey” in December 2012. Made for $100 million, “Gravity”
has earned $199.8 million domestically since Oct. 4.  Star-Studded Cast  “The Counselor,” directed by Ridley Scott, stars Michael
Fassbender as a lawyer who in a single lapse of judgment gets
wrapped up in a drug-trafficking deal with his nightclub-owning
client, played by Javier Bardem. The R-rated movie also stars
Penelope Cruz as Fassbender’s lover, Brad Pitt and Cameron Diaz.  The screenplay was written by Cormac McCarthy, whose novels
including “No Country for Old Men,” and “The Road,” which
both were made into films.  The movie, made for $25 million according to Box Office
Mojo, was projected to take in $10 million for the film unit of
21st Century Fox Inc., the estimate of researcher Box Office
Guru.  “They have to be a little disappointed,” Marsh said. “It
has a star-studded cast and an excellent director, so I guess
we’ll see how it holds.”  “The Counselor” garnered a 36 percent “fresh” rating on
RottenTomatoes. The Los Angeles Times  described  the film “as an
extremely unpleasant piece of business.”  Revenue Rises  Among returning films, “Captain Phillips,” the acclaimed
Somali-pirate shipping drama starring Tom Hanks, generated $11.8
million in ticket sales for  Sony Corp. (6758) , dropping to third from
second place. “Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs 2,” the
animated sequel also from Sony, remained in fifth place by
collecting $6.1 million, which brought its total domestic
revenue to more than $100 million in five weeks.  “Carrie,” a remake of the 1976 Brian De Palma movie,
collected $5.9 million to place sixth for Sony.  Weekend revenue for the top 10 films rose 25 percent to
$93.2 million from the year-earlier period, Rentrak said.
Revenue is up less than 1 percent to $8.70 billion year to date.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Rentrak. The amounts are based on gross
ticket sales for Oct. 25 and Oct. 26, and estimates for
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in San Francisco at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  