-- Kittiratt Shift on Rates Eases Pressure on Thai Central Bank
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-10-28T02:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/thailand-s-interest-rate-acceptable-for-economy-kittiratt-says.html
Thailand ’s Finance Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong said he can accept higher-than-desirable
interest rates set by the central bank as long as the currency
remains near current levels.  The Bank of Thailand kept its benchmark  interest rate  at
2.5 percent for a third meeting on Oct. 16, after cutting it a
quarter percentage point in May. Kittiratt had complained that
interest rates were too high, attracting speculative capital,
strengthening the currency and weakening the economy.  “The policy rate is not as low as I wish, but it’s lower
and stable,” Kittiratt, 55, said in an interview in New York on
Oct. 25. “I don’t think it’s the end of the world. I can accept
that.”  The shift in tone came after the baht dropped about 8
percent since reaching a 16-year high in April on concern the
potential withdrawal of U.S. monetary stimulus may drain capital
from  developing countries .  The baht fell 0.3 percent to 31.095 per dollar as of 9:22
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has declined 1.6 percent this year. At current levels,
the baht is appropriate for exporters to grow, Kittiratt said.  “Business people, exporters and importers seem to be
performing O.K. at these levels,” Kittiratt said. “If it
fluctuates too much in short periods without good reasons, I’ll
step in and express my opinion again.”  The central bank last week pared its estimate for gross
domestic product growth this year to 3.7 percent, compared with
a July projection of 4 percent, and said exports may expand 1
percent, down from an earlier forecast of 4 percent.  Kittiratt said he is keeping his focus on improving the
country’s long-term productivity.  Infrastructure Spending  The minister urged the parliament to speed up the approval
of budget disbursements as plans to spend 2 trillion baht ($64
billion) on infrastructure and 350 billion baht on water-management projects have stalled.  The projects are part of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s efforts to boost private investment and government
spending in a bid to reduce Thailand’s reliance on exports for
growth.  “We are in a very important transition stage,” Kittiratt
said. “If we don’t transform ourselves and still stick to these
low value-added industries, we’ll be in trouble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  