-- Aussie Strengthens Before Fed Meeting Tomorrow, RBA Stevens Talk
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-10-28T06:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/aussie-stems-loss-before-fed-meeting-tomorrow-rba-stevens-talk.html
Australia ’s dollar rose versus most
of its major counterparts before the  Federal Reserve  begins a
two-day meeting tomorrow amid forecasts U.S. policy makers will
maintain bond purchases that tend to devalue the greenback.  The Aussie advanced against the greenback for the first
time in four days as Asian stocks rallied, supporting demand for
higher-yielding assets. Equities slid last week as the biggest
jump in Chinese money-market rates since June’s record cash
crunch raised concern Australia’s largest trading partner was
reining in growth.  New Zealand ’s currency gained on speculation
central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler will signal  interest-rate 
increases as he decides on monetary policy this week.  “The market is looking for further confirmation that
tapering is still some time off, and if we do get that we’ll get
some more U.S. dollar weakness,” said Jim Vrondas, the chief
currency and payment strategist at OzForex Ltd. in Sydney. “We
should see some reversal of the nervousness that we saw toward
 China  and the Aussie dollar last week, and a move back toward
the 97-cent mark.”  Australia’s dollar gained 0.2 percent to 96.06 U.S. cents
as of 5:09 p.m. in Sydney after falling 1 percent last week, the
biggest five-day decline since August. The Aussie rose 0.5
percent to 93.80 yen.  The currency will face selling pressure toward the 97.50
U.S. cent level, Vrondas said.  Australia’s  10-year bond yield  climbed four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.01 percent. It fell 15 basis
points last week. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares
advanced 1.1 percent.  Taper Timing  Fed policy makers, meeting tomorrow and Oct. 30, are trying
to gauge the strength of the U.S. expansion. The central bank
will wait until its March 18-19 meeting to pare the monthly pace
of asset buying to $70 billion from $85 billion, according to
the median of 40 responses in a Bloomberg News survey this
month.  Government figures due Nov. 1 may show a gauge of
 manufacturing  growth in China matched the fastest pace in 1 1/2
years, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “We’ve seen concerns about Chinese liquidity tightening
start to weigh a little bit,”  John Horner , a Sydney-based
currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “Those concerns are overdone,” he
said, “We think we’re going to reach our year-end target of 98
cents, and don’t rule out a move above parity at some stage in
coming weeks.”  Horner predicts the Aussie will climb toward 98 cents on a
combination of better-than-expected Chinese growth, Fed stimulus
and the RBA’s “on hold” policy stance.  Stevens Speech  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  is
scheduled to speak tomorrow. He and his board will next meet on
Nov. 5, where there’s a 94 percent chance they will keep the
benchmark rate at a record-low 2.5 percent, according to
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Zealand’s financial markets are closed today for a
holiday. The nation’s currency rose 0.3 percent to 83.04 U.S.
cents and gained 0.5 percent to 81.09 yen.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Wheeler will probably
keep the key interest rate at 2.5 percent on Oct. 31, according
to all 15  analyst forecasts  compiled by Bloomberg. Traders see
an 83 percent chance policy makers will raise the cash rate to
2.75 percent or higher by June, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  