-- Australia’s Budget Position Deteriorates Since September Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-10-27T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/australia-s-finances-worsened-since-sept-election-cormann-says.html
Australia ’s Liberal-National
government, which took power seven weeks ago, says the budget
position has worsened since its election victory, with the $1.5
trillion economy struggling for momentum in non-mining sectors.  “The reality is that we are in challenging times,” ,
Finance Minister Mathias Cormann said in a Sky News interview
yesterday. The new government has inherited “not just a bad
position at the time of the election but a position that
continues to deteriorate,” he said.  The coalition, which ousted Labor on Sept. 7, is pledging
to cut red tape and lower taxes as a China-led mining investment
boom crests. Prime Minister  Tony Abbott ’s government is
grappling with rising unemployment and cooling growth as a
strong currency hurts manufacturing and  service industries .  Treasury said in its pre-election outlook released Aug. 13
that the federal deficit will widen to A$30.1 billion ($28.8
billion) for the fiscal year ending June 30, and the budget is
no longer projected to return to balance in 2015-16. The
coalition will release updated projections in a mid-year report
before Christmas, Cormann said yesterday.  “We will put the budget back into surplus as soon as
possible,” he said, without committing to a timetable. “What
we are committed to is to get spending growth under control.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has cut the benchmark rate by
2.25 percentage points to a record 2.5 percent to help revive
non-resource industries, even as signs emerge that mining
investment has crested.  Philip Lowe , deputy governor of the
central bank, said Oct. 24 that he wouldn’t be surprised if
mining investment relative to gross domestic product fell by 3
percentage points or more in coming years.  Budget Surplus  The budget shortfall in the 12 months ended June 30 totaled
A$18.8 billion, the government said Sept. 27 in announcing the
final budget outcome for 2012-13. The previous Labor government
in December abandoned a surplus pledge as revenue failed to meet
projections.  Abbott’s government on Oct. 22 announced plans to raise the
nation’s debt ceiling to A$500 billion from A$300 billion now,
and ordered a Commission of Audit to identify potential spending
cuts as government revenue slows.  The economy’s transition from growth led by mining
development in the north and west to industries like residential
construction in the south and east was aided by a 12 percent
decline in the Australian dollar in the second quarter. The
currency has since rebounded as the U.S. Federal Reserve
unexpectedly delayed tapering bond purchases.  ‘Take Action’  “There’s no doubt that investment in the  mining industry 
is not at the same level that it has been in recent years,”
Cormann said yesterday. “It is so important that we take action
to reduce the cost of doing business in Australia, to make
ourselves more competitive internationally, to improve
productivity, so that the non-mining parts of the economy can
start to grow and prosper again.”  Treasurer  Joe Hockey  also highlighted the budget challenges
the new government faces in an interview on Channel Nine
television yesterday.  “I’m inheriting rising unemployment, not falling
unemployment,” he said. “I’m inheriting falling growth, not
rising growth. Having said that, we will get the budget under
control.”  Still, anecdotal signs show that confidence in the
Australian economy is returning and retailers should have a
“good Christmas,” Hockey said.  “You can see it in property transactions and property
prices that there’s confidence coming back,” he said in the
interview. “When people come up to me in the street and say
‘It’s turned,’ I’m encouraged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  