-- BlackRock Buys as Global Investors Overrun Seoul: Korea Markets
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-10-28T07:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/blackrock-buys-as-global-investors-overrun-seoul-korea-markets.html
The record flood of overseas cash
into South  Korea ’s stock market looks set to swell further
judging from the diaries of  Seoul  executives.  YK Kang, head of investor relations at  Seoul Semiconductor
Co. (046890) , a maker of light-emitting diodes, has met with 35 foreign
money managers this month, up from three in January, as the
stock  surged  77 percent this year. Meetings with  stock  pickers
that used to last 20 minutes now take an hour, Kang says.  “We can feel that the level of interest is different,”
Kang said by phone from the city of Ansan, southwest of Seoul.  Foreign investors have boosted South Korean stock holdings
for a record 42 straight days, lured by the nation’s current-account surplus, strengthening currency and fastest  growth  in
almost two years. Samsung Securities Co. says inflows will
accelerate as shares are  valued  at half the level of global
peers even after a 15 percent rally in the Kospi index since
June.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, has
been buying on expectations profit growth will quicken.  Stocks are “cheap and attractive compared to the region,”
said Andrew Swan, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian equities at
BlackRock, which oversees $3.8 trillion. “We have increased our
exposure to Korea and are now overweight.”  2007 High  Foreign ownership of Kospi index companies has climbed to
more than 35 percent of outstanding shares, the highest level
since July 2007, according to data from the Financial
Supervisory Service.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the biggest maker
of smartphones, and  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the second-largest computer-memory chipmaker, attracted the most inflows among Kospi
companies since the gauge began rallying from this year’s  low  on
June 25 through Oct. 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy expanded 3.3 percent in the
three months ended September from a year earlier, the quickest
pace since the fourth quarter of 2011 and exceeding the 3.1
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, government data
showed on Oct. 25.  The  Bank of Korea  said this month the nation will report a
current-account surplus of $63 billion for 2013, higher than its
July estimate of $53 billion. The won has outperformed all of
its Asian peers during the past six months with a 4.7 percent
gain against the dollar, giving foreign shareholders increased
returns from currency translation.  Export Slump  “Foreigners seem to have belief that the Korean won will
strengthen further,” said Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer
at Midas International Asset Management Ltd., which oversees
about $6.4 billion, said by phone on Oct. 18.  The Kospi rose 0.7 percent to 2,048.14 at the close in
Seoul, after falling 0.9 percent last week. The won slipped 0.1
percent last week to 1,062.06 per dollar amid speculation
authorities intervened to curb gains. Yields on the nation’s 10-year notes dropped nine basis points to 3.38 percent.  Currency strength makes South Korean products more
expensive for overseas buyers.  Exports (KOEXTOTY)  dropped 1.5 percent in
September, following a 7.6 percent increase the previous month,
government figures show. Earnings at the 39 Kospi companies
tracked by Bloomberg that reported results so far this quarter
 trailed  analyst estimates by 3.3 percent.  Selling by local investors may curb the Kospi’s rally even
as foreign investors pile in, according to Kwon Hyuk Sang, the
chief investment officer at Hanwha Asset Management Co. Domestic
institutions sold a net $6.1 billion of Kospi shares since June
25 while individual investors pulled out $7 billion, according
to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  “For the market to really boom and turn to the upside, we
need both local institutional investors and global investors to
buy,” Kwon said. “It doesn’t work out when it’s only one of
the groups.”  South Korean shares will get support from “cheap”
valuations and an improving global economic expansion through
the rest of the year, BlackRock’s Swan said. Export growth will
probably rebound to a 3 percent pace in October, according to
the median economist estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Kospi trades at 1.1 times net assets, a 48 percent
discount versus the MSCI All-Country World Index, which has a
multiple of 2.1. That compares with an average gap of 35 percent
during the past five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SK Hynix trades for 2 times net assets, versus 3.4 times
for global peers, the data show. International investors have
bought a net $1.8 billion of the shares since June 25.  Earnings Outlook  “Foreign investors give us the impression that they have
more belief in our business strategies when we go overseas on
non-deal roadshows nowadays,” James Kim, vice president of
 investor relations  at SK Hynix, said by phone from Seoul on Oct.
18. SK Hynix’s operating profit will probably climb 24 percent
next year, Shinhan Investment Corp. said in an Oct. 10 report.  Seoul Semiconductor may boost  earnings  by 53 percent next
year, according to the average of 13 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg, versus the 36 percent median estimated growth for
global peers. The company is scheduled to report quarterly
results on Nov. 5.  “We’re positive on the outlook of further foreign inflows
as corporate earnings, low valuations and the stability of the
currency will factor in,” You Seung Min, a strategist at
Samsung Securities, the nation’s biggest brokerage, said by
phone from Seoul on Oct. 22. “This means there is more room for
foreigners to buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  