-- BofA Sees Moscow Gap Cut on Euroclear: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-10-27T20:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/bofa-sees-moscow-gap-cut-on-euroclear-russia-overnight.html
The price gap between Russian
depositary receipts and Moscow-listed shares will fade after
local stocks become available to foreign investors next year
through Euroclear Bank SA, according to Bank of America Corp.  The lower house of  Russia ’s Parliament approved on Oct. 25
 tax amendments  that pave the way for Euroclear to access the
stock market. The move would erase the premium between the
overseas depositary receipts of companies from OAO Novatek to
OAO Mobile TeleSystems versus their Moscow shares as it lets
foreign investors bypass local brokers, Bank of America said.
The start of Russian debt operations by Euroclear boosted
foreign holdings to 30 percent from 7 percent in July last year.  “It’s a big step in the right direction,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, the chief economist for Russia for Bank of America,
said by phone from Moscow Oct. 25. “The price gap between
global depositary receipts and locally listed stocks should
disappear within months if not weeks after the local stocks
become accessible via Euroclear.”  Russia limits depositary receipts, known as DRs, to 25
percent of a company’s shares and 50 percent of listed stock,
spurring a scarcity of the offshore securities. DRs of Mobile
TeleSystems, the nation’s biggest mobile provider, and natural-gas producer  OAO Novatek (NVTK) , traded about 10 percent higher than
their local stocks. The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the
most-traded Russian companies in the U.S. posted the first
weekly decline since September.  “Increasing liquidity for local shares is an important
part of closing that gap,” Andrey Shemetov, the deputy chief
executive officer at the  Moscow Exchange (MOEX) , said in an e-mail to
 Bloomberg News  Oct. 25.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge dropped 0.2 percent last week
to 104.64. Yandex NV, Russia’s biggest Internet company, tumbled
6.4 percent to $38.19. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the
biggest U.S.-traded exchange-traded fund that holds Russian
shares, slid 0.7 percent to $29.72 last week. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in the index futures,
dropped 1.2 percent to 20.16, while RTS stock-index futures
increased 0.3 percent to 149,130 in U.S. hours Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  