-- Treasuries Risk Shown as Fed Distorts Stocks Correlation
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-28T16:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/bond-greet-10-24.html
U.S. government bonds are acting
more like equities than any time since before the credit crisis,
making Treasuries a hidden risk to investors becalmed by the
prospect of the  Federal Reserve  prolonging stimulus into 2014.  Ten-year Treasuries are moving 0.024 percent for every one-percent change in the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  in the same
direction, the first time that’s happened since July 2007, based
on a risk measure known as beta. Prior to this month, the gauge
averaged minus 0.12 over the past decade, meaning that bonds
have historically moved in the opposite direction.  Treasuries are rising along with stocks as economists say
the Fed will keep suppressing borrowing costs to support the
world’s largest economy after a 16-day government shutdown
slowed growth. While government debt was a haven as the U.S.
endured the worst recession in seven decades, primary dealers
such as  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. say the gains
this month show the Fed’s $85 billion of monthly bond purchases
are masking the risk of owning fixed-income securities as the
recovery in America takes hold.  “Treasuries are just not worth the risk,”  Thomas Higgins ,
the Boston-based global macro strategist at Standish Mellon
Asset Management Co., which oversees $167 billion of fixed-income investments, said in a telephone interview on Oct. 23.
“The economy is certainly not going gangbusters, but the Fed
will step away at some point, and that will remove one of the
forces of lower yields.”  Reducing Stake  Higgins said Standish Mellon has been reducing its stake in
Treasuries this month and plans to keep selling as long as
 yields  on 10-year notes, which fell to a three-month low of 2.46
percent last week, remain below 3 percent.  The  gains  in Treasuries in the past month, which pushed
down yields on 10-year securities from the highest in two years
of 3 percent on Sept. 6, upended the traditional relationship
with stocks. On Oct. 16, the day U.S. lawmakers reached an
agreement to end the shutdown, the beta for government debt on a
total-return basis relative to the  S&P 500  turned positive,
based on the 26-week moving average compiled by Bloomberg.  While the shutdown restored confidence among debt investors
and prompted economists in a Bloomberg survey on Oct. 17-18 to
predict the Fed will keep buying $45 billion of Treasuries and
$40 billion of mortgage-backed securities each month for at
least five more months to buffer the economy, the perils of
lending to the U.S. have also increased in the  bond market .  Unprecedented Borrowing  Since mid-2008, the amount of outstanding  U.S. debt  has
more than doubled to an  unprecedented  $11.6 trillion as the
government increased borrowing to finance deficits and mitigate
the fallout from the financial crisis.  Potential losses due to rising yields on the longest-maturity Treasuries are now approaching the highest level since
at least 1996, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  The gauge known as duration, which calculates how much
prices change when yields rise or fall, for Treasuries due in 10
years or more has climbed to 16.04, within 3.6 percent of the
all-time high of 16.6 in May. The reading is about 50 percent
higher than the average during the decade before the Fed began
quantitative easing in 2008.  Investors buying 10-year Treasuries today face a loss of
about 2 percent if yields for the notes increase to 2.8 percent
by year-end, the median yield estimate from 65 forecasters in a
Bloomberg survey. That would deepen this year’s losses of about
4.5 percent, based on  index (BFCIUS)  data compiled by Bank of America.  Annual Losses  In the past quarter-century, the debt securities have
posted annual losses on just three occasions -- in 2009, 1999
and 1994 -- and returned 57 percent in the past five years.
That’s more than six times the 8.6 percent gain for the S&P 500
over the same span, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s not as easy as it was to own Treasuries,”
 Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2.2 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “Over the longer term
there is less upside and a lot of risk to go along with that.”  Treasuries rose last week, with 10-year yields falling
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.51 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 10-year yield was
at 2.5 percent at 11:57 a.m. in New York.  It’s premature to assume that yields are bound to increase
after reports last week signaled the  U.S. economy  still needs
the Fed’s support to ensure its recovery, said  Jack McIntyre , a
Philadelphia-based  money manager  at Brandywine Global Investment
Management LLC, which oversees $44.5 billion.  Uncertain Landscape  Payrolls rose by 148,000 in September, versus the median
forecast for an 180,000 gain by 93 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The data indicated the economy lost momentum
leading up to the government shutdown, which S&P estimates
shaved at least 0.6 percent off fourth-quarter growth.  U.S.  consumer confidence  sank to an eight-month low in the
week ended Oct. 20, while more households were pessimistic about
the economy than at any time in the past year, according to the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  “The economic landscape is uncertain at best,” McIntyre
said in a telephone interview on Oct. 24. “There is still room
for Treasury yields to move lower.”  Bill Gross , the co-chief investment officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s largest bond fund
manager, predicts that 10-year Treasury yields will remain close
to 2.5 percent. Policy makers are scheduled to meet Oct. 29-30
to consider whether to slow its bond buying.  No Tapering  The Fed “probably won’t be tapering anytime soon,” Gross
said on Oct. 22 in a Bloomberg Radio interview from  Newport
Beach , California, where Pimco is based.  Price  swings  of Treasuries indicate most bondholders aren’t
anticipating a sudden jump in borrowing costs. The implied
volatility for U.S. government bonds as measured by the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch MOVE index has fallen 45 percent in the
past month to the lowest since May, when fluctuations were the
least since data began 25 years ago.  The diminished volatility is a warning to Michael Gavin, a
New York-based market strategist at Barclays, because it
underscores the complacency that’s pervaded the debt markets as
the Fed flooded the economy with cheap money.  Ten-year Treasuries are at their most expensive in four
months based its so-called term premium, a valuation model used
by the Fed that is calculated by using interest-rate
expectations, economic growth and inflation. The gauge, which
indicates a security is overvalued when its reading is below 0.4
percent, was 0.14 percent for 10-year notes.  Not Safe  “Bonds are increasingly shifting from risk relievers to
securities that add more risk for investors,” Gavin, whose firm
is one of the 21 primary dealers of U.S. government securities
that are obligated to bid at Treasury auctions, said on Oct. 21.
“The bond market isn’t as safe as it was.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries will increase to 2.75 percent
by year-end as the economy regains the momentum it lost because
of the government shutdown,  Jan Hatzius , the chief economist at
New York-based Goldman Sachs, wrote in a report dated Oct. 22.  U.S. gross domestic product will increase by 2.6 percent
next year, a full percentage point more than in 2013, based on a
Bloomberg survey of 75 economists. By 2015, growth is projected
accelerate 3 percent, which would be the fastest in a decade,
the polls show.  Corporate profits for S&P 500 companies have almost doubled
since 2008, and earnings in each of the next two years will
increase by more than 10 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s more than twice as much as the 4.8 percent increase
that analysts project for 2013.  ‘Better Opportunities’  Of the 244 companies in the index that have reported third-quarter results, 76 percent posted higher-than-estimated
earnings, the data show. While earnings have helped fuel a 23
percent  advance  in the S&P 500 to a record this year, its price-earnings ratio of 16.7 is still less than the average multiple
of 19.3 for the past 15 years.  “Because of the growth outlook there are opportunities
that provide compensation plus a margin of safety that
Treasuries do not,” Jeffrey Schoenfeld, the chief investment
officer at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., which oversees $33
billion, said on Oct. 23. “There are better opportunities than
Treasuries right now if you do your homework.”  Schoenfeld said the New York-based company sold of all its
holdings of Treasuries and is investing in financial company
bonds and inflation-protected securities.  Lost Appeal  U.S. government debt  has already lost some of its appeal
among  foreign  investors. They were net sellers of Treasuries for
five-straight months ended August, disposing of $133 billion in
that span, last week’s Treasury data showed.  The streak is the longest since 2001 as China, the largest
overseas U.S. creditor,  reduced  its holdings to $1.268 trillion,
the least since February.  The last time Treasuries moved as closely with equities was
in 2007, the year before the collapse of the housing market
sparked the deepest U.S. contraction since the Great Depression.  Treasuries soared and stocks plummeted the following year
as the risk relationship between the two assets was restored.
With the economy recovering from the depths of that recession,
Treasuries may be more vulnerable to a selloff this time.  When Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled in May that the
central bank could taper its stimulus in “the next few
meetings” if the U.S. posts sustained growth, Treasuries
swooned and caused yields on the 10-year notes to surge by more
than a percentage point in 3 1/2 months.  “The interest-rate risk is significant for Treasuries at
these low yield levels,”  Zach Pandl , a Minneapolis-based senior
interest-rate strategist at Columbia Management Investment
Advisers, which oversees $340 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “It doesn’t take much. We’ve already had a reminder
of how violent things can get this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  