-- Cameron’s U.K. Train Project Jolted as Labour Cost Qualms Grow
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-10-27T14:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/cameron-s-u-k-train-project-jolted-as-labour-cost-qualms-grow.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s High
Speed 2 rail plan for the U.K. drew further unease over costs
from the opposition  Labour Party , as a minister pledged the bill
for the infrastructure project won’t increase.  The 42.6 billion-pound ($69 billion) budget set in June
“hasn’t changed at all and that number includes within it a
significant amount of contingency,” Chief Secretary to the
Treasury  Danny Alexander , a Liberal Democrat in Cameron’s
Conservative-led coalition, said on the  BBC ’s Marr show today.
“We have set that budget and we will stick to it.”  The rail line known as HS2, intended initially to run from
 London  to Manchester in the north of  England , was proposed by
the previous Labour government and then championed by Cameron
after he took power in 2010. Since then, a backlash from
Conservative lawmakers with constituencies affected and mounting
costs have dogged the project, while Cameron suggested last week
that it can’t proceed without Labour’s backing.  “We have to keep a strong eye on the costs as well as on
the benefits,” Labour Deputy Leader Harriet Harman said on the
same show after Alexander spoke. “This is a massive amount of
public money. It’s got to be well spent.”  She echoed comments yesterday on BBC Radio 5 by  Ed Balls ,
who speaks for Labour on Treasury issues. Meanwhile the party’s
transport spokeswoman, Mary Creagh, told the Sunday Times that
there are “a whole series of questions” hanging over the
project, and when asked if Labour might oppose it at the 2015
election, she said she didn’t know.  Lack of Enthusiasm  While the Labour leadership’s enthusiasm for HS2 is
lacking, the party is torn on the matter. Former Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw, whose constituency is in the north of
England, told  Sky News  he strongly supports the project.  “Of course I understand that Ed Balls should worry about
the cost,” he said, speaking from Manchester. “HS2 is one way
in which we rebalance our economy north and south.”  A poll by the BBC’s Sunday Politics show of more than 20
lawmakers in northeast England found mixed views on the project,
with 43 percent in favor and 33 percent against.  Bob Crow , general secretary of the RMT union, whose members
include rail workers, called on political parties to reaffirm
their backing and push through with HS2.  “The latest outbreak of political posturing between Labour
and the Tories over high speed rail is just another smokescreen
designed to allow the politicians to delay investment in
Britain’s railways even longer,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  Cheaper Alternative  Labour lawmaker Kelvin Hopkins has presented Balls with an
alternative plan to reopen a route called the Grand Central Line
that was closed in the 1960s, with a cheaper price tag of 6
billion pounds, the Sunday Telegraph reported. The line ran from
London to Nottingham, with links to Leeds and Manchester, the
Telegraph said.  Alexander, the Treasury minister, said that the government
will apply the same techniques and rigor to the project as it
did for delivering work for the  Olympic Games . He said that the
economic case for it remains persuasive.  “HS2 is something which can transform the economic
geography of this country,” he said. “When you talk to the
civic leaders in Manchester and Birmingham, they will tell you,
they see this as a huge boost for their cities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  