-- Cardinals Beat Red Sox 5-4 on World Series Obstruction Call
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-27T06:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/cardinals-beat-red-sox-5-4-on-obstruction-call-in-world-series.html
Allen Craig scored the winning run
on an obstruction call in the bottom of the ninth inning as the
 St. Louis  Cardinals grabbed the World Series lead with a 5-4
victory over the  Boston Red Sox .  The Cardinals hold a two-games-to-one advantage in the
best-of-seven series going into tonight’s Game 4 at Busch
Stadium in St. Louis,  Missouri .  Craig, pinch-hitting for pitcher Trevor Rosenthal with the
score tied at 4-4, doubled to move Yadier Molina to third with
one out. Jon Jay hit a ground ball and Red Sox second-baseman
Dustin Pedroia threw home to catcher  Jarrod Saltalamacchia , who
tagged out Molina and then threw wide of  Boston ’s third baseman
Will Middlebrooks in an attempt to put out Craig. As Craig then
started for home he was tripped by Middlebrooks’s legs and
third-base umpire Jim Joyce ruled obstruction, saying he would
have scored without the interference.  “When he tried to advance from third base, Middlebrooks’s
feet were in the air and he tripped,” Joyce said in a televised
interview. “I immediately called obstruction.”  Rosenthal said he couldn’t remember the language in the
rule although he agreed there was obstruction to Craig’s
movement.  ‘Crazy Game’  “Baseball is a crazy game,” he said. “Anything can
happen.”  Craig returned for the Series from a sprained left foot
that had sidelined him since early September. After he slid into
home plate on the final play, he limped off the field.  “Crazy play, having to do an obstacle course to go home
and sprint as fast as I could was the hardest I’ve run for a
couple of months. I had to try to jump over him. I was a little
sore when I got up.”  Craig said he believed he was out and didn’t know the
Cardinals had won until he looked up and saw his team running at
him and Pedroia screaming.  “Unbelievable,” Molina said of the play.  Middlebrooks, who was on his stomach at third base as Craig
tried to get by him, said there was no place for him to go as he
already was five feet off the baseline.  “There’s nothing I could have done differently,” he said.
“You got to go for the ball. You just can’t let it go. It blows
your mind to lose a game like that but you literally can’t let
it go.”  Matt Holliday  and Molina each hit run-scoring singles in
the first inning off starter Jake Peavy. Boston’s Mike Carp and
Daniel Nava tied the game at 2-2 with hits in the fifth and
sixth innings.  Holliday hit a two-run double in the seventh before Nava
and Xander Bogaerts tied the game again in the eighth inning.  “This game’s not going to define our team,” Pedroia said.  Rosenthal (1-0) allowed one hit and struck out two in 1 2/3
innings for the win. Brandon Workman (0-1) took the loss, giving
up one run on one hit in 1/3 inning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  