-- Cardinals’ Carlos Beltran Named Roberto Clemente Award Winner
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-27T04:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/cardinals-carlos-beltran-named-roberto-clemente-award-winner.html
St. Louis  Cardinals rightfielder
 Carlos Beltran  was named the recipient of the 2013 Roberto Clemente Award for sportsmanship and community involvement.  Beltran, 36, was honored last night before Game 3 of the
World Series between the Cardinals and Boston Red Sox at Busch
Stadium in St. Louis. The Cardinals won 5-4 to take a two-games-to-one lead in the best-of-seven series.  “ Major League Baseball  is thrilled to present our most
prestigious off-field honor, the Roberto Clemente Award, to a
fellow gifted Puerto Rican standout, Carlos Beltran,” MLB
Commissioner  Bud Selig  said.  The award is named for the Hall of Famer and 15-time All-Star who died in a plane crash on New Year’s Eve 1972 while
attempting to deliver supplies to earthquake victims in
 Nicaragua .  “I’ve said many times throughout my career, the impact
Roberto Clemente has had on me, not only as a baseball player,
but also as a humanitarian and Puerto Rican,” Beltran said in a
statement. “I am so humbled and blessed that God has given me
the opportunity to help others and make an impact on the lives
of children, just as Roberto did for many years.”  Beltran and his wife, Jessica, founded the Carlos Beltran
Foundation to help young people achieve through sports and
education. In Puerto Rico, the foundation opened the Carlos
Beltran Academy to develop young athletes.  Selig said the Beltran family’s “commitment to making a
difference in the lives of young people in St. Louis and their
home of Puerto Rico is a powerful example for others and a
testament to the philanthropic spirit of Roberto Clemente.”  Beltran joins  Albert Pujols , Lou Brock and Ozzie Smith as
members of the Cardinals to receive the award.  Beltran batted .296 and led the Cardinals in home runs with
24 for a second consecutive season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  