-- China Signals ‘Unprecedented’ Policy Changes on Agenda at Plenum
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-27T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/china-signals-unprecedented-policy-changes-on-agenda-at-plenum.html
Chinese Politburo member Yu Zhengsheng said reforms to be discussed at a Communist Party
meeting next month will be unprecedented, adding to signs that
leaders are resolved to spur far-reaching policy changes.  Yu’s comments, made in a speech at a forum to promote
relations with  Taiwan , were reported by the official Xinhua News
Agency on Oct. 26. Yu is ranked fourth in the seven-strong
Politburo Standing Committee headed by party chief and President
Xi Jinping.  Premier  Li Keqiang  has pledged to cut the state’s role in
the economy, change the financial and fiscal systems, and
overhaul land and household registration rules to sustain
growth. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News this month said
policies flowing from the meeting, called the third plenum, will
reduce the odds of a severe slowdown and help  China  become a
high-income country by 2030.  The meeting “will focus on studying comprehensive and deep
reform,” Yu was quoted as saying in Xinhua’s report. “The
depth and strength of the reforms will be unprecedented and will
promote profound changes in every area of the economy and
society.” The report didn’t refer to any policies or measures.  Yu’s remarks follow comments Xi made to foreign business
executives last week that “comprehensive reforms” would be
“planned out” during the plenum, according to an English-language Xinhua  report  on Oct. 23 that didn’t specify any
policies. Dates for the meeting haven’t been announced.  Creative Forces  “We must properly handle the relations between reform,
development and stability, and with greater political courage
and wisdom, further open our minds, unleash and develop social
productivity, and enhance the creative forces of the society,”
Xi was quoted as saying.  Next month’s gathering will be the third full meeting, or
plenum, of the party’s current  Central Committee , including Xi,
Li, ministers and the heads of the biggest state firms and
banks, who took over in a once-a-decade power transition that
started in late 2012. Thirty-five years ago, a similar Communist
Party gathering saw  Deng Xiaoping  and his allies inaugurate a
series of reforms that began to open up China to foreign
investment and loosen state controls over the economy.  “I don’t expect to see concrete measures announced at the
meeting, but I do expect to see concrete setting of a clear
direction and objectives,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief China
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  Hong Kong  who
previously worked for the  World Bank  in Beijing. “It’s clear
that in the financial and monetary areas there’s a full mandate
to move ahead, but so far we haven’t had the same signals in
other key areas of reform.”  ’Pretty Tame’  The government has already made progress in areas including
cutting regulation, “but that’s low hanging fruit,” Kuijs
said. “Some recent statements, such as on the fiscal front,
seem to indicate it’s going to be pretty tame.”  China has pared its growth ambitions, targeting annual
expansion of 7 percent this decade, compared with the 10.5
percent  average  pace of the last 10 years.  Bloomberg’s survey of analysts conducted from Oct. 11 to
Oct. 18 indicated that the odds of a severe slowdown in China or
a credit crisis will fall after the summit as leaders tackle
local-government debt and financial reforms.  Fifteen of 23 economists and political analysts said
policies flowing from the meeting will reduce such risks, and a
majority said the plans will help China become a high-income
economy by 2030.  Asked which reforms are most needed now and most likely in
the next 12 months, survey respondents ranked changes in
financial markets and local-government funding as both most
urgent and probable. Expectations were lower for reforms to the
residence-registration or hukou system, which limits labor
mobility, the rule of law and state-owned enterprises.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net ;
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  