-- Chong Hing Bank Shares Slump as Yue Xiu Bids for Control
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-28T05:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/chong-hing-bank-shareholders-poised-for-7-5-gain-on-bid.html
Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111)  shares tumbled
the most in five years as the stock resumed trading after Yue
Xiu Group offered $1.5 billion for a majority stake in the  Hong
Kong  lender.  Chong Hing sank 8.3 percent to HK$34.30 as of the city’s
noon trading break, the biggest intraday drop since Oct. 23,
2008, after Yue Xiu bid HK$35.69 a share for 75 percent of the
bank. Chong Hing wants to sell its headquarters to its parent,
following which it will pay a HK$4.5195 per-share dividend to
investors accepting Yue Xiu’s bid, according to a joint
statement on Oct. 25.  The stock more than doubled since Lau Wai-man was named as
the first chief executive officer from outside the founding Liu
family on Nov. 28, valuing Chong Hing at 69 percent more than
the average for the largest banks listed in Hong Kong. The first
acquisition of a Hong Kong lender since 2009 will give Yue Xiu,
controlled by the Guangzhou city government in southern  China , a
network of 53 branches.  “The stock’s seen a massive push as there were
expectations the new CEO would be an agent for change,”  Gavin Parry , managing director of Hong Kong-based brokerage Parry
International Trading Ltd., wrote in an e-mail today. “With Yue
Xiu buying 75 percent, its hard to see any more premium to come
as expectations for a bidding war subside.”  Chong Hing Bank shares resumed trading today after a two-day suspension. The stock surged 7 percent on Oct. 23 after
Bloomberg News reported the bank was nearing a deal. Nomura
Holdings Inc. is advising Yue Xiu, according to the statement.
UBS AG is Chong Hing Bank’s adviser.  Trading Company  Yue Xiu’s offer values Chong Hing at 2.08 times book value
as of June 30, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Including
the special dividend from the property sale, the lender is worth
2.35 times, according to a Barclays Plc report yesterday.  At the end of last week, the  bank  traded at 2.2 times its
book value, more than the average multiple of 1.3 for the 16
largest bank stocks listed in Hong Kong, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “We believe that Chong Hing Bank’s share price will return
to levels consistent with normal banking operations” without
any merger premium, Steven Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Maybank Kim Eng Securities Pte, wrote in a report today. The
stock may fall to HK$18.31, he said.  Yue Xiu, founded in 1985 by Guangzhou as a trading company
for Hong Kong and Macau, needs approval from the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority to buy the stake in Chong Hing Bank,
according to the statement. Companies controlled by the Liu
family will sell shares equal to about 51 percent of the bank.  The Chinese firm, which  operates in  businesses including
real estate, securities and transportation infrastructure, said
it intends to keep Chong Hing’s stock exchange listing.  Overseas Expansion  Hong Kong’s role as an international center for trade in
 yuan  has attracted Chinese financial institutions seeking to
expand abroad. China Merchants Bank Co. paid $4.7 billion for
the Wu family’s Wing Lung Bank Ltd. in a deal completed in 2009.  The increasing integration of Chinese and Hong Kong firms
was driven by increased cooperation between the city and the
mainland’s economy, the internationalization of China’s currency
and Hong Kong’s development as an offshore yuan center,
according to a section in the Oct. 25 statement explaining the
reasons for Yue Xiu’s offer.  Yuan Lending  Outstanding loans in Hong Kong denominated in the
mainland’s currency surged to 115.4 billion yuan ($19 billion)
in August from 1.8 billion yuan in 2010, HKMA data show. Yuan-denominated debt securities, known as  Dim Sum bonds , jumped to
294 billion yuan at the end of June from 55.8 billion yuan in
2010.  Chong Hing Bank will sell its headquarters on Des Voeux
Road in Hong Kong’s city center to  Liu Chong Hing Investment
Ltd. (194) , according to the statement. The building was valued at
HK$2.23 billion, or more than eight times its HK$264 million
carrying value on the bank’s books, the statement showed.  The lender’s properties are carried at historical values on
its balance sheet, meaning they may not represent the buildings’
current market value.  The lender, founded in 1948 as Liu Chong Hing Bank Ltd.,
dropped the family name in December 2006 to “more accurately
reflect the public nature of the bank,” according to its
 website . Lau replaced Liu Lit-chi, a family member who had spent
more than 50 years at the bank.  Chong Hing’s network of 51 branches in Hong Kong compares
with more than 260 at  BOC Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. , the Bank of
China Ltd. unit that’s the biggest local lender. Chong Hing also
has one branch each in Macau and mainland China.  Family Banks  The number of publicly traded family-run banks in Hong Kong
has fallen to four from six more than a decade ago after China
Merchants bought Wing Lung and Public Bank Bhd. of Malaysia took
over Asia Commercial Bank. In addition to Chong Hing, Bank of
East Asia Ltd.,  Dah Sing Banking Group Ltd. (2356)  and  Wing Hang Bank
Ltd. (302)  are the family lenders.  Wing Hang’s stock surged 37 percent in Hong Kong trading
through last week from Sept. 16, when the bank said its largest
investors were in talks to sell their equity. The Fung family,
its affiliates and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. together own
about 45 percent of the shares, which lost 1.2 percent today.  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ,  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest lender, is considering a bid for Wing Hang, people
familiar with the matter said Oct. 24. Singapore-based OCBC had
been studying an offer for the Hong Kong bank for more than two
weeks, one of the people said.  Cheaper Stocks  News flow on mergers and acquisitions “will continue and
should be a positive catalyst” for smaller bank stocks, Franco Lam and Tracy Yu, Hong Kong-based analysts at Deutsche Bank AG,
wrote in an Oct. 25 report. Dah Sing Bank and its parent  Dah
Sing Financial (440)  Holdings Ltd. “stand out as the most inexpensive
M&A plays in the market,” they wrote.  Dah Sing Bank traded for 1.2 times book after an 87 percent
surge in its shares this year to last week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Dah Sing Financial, which has risen 48 percent
in 2013, has a multiple of 1. The two stocks dropped more than 5
percent today.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  