-- Colombia’s FARC Frees U.S. Man Four Months After Capture on Trek
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2013-10-27T20:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/colombia-s-farc-frees-u-s-man-four-months-after-capture-on-trek.html
A Colombian Marxist group released a
U.S. man taken prisoner in June after he ignored warnings from
police and hotel staff not to attempt a trek through rebel-controlled jungle.  Kevin Scott Sutay was examined by a doctor and deemed to be
in good enough physical condition to travel, the International
Committee of the Red Cross said today in a  statement . He was
turned over to representatives from  Colombia , Cuba, Norway and
the International Committee of the Red Cross, according to the
statement.  A former member of the U.S. armed forces, Sutay was
kidnapped June 20 in Guaviare province, a remote jungle and
cattle-ranching area in southern Colombia. The U.S. Embassy in
Bogota said in an e-mailed statement at the time that he had no
current connection to the military.  The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, which
has been fighting since 1964, had signaled since July that it
planned to release him to the International Committee of the Red
Cross. The FARC is in  peace talks  with Colombian government
negotiators in Cuba.  A week before he was abducted, Sutay said in an interview
he planned to walk through more than 300 miles (483 kilometers)
of  rain forest  to the town of Inirida, on the border with
Venezuela. Staff at the hotel where he was staying and local
police tried to dissuade him.  Sutay said he was from Raleigh,  North Carolina , and had
mainly traveled by land through Mexico and Central America to
reach Colombia. Sutay said he planned to dodge FARC patrols by
keeping off trails and pioneering across the jungle using
survival skills he learned in the army.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , in a  statement  today,
thanked the Colombian government and International Committee of
the Red Cross for helping to secure Sutay’s release, along with
the Rev.  Jesse Jackson  for advocating on his behalf.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  