-- To Fight al-Shabaab, Clean Up Somalia
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/combating-corruption-in-somalia.html
In the wake of the barbarous attack
on  Kenya ’s Westgate shopping mall last month, United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon wants decisive action against the
group responsible for at least 67 deaths, the Somalia-based  al-Shabaab .  He proposes  adding 4,000 African Union troops to the  18,000
already in Somalia  and providing the forces with attack
helicopters and other advanced equipment so they can pursue al-Shabaab in its sanctuaries in the rural south.  The idea sounds reasonable. In addition to attacking Kenya,
al-Shabaab struck  Uganda  in 2010, killing more than 70 people,
and this year it has repeatedly assaulted Somalia’s capital,
Mogadishu. The group controls parts of southern Somalia,
including the port of Baraawe, from which U.S. commandos
retreated under fire earlier this month, having failed to
capture an al-Shabaab commander.  Before the UN expands the role of the AU troops, however,
it should first work to clean up the mission. One of its
components, the 4,600-strong Kenyan contingent, has been  a force
for ill  as much as good in the effort to stabilize Somalia; its
corruption is even helping to enrich al-Shabaab.  The Kenyan troops have been instrumental in ejecting al-Shabaab from its urban strongholds, notably the city of Kismayo
in September 2012. The port had been key to al-Shabaab’s $25
million a year in earnings from the export of charcoal made from
acacia trees. The razing of trees for this trade has turned lush
areas of Somalia into deserts, which contributed to a famine in
2010 and 2011 that killed 260,000 people, according to the UN’s
estimate. In 2012, the UN Security Council  banned  the import and
export of Somali charcoal.  One might have expected the Kenyans, once in control of
Kismayo, to enforce the export ban. Instead, they  collaborated 
with the Ras Kamboni militia led by a former al-Shabaab ally to
increase violations. By July 2013, Somalia’s charcoal exports
had risen 140 percent.  The trade at Kismayo is divided between Kenyan business
interests, Ras Kamboni and, astonishingly, al-Shabaab. People
connected to the group control a third of the exports, and al-Shabaab continues to tax trucks heading to Kismayo. With the
income from exports from Baraawe, the charcoal trade is earning
al-Shabaab more than ever, the UN estimates.  So before pushing to expand the AU force -- which the UN
supports logistically -- Ban should first require that the
Kenyan contingent respect the charcoal sanctions. The U.S.,
which has provided training and other assistance for the
Kenyans, and the European Union, which pays their allowances,
should second the demand.  Ending the Kenyans’ corruption is essential to repairing
the AU mission’s credibility, as well as the UN’s. Cutting off
al-Shabaab’s charcoal profits would also make the group more
vulnerable to Ban’s proposed assault on its remaining refuges.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 