-- Czech Election Winner Feuds Before Talks With Billionaire
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-10-28T11:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/czech-election-winner-feuds-before-talks-with-billionaire.html
The Czech  Social Democrats  sank into
internal bickering before talks to form a government as they
stake a return to power on a billionaire-backed party that
opposes their key policy plan to increase taxes.  The  Social Democrats , who campaigned on pledges to raise
state spending, took 20.5 percent of the votes in an
unexpectedly close Oct. 25-26 ballot. ANO, a pro-business party
founded by tycoon Andrej Babis two years ago, garnered 18.7
percent, followed by the Communists with 14.9 percent, the
Statistics Office  said .  Voters from  Prague  to Ostrava punished parties ensnared in
corruption scandals as they joined an anti-austerity wave that
has brought down leaders during  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Disappointed in the vote outcome, the Social Democrats’
leadership last night called on Chairman Bohuslav Sobotka to
resign and left him off the negotiating team for government
talks with ANO and the Christian Democrats.  “It’s obvious that there’s a risk of deadlock, and the
government won’t be able to do much,”  Daniel Hewitt , an
economist at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in  London , said by phone yesterday.
“They need to loosen fiscal policy, and it would be a shame if
they had such deadlock that they couldn’t at least bring the
deficit up to 3 percent of gross domestic product at this time
when growth is not very strong.”  The deficit adjusted for one-time accounting operations was
2.5 percent of economic output last year. Jiri Rusnok, the
current technocrat premier, sees the 2013 gap at less than the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of GDP.  Parliament Divided  The Social Democrats, the largest opposition party during
the past seven years, won 50 mandates in the 200-seat
parliament, followed by ANO with 47 and the  Communists  with 33.
The Christian Democrats will have 14 deputies.  Three more parties will enter parliament, with the
fragmented legislature compounding the  Czech Republic ’s history
of political instability as it prepares to install the eighth
prime minister in the past decade.  Investors have ignored the political track record as the
Czech  economy  doubled in size from 2003 to $196 billion,
according to World Bank data. The  yield  on the country’s 10-year
government bond is the lowest in emerging Europe and has
averaged 3.9 percent over the past decade, compared with 5.6
percent for  Poland  and 3.5 percent for higher-rated  France. (GFRN10)   Below Treasuries  The rate on 10-year  koruna  debt was unchanged at 2.34
percent today at 12:45 p.m. in Prague as Czech banks were closed
for a public holiday. The yield was 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, below comparable U.S. Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The koruna weakened 0.1 percent to 25.736 per euro, paring
last week’s 0.4 percent advance. It has gained 1.1 percent in
the second half, the fourth-best performance among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  President Milos Zeman has the right to name a party leader
to try to form a cabinet. Zeman, a former chairman of the Social
Democrats, said he would resign if he were in Sobotka’s place,
according to an interview published yesterday on the website of
the magazine Tyden.  Zeman won’t name the new premier before parliament meets
for an inaugural session in the last week of November, the first
directly elected Czech president said yesterday. Government
talks may drag on for as long as three months, Zeman told the
public broadcaster Czech Television.  Internal Rift  The Social Democrats succumbed to an internal rift as the
party leadership called on Sobotka to resign because of the
disappointing election result. Sobotka, the 42-year-old former
finance minister, refused to step down, telling reporters in
Prague the appeal was an “attack on the party’s unity.”  The Social Democrats plan to raise taxes on top earners and
businesses including banks, utilities and telecommunication
companies to finance spending increases on pensions and
infrastructure. The party is targeting a budget  deficit  of less
than 3 percent of economic output.  While ANO opposes tax increases, the party will consider
“tolerating” a minority Social-Democrat-led government if
there is enough policy overlap, Babis said in televised remarks.
ANO’s newly elected members of parliament are expected to meet
tomorrow to debate how to proceed, he said  The  Christian Democrats  campaigned for the introduction of
constitutional limits to curtail state debt, a proposal rejected
by the Social Democrats in the previous election term.  Coalition Doomed?  Differing economic plans will provoke tension among the
potential three-member governing alliance, similar to the
previous ruling coalition that disintegrated after quarreling
over money and posts, according to Jan Outly, a political
scientist at the Metropolitan University of Prague.  “I’m quite skeptical,” Outly said by phone yesterday.
“So far nothing suggests that such a coalition would survive a
full term. We will see bickering among the parties, rifts inside
the Social Democrats, and there is also the factor of the
unpredictable ANO.”  While the risk of political instability exists, cooperation
between the Social Democrats and ANO may prevent a full reversal
of the previous government’s austerity approach, according to
Marek Drimal, an economist at Komercni Banka AS in Prague.  “The overall result may be slightly positive for  market
sentiment  as the Social Democrats and Communists don’t control
parliament the way opinion polls suggested,” he said by phone
yesterday. “Any government will raise public spending, but with
Babis now being a key player, the funds are more likely to go
into things like transport infrastructure rather than social
benefits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  