-- Deere to Mahindra Gain as Farmers Lose Workers: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-10-28T11:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/dearth-of-farm-hands-spurs-demand-for-tractors-corporate-india.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) ,  India ’s
biggest tractor maker, forecasts it will outperform the industry
this fiscal year as a shortage of farm hands, rising labor costs
and the best monsoon rains in six years drives demand.  The  automaker ’s tractor sales will exceed the industrywide
growth forecast of as much as 12 percent, Rajesh Jejurikar,
chief executive officer of Mumbai-based Mahindra’s farm
equipment business, said in an interview by phone. Capacity
utilization at the company, which operates seven tractor plants
in India, is “very high,” he said, declining to give details.  Cultivators are losing farm hands to a government
employment guarantee program to work on projects such as roads
and canals encouraging demand for tractors from Mahindra to
 Deere & Co. (DE)  An increase in labor costs to harvest crops in the
world’s second-most populated nation is also prompting tillers
to look at mechanization amid a bountiful monsoon season that is
forecast to lift production of crops such as cotton and wheat to
a record.  “Because of the big shortage of labor, farmers are opting
for greater mechanization as well as higher horse power
tractors,” said Jejurikar. “When you have a good monsoon,
there is a huge boost in sentiment as well as improved cash
flows for farmers.”  Tractors, SUVs  Mahindra’s local tractor sales rose a record 24 percent to
128,626 units in the six months ended September. The farm
equipment business accounted for 20 percent of its revenue in
the year ended March, while its automotive business including
 sport utility vehicles  contributed 61 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The surge in tractor sales comes as industrywide passenger
vehicle deliveries are poised for the first drop since 2002.  Deliveries of tractors in India will rise at a compounded
annual pace of as much as 9 percent over the next five years as
the government backs rural development and farm mechanization,
coupled with scarcity of labor and moderate ownership, according
to Subrata Ray, senior group vice president at ICRA Ltd., part
owned by Moody’s Investors Service.  That’s encouraging other manufacturers to expand in India.  Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, this month
opened an $80 million factory, its second, in the central Indian
state of  Madhya Pradesh . The plant will make tractors for local
demand as well as exports, the company said on Oct. 22.  “In the long run, there will be increased competition and
that may affect margin, but in the short term we don’t see too
much pressure,” said Shaukat Ali, an analyst with Quantum
Securities Ltd. “If there is a significant capacity build up,
in slow periods there may be pricing pressure.”  Monsoon Boost  With more than half the cultivated area in India being
rainfed and the four-month monsoon season accounting for about
70 percent of total rainfall, a good monsoon boosts farm output.
India received the highest rainfall since 2007 in the season
that extends from June 1 to Sept. 30, according to the nation’s
meteorological department.  Production of food grains in the 2013-14 season will
probably reach a record as planting expanded after the rains
covered the entire nation early, Agricultural Minister  Sharad Pawar  said last month. India is the world’s second-largest
grower of rice, wheat, cotton and sugar.  “The last two years were bad for the tractor industry,”
said S. Sridhar, the chief executive officer for agricultural
machinery at tractor maker  Escorts Ltd. (ESC)  “The monsoon at a
record changed that as it put sentiment at a high.”  Availability, Costs  Cultivators in the country face another problem. The
proportion of total workers employed in agriculture declined to
54.6 percent in 2011 from 58.2 percent in 2001, according to the
latest Census data.  Labor costs in farming have risen 20 percent annually in
the past three years, according to a report in August by the
 Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices .  India guarantees 100 days of employment a year to rural
households, giving an adult member unskilled manual work. About
80 million people got such work in the year ended March,
according to the  government website . The average wage per day
per person increased to 125 rupees this year, compared with
114.5 rupees in the 12 months ended March 2012.  These factors are prompting cultivators to use more
mechanized implements including tractors and harvesters. Escorts
and Mahindra are banking on customers shifting to higher
horsepower tractors.  “Because Mahindra has a wide range of tractors and large
number of dealers, it stands to gain from the increase in
demand,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst at Brics Securities Ltd.
in Mumbai. “Other manufacturers tend to be restricted either in
terms of product range or in geographical reach.”  Mahindra, which says it has the biggest share of the market
at about 41 percent, has more than 900 dealers.  Tractor Range  The company offers a range of tractors starting from the
15-horsepower Yuvraj to 85-HP Arjun International. It plans to
unveil a “brand new platform” as early as the end of fiscal
2014,  Pawan Goenka , president of Mahindra’s automotive and farm
equipment segments, said in a call with investors in August.  Mahindra said in August its profit grew about 35 percent
from the segment and operating margin expanded by more than 1
percent.  “Tractors are a cash cow for Mahindra,” said Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst at Quant Broking Pvt. in Mumbai. “This
year, the tractor segment will prop up the declines in the
utility vehicle business for Mahindra.”  In contrast, the automaker’s passenger vehicle deliveries
plummeted 13 percent to 125,264 units as buyers in cities stay
away from showrooms amid weaker economic growth and accelerating
inflation. The company has laid off 1,000 contract employees as
well as instituted no-production days to counter the slump in
demand for its sport utility vehicles and cars.  Earnings Estimates  Shares of Mahindra gained 0.1 percent to 868.90 rupees at
the close in Mumbai. The stock has declined 6.7 percent this
year, compared with a 3.2 percent gain in the S&P BSE Auto
Index.  The automaker’s net income will probably be little changed
in the 12 months ending March from a year earlier, according to
the median of seven  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales will increase 22 percent, faster than the pace a year
earlier, according to the estimates.  Mahindra is counting on its tractor business to benefit
from a surge in demand from villages.  “The rural economy is doing well,” said Jejurikar.
“Sentiment plays a very important role in rural sales and this
year is positive on a variety of factors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  