-- Democratic Governor Beshear Says the U.S. Health Law Will Work
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-10-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/democratic-governor-beshear-says-u-s-health-care-law-will-work.html
The U.S. health-care law will work
after the administration of President  Barack Obama  fixes the
program’s website,  Kentucky  Governor Steve Beshear said.  “It’s going to be a success,” Beshear, a Democrat who has
led the creation of Kentucky’s health-insurance exchange, said
on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program yesterday. “They’re going
to fix it.”  Since opening for business Oct. 1, the healthcare.gov Web
portal to the federal exchange serving 36 states has been
plagued by delays, error messages and hang-ups that have
prevented customers from enrolling in a health insurance plan.  “Everybody needs to chill out because it is going to
work,” Beshear said. “These plans and Medicaid are directed
toward prevention and wellness, and that is the future of health
care and I think everybody knows it.”  More than 300,000 people have visited Kentucky’s health-care exchange website, and more than 26,000 people have signed
up for plans, with 10,000 more “in the process of choosing,”
Beshear said.  Ohio Governor  John Kasich , a Republican, said the U.S.
health-care program known as Obamacare doesn’t control costs.  “The rollout is the least of the problem here,” Kasich
said. “In my state most Ohioans are going to pay higher
costs.”  Cybersecurity Plan  Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, told  CNN ’s “ State
of the Union ” that consumer privacy is at risk as personal
information is exchanged between government agencies.  “That’s the weakest, most vulnerable part,” Rogers said.
“They do not have an overarching, solid cybersecurity plan to
prevent the loss of private information.”  Obama has brought in Jeffrey Zients, the U.S. chief
performance officer, to fix healthcare.gov.  Zients promised on Oct. 25  the site , home to the insurance
exchanges where Americans can buy health insurance under the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, will be
fixed by December. Coverage is also available via state-run
exchanges in 17 states and the  District of Columbia  under the
Obama health care program.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who
heads the House Oversight panel , said Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  may need to resign because of the
troubled health care rollout.  “The president has been poorly served,” Issa said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “If she cannot reorganize to
get the kind of a team consistently to meet his agenda, then she
shouldn’t be there.”  As a result of the enrollment difficulties, a group of
Senate Democrats are calling for an extension of the period in
which Americans can sign up without facing penalties. The
current deadline is March 31.  Rollout ‘Disaster’  “The rollout has been a disaster,”  New Hampshire ’s
Democratic Senator Jeanne Shaheen, part of the group, said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “What I’m proposing is that
we extend the period in which people can enroll, so we can make
sure we get as many people who want health insurance able to
enroll and be able to be covered.”  Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia Democrat, repeated his
call for a delay in the implementation of the penalty for the
individual mandate. He said he is trying to put together a
bipartisan coalition to push back until January 2015 the $95
fine for not enrolling.  “At that time, the fine will be $325,” Manchin said
yesterday on ABC’s “This Week” program. “It will still induce
people to get involved, but it will also give us the time to
transition in.”  Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming Republican who also spoke
on the ABC program, said “the website was supposed to be the
easy part” of the initiative and said the glitches are “just
the tip of the iceberg.”  “The president made promises that this was going to be
cheaper than your cellphone bill, easier to use than Amazon, and
you could keep your doctor,” Barrasso said. People across the
country “are seeing that’s just not true,” he said..  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  