-- Dutch Copy Fannie Mae Seen by BlackRock as Taxpayer Risk
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-10-28T12:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/dutch-copy-fannie-mae-seen-by-blackrock-as-taxpayer-risk.html
The Dutch, whose economy is
suffering from a housing-market collapse made worse by tighter
regulation, plan to issue government-backed mortgage bonds to
loosen lending and ensure the country avoids a repeat of the
2008 crisis when credit dried up.  Banks, pension funds and the Dutch government agreed last
month to establish a  finance company  that will buy some of the
highest-rated securitized mortgages from lenders with funding
from government-guaranteed home-loan bonds. The program would
issue at least 50 billion euros ($69 billion) within five years
to reduce lenders’ reliance on capital markets for funding.  The Netherlands’ government wants to lure new mortgage
providers and investors into a market increasingly seen as among
the riskiest in Europe after the Dutch went on a borrowing binge
before the financial crisis and housing prices fell 20 percent.
The  finance ministry  is seeking reassurance the bonds won’t put
taxpayers at risk and needs the blessing of European Union
regulators that the initiative doesn’t break state-aid rules.  “An explicit state guarantee on Dutch-mortgage bonds
creates more transparency and liquidity, which will attract a
broader group of investors,” Harald Benink, professor of
banking and finance at Tilburg University, said in a phone
interview. “That may result in lower costs to fund mortgages
and subsequently cheaper loans for consumers.”  Economic Affairs Minister Henk Kamp is pushing the effort
as the U.K. also adopts state-guaranteed mortgage funding to
support housing. The governments are stepping up involvement in
property even after the U.S. was forced to rescue its mortgage-finance firms  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  five years ago amid a
housing crash.  Market Stress  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, speaking to
lawmakers in  The Hague  on Oct. 17, said the mortgage-finance
company, or NHI, could create a funding source that would
function even in times of market stress and could make it more
appealing for foreign lenders to enter the market. He has to
weigh that advantage against the risks of increasing the amount
of direct and indirect guarantees to more than 500 billion
euros, its level at the end of last year, burdening the
Netherlands’ finances. Almost a third of those are related to
home loans.  The Dutch government will regularly revise risk premiums it
charges for its backing and will stress test its finances next
year, Dijsselbloem said.  While the program may help lending, it also could increase
the risks for the state after another period of surging  house
prices , according to Fons Lute, managing director for the
fiduciary mandates investment team at BlackRock Inc., the
world’s largest money manager.  Boom Risks  It’s “uncertain how the program will work out if there
will be a boom in house prices down the road,” said Lute. “The
construction has similarities to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.”  Dutch mortgage debt more than  doubled  between 2000 and 2008
amid liberal tax breaks and is among the highest in the world at
651 billion euros, or 108 percent of gross domestic product as
of the end of last year. A 20 percent drop in prices since a
2008 peak has left about a third of homeowners with a mortgage
that exceeds the value of their property.  That poses a risk to the country’s banks, which currently
rely on  capital markets  as there is a gap of about 450 billion
euros between loans and deposits. Since 2008, the Dutch are also
served by a shrinking and less-competitive pool of lenders after
banks tried to cut leverage and limit lending, in part to meet
regulatory demands. The three-biggest domestic banks, ING Groep
NV, ABN Amro Group NV and Rabobank Groep, control of 84 percent
of the Dutch mortgage market.  Higher Rates  Dutch borrowers pay 1 percentage point more in interest
than the European Union average because of the lack of
competition, capital restrictions and a ban on price cutting to
win business, the government has said. Cheaper funding through
the new bonds could reduce the difference between mortgages and
rates on government debt by about 0.2 percentage points within a
few years, a committee advising the government said last month.  Other changes, such as the entry of new mortgage providers,
may trigger another decrease of as much as 30 basis points,
according to the committee. Dutch 5-year bonds yield 1.12
percent, 34.7 basis points more than German bonds with an equal
maturity.  Consumers in the Netherlands also have had among the
biggest drops in confidence in  Europe  as the country, in its
third recession in five years, undergoes a revamp of its housing
market aimed at capping risks from excessive debts on
households, banks and the economy.  “If I say homes were increasingly used as cash machines I
would be exaggerating -- although not even that much,” Dutch
central bank President Klaas Knot said in a  speech  on Sept. 23.  Two decades of price increases came to a halt as the Dutch
government took steps to lower maximum loan-to-value ratios to
100 percent by 2018 from 106 percent currently. Interest-only
portions of mortgages were capped at 50 percent of home values
in 2011 and, from this year on, tax breaks only apply for
mortgages that are fully paid over 30 years.  Taxpayer Risks  To reduce the chance of putting taxpayers at greater risk,
the NHI will only accept mortgages covered by a Dutch
Homeownership Guarantee, or NHG. The 783 million-euro fund,
which ultimately is backed by the Dutch government and covered
more than 160 billion euros in mortgages at the end of
September, compensates lenders in case borrowers are forced to
sell their home at a price that’s below the value of their loan.
Additional risks from the NHI, if the plan succeeds, will be
mitigated by premiums, Dijsselbloem said.  While the NHI program brings benefits for banks, investors
and the Dutch state, it remains to be seen whether those
advantages will reach consumers, BlackRock’s Lute said.  “The biggest banks can get sufficient amounts of capital
at relatively low costs already, while the lack of challengers
eliminates any incentives they have to pass the advantage on to
consumers,” said Maarten Pieter Schinkel, professor of
economics at the University of Amsterdam. “There’s a risk large
incumbent mortgage lenders will get better prices for their
securitizations as they are systemic banks and also can mix in
older loans with lower loan-to-values. Newcomers don’t have that
advantage.”  Sound Reasons  For Jeroen Drost, chief executive officer of NIBC Bank NV,
owned by a consortium led by J.C. Flowers & Co., there are sound
reasons for the mechanism stretching back five years.  “You will not help the banks at this moment as right now
markets are functioning,” he told reporters in August. “Don’t
forget, however, in 2008, 2009, 2010 there was nothing. So if
you know there is a mechanism with a large likelihood of
remaining open even in a severe crisis, that gives you greater
piece of mind to grant mortgages.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  