-- Egypt Wins $2.9 Billion in Additional U.A.E. Aid
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-27T11:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/egypt-wins-2-9-billion-in-additional-u-a-e-aid.html
Egypt  secured $2.9 billion in
additional aid from the  United Arab Emirates  to fund development
projects, a move Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi said he hopes
to replicate with other countries.  The U.A.E. announced yesterday a $4.9 billion package to
help the Egyptian economy recover after the ouster of Islamist
President Mohamed Mursi in July. The amount includes a $1
billion grant to the central bank transfered in July and about
$1 billion already being used to help meet Egypt’s fuel and
hydrocarbon needs. The money doesn’t include a $2 billion
deposit at the central bank, El Beblawi said in an interview.  Egypt will use the aid to finance infrastructure projects
to revive an economy that’s been stuck in the worst slowdown in
two decades since the 2011 uprising that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak . The plan includes building 25 wheat silos, 100 schools
and 79 health-care centers, according to yesterday’s
announcement, carried by the U.A.E.’s official news agency.  The package “is a successful model and I hope that this
model can be repeated,” El Beblawi said in an interview
yesterday in  Abu Dhabi , the U.A.E.’s capital. The government
expects “the biggest part of the program to be implemented”
within about nine months, he said. He didn’t say which other
countries Egypt would approach.  Egypt is already drawing on the U.A.E. aid allocated to
fuel products, El Beblawi said. “This will continue until the
end of the year,” he said.  Reserves Bolstered  The Egyptian central bank has received $7 billion in aid
from the U.A.E.,  Saudi Arabia  and  Kuwait  to bolster foreign
exchange reserves after the military removed Mursi from power on
July 3 following days of mass protests against his one-year
rule. The funds helped the Egyptian pound recover and lowered
the government’s domestic borrowing costs.  The benchmark EGX 30 Index of stocks climbed 0.8 percent as
of 12:31 p.m. in Cairo, bringing gains since Mursi’s ouster to
25 percent.  Gulf aid has led Egypt to suspend efforts to seek an $4.8
billion IMF loan it had pursued to boost growth and cut one of
the highest budget deficits in the  Middle East . The government
aims to accelerate growth to at least 3.5 percent this fiscal
year ending in June from about 2 percent in the previous year
while reducing the budget shortfall to about 10 percent of
economic output from almost 14 percent.  ‘New Pattern’  The U.A.E.’s package signals a “new pattern where Arab
countries’ support will take more the form of  project
financing ” instead of cash support, said Mohamed Abu Basha, a
Cairo-based economist at investment bank EFG-Hermes. The decline
in tourism revenue and “weak” capital flows suggest Egypt will
still need “additional financial support to shore up foreign
reserves towards mid-2014 as we continue to see weak dynamics
for the balance of payments,” he said.  For now, the government sees no immediate need for more aid
to improve  foreign reserves , which stood at $18.7 billion in
September, El Beblawi said. “If we need that we will certainly
make that known,” he said. “At present the reserves are good
and the balance of payments is improving. We hope the political
situation stabilizes and tourism will recover.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Riad Hamade in Dubai at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  