-- Egypt’s ‘Jon Stewart’ Lays Bare Nation’s Deepening Rifts
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-10-28T18:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/egypt-channel-says-faces-ire-after-bassem-youssef-s-return.html
Egypt ’s leading political satirist
faces a judicial investigation amid allegations he ridiculed the
military in a show that highlighted the depth of the country’s
divisions.  Bassem Youssef, who had been off-air since favored targets
President Mohamed Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood were pushed
from power by the army in July, returned last week with his Al
Bernameg program, poking fun at the pro-military mood that’s
gripped the country in his absence.  Youssef will be investigated for broadcasting false
information that undermines public security, the Prosecutor
General’s office said in a faxed statement. Complaints filed
with the prosecution office also accused him of mocking Egypt’s
people, army and national symbols.  Army chief Abdelfatah al-Seesi, who removed Mursi from
office, has achieved iconic status in Egypt, making irreverence
toward him a risk. Politicians and a group identifying itself as
the “Al-Seesi for President” campaign said they filed
complaints against Youssef with the prosecutor-general’s office.  The legal adviser of the Ahrar Party, Mahmoud Bastaweesy,
accused Youssef in a complaint of “adopting the ideologies of
the  United States  and the Muslim Brotherhood and challenging the
legitimacy” of the revolt against Mursi, according to an e-mailed statement.  ‘National Sentiment’  CBC, the private station that airs the program, said most
of the feedback it got from viewers disapproved of portions of
the Oct. 25 show. While endorsing media freedom, CBC “is
committed to not using phrases, innuendo or scenes that may lead
to a mockery of national sentiment or symbols of the Egyptian
state,” the station’s board of directors said in a statement
read by an anchor at prime time on Oct. 26.  In an editorial before the show, Youssef decried what he
called efforts by both pro-military and pro-Brotherhood camps to
vilify opponents. The program parodied both groups.  Youssef, a cardiac surgeon turned comedian, lampooned the
adulation of al-Seesi fans, while stopping short of criticizing
the general himself.  “After the revolution we got a president who thought we
were idiots, so the people decided to revolt,” Youssef sang
with his team to the tune of “Old MacDonald Had a Farm.”  The parody, which he characterized as an account of recent
events in Egypt tailored for children, ends with one of the
performers yelling, “Al-Seesi has battled terrorism and that’s
why a coup took place.” That sentence drew an official
complaint to the prosecutor-general’s office yesterday from
politician Ahmed el-Fadaly, who accused Youssef of defaming the
country by using the word ’coup.’  ‘Dallying Woman’  Defenders of the military say Mursi’s overthrow was an
expression of the people’s will, not a coup. Mursi’s supporters,
who deny allegations that Mursi put the Brotherhood’s Islamist
agenda before the country’s needs, call his ouster a coup.  El-Fadaly also complained about a sketch in the show in
which he accused Youssef of portraying Egypt as a “dallying
woman who betrays her husband with military men.”  Youssef, who was sued in March by Mursi supporters over
allegations he insulted him and Islam, ended his show saying:
“I am not with those who attacked us and called us heretics.
But we are afraid that fascism in the name of religion gets
replaced with fascism in the name of nationalism and national
security.”  Hundreds of Brotherhood supporters have been killed by
security forces, and others have been detained since Mursi was
removed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  