-- Oil Rises on Libyan Output Drop; Yen Falls, S&P 500 Gains
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-10-28T20:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/equity-futures-across-asia-rise-as-yen-weakens-silver-climbs.html
Oil rallied amid a drop in Libyan
output and bets that central banks in America and Japan will
maintain monetary stimulus. The yen weakened and European stocks
fell while U.S. shares and Treasuries were little changed.  Brent crude  oil climbed 2.5 percent to $109.61 a barrel,
halting a three-day drop for the European benchmark, and West
Texas Intermediate oil rose 0.9 percent to $98.68 a barrel.
Japan’s currency slipped 0.3 percent to 97.71 per dollar. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed up 0.1 percent at a record
1,762.11 after slipping 0.1 percent in the morning. The Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index ended 0.2 percent lower, erasing earlier gains.
Spanish bonds advanced for the first time in three days.  The Federal Reserve, which starts a two-day policy meeting
tomorrow, will probably refrain from tapering stimulus measures
until March, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The
 Bank of Japan  will continue to buy bonds until its inflation
target is reached, Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata said yesterday.
Apple Inc., one of 12 companies in the S&P 500 due to release
earnings today, retreated in extended trading after forecasting
a first-quarter profit margin that may trail estimates.  “Investors are going to be overly focused on this Fed
meeting,” Scott Wren, senior equity strategist in  St. Louis  for
Wells Fargo Advisors LLC., which oversees about $1.3 trillion,
said by phone. “I suspect that when the statement is released,
there’s going to be very little change to it.”  Commodity Movers  Gasoline, gas oil, Brent crude and heating oil jumped more
than 1.6 percent to lead gains in 14 of the 24 commodities
tracked by the S&P GSCI Index, sending the gauge up 0.9 percent
even as natural gas, corn, soybeans, coffee and wheat fell more
than 1 percent.  Oil rallied after state-run National Oil Corp. said crude
production in Libya, holder of Africa’s largest reserves,
declined to about 250,000 barrels a day because of labor
protests.  “The Libyan production drop is the main driver and is also
the reason why Brent is stronger,” said Jacob Correll, a
Louisville, Kentucky-based commodity analyst at energy
management firm Schneider Electric Professional Services.  The yen slipped against 14 of its 16 major peers, weakening
at least 0.3 percent against the Brazilian,  New Zealand ,
Canadian and South Korean currencies. It dropped for a third day
against the shared European currency, depreciating 0.2 percent
to 134.68 yen per euro. The euro was little changed at $1.3789
after touching an almost two-year high of $1.3832 on Oct. 25.  ‘Pushing Back’  “Market dynamics are still being driven by investors
pushing back expectations of when the Fed may begin to taper,”
said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “Given the low yielding nature
of the yen and the very aggressive easing policy that the BOJ’s
implementing, that makes the yen still a very attractive funding
currency. We’d expect that the yen will tend to underperform.”  The yield on 10-year Treasuries was up one basis point at
2.52 percent as the $32 billion sale of U.S. two-year notes
today drew the highest demand since April. The Treasury plans to
sell $35 billion of five-year securities tomorrow and $29
billion of seven-year debt the following day.  Factory production in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
September, indicating a pause in manufacturing leading into the
partial government shutdown in October. Output at factories rose
0.1 percent after a revised 0.5 percent gain in August that was
smaller than initially estimated,  Federal Reserve  figures
showed. The median forecast of economists in a survey called for
a 0.3 percent September gain. Total industrial production, which
includes output by mines and utilities, advanced 0.6 percent as
higher temperatures drove up electricity use.  Home Sales  An S&P index of homebuilders slipped 0.4 percent, with
eight of 11 stocks down. Contracts to buy previously owned homes
declined in September for the fourth straight month as rising
mortgage rates slowed momentum in the housing market. The index
of pending home sales slumped 5.6 percent, exceeding all
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists and the biggest
drop in more than three years, after a 1.6 percent decrease in
August, the National Association of Realtors reported.  The Federal Open Market Committee’s October meeting comes
after U.S payrolls rose less than projected last month and a 16-day government shutdown took at least $24 billion out of the
economy.  U.S. government bonds are acting more like equities than
any time since before the credit crisis, making Treasuries a
hidden risk to investors becalmed by the prospect of the Federal
Reserve prolonging stimulus into 2014.  Treasuries, Stocks  Ten-year Treasuries are moving 0.024 percent for every one-percent change in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  in the same direction, the first
time that’s happened since July 2007, based on a risk measure
known as beta. Prior to this month, the gauge averaged minus
0.12 over the past decade, meaning that bonds have historically
moved in the opposite direction as stocks.  Treasuries are rising along with stocks as economists say
the Fed will keep suppressing borrowing costs to support the
world’s largest economy. While government debt was a haven as
the U.S. endured the worst recession in seven decades, primary
dealers such as Barclays Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. say
the gains this month show the Fed’s $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases are masking the risk of owning fixed-income securities
as the recovery in America takes hold.  Valuation Watch  This year’s rally in equities has pushed valuations on
benchmark indexes in the U.S. and Europe to the highest levels
in more than three years. The  S&P 500  is up almost 24 percent in
2013, which would mark its biggest yearly gain since 2003. The
benchmark gauge trades for 16.7 times reported earnings, the
most since May 2010. The Stoxx 600 started today’s session at
20.8 times reported earnings and 14.8 times projected profit,
the most expensive valuations since the end of 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The European gauge has rallied 14
percent this year following a 14 percent gain in 2012.  Among U.S. stocks moving today, Merck & Co. slid 2.6
percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  down 1.35
points after reporting revenue that fell short of estimates.
Dendreon Corp. jumped 11 percent as people familiar with the
matter said the drugmaker is seeking a buyer.  Apple, the world’s biggest technology firm, climbed 0.7
percent at $529.88 in the regular session before tumbling 3.8
percent in extended trading at 4:30 p.m. after forecasting a
profit margin for the first quarter that was below the average
analyst estimate. Apple predicted a gross margin of 36.5 percent
to 37.5 percent in the first quarter, compared with the average
analyst estimate of 37.7 percent.  Small Caps  The smallest stocks are  rallying  almost twice as fast as
bigger companies in the U.S., a bullish economic signal from
businesses whose profits are most dependent on domestic demand.  Shares of companies from Rite Aid Corp. to Teledyne
Technologies Inc. in the  Russell 2000 Index (RTY)  have advanced 32
percent in 2013, compared with 19 percent for the Dow Jones
Industrial Average. The spread is the widest for any year since
2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Three of the last
four times small-caps outperformed by this much, the economy
grew faster the next year and stocks stayed in a  bull market  for
another year or more, based on data from the past 34 years.  Gains in smaller companies that are more dependent on U.S.
growth show investors are betting the world’s largest economy
will pick up even after jobs growth slowed and the government
shutdown weighed on gross domestic product. Smaller firms are
surpassing analyst earnings estimates by more than Dow companies
and are forecast to grow faster next year.  The Stoxx 600 fell for the third time in four days as
automakers led declines. PSA Peugeot Citroen and Renault SA fell
at least 3.7 percent. TNT Express NV climbed 4.3 percent as the
Dutch package-delivery company reported an 85 percent decline in
third-quarter earnings and said it will set up restructuring
efforts.  Spanish Bonds  Spain’s 10-year securities rose, pushing the yield six
basis points lower to 4.10 percent. The nation will pay out 16.2
billion euros of a maturing bond on Oct. 31 and 4.9 billion
euros of interest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose for the first time in
four days, advancing 0.7 percent. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong 
added 0.8 percent, rebounding from its worst week since June.
Argentina’s Merval Index lost 1 percent after jumping as much as
2.3 percent. Brazil’s Ibovespa surged 1.7 percent and benchmark
gauges in  Poland ,  South Africa ,  South Korea  and  Taiwan  increased
at least 0.5 percent.  Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.7 percent to the highest level
since June against the dollar as it appreciated versus all 17
major peers after Prime Minister Najib Razak announced a goods
and services tax to help cut the fiscal deficit. Indian stocks
fell for a fifth day and the rupee weakened before a central
bank policy meeting tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in  New York  at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  