-- Merkel Enters Concrete SPD Talks as Finance Post Looms
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-10-28T09:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/merkel-enters-concrete-spd-talks-as-finance-post-looms.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
the  Social Democrats  are entering their first week of
negotiating the substance of a new government with the fight for
control of the  finance ministry  looming in the background.  With more than a dozen working groups haggling over the
details, the main 75 negotiators from Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , her CSU Bavarian sister party and the SPD will
meet again on Oct. 30 in Berlin to discuss European policy.  Coalition negotiations, overshadowed by reports that the
U.S. government may have tapped Merkel’s mobile phone, moved
forward five weeks after the chancellor’s election victory. The
SPD, confronting the prospect of putting any agreement to a vote
of its 470,000 members, is seeking a way to put a Social
Democratic stamp on a third-term Merkel government.  SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  may surrender the party’s claim
to the finance ministry as a way of extracting additional
concessions from Merkel’s bloc and winning more cabinet posts,
 Der Spiegel  magazine reported. The move would also give Gabriel,
as a prospective vice chancellor who doesn’t intend to seek the
finance post for himself, more leverage with Merkel, it said.  The SPD wants to strip euro-area policy from the Finance
Ministry, currently controlled by CDU veteran  Wolfgang Schaeuble , three people familiar with the party’s negotiating
strategy told  Bloomberg News  last week.  The SPD approach confining the ministry’s focus to the
budget would weaken Schaeuble’s position while increasing SPD
leverage in the most important area of government policy outside
the chancellery, the people said.  European Parliament  “I can guarantee that until now nobody has said a single
word about ministries or ministry posts,” SPD General Secretary
Andrea Nahles told Bild newspaper today. “For the SPD,
substance is in the foreground.”  Negotiators for the working groups on European policy and
for finance will meet in the German capital today.  Der Spiegel  also reported that Merkel’s plans to forge an
agenda with the SPD extend to the European Union, as she seeks
to coordinate with European Parliament President  Martin Schulz .
Schulz is a German SPD member with close ties to Gabriel.  The SPD is prepared to scrap its support for jointly issued
euro-area bonds in favor of a commitment to crack down on  tax
evasion , an EU investment program in education and
infrastructure and a European growth fund, Spiegel said.  Christmas Goal  The large group of coalition negotiators met for the first
time for two hours on Oct. 23, over a month after Merkel won the
biggest victory since German reunification on Sept. 22. The
parties plan to talk through November and have envisaged
swearing in a “grand coalition” government by Christmas.  Schaeuble is leading the negotiations on the finance
working group for Merkel’s bloc, with the sub-group on  Europe 
under Herbert Reul, who heads her CDU/CSU faction in the
European Parliament. Across the table from Schaeuble on the main
finance group is Olaf Scholz, the mayor of Hamburg and a labor
minister in Merkel’s first-term 2005-2009 grand coalition with
the SPD.  The parties may also be nearing an agreement on another
point of conflict, the tolerance of dual citizenship, which
Merkel’s bloc has opposed and the SPD has made one of its
conditions. CSU Chairman and Bavarian Premier Horst Seehofer
told  Spiegel  he could envision ending the requirement for mostly
Turkish dual nationals to choose a single citizenship by the
time they’re 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  