-- Federer Loses to Del Potro, Delaying Berth at ATP Season Finale
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-27T17:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/federer-loses-to-del-potro-delaying-berth-at-atp-season-finale.html
Former World No. 1 tennis player
 Roger Federer  was beaten by Juan Martin Del Potro in the final
of the Swiss Indoors for the second straight year, prolonging
his quest to secure a spot at the season-ending ATP World Tour
Finals.  A win would have ensured Federer’s 12th straight appearance
in the championship for the top eight men’s tennis players, held
in  London  Nov. 4-11. He will now have to wait until next week’s
Paris Masters to claim a berth.  Del Potro of Argentina retained his title with a 7-6 (7-3),
2-6, 6-4 win. It was his fourth ATP title of the season and the
17th of his career. The world No. 5 has beaten Federer in their
last three matches. Prior to that, he had won only two of their
previous 15 meetings.  Federer, 32, was bidding for a sixth Swiss Indoors title,
held in his hometown of  Basel . The first seven games of the
match went with serve before  Del Potro  broke for a 5-3 lead.
Federer immediately broke back to love and then saved two set
points on his own serve before leveling at 5-5. The next two
games went with serve to take the players into a tie-break which
Del Potro won 7-3.  World No. 6 Federer fought back in the second set as Del
Potro’s first serve let him down. He broke the Argentine twice
to win 6-2.  In the decider, the momentum immediately swung back to Del
Potro as Federer double-faulted twice in losing his opening
service game. Del Potro, 25, then survived two break points on
his own serve but held on to extend the advantage. From then on
he was rarely threatened, and served out comfortably for the
victory and a winner’s check of 348,000 euros ($480,000).  Equal Record  Del Potro has already qualified for the Tour Finals in
London. Federer will have to beat  Kevin Anderson  or Mikhail Youzhny in a second-round match in Paris to secure his place. A
12th appearance would equal  Ivan Lendl ’s record for the most
successive appearances at the season finale.  Earlier this month Federer split with his coach Paul Annacone after failing to reach the final of any of the four
Grand Slam tournaments for the first time since 2002.  He made his earliest exit from the U.S. Open in 10 years in
September when beaten by 19th-seeded Tommy Robredo of  Spain  in a
fourth-round match. He also lost this year in the second round
of Wimbledon, a tournament where he has previously triumphed
seven times, and was defeated in the quarterfinals of the  French
Open  and the semifinals of the Australian Open.  Elsewhere, world No. 21  Mikhail Youzhny  upset No. 3  David Ferrer  of Spain 6-3, 7-5 to win the Valencia Open. It was the
31-year-old Russian’s second ATP title of the season and the
10th of his career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  