-- FIFA’s Blatter Urges Ousting of Teams For Fans’ Racism
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-27T13:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/fifa-s-blatter-urges-ousting-of-teams-for-fans-racism.html
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  renewed
his call for tougher sanctions on soccer teams whose fans
racially abuse players, including points penalties and banning
them from competitions.  The head of the sport’s ruling body said punishments
imposed by European body  UEFA , such as fines and banning fans
from stadiums, are insufficient and called them “a nonsense.”  On Oct. 23, Manchester City midfielder Yaya Toure said he
was subjected to racist chants by CSKA Moscow fans during a
Champions League match in the Russian capital. The club denied
the incident but UEFA said it will penalize the Russian club.  On Oct. 4, UEFA fined  Italy ’s Lazio 40,000 euros ($55,000)
and ordered the club to play in a partly-empty stadium for one
match after racist chanting by its supporters. Croatia’s Rijeka
and Dinamo Zagreb, Cyprus’s APOEL, and  Poland ’s Legia Warsaw
have also received UEFA penalties after racism by fans.  Blatter, speaking at the English Football Association’s
150th anniversary dinner in  London  last night, said such
sanctions don’t go far enough.  “It is a nonsense for racism to be dealt with by fines,
you can always find money from somebody to pay them,” Blatter
told an audience that included UEFA President  Michel Platini .
“It is a nonsense to have matches played without spectators
because it is against the spirit of football and against the
visiting team.  “We need to eliminate teams from a competition or deduct
points,” the 77-year-old added. “Only by such decisions is it
possible to go against racism and discrimination. If we don’t do
that it will go on and go on.”  Blatter made similar comments in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  