-- GE’s Rice Sees Carbon-Price Mechanism in Australia’s Future
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-10-27T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/ge-s-rice-sees-carbon-price-mechanism-in-australia-s-future.html
  General Electric Co. (GE)  says  Australia 
will eventually adopt an emissions-trading system even as the
government seeks to repeal a carbon-price mechanism imposed on
the A$1.5 trillion economy by a previous administration.  “We still believe that over time there needs to be a price
on carbon, there will be a price on carbon,” GE Vice Chairman
John Rice said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview
shown yesterday.  Prime Minister Tony Abbott, elected Sept. 7, has vowed to
abolish the mechanism established by Labor’s Julia Gillard in
2011 as a step toward a carbon market, saying it has driven up
energy prices and deterred investment. More than 300 of
Australia’s largest emitters must pay an average $24.15 a metric
ton for greenhouse gases this year, the highest price in the
world.  While Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition has a majority in
parliament’s lower house, it doesn’t control the Senate, which
has the power to block a repeal. The prime minister told a
meeting of party members in Hobart Oct. 26 that new Labor leader
Bill Shorten should support his bid to remove the carbon tax,
calling it “socialism masquerading as environmentalism.”  Gillard in 2011 agreed to create a carbon tax at a fixed
rate for three years, starting in July 2012 at A$23 a ton,
before market-based pricing commencing in mid-2015. After
winning back the Labor party leadership by defeating Gillard in
a June party-room vote, Kevin Rudd announced that a floating
price linked to the European Union’s mechanism would be
implemented a year earlier, in July 2014, at about A$6 a ton.  Investment Threat  Repeal would cut costs for business and manufacturers and
save the average household A$521 in fiscal 2014-15, Environment
Minister Greg Hunt said Oct. 16. GE’s Rice said overseas
investors are seeking clarity, regardless of the outcome of
Abbott’s effort to drop the tax.  “Whatever the outcome is, repealing the legislation,
replacing it with something else or not, investors are going to
want to see that clarity,” he said. “Otherwise you’re just not
going to get the right investments here.”  Slowing global economic conditions had reduced the impetus
for more nations to adopt emissions-trading systems, Rice said.
The European Union, South Korea and New Zealand, along with
regions and states in  China , the U.S. and  Canada , have
implemented carbon-price mechanisms or plan to.  “With economies under stress, it’s hard to pay the
price,” Rice said. “As the global economy begins to improve,
you probably will see more people go back to a level of interest
in a price-per-carbon and other incentives to promote the
development of renewable technologies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brooker at 
 mbrooker1@bloomberg.net  