-- GM Says It’s Planning Chevy Push in China as VW Threatens Lead
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-27T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/gm-says-it-s-planning-chevy-push-in-china-as-vw-threatens-lead.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said it plans to
step up promotions of the  Chevrolet  brand in China and bolster
the line-up of GM’s sport utility vehicles to defend its lead in
the world’s largest auto market.  “We got still a lot of mother brand-building to do for
Chevrolet and we will resource that appropriately and get that
job done,” China Chairman Tim Lee, who was appointed to the
newly created role in August, said in an interview in Shanghai
last week. “If there were one thing that I wish we had done
different, I wish we had a better offer” of smaller SUV models.  Boosting Chevrolet sales in GM’s largest market is crucial
to Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson’s goal of establishing
the brand as the automaker’s global volume marque. Chevy sales
growth in China this year has lagged behind the industry’s 14
percent, while SUV deliveries have surged 45 percent, according
to data from the company and China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers.  “It’s a brand that has a total history in the country of
about seven or eight years, so based on that relatively short
time in the marketplace, our brand awareness is good, our
product consideration is good,” Lee said. “But can it be
better? I guess.”  Though GM was the top-selling foreign automaker in China
last year,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  has pulled ahead in deliveries during
the first three quarters. Chevy deliveries rose 3.3 percent to
472,561 units in the country, compared with the the 606,330
Buicks sold. The automaker also counts the Wuling brand of mini-commercial vehicles and low-cost Baojun nameplate produced at
its local joint ventures among its stable of China marques.  Market Leader  “You want to be a leader in as many categories as
possible,” said Klaus Paur, Shanghai-based global head of
automotive at Ipsos, a market-research company. “That means
obviously, you have to do a lot of things.”  To spur demand, the automaker will introduce a new
generation of its Chevy Cruze compact -- currently starting at
108,900  yuan  ($17,900) -- next year, said Bob Socia, GM China
president, in the same interview. GM sells eight Chevy models in
China, all sedans except for the Captiva SUV, which retails from
219,800 yuan.  The company is also working on building up its luxury
Cadillac brand’s sales in China by producing the ATS locally
next year, Socia said. GM said last month that it will start
sales of imported models of the ATS this quarter.  Imported vehicles attract a 25 percent customs duty, making
them less competitive against similar models that are produced
locally.  China Plan  At the Shanghai auto show in April, the carmaker unveiled
plans to spend $11 billion through 2016 on expanding in  China .
GM estimates the four new assembly plants will, when completed,
boost annual capacity to 5 million vehicles -- double the number
of cars it sold in the U.S. last year.  GM will use the Chevrolet brand to spearhead its expansion
into China’s smaller cities and western region, where rising
incomes are creating a new class of consumers that are able to
afford cars, Lee said.  The automaker is adding a total of 1,000 dealerships in
western China across its brands by 2017, Socia said. The company
will have 4,200 dealerships in China by the end of this year,
according to the company.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in  Shanghai  at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  