-- Tin Advancing 8% for BNP as Indonesia Spurs Swings: Commodities
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-10-28T19:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/tin-rising-8-for-bnp-as-indonesia-spurs-volatility-commodities.html
Indonesia’s drive to displace the
 London  Metal Exchange as the global benchmark for tin trading is
whipsawing futures and leaving the most-accurate forecasters
divided on the outlook for prices.  Tin will average $25,000 a metric ton next year, 7.9
percent more than now, says Stephen Briggs, an analyst at BNP
Paribas SA in London ranked by Bloomberg as the top forecaster
over the past eight quarters. Credit Suisse Group AG’s Andrew
Shaw and Citigroup Inc.’s  David Wilson , the next most accurate,
predict averages of $21,750 and $22,375. Tin for immediate
delivery settled today at $23,175 on the LME.  Indonesia, the biggest supplier of the metal feeding the
$1.11 trillion consumer-electronics market, limited exports to
tin handled through local exchanges on Aug. 30, exacerbating
shortages that occurred in four of the past five years and
reduced LME-tracked  stockpiles  by 53 percent since January 2010.
Just one bourse was authorized to trade, prompting PT Timah, the
top producer, to declare force majeure, a legal clause allowing
a company to miss deliveries. Futures volatility reached a six-month peak and September  shipments  slumped 92 percent.  “The tin market will be in deficit again this year and
probably next year as well, even before this problem,” said
Briggs, who’s tracked metals markets for three decades.
“Ultimately, it’s impossible for local Indonesian producers to
trade enough on a local exchange: they need counter parties. You
can’t just sell with no buyers.”  Local Exchange  Prices of tin have swung from $14,935.50 to $33,265 since
the start of 2010 as miners failed to keep pace with demand for
the solder needed to produce everything from smartphones to
digital cameras. Tin is 31 times less abundant than copper in
the earth’s crust, the U.S. Geological Survey estimates.  The  Indonesia  Commodity and Derivatives Exchange in Jakarta
traded less than 100 tons on all but eight days since the ban
started. That compares with the nation’s average weekly
 shipments  of 1,900 tons in 2012, government data show. Indonesia
accounts for 40 percent of world exports.  Contracts outstanding on the LME increased and trading
volumes exceeded the one-year  average  since the curbs. While tin
is the smallest of the six main metals traded on the exchange,
it was the first to be offered when the bourse was created in
1877. The LME’s benchmark three-month contract reflects the time
it used to take to ship tin from Malaya and copper from  Chile .  Industrial Metals  Tin’s 23 percent rally into a  bull market  since July 5
pared this year’s decline to 1 percent. That beats the 8.7
percent  retreat  in the LMEX index of six industrial metals from
aluminum to zinc and the 2.6 percent drop in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities climbed 17 percent, and the Bloomberg U.S.
Treasury Bond Index lost 1.8 percent.  Tin’s 100-day volatility rose as high as 25 percent in
August, the most since February. It was last at 23 percent,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg that reflect the degree
to which prices varied from the average over the period.  Global demand will rise 2.3 percent to 350,000 tons next
year, exceeding supply by 2,000 tons after a 4,000-ton shortage
in 2013, according to BNP Paribas. Unless Indonesian exports
rebound there will probably be a period of “severe market
tightness,” Briggs wrote in an Oct. 15 report.  Stockpiles tracked by the LME tumbled 16 percent to 12,940
tons since reaching a 22-month  high  Aug. 30. Indonesia’s exports
fell to 786 tons in September, from 9,874 tons a year earlier,
government data show.  Metals Research  There are competing producers and Indonesia alone can’t
keep prices higher, said Shaw, the head of industrial-metals
research at Credit Suisse in  Singapore .  China , the largest user,
also mines about 40 percent of world output, while Peru and
 Bolivia  represent 16 percent of supply.  As more companies become members of the Indonesia Commodity
and Derivatives Exchange, trading should accelerate and exports
increase, said Wilson, the director of metals research and
strategy at Citigroup in London. That should take “some of the
heat out of tin prices in the short term at least,” he said.  Volumes on the ICDX, used by Pangkalpinang-based Timah for
its sales, are gaining traction. Trading increased to 2,435 tons
this month through Oct. 25 from 795 tons in September, bourse
data show. The number of members who can transact tin rose to 22
from 12 on Aug. 30, and applications from six more smelters are
being processed. The membership includes 12 buyers.  Smaller Smelters  Sales on the Indonesian exchange reached 355 tons on Oct.
22, 440 tons the following day and 380 tons on Oct. 25. Supply
would be adequate for the global market at 300 tons to 400 tons
daily, according to ITRI Ltd., a research company based in  St.
Albans ,  England  that is mostly funded by producers and smelters.  The Jakarta Futures Exchange, favored by smaller smelters,
is reapplying for authorization to trade tin before export after
an initial bid was rejected, M. Bihar Sakti Wibowo, a director
at the exchange, said Oct. 9.  The new policies may be reversed or diluted, if history is
any guide. The government relaxed new tin-quality standards
three days before they were scheduled to take effect on July 1.  Indonesia doesn’t plan to ease the tin trading rule, Deputy
Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi told reporters in Jakarta on
Oct. 11. The policy is designed to increase the value extracted
from the country’s natural resources and it will be maintained,
Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said last month.  Mobile Phones  Quickening global growth may boost demand for consumer
electronics just as tin supply falters. The world economy will
expand 3.6 percent in 2014, compared with 2.9 percent this year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 8.  Global spending on consumer electronics will rise about 9
percent to $1.11 trillion this year, according to GfK Digital
World and the Arlington, Virginia-based  Consumer Electronics
Association . Solder accounts for about 50 percent of tin demand.
A mobile phone contains about 0.7 gram of tin and a tablet
computer as much as 3 grams.  Timah President Director Sukrisno said Oct. 7 that the new
rule was designed to create a “reasonable price,” and the
company dropped term contracts in favor of sales through the
ICDX.  Shares (TINS)  of Timah jumped 25 percent in September, the
biggest monthly advance in three years. The stock climbed as
much as 1.3 percent to 1,600 rupiah today.  While the averages predicted by Wilson and Shaw for next
year are below prices now, they expect gains in subsequent
years. Wilson estimated last month that futures will average
$24,000 in 2015, and Shaw expects $25,000 the following year as
demand for electronic gadgets keeps expanding.  “The world economy looks like it’s getting better and
global demand for consumer electronics should improve,” said
Shaw. “This is a booming industry and tin has benefited.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  