-- Israeli Release of Palestinian Prisoners Divides Government
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-10-27T15:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/israeli-release-of-security-prisoners-riles-netanyahu-coalition.html
Israel ’s possible release this week
of more Palestinian security prisoners as part of the deal to
renew peace talks is deepening political divisions in Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s ruling coalition.  The Jewish Home party, which opposes the creation of a
Palestinian state, tried to derail the release with a bill
forbidding the freeing of prisoners convicted in attacks on
Israelis. The faction, the government’s third largest, also
stirred a heated debate with a barb at Israel’s chief
negotiator.  Cabinet ministers today rejected the bill, which Finance
Minister Yair Lapid deemed “very irresponsible and designed to
score public relations points,” according to an e-mailed
statement. Lapid’s Yesh Atid, the coalition’s second-biggest
partner, supports the prisoner release and a peace agreement
that would include a Palestinian state.  Environment Minister Amir Peretz accused Jewish Home of
inciting violence with its opposition to the release and
criticism of chief negotiator Justice Minister Tzipi Livni.
Livni and Peretz’s Hatnua party also supports a peace agreement
that will lead to a Palestinian state.  “This incitement and agitation are grave matters, and I
hope the prime minister will bring the Jewish Home to order,”
Peretz said in an interview with Army Radio. He likened it to
the incitement that preceded the assassination of Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin by a Jewish extremist in 1995.  Livni Criticized  Jewish Home over the weekend released a text message
criticizing “the freeing of terrorists so Tzipi Livni can have
the dubious honor of meeting with” Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat.  Israel agreed in July to release 104 Palestinian security
prisoners, some serving life sentences for deadly attacks on
Israelis, in four rounds under a U.S.-brokered deal to restart
talks that had broken down almost three years before. The first
release of 26 prisoners took place in August, with the second
scheduled to come as early as this week, pending approval by a
ministerial committee and the High Court of Justice’s rejection
of any legal challenges.  “We want to reach a peace agreement with the
Palestinians,” Netanyahu said at today’s weekly cabinet
meeting, according a text message from his office. “In this
agreement, we will insist on the vital interests of the State of
Israel, first of all security, of course, and including our
ability to continue defending our eastern border.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  