-- King Urges Obama to Stop Apologizing for NSA Phone Taps
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   K e v i n   C o s t e l l o e
-- 2013-10-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/king-says-obama-should-stop-apologizing-for-nsa-phone-intercepts.html
President  Barack Obama  should “stop
apologizing” for the National Security Agency’s telephone-surveillance program that has “saved thousands of lives,”
according to Republican U.S. Representative  Peter King .  Disclosures of the extent of the NSA phone-monitoring have
upset politicians from Brasilia to Berlin. European Union
leaders said last week they would seek a trans-Atlantic accord
on espionage after Der Spiegel magazine reported the NSA
targeted German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone and Le
Monde newspaper said the agency collected telecommunications
data in  France .  “The president should stop apologizing, stop being
defensive,” King, a lawmaker from  New York , said yesterday on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “The reality is the NSA has
saved thousands of lives -- not just in the  United States  but
also in France and  Germany  and throughout  Europe .”  The NSA program gathers “valuable intelligence which helps
not just us but also helps the Europeans,” King said.  The NSA operations have also prompted some Europeans to
call for a suspension of talks for a free-trade zone between the
European Union and the U.S., while German  Chancellor Merkel ,
whose country is export-oriented, has rejected those calls.  Obama’s Apology  Obama apologized to Merkel in a telephone exchange Oct. 23
and said that he would have stopped the alleged spying had he
known about it, Spiegel magazine reported, citing unidentified
chancellery officials.  Speaking on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program,
Republican Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, chairman of
the House Intelligence Committee, said “the bigger news story”
would be “if the United States intelligence services weren’t
trying to collect information that would protect U.S. interests
both home and abroad.”  “We should collect information that’s helpful to the
United States’ interests,” Rogers said.  The Michigan lawmaker also said that recent friction with
 Saudi Arabia  “has been developing over the last two years.” He
cited what he said was a U.S. decision two years ago to stay
away from the Syrian conflict and the recent “quick rush to the
sweet talk” from Iran on that country’s nuclear program.  “Those are critical issues to the Saudis, to the Qataris,
to the Jordanians, to others in the  Arab League  that I think
rattled their faith in the administration’s ability to protect
them in a very dangerous world,” Rogers said.  Security Council  Saudi Arabia refused to accept the membership of the  United
Nations Security Council  it won earlier this month, citing
issues including Syria’s civil war that it said show the world
body is incapable of resolving conflicts.  The council’s “style, working mechanisms and double
standards” prevent it from ending the turmoil in Syria and the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Saudi Foreign Ministry said in
a statement on the state-run Saudi Press Agency. The body has
also failed to rid the Middle East of weapons of mass
destruction and nuclear arms programs, it said.  Speaking on ABC’s “This Week,” former Republican Vice
President  Dick Cheney  also was critical of Democrat Obama’s
policies, saying the Middle East no longer has confidence in the
U.S., whereas its presence in the region was “enormously
important” for decades.  ‘Significantly Diminished’  “If we’re not heavily involved there, if we’ve turned our
back on the region, if we’ve had a president who believes we
overreacted to the terrorism attacks on 9/11, I think the
Saudis, the Emirates, the Egyptians, many in that part of the
world no longer have confidence in the United States,” Cheney
said on the television program.  U.S. presence, capability and influence “has been
significantly diminished” as the nation has withdrawn from the
region and cut the number of forces there, Cheney said. “Our
friends no longer count on us, no longer trust us, and our
adversaries don’t fear us. That was sort of the cornerstone and
the basis of the U.S. ability and influence.”  Cheney said he didn’t have a lot of confidence in the
ability of the Obama administration to negotiate an agreement
with Iran over its nuclear program, a skepticism he said is
shared by officials in the  Middle East .  “They’re very fearful that the whole Iranian exercise is
going to go the same way as the Syrian exercise, that is, that
there will be bold talk from the administration,” Cheney said.
“But in the final analysis, nothing effective will be done
about the Iranian program.”  In response to a question on whether military action
against Iran was inevitable, Cheney said “I have trouble seeing
how we’re going to achieve our objective short of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  