-- Nexon Seeks U.S. Deals for Free-to-Play Model as Consoles Fade
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-10-27T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/nexon-seeks-u-s-deals-for-free-to-play-model-as-consoles-fade.html
Nexon Co. (3659) , the Japanese maker of
online games  MapleStory  and Combat Arms, is hunting for more
deals to boost U.S. revenue after taking stakes in four
companies and acquiring a fifth this year.  The company is looking to capture market share as North
American consumers shift from dedicated consoles with packaged
titles to free, online games, Chief Financial Officer Owen Mahoney said in an Oct. 25 telephone interview. The Tokyo-based
company is seeking developers to add titles for Western
audiences to lure online users who pay to add in-game items.  Nexon has partnered with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s
largest Internet company, and is looking to boost North America
 sales  that accounted for just 3.9 percent of its total in the
second quarter.  China  generated 42 percent and  Japan  26 percent
of revenue in the same period.  “We’ve got a very active business development pipeline
now” said Mahoney. “We are always on the lookout for smart,
good developers, especially those in the West who have great art
style, great physics and capability that is tuned and made for
Western tastes.”  Last month, Nexon said it would make a cash equity
investment in Shiver Entertainment founded by former  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) 
Chief Operating Officer John Schappert. In September Nexon said
it would buy Thingsoft, an online game development studio based
in  Seoul , South Korea, that helped develop the FIFA Online 1
title.  Western Developers  Revenue from free mobile and computer games surpassed
annual sales of packaged titles in 2012, when including follow-on spending for weapons and other in-game items, according to a
December survey of U.S. gamers by Frank Magid Associates Inc.  “The industry is clearly shifting to free-to-play,” said
Mahoney. About 10 percent of Nexon’s users purchase items within
the games, said Mahoney, a former vice president at  Electronic
Arts Inc. (EA) , the maker of Madden console games. “The remaining 90
percent are very important to us, they keep the game world very,
very vibrant and fun to play in.”  In July Nexon announced strategic investments in Redwood
City, California-based Rumble Entertainment Inc. and Baltimore,
Maryland-based  SecretNewCo .  Rumble Entertainment, which operates the Ballistic and
KingsRoad games, is headed by Greg Richardson, a former vice
president at EA Partners. The free-to-play game developer is
also backed by Google Ventures and  Khosla Ventures .  SecretNewCo, develops social and strategy games, and is
headed by Brian Reynolds, the former chief game designer at
Zynga. Reynolds helped develop titles such as Rise of Nations
and Civilization II.  Fifty-eight percent of North American developers are
planning their next games for handsets and tablets, based on a
survey of 2,500 for the Game Developers Conference in San
Francisco in March.  In February, Nexon acquired a stake in Robotoki Inc., led
by Robert Bowling, former creative strategist of  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ’s “ Call of Duty ” franchise for an undisclosed
amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  