-- Norway Seeks Mortgage Cap Probe in Push to Support Lending
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-28T15:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/norway-seeks-probe-into-mortgage-caps-in-push-to-support-lending.html
Norway ’s new government asked the
financial regulator to evaluate whether limits on mortgage
lending are placing unnecessary constraints on the housing
market.  The Finance Ministry told the Financial Supervisory
Authority to review the effects on banks and homeowners of
guidelines in place since 2011 that cap mortgages at 85 percent
of a property’s value, according to a letter released on Oct.
26. The ministry wants an assessment of whether an outright rule
would function better than a guideline in regulating the loan
limit. Before the September election, the Conservative-led
coalition had promised to ease mortgage standards.  “The guidelines have to be flexible enough to ensure that
borrowers can count on getting a mortgage from the banks,”
Finance Minister Siv Jensen said in the statement, setting an
end of January deadline for the investigation. “We’ve asked for
an evaluation to make sure the guidelines are flexible enough to
take into account the homebuyers’ ability to repay debt.”  Prime Minister Erna Solberg ousted a Labor-led coalition
last month after promising to raise an existing limit on
mortgage lending to 90 percent of a property’s value. The new
government has also proposed tax breaks to encourage households
to save more and help Scandinavia’s richest economy tackle its
record private debt load.  Overheated Market  The FSA has received the  Finance Ministry ’s letter and will
reply by the deadline set, but has “no further comment at this
time,” spokesman Jo Singstad said in an e-mail.  Though Norway’s government boasts no net debt, thanks to
its $810 billion sovereign wealth fund, the nation’s consumers
have  borrowed  an amount that has ballooned to twice their
disposable incomes after years of low  interest rates . Households
have used the money to drive up property prices to a record
high, prompting warnings from regulators and economists that the
development is unsustainable.  Solberg’s plans to ease the mortgage cap triggered a
warning from the FSA last month amid concern Norway’s housing
market is overheated. The regulator, the central bank and the
 International Monetary Fund  have all sounded the alarm on risks
facing Norway’s housing market after prices doubled over the
past decade and debt swelled.  Since the FSA introduced measures to curb bank lending, the
housing market has shown signs of cooling. Home price growth
slowed to 2.6 percent in September, the smallest increase since
June 2009, according a monthly report by real estate brokers. A
central bank survey released earlier this month showed banks saw
less credit demand from households in the third quarter with
demand seen dropping this quarter. That’s raised concern the
slowdown could hurt the economy.  Economic Risks  Last week, Norges Bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged for a 10th meeting, in part as a deflating housing
market removes pressure from the bank to tighten policy. The
bank signaled in September it will move toward higher rates as
early as the “summer” of next year.  Growth in Norway’s $500 billion economy is showing signs of
stalling as household debt burdens curb private demand and after
persistent krone appreciation last year hurt exports. Mainland
gross domestic product, which excludes oil and gas production,
will expand 1.75 percent this year, the bank forecast in
September. In 2012, GDP by that measure grew by 3.4 percent.  In its letter to the FSA, the government also asked the
regulator to assess what effect, in general, tighter mortgage
rules have had on the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  