-- OGX Pushes Ibovespa Toward Fourth Monthly Gain: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-10-28T19:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/ogx-pushes-ibovespa-toward-fourth-monthly-gain-corporate-brazil.html
The Ibovespa is set for its best
streak of monthly gains in four years after signs of faster
growth in China boosted commodity producers and  Eike Batista ’s
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA rebounded from a record low.  The stock benchmark has gained 3.5 percent since Sept. 30,
poised for a fourth consecutive monthly advance. That would be
the longest rally since a six-month stretch in 2009.  OGX, the fifth-heaviest  weighted  stock on the gauge, jumped
38 percent this month on speculation it would get a capital
injection from investors amid talks to restructure debt. The
gain is responsible for 17 percent of the Ibovespa’s advance
this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Steelmaker
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA  rose the second-most  on the index
as data showed growth accelerated for the first time in three
quarters in  China ,  Brazil ’s biggest trading partner.  “The tone in Brazil is much better,” Christopher Palmer,
who oversees about $2.5 billion as the London-based director of
global emerging markets at Henderson Global Investors Ltd., said
in a telephone interview. “We have been getting consistently
better economic data from China. And Brazil does offer some
value. Brazil is a contrarian story, but there’s some decent
fundamentals which are beginning to emerge.”  Stocks worldwide rallied this month after data showed that
growth in the world’s second-largest economy accelerated for the
first time in three quarters as Chinese Premier Li Keqiang
spurred factory output and investment to meet the government’s
2013 expansion goal. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has climbed
4 percent in October, poised for its second monthly gain, while
the MSCI World Index gained 4.2 percent.  Ibovespa Rally  The Ibovespa gained 1.7 percent at the close of trading in
Sao Paulo today. The MSCI’s gauges of emerging and developed
markets rose 0.7 percent and 0.2 percent by 3:20 p.m. in New
York.  A report showing lower-than-forecast U.S. job growth also
boosted equities as traders speculated that the Federal Reserve
will maintain a stimulus program that has helped support
emerging-market assets.  Brazilian financial and consumer stocks gained this month
as economists raised their 2013 economic expansion forecast to
2.50 percent from 2.48 percent and increased projections for
2014 industrial production expansion to 2.50 percent from 2.39
percent, according to the median of about 100 estimates in a
central bank survey published Oct. 21. MSCI’s gauges of the
country’s financial and consumer discretionary companies gained
at least 5.1 percent.  ‘Very Skeptical’  OGX, which missed a $45 million bond payment Oct. 1,
triggering a 30-day grace period, rebounded to 29 centavos from
a record low 20 centavos as it negotiates with debt holders to
try to avoid filing for bankruptcy. Batista, who has taken six
companies public since 2006, is selling assets ranging from oil
fields to ports after his net worth slumped by more than $30
billion since early 2012 in a selloff spurred by missed targets
and rising debt.  The oil producer had the biggest impact on the direction of
the 73-member Ibovespa in 13 of this month’s 19 trading
sessions, a trend caused partly by the exchange’s reliance on
trading volume for determining the relative importance of
individual stocks in the index.  “OGX was a big problem for a long time, and now it
helped,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos, said by phone from Rio de Janeiro on Oct. 25.
“But I don’t know how much more it will help. The market is
still very skeptical on how that will work out.”  The shares slumped 19 percent on Oct. 25, pushing this
year’s decline to 93 percent. OGX declined to comment on its
share performance or talks with bondholders in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Angra Hired  The company hired Sao Paulo-based Angra Partners as a
“restructuring” consultant, it said on Oct. 15. Angra was
already an adviser to EBX Group, Batista’s holding company.  While stocks have advanced this month, the rally could end
soon as global demand for raw materials erodes and concern that
the Fed will eventually pare the U.S. stimulus program
discourages investors from putting money into emerging-market
equities, according to Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than
$20 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland .  “The question on everybody’s mind is whether or not
there’s enough real strength to continue to propel stocks higher
or if it’s more of an oversold bounce,” McCain said by phone on
Oct. 24. “So far, we’re not seeing enough resource demand to
move some of the economies like Brazil’s, which has always been
heavily dependent upon natural resources.”  ‘Positive Outlook’  Commodity producers account for 39 percent of the
Ibovespa’s weighting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s benchmark money-market rate rose the most since
June last week as the central bank refrained from adding funds
to markets and corporate tax payments drained cash. The People’s
Bank of China may lean toward tightening should there be an
acceleration in inflation, Song Guoqing, a central bank academic
adviser, said on Oct. 20 in Beijing.  The Ibovespa  dropped  more than 1 percent in each of the
past three sessions, declining 4.1 percent from this month’s
peak on Oct. 22. The gauge, which entered a bull market on Sept.
9 after rising 20 percent from this year’s low on July 3 through
that day, is still down 17 percent in dollar terms this year,
compared with a drop of 2.6 percent for MSCI’s emerging-markets
index.  The Ibovespa could extend its rally as companies report
their third-quarter earnings, according to Henrique Kleine, the
head analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Magliano SA. Nine of
the benchmark’s index’s members have posted quarterly results
from Oct. 15 through the close of trading on Oct. 25, with five
exceeding analysts’ earnings estimates, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I see a positive outlook for equities,” he said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. “Investors seem more willing to
take more risk, and earnings will probably support a rebound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  