-- Hong Kong Television Union Plans New Protests Over License Snub
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-10-27T06:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/hong-kong-television-union-plans-new-protests-over-license-snub.html
Hong Kong Television Network Ltd. (1137) 
workers called for a new round of protests demanding Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying explain the rejection of the company’s
license application.  The staff members ended a week-long protest at government
headquarters yesterday and vowed to return on Nov. 6, when
lawmakers are scheduled to debate a motion to probe the
decision, the company’s union said in an Oct. 26 statement
posted on its Facebook page.  HKTV cut about 320 workers after the government snubbed its
application in favor of  PCCW Ltd. (8)  and  I-Cable Communications
Ltd. (1097)  on Oct. 15. Tens of thousands of Hong Kongers joined the
protest over the week, reflecting concerns over government
accountability and freedom of expression in the semi-autonomous
Chinese city. HKTV plans to file for a judicial review, Chairman
Ricky Wong said on Oct. 22.  “The issue is definitely not over, rather it’s the
beginning of a new stage,” the union said in its statement.
“We thank the support of the public and hope to seek justice
together.”  Leung has said that the government will explain its
decision in court. The free-to-air television permits awarded on
Oct. 15 were the first in almost 40 years, increasing
competition for existing operators  Television Broadcasts Ltd. (511) 
and Asia Television Ltd.  I-Cable’s Fantastic Television will start free broadcasts
within three months from the formal granting of its license,
 Ming Pao  Daily News reported today, citing a company
announcement. It plans to have coverage for 95 percent of  Hong
Kong  households within 12 months from the start of the service,
Ming Pao said.  Television Advertising  Three calls to I-Cable’s external affairs department
outside of business hours weren’t answered.  Advertisers spent an estimated HK$13 billion ($1.7 billion)
in Hong Kong in 2012, with television accounting for about a
third of that, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said
in a February report, citing Magna Global.  Discontent is rising in the former British colony as a
record wealth gap and a doubling of property prices in four
years squeeze workers. Massive street protests led to the
reversal of a controversial national identity curriculum last
year. Former Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa resigned in 2005
after as many as half a million people took to the streets
against a proposed anti-subversion law.  Rising inequality has driven down poll ratings for Leung,
the city’s last leader to be chosen by a committee of business
and professional groups before universal suffrage promised in
2017. Hong Kong, which was returned to  China  in 1997, is a
Special Administrative Region guaranteed its own freedoms and
legal system for 50 years as part of the handover agreement.  Leung was picked by a committee of executives,
professionals and lawmakers for a five-year term, with China
promising universal suffrage in 2017. Opposition lawmakers
failed in a no-confidence motion against Leung on on Oct. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  