-- Mongolia Premier Welcomes Foreign Investors as Boom Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-27T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/mongolia-premier-welcomes-foreign-investors-as-boom-slows.html
Mongolia, making progress in a 
dispute with  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  that has stalled the expansion of 
a  copper mine , understands that it needs to make the nation more 
welcoming to foreign investors, Prime Minister Norovyn Altankhuyag said.  The country is open to all foreign companies and will allow
them to invest in industries such as railways and power
stations, in addition to mining, Altankhuyag said in an
interview in Beijing during a five-day visit to China.  This month Mongolia’s parliament approved a law that ended
different rules for domestic and foreign non-state investors
after the Mongolian tugrik fell 21 percent against the dollar
this year and foreign direct investment slumped by 47 percent.  “We have received and agreed with all of the criticism
from the market,” Altankhuyag said. “Our investors are
cheering the passing of the investment law.”  Mongolia’s mineral boom has slowed amid a protracted
dispute with key investors, including Rio, and increasing calls
for a greater share of revenue to go to its citizens. Building
infrastructure will allow the landlocked country to export a
greater volume of its abundant natural resources after low
commodity prices hurt its $10 billion economy, Altankhuyag said.  Gross domestic product increased 11.3 percent in the first
half of the year, from 12.4 percent for all of 2012 and a record
17.5 percent in 2011. GDP growth will be 13 percent to 14
percent by the end of this year as the government expands
domestic construction and boosts the housing market, he said.  Price Slump  “This year is a special one because most of the market
prices of our export products are declining right now,”
Altankhuyag said.  A 15 percent drop in coal prices this year eroded earnings
from Mongolia’s biggest export by 45 percent over the first nine
months. The country is prioritizing the volume of coal exports
to  China , its biggest customer, rather than the price, as well
as expanding the infrastructure of the Tavan Tolgoi coal mine,
Altankhuyag said.  Low prices will also keep the country from seeking an
initial public offering for state-owned coal company Erdenes
Tavan Tolgoi LLC, according to the premier.  “If the price will be like this, there is no need to talk
about the IPO,” he said. “After we have done the
infrastructure we will get a higher price from the IPO.”  Oyu Tolgoi  Tavan Tolgoi and Oyu Tolgoi are two of Mongolia’s largest
mines. Mongolia and London-based Rio have been in talks for much
of this year over the terms of a financing package, valued at
about $4 billion, to develop the second stage of the Oyu Tolgoi
copper and gold mine.  Rio, the world’s second-biggest mining company by market
value, manages the venture through its 51 percent stake in
Vancouver-based  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , which owns 66
percent of the mine. Mongolia owns 34 percent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.  Half the issues that need to be resolved have already been
decided, Altankhuyag said, and the government is ready to
discuss the refinancing. While open-pit work continues, the
dispute has resulted in the layoff of about 1,700 workers
connected to the mine’s expansion, which includes underground
development.  “There is nothing related with the government of Mongolia
that is stopping the project,” he said. “We don’t see that
there are tough issues to be solved.”  Tolerant, Cooperative  Disagreements over water use, concentrate transportation,
exports to China and company management are closer to
resolution, Davaadorj Ganbold, one of three Mongolian nationals
on the Oyu Tolgoi board, said in an interview in the capital
Ulaanbaatar on Oct. 26.  “Both sides are being very tolerant and cooperative
towards each other,” said Ganbold, who was deputy prime
minister from 1990 to 1992. “Solving one thing may bring some
movement or success in other items.”  So far $6.6 billion has been sunk into the first stage of
the mine, where the open pit went into commercial production in
July.  Altankhuyag met with Chinese President Xi Jinping and
Premier  Li Keqiang  in Beijing after visiting the northeastern
province of Liaoning, which borders  North Korea  and hosts the
port of Dalian.  The two sides signed agreements to strengthen cooperation
in energy, education, culture and finance, officials said Oct.
25. They’ll also cooperate more closely on mining, Liu Zhenmin,
China’s vice minister of foreign affairs, told reporters at the
Great Hall of the People after the signing ceremony.  Mongolia’s southern neighbor takes 86 percent of its
exports. In the first nine months of 2013, shipments to China
totaled $2.66 billion, compared with $3.01 billion a year
earlier. In September Mongolia’s central bank said it was in
talks with the  People’s Bank of China  to double the currency
swap agreement between the nations to 20 billion  yuan  ($3.3
billion).  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  