-- Torres’s Winner Punishes Manchester City Error in Premier League
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-10-27T23:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/torres-s-winner-punishes-manchester-city-error-in-premier-league.html
Fernando Torres  scored a last-minute
winner as Chelsea beat Manchester City 2-1 to regain second
place in English soccer’s Premier League.  Torres capitalized on a mix-up in the City defense at
 Stamford  Bridge in London yesterday. Matija Nastasic and  Joe Hart  converged on the ball at the edge of the penalty area, only
for Nastasic to head past his goalkeeper and leave Torres with
an easy scoring chance.  “We won a game which was very important for us,” Chelsea
manager  Jose Mourinho  told reporters. “We beat maybe the best
team in the Premier League. There are five or six fantastic
teams who will fight for the Premier League. They are the best
team, very dangerous and physical. When you beat maybe the best
team, it gives you positive feelings.”  Also yesterday, Tottenham Hotspur defeated Hull City 1-0,
Swansea City drew 0-0 with West Ham United and Sunderland beat
Newcastle United 2-1 in the northeast derby to move off the
bottom of the league.  Arsenal leads the standings with 22 points, followed by
Chelsea and Liverpool with 20 and Tottenham on 19. Southampton
and Everton have 18, with  Manchester City  two points back.  Torres should have put Chelsea ahead just before the half-hour at Stamford Bridge. Free of defenders, he skied the ball
over from just outside the six-yard area.  “With an easy chance missed, it can be the moment when a
striker loses confidence,” Mourinho said of Torres. “But that
was the moment when he decided ‘OK, I’ll be man of the match.’”  Made Amends  The Spanish striker made amends in the 33rd minute, taking
the ball past Gael Clichy on the right and cutting the ball back
for Andre Schuerrle to tap in. Torres almost made it 2-0 soon
after, his right-foot shot rebounding off the bar.  Sergio Aguero  tied the scores four minutes into the second
half, latching on to Samir Nasri’s pass and slamming a left-foot
shot past goalkeeper Petr Cech at the near post. It was Aguero’s
ninth goal in the past seven games.  Cech saved from  David Silva  as City turned up the pressure
before the defensive blunder gave Chelsea the victory.  “We are losing stupid points,” City manager Manuel Pellegrini said. “The three defeats we have had away, we didn’t
deserve any one of them. We had absolute control of the game,
but finally in the last minute we lost.”  Pellegrini headed straight to the locker room after the
game and didn’t shake hands with Mourinho, who had jumped in
among the home fans to celebrate.  “I did not shake hands, I did not want to,” said
Pellegrini, who was succeeded by Mourinho as Real Madrid coach
in 2010.  First Win  Sunderland’s new manager Gus Poyet saw his team get its
opening league win of the season in his first home match since
taking charge.  Steven Fletcher  gave Sunderland the lead in the fifth
minute at the Stadium of Light, heading in  Adam Johnson ’s cross.  Mathieu Debuchy tied the score in the 57th minute from
Hatem  Ben Arfa ’s cross, and Fabio Borini got the winner with a
swerving shot from outside the penalty area in the 84th minute.  The result leaves Sunderland with four points, one ahead of
last-place Crystal Palace.  An 80th-minute penalty kick by  Roberto Soldado  was enough
to give Spurs the victory over Hull at White Hart Lane. Ahmed
Elmohamady was ruled to have handled Jan Vertonghen’s cross.  Swansea’s penalty appeals for a handball by West Ham’s  Joe Cole  were turned down as their game finished scoreless in  Wales .  Two days ago, Arsenal beat Crystal Palace 2-0 and Everton
won by the same score at Aston Villa. Liverpool defeated West
Bromwich Albion 4-1 and defending champion Manchester United
overcame Stoke 3-2. Norwich and Cardiff drew 0-0 and Fulham lost
2-0 at Southampton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  