-- Rajan Seen Raising Key India Rate as RBI Flags Inflation Threat
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-10-28T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/rajan-seen-raising-key-rate-again-to-tame-fastest-asia-inflation.html
Indian monetary policy must tackle
elevated inflation even as most analysts see growth in Asia’s
third-largest economy slowing to an 11-year low, the central
bank said on the eve of today’s interest-rate decision.  “Monetary policy faces an unenviable task of anchoring
inflation expectations, even while growth remains tepid,” the
Reserve Bank of  India  said in an economic review yesterday. The
central bank will probably raise its benchmark interest rate for
the second straight month to fight the fastest consumer-price
inflation in Asia, a Bloomberg survey showed. The decision is
expected at 11:00 a.m. local time.  Governor Raghuram Rajan, who pledged to contain price
increases after taking charge of the RBI last month, faces
consumer inflation of almost 10 percent as the rupee’s drop over
the past year stokes import costs. Making credit more expensive
risks further hampering Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s efforts
to revive economic expansion before elections due by May.  “It’s clear that bringing down inflation is the dominant
mandate which will be adhered to by the central bank,” said
Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “A
quarter-point increase is already expected, but after this
report we can expect another increase of a similar amount,
though not immediately.”  Rajan, a former International Monetary Fund chief
economist, will raise the benchmark  repurchase rate  by 25 basis
points to 7.75 percent, 32 of 42 analysts said in a Bloomberg
News survey. One saw a rise to 8 percent, while the rest
expected no change.  Simplifying Policy  He will cut the  marginal standing facility rate  by a
quarter of a percentage point to 8.75 percent as he rolls back
emergency liquidity curbs imposed on the banking system three
months ago, nine of 14 economists said in a second Bloomberg
survey. One predicted 8.5 percent and the rest no change.  Banks borrow in the marginal standing facility window when
they exhaust the amount they can access at the repo rate, which
was curbed in July. Rajan has said he aims to lower the gap
between the two rates to 100 basis points.  “The governor is moving towards simplifying monetary
policy,” Tirthankar Patnaik, a strategist at Religare Capital
Markets Ltd. in Mumbai, said before yesterday’s report. “He’s
aiming to restore the repo as the operative policy rate and
prioritizing the need to anchor inflation expectations, which
should be good for the rupee and economy longer term.”  Rupee Falls  The rupee, down 12 percent against the dollar over the past
year, fell 0.1 percent to 61.525 per dollar at the close in
Mumbai. The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX) , up 5.9 percent this year, slid 0.6
percent. The yield on the 10-year government bond has increased
to 8.66 percent from about 8 percent at the start of the year.  Consumer prices rose 9.84 percent in September from a year
earlier, the most in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific economies
tracked by Bloomberg. Wholesale inflation was 6.46 percent,
pushing up prices of onions and other food staples for the
roughly 800 million Indians who live on less than $2 per day.
The gauge may average 6 percent this fiscal year, yesterday’s
survey said, compared with an earlier 5.3 percent estimate.  The economy may expand 4.8 percent in the year through
March 2014, based on a compilation of forecasts from other
organizations, yesterday’s report showed. That would be the
slowest pace since 2003, and compares with a July projection of
a 5.7 percent expansion.  Rajan, 50, unexpectedly raised the repo rate by a quarter
point in his first policy review on Sept. 20. He’s lowered the
marginal standing facility rate to 9 percent from 10.25 percent,
the level reached when his predecessor boosted it 200 basis
points on July 15 to curb the supply of rupees.  Singh Scandals  The governor has also offered concessional swaps for banks’
foreign-currency deposits and borrowings to encourage them to
raise dollars. That window will attract about $15 billion before
it closes next month, two officials with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  Economic woes add to the challenges facing Singh, whose
government has been beset by graft scandals. He took steps in
September last year to revive investment and avert a credit-rating downgrade, including speeding up infrastructure projects,
easing foreign-investment curbs and narrowing trade and budget
deficits.  Rajan said this month India’s expansion is probably near
the low point and should accelerate.  Exports (INMTEXUY)  have risen since July, while investments worth 3.84
trillion rupees ($62 billion) have been cleared up to Aug. 27 by
a panel Singh set up to kick-start stalled projects. Deutsche
Bank AG expects record food grain output in the year ending
June.  For now, Indian companies are grappling with conditions
akin to stagflation.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the country’s
biggest maker of sport utility vehicles, this month increased
prices as much as 2 percent on higher input costs.  “Inflation isn’t going away unless the government
addresses the main reasons for it: insufficient investment in
infrastructure and poor productivity,” said Arun Singh, an
economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt. in
Mumbai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  