-- Retail Sales Probably Slowed on Auto Slump: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-10-27T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/retail-sales-probably-slowed-on-auto-slump-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales  probably stalled in
September as Americans shied away from auto showrooms,
indicating the economy was cooling ahead of the partial federal
shutdown, economists said before reports this week.  Economists forecast no change in purchases, the worst
reading in six months, after a 0.2 percent advance in August,
according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of Commerce
Department figures due Oct. 29. Sales  excluding motor vehicle 
dealers may have increased 0.4 percent in September, a sign
other merchants had more success luring customers.  Faster hiring and wage growth are needed to spur demand that
may have weakened further in October as the 16-day government
shutdown caused consumer sentiment to falter. Other reports may
show manufacturing cooled, job gains decelerated and inflation
remained tame, giving the Federal Reserve reason to maintain
stimulus at this week’s meeting.  “Consumers are spending at a slow pace,” said  Gus Faucher , senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
in Pittsburgh. “We have an economy that is expanding, but
handicapped by policy mistakes that cause consumers and
businesses to be cautious.”  The September retail sales report, delayed because of the
closing of the government at the beginning of the month, was
originally scheduled for Oct. 11.  Flagging Sentiment  The reopening of the federal government has yet to reassure
households,  consumer confidence  reports showed last week. At the
same time, rising home values and stock-market gains are helping
repair household finances.  The Standard and Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
gained 34.5 percent since the start of this year, outpacing a
23.4 percent advance in the broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  gauge.  Vehicle sales probably weighed on total purchases in
September.  Cars and light trucks  sold at a 15.2 million annual
pace, down from an almost six-year high of 16 million the prior
month, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group. Toyota
Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. reported U.S.
sales declines last month, with tight supplies of some models
after August’s surge and fewer weekend selling days.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford Motor Co. said earlier this
month that the government shutdown posed a threat to an already
slow economic recovery.  Some companies project demand to pick up in the November-December holiday shopping season.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ,
the world’s largest-package delivery company, said it expects
daily shipping volumes to rise 8 percent during the peak
shipping period between Thanksgiving and Christmas, led by
growth in online shopping, according to an Oct. 25 statement.  Holiday Spending  “Looking to the fourth quarter, although some major
retailers have expressed caution about holiday spending, they
still expect robust online sales,” Kurt Kuehn, chief financial
officer at UPS, said in a separate earnings release.  The Commerce Department’s retail sales data aren’t adjusted
for prices, so cheaper fuel may have reduced receipts at filling
stations in September. Regular  gasoline  at the pump sold at an
average $3.51 a gallon last month, compared with $3.56 in
August, according to AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group.  The lack of price pressures, including fuel, is keeping a
lid on the cost of living. The  consumer price index  rose 1.2
percent in the 12 months ended September, the smallest year-over-year gain since April, according to the Bloomberg survey
median. The measure rose 0.2 percent last month from August,
economists forecast before the Labor Department report due on
Oct. 30.  Fed policy makers, meeting Oct. 29 and Oct. 30, are trying
to gauge the strength of the U.S. expansion as inflation holds
below their long-term goal of 2 percent. The central bank will
wait until its March 18-19 meeting to pare the monthly pace of
asset buying to $70 billion from $85 billion, according to the
median of 40 responses in a Bloomberg survey this month.  Manufacturing Growth  Other reports this week are projected to show  manufacturing (IPMGCHNG) 
cooled in October and private employers slowed the pace of
hiring. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory gauge, due
Nov. 1, declined to 55 from a more than two-year high of 56.2 in
September, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth.  Companies added 150,000 workers to payrolls this month
after a 166,000 gain in September, economists forecast a report
from ADP Research Institute in Roseland,  New Jersey , will show
on Oct. 30.  Fed data tomorrow may show industrial production advanced
0.4 percent in September, the same as in the prior month,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Manufacturing, which
makes up 75 percent of total production, probably cooled after
advancing in August by the most this year, economists said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  