-- Sabic CFO Sees Perfect Timing for Second Debt Sale This Year
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-10-27T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/sabic-cfo-sees-perfect-timing-for-second-debt-sale-this-year.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s second-biggest chemicals maker, is planning a second
foreign-currency bond sale this year as it seeks to refinance
debt amid lower  interest rates .  The state-controlled company will sell euro-denominated
securities before the end of this year although it hasn’t
decided how much money it will raise, Chief Financial Officer
Mutlaq al-Morished told reporters in Riyadh yesterday. “It’s
excellent timing for anybody to refinance.”  Sabic, as the company is known, last month raised $1
billion from five-year notes in its first dollar-bond deal since
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities
pay a coupon of 2.625 percent and were priced to yield 130 basis
points over similar maturity  U.S. Treasury  securities. Orders
exceeded the issue’s size by more than five times, two people
familiar with the sale said at the time.  Issuers from the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which
includes Saudi Arabia and Qatar, are seeking to benefit from
lower borrowing costs before the  Federal Reserve  reduces
monetary stimulus. The yield on 10-year  U.S. Treasuries (USGG10YR)  has
declined 48 basis points from its September peak after the U.S.
central bank surprised investors last month by maintaining its
bond-buying program.  Euro Diversification  Sabic’s preference for a euro-denominated issue will
“enable a greater diversification in Sabic’s debt financing,”
Montasser Khelifi, a Dubai-based senior manager for global
markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd., said in an e-mail.
“The recovery in the euro zone is not as strong as in the U.S.,
so the  European Central Bank  is more committed to lower rates
than the Fed.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has vowed to hold borrowing
costs low for an extended period. Fed policy makers, who meet
again this week, will pare the monthly pace of asset buying to
$70 billion at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the
median of 40 responses in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Sabic, which has Moody’s Investors Service’s fifth-highest
 investment grade  of A1, has $12.5 billion of debt outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of that $1 billion is
due this year and $1.9 billion next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  