-- Sabic Third-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates, Shares Decline
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-10-27T10:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/sabic-third-quarter-profit-climbs-2-5-misses-estimates.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp., (SABIC)  the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, reported a 2.5 percent
increase in third-quarter profit, missing analysts’ estimates.
The shares dropped.  Net income  rose to 6.47 billion riyals ($1.73 billion) from
6.31 billion riyals a year earlier, the Riyadh-based company
known as Sabic  said in a statement  to the Saudi stock market
today. The mean estimate of 10 analysts was for a profit of 6.56
billion riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The increase in net income is attributable to an increase
in quantities sold, favorable prices for  certain products  and
lower financial charges despite lower other income,” according
to the company. Third-quarter sales 48.8 billion riyals compared
with 44.8 billion a year earlier, Chief Financial Officer Mutlaq
al-Morished told reporters in  Riyadh .  Lower petrochemicals prices linked to sluggish demand in a
struggling global economy affected profit at Sabic affiliates.
 Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO)  reported a 36 percent decline in
third-quarter profit as  urea prices  fell.  Sabic, which in 2007 bought General Electric Co.’s plastics
unit for $11.6 billion, said in April it plans to cut about
1,050 positions and close some assets in  Europe  because of lower
demand. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Al-Mady told reporters
in the same month that Sabic is interested in investment
possibilities in  North America .  The company last month raised $1 billion in its first
dollar-bond deal since 2010 after investors placed orders worth
more than five-times the issue’s size. Sabic’s credit default
swaps, or contracts insuring the company’s debt against default
for five years, are at a record low, having fallen 24 basis
points this year to 79 last week.  The shares dropped as much as 2.9 percent, the biggest
intra-day decline since July.  The stock  have climbed 14 percent
this year compared with a 19 percent gain for the benchmark
Tadawul All Share Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  