-- South Korea’s Lee Gets Masters Golf Berth With Asia Amateur Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-27T22:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/south-korea-s-lee-gets-masters-golf-berth-with-asia-amateur-win.html
Lee Chang-woo of South Korea earned
a berth in golf’s 2014  Masters Tournament  with a three-shot win
at the Asia-Pacific Amateur Championship.  Lee, who tied for second with Rory McIlroy at last week’s
Korean Open, started yesterday’s final round with a one-stroke
advantage and shot a 1-under-par 70 at the Garden Course in
Longkou City,  China . He was the lone golfer in the field to
finish below par, with a four-round total of 3 under 281.  Lee, 19, is the second South Korean player to win the Asia-Pacific Amateur after Han Chang-won claimed the inaugural event
in 2009 at Mission Hills Golf Club in southern China.  “Playing in the Masters has been my dream since I started
playing golf,” said Lee, who won the Dongbu Promi Open on  South
Korea ’s professional tour last month. “I didn’t think I would
have an opportunity, so this is a great honor.”  The past three Asia-Pacific Amateur winners have made the
cut for weekend play at the Masters, the first of golf’s four
major championships. Tianlang Guan of China finished 58th at the
Masters this year at the age of 14, becoming the youngest player
in a major golf championship in 148 years.  Guan tied for eighth place at this year’s Asia-Pacific
Amateur Championship, eight shots behind Lee.  The tournament was created in 2009 by the Asia Pacific Golf
Confederation, the Masters Tournament and the Royal & Ancient
Golf Club of  St. Andrews  to help promote golf development
throughout Asia. With his victory, Lee also earns a spot in the
final round of international qualifying for the 2014 British
Open. Next year’s Masters is scheduled for April 10-13 at
Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta,  Georgia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  