-- Torres Scores Late Winner as Chelsea Defeats Manchester City 2-1
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-10-27T19:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/sunderland-beats-newcastle-to-move-off-bottom-of-premier-league.html
Fernando Torres  scored a last-minute winner as Chelsea beat Manchester City 2-1 to regain
second place in English soccer’s Premier League.  The winning goal came when Torres took advantage of a mix-up in the City defense. Matija Nastasic and goalkeeper  Joe Hart 
converged on a through-ball at the edge of the penalty area,
only for Nastasic to head past his teammate and present Torres
with an easy scoring chance.  Sergio Aguero  had scored City’s leveling goal at 1-1 after
Torres set up Andre Schuerrle to get Chelsea’s first goal.  Tottenham beat Hull 1-0, Swansea drew 0-0 with West Ham,
and Sunderland beat Newcastle 2-1 in the northeast derby to move
off the bottom of the league.  Arsenal leads the standings on 22 points, followed by
Chelsea and Liverpool on 20, Tottenham on 19, Southampton and
Everton on 18, and City on 16 points.  Torres should have given Chelsea the lead just before the
half-hour at Stamford Bridge. Completely unmarked, he skied the
ball over from just outside the six-yard area.  The Spaniard made amends in the 33rd minute, taking the
ball past Gael Clichy on the right and cutting the ball back for
Schuerrle to tap in. Torres almost made it 2-0 soon after, his
right-foot shot from left of goal rebounding off the bar.  Aguero leveled the scores four minutes into the second
half, latching on to Samir Nasri’s through-ball and slamming a
left-foot shot past goalkeeper Petr Cech at the near post. It
was Aguero’s ninth goal in the past seven games.  Cech saved from  David Silva  as City turned up the pressure,
but the game looked like ending in a 1-1 draw before the
defensive blunder that gave Chelsea victory.  Sunderland Victory  Sunderland’s new manager Gus Poyet saw his team get its
opening league win of the season in his first home match since
taking charge.  Steven Fletcher  gave Sunderland the lead in the fifth
minute at the Stadium of Light, heading in  Adam Johnson ’s cross.  Mathieu Debuchy leveled the scores in the 57th minute from
Hatem  Ben Arfa ’s cross, and Fabio Borini got the winner with a
swerving shot from outside the penalty area in the 84th minute.  The result leaves Sunderland on four points, one ahead of
Crystal Palace.  An 80th-minute penalty by  Roberto Soldado  was enough to
give Tottenham victory over Hull at White Hart Lane.  Yesterday, league leader Arsenal won 2-0 at Crystal Palace
and Everton won by the same score at  Aston Villa . Liverpool
defeated West Brom 4-1 and defending champion Manchester United
overcame Stoke 3-2. Norwich and Cardiff drew 0-0 and Fulham lost
2-0 at Southampton.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  