-- Vettel Joins Formula One Greats by Winning Fourth Straight Title
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-27T22:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/vettel-joins-formula-one-greats-by-winning-fourth-straight-title.html
Sebastian Vettel joined the ranks of
Formula One’s most-successful drivers by winning his fourth
straight world championship at the Indian Grand Prix.  Juan Manuel Fangio of Argentina,  France ’s Alain Prost and
Vettel’s fellow German Michael Schumacher are the only other
drivers to have won at least four titles.  At 26, Vettel is by far the youngest. Fangio won his fourth
championship when he was 45, Prost when he was 38 and Schumacher
at 32. Only Fangio and Schumacher also secured four in a row.  “I had pictures of Michael Schumacher on my wall when I
was a teenager,” Vettel said after winning yesterday’s race
near New Delhi. “I spoke to him a couple of days ago and it’s
so odd when I used to think he was god, but now I see him as the
man and not the driver.”  Red Bull Racing’s Vettel secured the title with three races
to spare, extending his lead over nearest rival Fernando Alonso
of Ferrari to 115 points. Red Bull also won the constructors’
championship for the fourth straight season.  “I congratulate Sebastian Vettel,” Alonso told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “We need to start thinking about
next year and make things more difficult for him.”  Nico Rosberg of Mercedes was second in the 60-lap race at
the Buddh International Circuit and Lotus’s Romain Grosjean came
third after starting 17th on the grid. Spain’s Alonso finished
11th, failing to add to his points tally.  Vettel started in his seventh pole position of the season
and immediately opened a gap of more than two seconds before
stopping on only the second lap to change tires. He rejoined in
17th position but climbed swiftly through the field into third
by lap 13.  Webber Exit  On lap 21 he moved into second behind teammate Mark Webber
and took the lead when the Australian came into the pits on lap
28. Webber eventually quit the race when his alternator failed.  Ferrari’s Felipe Massa came fourth ahead of Sergio Perez of
McLaren, Mercedes’s Lewis Hamilton and Lotus’s Kimi Raikkonen,
who will drive for Ferrari next season. Force India pair Paul Di
Resta and Adrian Sutil, and Toro Rosso’s Daniel Ricciardo
rounded out the top 10.  Vettel has won 10 of the 16 races so far this season,
including the past six in a row. Schumacher won 11 of 17 events
in 2002, prompting television ratings to decline. Formula One
altered the rules on qualifying and point-scoring after that
season in an effort make racing more unpredictable.  ‘So Proud’  “Words fail me for what Sebastian’s done,” Red Bull Team
Principal Christian Horner said. “Not just this year, but over
the last four years. I’m so proud for what he’s achieved.”  Going into the final three races, Vettel has 322 points
atop the series standings, followed by Alonso (207), Raikkonen
(183) and Hamilton (169).  Vettel, who has won each of the three Indian Grands Prix to
be staged, also guaranteed Red Bull its fourth constructors’
title in a row with yesterday’s victory. That gives its British
car designer Adrian Newey his 10th team championship since 1992.  The Milton Keynes, England-based team is bankrolled by
energy drink maker Red Bull GmbH, which bought it from Ford
Motor Co.’s Jaguar Racing in 2004.  “He is just an ordinary kid who has not lost sight of who
he is despite the success he has had,” Newey said of Vettel.
“He is very humble, very intelligent, he has that process like
all the greats of being able to drive and be conscious of what
is going on around him all the time.”  ‘Phenomenal’  Vettel paid tribute to his team.  “The car was phenomenal,” he said. “It was phenomenal
all season. I couldn’t ask for anymore.”  The next Grand Prix takes place Nov. 3 in Abu Dhabi before
the 2013 series concludes with races in the U.S. and  Brazil .
Vettel would match Schumacher’s single-season record of 13
victories by winning all three remaining events.  Schumacher won five of his seven championships in a row
with Ferrari through 2004 and Fangio took four of his five in
straight seasons through 1957. Prost won his four titles between
1985 and 1993.  “To join people like that is very difficult for me to put
into perspective,” Vettel said. “I am far too young to
understand what it means.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  