-- Vettel Secures Fourth Straight F-1 Title With India Victory
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-27T13:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/vettel-secures-fourth-straight-formula-one-title-with-india-win.html
Sebastian Vettel won the Indian
Grand Prix to become the youngest Formula One driver to secure
four straight world championships.  The 26-year-old Red Bull driver won the title with three
races to spare, extending his lead over nearest rival Fernando Alonso of Ferrari to 115 points. He joins fellow German Michael Schumacher and Juan Manuel Fangio of Argentina in winning four
consecutive titles.  “I don’t know what to say. I crossed the line and I was
just empty,” Vettel said at the post-race presentation. “It’s
been a phenomenal season. The spirit inside the team is so
strong.”  Nico Rosberg of Mercedes was second in the 60-lap race at
the Buddh International Circuit near New Delhi and Lotus’s
Romain Grosjean came third. Alonso finished 11th, failing to add
to his points tally.  Vettel has won 10 of the 16 races so far this season,
including the past six in a row. Schumacher won 11 of 17 events
in 2002, prompting television ratings to decline. Formula One
altered the rules on qualifying and point-scoring after that
season in an effort make racing more unpredictable.  “Words fail me for what Sebastian’s done,” Red Bull Team
Principal Christian Horner said. “Not just this year, but over
the last four years. I’m so proud for what he’s achieved, and
the team.”  Opened Gap  Vettel started in his seventh pole position of the season
and immediately opened a gap of more than two seconds before
stopping on only the second lap to change tires. He rejoined in
17th position but climbed swiftly through the field into third
by lap 13.  On lap 21 he moved into second behind teammate Mark Webber
and took the lead when the Australian came into the pits on lap
28. Webber was eventually forced out of the race with an
alternator failure.  Vettel, who has won each of the three Indian Grands Prix to
be staged, also guaranteed Red Bull a fourth constructors’ title
in a row with today’s victory. That gives its British car
designer Adrian Newey his 10th team championship since 1992.  The Milton Keynes, England-based team is bankrolled by
energy drink maker Red Bull GmbH, which bought it from Ford
Motor Co.’s Jaguar Racing in 2004.  “The car was phenomenal today,” Vettel said. “It was
phenomenal all season. I couldn’t ask for anymore.  “ I’m overwhelmed. It’s one of the best days of my life so
far,” he added. “To join people like Prost, Schumacher and
Fangio is unbelievable.”  Schumacher won five of his seven titles in a row with
Ferrari through 2004 and Fangio took four of his five in
straight seasons through 1957.  France ’s Alain Prost won four
titles between 1985 and 1993.  The next Grand Prix takes place Nov. 3 in Abu Dhabi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  