-- Yen Falls After BOJ’s Iwata Repeats Easing Pledge; Aussie Climbs
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-10-28T07:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/yen-weakens-versus-euro-after-boj-s-iwata-repeats-easing-pledge.html
The yen extended its three-week
decline against the euro after Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata
reiterated the  Bank of Japan ’s commitment to unprecedented
monetary easing.  The yen weakened against all its major peers on prospects
the BOJ will say after a meeting this week it plans to continue
buying more than 7 trillion yen ($71.7 billion) in bonds each
month to end deflation. The euro traded near a two-year high
against the dollar before the  Federal Reserve  begins a two-day
meeting tomorrow, with economists predicting policy makers will
refrain from tapering stimulus. The Australian and New Zealand
dollars gained along with Asian shares.  “The Bank of  Japan , the Fed and the  Bank of England  are
still effectively printing money, and the ECB is not,” said
Derek Mumford, a director at Rochford Capital, foreign-exchange
risk-management company in Sydney, referring to the  European
Central Bank  and its global peers. “It’s a natural trade for
the euro to strengthen. I still think the yen will weaken.”  The yen declined 0.2 percent to 134.68 per euro as of 6:55
a.m. in  London  from Oct. 25, extending a 0.5 percent drop from
last week. It fell 0.2 percent to 97.60 per dollar. The shared
currency was little changed at $1.3799, after reaching $1.3832
on Oct. 25, the strongest since November 2011.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares jumped 1 percent.
Trading in London may be subdued as the worst storm in five
years forced rail operators across southern Britain to cancel
morning rush-hour services.  Easing Pledge  The BOJ will continue to buy bonds until it achieves its 2
percent inflation target, Deputy Governor Iwata said yesterday
in Shimonoseki, western Japan. The country’s monetary and fiscal
policies are at a critical point for ending deflation, he said.
Policy makers hold a one-day meeting on Oct. 31.  Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is attempting to
revitalize the nation’s economy through a program of monetary
easing, fiscal stimulus, and structural reforms -- the so-called
three arrows of Abenomics.  “We still remain firmly in the camp that the yen will
weaken, and weaken materially in the months ahead,”  John Horner , a Sydney-based currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “We do think
Abenomics will work. We do expect to see further indication as
to the detail of those reform measures in the weeks and months
ahead that will give us greater confidence that that dollar-yen
move will persist.”  Technical Signal  The yen fell against the dollar after failing to maintain
gains above a key technical indicator. The yen closed at 97.42
per dollar on Oct. 25, weaker than its 200-day moving average,
after touching a two-week high of 96.94.  The Japanese currency will finish 2013 at 100 per dollar,
and then reach 110 at the end of 2014, according to median
estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  It has tumbled 20 percent in the past year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has added 0.5
percent, and the pound has gained 1 percent. The euro has
strengthened the most, rising 8 percent.  Fed policy makers, meeting this week, are trying to gauge
the strength of the U.S. expansion. The central bank will wait
until its March 18-19 meeting to pare the monthly pace of asset
buying to $70 billion from $85 billion, according to the median
of responses in a Bloomberg News poll this month.  Europe ’s single currency was near a two-month high versus
the pound before Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale 
speaks today in London. He said earlier this month on Twitter
that policy makers are “unlikely” to raise  interest rates 
before 2015. “When we raise interest rates economy should be
stronger, higher employment, higher real wages,” he wrote.  French Confidence  Consumer confidence  in  France , Europe’s second biggest
economy, probably increased to 86 this month, matching the level
reached in February, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s data.  “The surprises that have come from Europe, that along with
capital inflows to Europe, have really benefited the euro,”
 Mitul Kotecha , the Hong Kong-based head of foreign exchange
strategy at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “Once we start getting $1.38 and above,
it becomes a bit more tenuous.”  The euro bought 85.301 pence from 85.395, after touching
85.553 on Oct. 24, the highest since Aug. 29.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars strengthened against
most major peers before a report this week predicted to show
manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in 18 months in  China ,
the biggest trading partner of both South Pacific nations.  China Manufacturing  The National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing will say their  Purchasing Managers’
Index (CPMINDX)  rose to 51.2 in October, according to the median estimate
of economists ahead of the Nov. 1 report.  “The Australian dollar’s benefited from some better
numbers out of China,” said  Credit Agricole ’s Kotecha.
“Whether we get back to parity anytime soon, I think, is
doubtful. I think Aussie looks now to be a little bit more
stretched.”  The Aussie rose 0.1 percent to 95.98 U.S. cents, while the
kiwi gained 0.2 percent to 82.97 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  