-- Zimbabwe Deciding How to Structure Mine Funding Bond
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-10-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-27/zimbabwe-deciding-how-to-structure-mine-funding-bond.html
Zimbabwe ’s government is determining
how to structure the sale of the country’s first international
bond and is seeking advisers as it aims to raise financing to
fund mining development, Walter Chidakwa, the country’s mines
minister, said.  Chidakwa said he will meet with Finance Minister Patrick Chinamasa to discuss the plan ahead of the release of the
country’s budget, scheduled for next month.  “We haven’t worked out how much we are going to raise and
who is actually going to work in putting together the bond,”
Chidakwa said in an Oct. 26 interview at Mimosa platinum mine
near Zvishavane, 299 kilometers (186 miles) southwest of the
capital, Harare.  On Oct. 10 Chidakwa told an industrial conference in
Bulawayo, the country’s second-biggest city, that the government
was considering a bond sale to create a fund to finance mining.
The government of Zimbabwe, which has the world’s second-biggest
platinum and chrome reserves, is compelling mining companies to
sell or cede 51 percent of their local assets to black citizens
of the country or the state.  Companies including  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ,  Mwana Africa Plc (MWA)  and
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  dig minerals and metals ranging
from diamonds to gold and platinum in Zimbabwe. Mimosa is an
equally owned venture between South Africa’s  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)   The platinum industry needs as much as $5.3 billion if it
is to expand to produce more than 500,000 ounces of the metal
and to construct precious and base metal refineries, the
Platinum Produces Committee said in a report this month.
Production is forecast at 365,000 ounces this year, according to
the group, which represents Impala, Anglo American Platinum and
Aquarius.  Chidakwa declined to comment further on the planned bond.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  