-- ‘Once’ Hoists a Happy Beer on Broadway: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-03-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/-once-hoists-a-happy-beer-on-broadway-jeremy-gerard.html
Brimming with charm, “ Once ” has
made a smooth transition from downtown to Times Square.  The spell takes hold right away when, entering the theater,
we’re invited onstage to hoist one with the actors at a working
bar.  In one key area, this engaging musical has even improved.
Cristin Milioti -- whose Czech emigre emerges from nowhere to
kick start the career and life of depressed street musician
Steve Kazee -- has toned down the cliche cutesiness. She’s
captivating.  The change is enough to draw the role closer to the young
woman played by Marketa Irglova in the film of the same name,
which was kinda sorta based on the true tale of her romance and
songwriting partnership with Glen Hansard.  The film cost $100,000 to make and took in more than $20
million at the box office, making it an indie legend. And its
most powerful song, “Falling Slowly,” won the 2007 Oscar for
best original song.  When the show opened in December at the  New York Theatre
Workshop , I wrote, “Like most of the music in this stage
adaptation, ‘Falling Slowly’ has never sounded more ethereally
resonant. As Guy and Girl, Kazee and Milioti are perfect vocal
complements. Whenever they’re joined by the rest of this
remarkable ensemble, the music is gorgeous.”  I quibbled that the show occasionally careers into Tweeland
and that choreographer Steven Hoggett’s “movement” resembles a
parody of modern dance.  Bob Crowley  That’s all still true. And if the ubiquity of very
expensive Martin guitars among this ragtag bunch seems odd,
odder still is the gratuitous plug for them in the script.  But director John Tiffany and his extraordinary designers
Bob Crowley (set and costumes) and Natasha Katz (lighting)
suffuse the show with authenticity as do the exceptionally
talented actor/musicians onstage.  Happily, “Once” remains a rare combination of
intelligence, warmth and musicality.  At the Bernard Jacobs Theatre, 242 W. 45th St. Information:
+1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 