-- Adobe Shares Fall After Profit Forecast Misses Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-03-20T12:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/adobe-s-profit-forecast-misses-estimates-amid-software-upgrade.html
(Corrects analyst’s name in fourth paragraph.)  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ’s shares fell in
late trading after its profit forecast missed some estimates, as
the company steps up spending on sales and marketing and adopts
a subscription-pricing approach.  Excluding some costs, profit will be 57 cents to 61 cents a
share in the second quarter,  San Jose , California-based Adobe
said yesterday in a statement. The midpoint of that range -- 59
cents -- missed the 60 cents predicted by  analysts , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales will be $1.09 billion to $1.14
billion, compared with a $1.11 billion average estimate.  Adobe, the largest maker of graphic design software, is
boosting its marketing budget as it prepares to release Creative
Suite 6 around April. The product line, which includes Photoshop
and Dreamweaver, will add cloud-computing features, letting
users rent the software over the Web for a monthly subscription
fee. While that approach is unproven ground for Adobe, it could
eventually make the company’s revenue more predictable.  “The main story for 2012 is how they transition to this
subscription pricing,” said  Josh Olson , an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , who has a hold rating on the
shares. “It’s been a stock that’s moved a lot with the product
cycles. Long term, they need to get more recurring revenue.”  Adobe shares  declined as much as 6.2 percent to $32.36 in
extended trading yesterday following the report. The stock had
climbed 22 percent this year before today.  Timing of Release  Investors also are concerned that Creative Suite 6 won’t
arrive in April, the month Adobe typically releases new versions
of the software, Olson said. He expects it in May, which may
crimp sales in the current quarter.  Adobe Chief Financial Officer Mark Garrett declined to say
when the software would be released, though he did indicate it
might be later than the typical Creative Suite debut. The
software will include the first major update to Adobe’s popular
Photoshop software in two years. The company also is
synchronizing online and desktop versions of the suite, making
the development process longer than usual, he said.  Sales of Adobe’s digital media products, which include
Creative Suite, declined 4 percent to $730.3 million in the
first quarter -- a sign customers are holding off on purchases
until the new version arrives, Garrett said.  “The more we went through the quarter and talked about
CS6, we saw people waiting,” he said.  Sales and marketing  expenses , meanwhile, climbed 9.4
percent in the first quarter to almost $359 million.  Pricing Change  Only some customers will adopt the subscription pricing.
Still, it will be a big change for Adobe, which is accustomed to
large upfront payments, Olson said. In the short term, that
could mean the new software brings in less revenue.  “What would have been a $1,400 upgrade is a now a $50 or
$60 a month subscription,” he said. “That’s going to mute
revenue growth.”  Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen has been counting
on the new Creative Suite to cement Adobe’s comeback, following
a slump characterized by slow sales, job cuts and a feud with
Apple Inc. The company is relying more heavily on the HTML5
programming language, rather than its Flash software, after
Apple refused to include Flash in its mobile devices.  First-quarter  net income  declined to $185.2 million, or 37
cents a share, from $234.6 million, or 46 cents, a year earlier.
Sales rose 1.7 percent to $1.05 billion in the period, which
ended March 2.  Adobe said in November it would eliminate 750 jobs and
shift investment to programs for digital publishing and Web
advertising. The company plans to discuss a separate set of
software programs for online advertising at its  Digital
Marketing Summit  in  Salt Lake City  later this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  