-- Thailand May Hold Rates as Asia Gauges Risks From China to Oil
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-03-19T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/thailand-may-hold-rates-as-asia-gauges-risks-from-china-to-oil.html
Thailand  and Taiwan may keep
 interest rates  unchanged this week as Asian policy makers gauge
the extent of a growth slowdown in  China  that’s adding to
challenges posed by the European crisis and rising oil prices.  Thailand will hold its benchmark  one-day bond repurchase
rate  at 3 percent tomorrow, according to 19 of 21 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News, with two predicting a third
consecutive cut to 2.75 percent. Taiwan may leave the  discount
rate  on 10-day loans to banks at 1.875 percent on March 22, all
10 economists in a separate survey said.  Central banks from  Australia  to  South Korea  refrained from
cutting rates this month as higher energy costs boosted
inflation risks, reducing the scope for monetary stimulus to
counter a Chinese slowdown and  Europe ’s slump. International
Monetary Fund Deputy Managing Director Zhu Min said yesterday
that China is “heading for a soft landing,” while a report last
week showed an improving U.S. labor market.  “Regional central banks mostly are still in this wait-and-
see mode,” said Sylvia Chiu, an economist at SinoPac Financial
Holdings Co. in Taipei. “Although the economic outlook is
getting better as the  U.S. economy  is slowly coming out of the
woods, it’s still uncertain whether it’s strong enough to drive
a rebound in exports in  Asia .”  Chinese Demand  A weakening in Chinese demand would hurt Taiwan’s growth,
while surging oil prices would risk igniting inflation, she said.  The Taiwan dollar has strengthened more than 2 percent this
year, while the Taiex index of stocks has risen almost 14
percent. The Thai baht, which was the worst performer after the
Indian rupee last year among major Asian currencies, has also
gained more than 2 percent this year, while the SET index has
climbed 16 percent.  IMF head  Christine Lagarde  on March 18 cautioned policy
makers against a false sense of security, highlighting elevated
 oil prices , debt levels in developed nations and the risk of
slowing growth in  emerging markets .  The worst floods in almost 70 years and Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis have hurt Thai manufacturing and  exports , and Bank
of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last week there
are no plans to raise rates now, as the central bank isn’t too
concerned about inflation. The monetary authority may revise its
2012 growth forecast to 6 percent from an earlier prediction of
4.9 percent after a slower-than-expected expansion last year,
Deputy Governor Suchada Kirakul said last month.  ‘More Neutral’  “Many Asian central bankers can afford to be more neutral
now from a very easing bias earlier,” said Santitarn
Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “Rising oil prices may not be a serious issue now, but
central bankers always need to be forward looking.”  Weaker exports and consumer spending may also hurt  Taiwan ’s
expansion this year, central bank governor Perng Fai-nan said
last week. The statistics bureau on Feb. 22 revised its GDP
forecast for 2012 to 3.85 percent from an earlier projection of
3.91 percent, and said inflation this year may be 1.46 percent,
compared with a previous estimate of 1.29 percent.  Still, there are signs of a recovery in demand for the
island’s exports, which account for more than two-thirds of its
gross domestic product. Overseas shipments jumped 10.3 percent
in February from a year earlier, after declining 16.8 percent
the previous month, dragged lower by the Lunar New Year holiday.  “We should see a pickup in exports as soon as this
month,” said Aidan Wang, chief economist at Yuanta Securities
Investment Consulting Co. “If the road to recovery is as smooth
as we expect, the central bank may start raising rates in the
third quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  