-- Air Canada Repair Provider Closes With 2,600 Jobs at Risk
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-03-19T23:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/air-canada-maintenance-supplier-aveos-shuts-plants-union-says.html
Aveos Fleet Performance Inc. , the
sole aircraft- and engine-maintenance provider for  Air Canada (AC/A) ,
put about 2,600 employees out of work as it filed for insolvency
protection and shut plants nationwide.  The company  cited  “uncertain work volume” after losing as
much as $16 million in revenue in less than two months as Air
Canada projects were canceled or delayed. Airframe maintenance
stopped permanently yesterday and Aveos hasn’t yet decided on
other operations.  Employees in Montreal, where Aveos is based, were told not
to report for work today, Machinists Local 1751 President Marcel
Saint-Jean said in a telephone interview. Initial efforts to
obtain more information from Aveos were unsuccessful, the union
said.  “The way Aveos did this speaks to how much trouble they
are in,” Karl Moore, a professor of business strategy at
Montreal’s  McGill University  who specializes in the  airline
industry , said in a telephone interview. “It’s definitely not
the appropriate way to do it.”  Air Canada (AC/B) , which owns 17.5 percent of Aveos and was the
repair operator’s biggest customer, said the shutdown won’t
affect day-to-day maintenance of in-service planes, which the
carrier handles directly with its 2,300 maintenance employees.  The airline extended Aveos $15 million in debtor-in-
possession financing through a court-appointed monitor,
according to an Air Canada statement.  ‘Greater Confidence’  “This stabilization should permit Aveos to reopen certain
of its facilities and recall certain of its employees, which
should in turn allow Air Canada to induct some additional
maintenance work with greater confidence over the coming days
and weeks,” the airline said.  Aveos posted a termination letter to airframe union
employees on its website, along with a schedule for retrieving
personal belongings and toolboxes.  “Given that we have faced reduced, deferred, and canceled
maintenance services despite Aveos’ exclusive contracts with our
principal customer, we no longer have the capital resources we
need to continue to do business,” Aveos Chief Executive Officer
Joe Kolshak said in a  memo  on the website.  Aveos said it has about 2,600 employees in Canada. That
includes about 1,800 workers in  Montreal , 350 in Winnipeg and
300 in  Vancouver , Tony Didoshak, general chairman of Machinists
District 140, said in a telephone interview. Didoshak, who took
part in recent bargaining with Aveos, said the company was late
in paying pension contributions and union dues.  ‘No Answer’  “We knew they had financial issues,” Didoshak said from
Winnipeg, Manitoba. “Three weeks ago we asked their VP of labor
relations how broke they were, and we got no answer. And today,
we’ve heard nothing from Aveos.”  The union estimated earlier today that as many as 3,000
jobs might be affected, and Canada’s RDI television network
showed images of the company’s employees blocking streets near
the Montreal headquarters of Air Canada to protest the closing.  The company was created in 2007 when Air Canada parent  ACE
Aviation Holdings Inc. (ACE/B)  sold a majority stake in its aircraft
maintenance unit. It also has 1,400 employees in  El Salvador ,
according to a company  fact sheet .  Aveos said Oct. 31 it had raised C$50 million ($50.4
million) in financing from a group of lenders including Credit
Suisse Group AG to invest in its component center and expand its
engine-maintenance capabilities.  Reworking Debt  In January 2010, Aveos reached an agreement to reduce its
debt to C$75 million from about C$800 million, with lenders
including Air Canada converting some debt into equity. The
company obtained an additional C$75 million working-capital
facility from some of the lenders at the time.  “The goal was to emerge stronger and better aligned to
meet the needs of a changing market,” Kolshak said in the memo.
“Today’s filing is a tragedy on many fronts, but beyond the
institution, we recognize the human toll and dislocation this
action will cause.”  Air  Canada  has a contingency plan to use other providers,
primarily in the U.S. and Canada, for maintenance services Aveos
can’t handle, the airline said. The airline has three main
service contracts with Aveos for airframe, engine and component
maintenance.  The component- and airframe-maintenance contracts expire in
2013, while the engine-maintenance contract continues through
2018.  “Safety is Air Canada’s highest priority and the safety of
Air Canada’s fleet will not be compromised by this
development,” the carrier said today in a  statement  posted on
its website.  Air Canada  fell  1.1 percent to 91 cents today in Toronto.
The shares have dropped 8.1 percent this year.  The airline has sought bids from other providers as the
contracts’ expiration dates draw closer, and said it has no
intention of purchasing Aveos or assuming its operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  