-- Amazon Acquires Kiva Systems in Second-Biggest Takeover
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-03-19T23:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/amazon-acquires-kiva-systems-in-second-biggest-takeover.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is making its
biggest acquisition since the 2009 purchase of Zappos.com,
agreeing to pay $775 million for Kiva Systems Inc., a maker of
robots that move items around warehouses.  The all-cash deal for closely held Kiva will close in the
second quarter, Seattle-based Amazon said today in a statement.
Kiva’s orange robots, which can slide under shelves and bins of
products, are used by Quidsi Inc. -- the company behind Soap.com
and Diapers.com that Amazon acquired for about  $545 million  last
year.  The takeover of Kiva by the world’s largest online retailer
will add to investments Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  has
made in the company’s order-fulfillment centers, as Amazon seeks
to get a bigger variety of products to consumers faster. Amazon
spent $4.6 billion last year on warehouses -- the company’s
largest operating expense at 9.5 percent of sales, according to
its annual report.  “It’s an internal infrastructure play, and it comes at a
time when their headcount has been growing faster than
revenue,”  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New
York , said in an interview. “One of the knocks on Amazon is
that their fulfillment is an expensive, manual process. They’re
not getting the benefits of scale. So they’re taking some steps
towards it.”  Employees, Revenue Rise  Amazon had 56,200 full-time and part-time employees in
2011, a 67 percent increase from the year before, while revenue
rose 41 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company’s stock rose 47 cents, or less than 1 percent,
to $185.52 at the close in New York. The shares have gained 7.2
percent in this year.  The online retailer is under pressure to increase its
shipping capacity as more third-party retailers use its
fulfillment services, taking advantage of the company’s
warehouses and lower shipping rates. Units sold by outside
vendors increased 65 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, and made up 36 percent of unit sales.  Kiva, whose headquarters will remain in North Reading,
 Massachusetts , will help Amazon make shipping more efficient,
the company said.  “Amazon has long used automation in its fulfillment
centers, and Kiva’s technology is another way to improve
productivity by bringing the products directly to employees to
pick, pack and stow,” Dave Clark, vice president of global
customer fulfillment at Amazon, said in the statement.  Margin Pressure  Amazon’s  operating margin  is predicted to narrow to 1.6
percent in 2012 after falling 2.3 percentage points last year,
putting stress on the company to bolster profits. In January,
Chief Financial Officer Thomas Szkutak said operating results
this quarter will range from a loss of $200 million to a gain of
$100 million.  Amazon spent about $1.2 billion to buy online shoe retailer
Zappos.com in 2009, its biggest acquisition. The company often
opts for licensing agreements, like the ones it made in the past
two months with Viacom Inc. and  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  to
distribute streaming online video content.  The company had made four takeovers in the past year before
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It also acquired a 31
percent stake in LivingSocial.com, the No. 2 daily-deal site
behind Groupon Inc., according to a regulatory filing.  “It’s an interesting move that they’re not just licensing
it,” Gillis said. “It potentially removes the advantage for
any competitor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  