-- Manchester City Coaches Watch Eden Hazard, Sun Says: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-19T10:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/manchester-city-coaches-watch-eden-hazard-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the
Web.  Hazard Watch  A  Manchester City  delegation including coach  Roberto Mancini , his assistant David Platt and administration officer
Brian Marwood flew to  France  to watch Lille attacker Eden Hazard
in action, the  Sun said .  The 21-year-old Belgian scored one goal and created two
others in his team’s 4-0 win over Valenciennes yesterday. City
could outbid rivals by playing Hazard 150,000 pounds ($237,630)
per week, the newspaper said.  Arsenal,  Manchester United , Tottenham and Chelsea are also
interested in Hazard, who has a 33-million pound release clause
in his contract, the Sun added.  Robben Deal  Bayern Munich  are set to award winger Arjen Robben a new
contract to prevent him from rejoining former team club Chelsea
or Manchester City, the  Daily Mail reported .  Bayern has offered Robben, who has a year remaining on his
contract, a new contract worth 170,000 pounds a week that would
make him the highest-paid player in its history, the Mail said.  Arsenal Approach  Ajax defender Jan Vertonghen has set his sights on a move
Arsenal at the end of the season,  the Sun said .  The Belgium defender watched the Gunners almost claw back a
4-0 first leg  Champions League  deficit against AC Milan, winning
the return match 3-0 at the Emirates Stadium earlier this month.  “If a club of their caliber can reach agreement with Ajax
then I will gladly go over,” the Sun quoted the defender as
saying.  Bolton Anxiety  Bolton is considering withdrawing from the F.A. Cup after
its quarterfinal with Tottenham was abandoned two days ago
following midfielder Fabrice Muamba heart attack and collapse in
the first half,  the Mirror reported .  Bolton’s game with  Aston Villa  has been postponed and the
Trotters are considering pulling out of a re-match with Spurs
because of the likely psychological impact on Muamba’s
teammates, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  