-- Manning Selects Broncos, ESPN Says; Denver’s Title Odds 10-1
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-19T19:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/manning-to-begin-negotiations-with-broncos-espn-says.html
Peyton Manning ’s agent will begin
contract negotiations with the Denver Broncos after the four-
time National Football League Most Valuable Player chose the
team over the Tennessee Titans and San Francisco 49ers,
according to ESPN.  The Broncos will try to trade quarterback  Tim Tebow  after
Manning is signed, ESPN said on its website, citing unidentified
people.  Tom Condon, Manning’s agent, didn’t immediately return a
telephone message at his office seeking comment. Patrick Smyth,
a spokesman for the Broncos, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The Broncos’ odds to win the 2013 Super Bowl moved to 10-1
from 50-1 at the Las Vegas Hotel and Casino’s sports book with
the news of the contract talks,  Jeff Sherman , the book’s
assistant manager, said in an e-mail. Denver also has 5-1 odds
to win the American Football Conference Championship after
opening at 25-1 following last season, meaning a successful $100
bet on the Broncos would net $500.  Green Bay, New England San Francisco and  New Orleans  have
better odds to win the title, according to Las Vegas-based
handicapping information website Pregame.com.  Ticket Market  Broncos’ season tickets at online ticket reseller
StubHub.com rose by about 25 percent today, according to Joellen
Ferrer, a spokeswoman for the company.  About 15 minutes after news of the negotiations broke, a
person from  Pennsylvania  bought four seats for $750 apiece,
Ferrer said in an e-mail. An hour later, the cheapest on the
site were going for more than $1,000 and at least 50 had been
purchased, she said.  Titans owner Bud Adams said in a statement he was
“disappointed” when Manning called with his decision. While
Adams didn’t say in the statement that Manning specifically
mentioned the Broncos, the owner told the  Tennessean newspaper 
that “he called me himself and told me he wasn’t coming, and he
made up his mind to go to Denver.”  Manning, who missed all of last season after neck-fusion
surgery, was cut by the  Indianapolis Colts  on March 7, a day
before the team had to commit to pay him a $28 million bonus and
a $7.4 million salary in 2012. Manning has discussed a five-
year, $95 million deal with the Broncos, ESPN said.  First Pick  Indianapolis, which went 2-14 last season, holds the first
selection in April’s draft, allowing the team to rebuild around
highly touted Stanford University quarterback Andrew Luck, the
probable pick. The Colts drafted Manning with the No. 1 pick in
1998.  Colts owner  Jim Irsay  said the team was entering a
rebuilding phase and it was better for Manning to go to a
franchise with a shot at quickly winning his second  Super Bowl 
ring.  Tebow, who is under contract with Denver through 2014, led
the Broncos last season to an 8-8 record and their first playoff
win since the 2005 campaign.  John Elway , the Hall of Fame quarterback for the Broncos
who is now the team’s vice president of football operations,
recruited Manning just weeks after saying Tebow would probably
be Denver’s quarterback for seasons to come.  “He added a great spark for us, and we really had some
good things happen to us,” Elway said of Tebow at the NFL
scouting combine on Feb. 24, according to the  Associated Press .
“We’re hoping that he’s going to be the guy for a long, long
time.”  Widespread Interest  Twelve of the NFL’s 32 franchises contacted Manning’s
representatives shortly after his release, ESPN.com reported,
citing unidentified people. He visited with the Broncos, Arizona
Cardinals,  Miami Dolphins , 49ers and Titans, narrowing his
search to Denver,  San Francisco  and Tennessee.  Alex Smith, who led the 49ers to the National Football
Conference championship game in January, is also a free agent
and has been in talks with the Dolphins, ESPN reported. Condon
represents both Manning and Smith.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 