-- Antioxidants May Improve Cancer Drugs, NIH Study Suggests
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-03-19T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/antioxidants-may-improve-cancer-drugs-nih-study-suggests.html
Antioxidants  found in fruits,
vegetables and red wine killed cancer cells, including those
that are resistant to treatment, in a study that scientists said
may lead to more effective tumor fighters.  Researchers from the U.S. National Institutes of Health
identified 22 antioxidants that eradicated dividing cells,
including two types that showed promise against drug-resistant
cancer cells. The study is published online today in the
 Proceedings of the  National Academy of Sciences .  Antioxidants, widely used in dietary supplements, are
thought to protect cells against a damaging chemical reaction.
The study found that antioxidants resveratrol, which is found in
red wine, and genistein, found in certain plants, killed rapidly
dividing cells and selectively eliminated cancer cells that were
resistant to multiple drugs. Antioxidants “are potentially
better chemotherapeutic agents than ones currently used,” the
researchers said in the paper.  “It’s a much safer chemotherapy agent if it can be
developed,” said study author  Kyungjae Myung , a senior
investigator in the Genetics and Molecular Biology Branch of the
National Human Genome Research Institute in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
part of the NIH, in a March 15 telephone interview. “Currently
what we’re trying to see is if antioxidants can selectively kill
specific cancer cells.”  Three Antioxidants  Resveratrol, genistein and baicalein are currently used or
being studied to treat conditions like  heart disease  and
diabetes, as well as anti-aging. Resveratrol, also found in red
grapes, blueberries and cranberries, switches on a class of
proteins called sirtuins that may prevent gene mutations and
repair DNA damage. London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  stopped
developing a drug, designed to mimic the health benefits of red
wine, in 2010 after the compound didn’t work well enough in
cancer patients and may have worsened kidney damage.  More studies are needed before antioxidants can be used to
fight cancer in people, Myung said. Antioxidants in high amounts
can damage DNA and kill cells, he said.  “The dose that we used for this treatment in a laboratory
setting was way higher than you can get from wine or all those
antioxidant tablets or you can consume by eating,” said Myung,  Myung said his group is studying to see if antioxidants can
kill specific types of cancer cells, including those of the
breast and ovary, and if the antioxidants harm just diseased
cells or healthy cells too.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  