-- Apple to Pay Dividend, Buy Back Stock to Return Some of Cash
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-03-19T22:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/apple-to-pay-dividend-buy-back-stock-to-return-some-of-its-cash.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will pay its first
dividend in 17 years and buy back $10 billion in stock, heeding
investors who urged it to return part of the $97.6 billion in
cash amassed by robust demand for iPhones and iPads.  Shareholders will receive a quarterly dividend of $2.65 a
share starting in the period beginning July 1, Cupertino,
California-based Apple said today in a statement. The buybacks
will begin in the fiscal year starting Sept. 30 and happen over
three years, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  is showing more
willingness than co-founder  Steve Jobs  to channel part of cash
and investments directly to investors. The move will cost $45
billion over three years, Cook said, and may broaden Apple’s
shareholding base by attracting fund managers who only hold
dividend-paying companies.  “It was high time to do this,” said  David Rolfe , chief
investment officer of Wedgewood Partners Inc., which holds Apple
shares.  The dividend will cost Apple about $10 billion a year and
represents a yield of 1.8 percent on the stock’s closing price
today. The company generated $16 billion in cash in the first
quarter of fiscal 2012, which ended in December. Shaw Wu, an
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., predicts that Apple will
generate about $75 billion in cash this year.  Apple  rose  2.7 percent to $601.10, closing above $600 a
share for the first time.  Top 10 Yield  “This is something that large shareholders have been
asking for,” Wu said before the announcement.  Including instances where a company has scrapped and re-
established dividends, today’s was the largest initiation for a
company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, surpassing Cisco
Systems Inc.’s announcement of a $1.3 billion dividend in March
2011. Apple’s move pushed the dividend yield of the benchmark
gauge of American equities to 2.14 percent, from 2.06 percent,
 Howard Silverblatt , S&P’s senior index analyst, said in an
interview.  Apple’s dividend may provide a short-lived boost to some
pockets of the economy, said  Richard Sichel , CIO of Philadelphia
Trust Co., which manages $1.6 billion and holds Apple in some
funds.  “More than anything, it’s a psychological boost,” Sichel
said.  At 1.8 percent, the yield on Apple’s dividend would be the
tenth-highest among U.S. technology companies with market values
larger than $10 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Intel, Microsoft Higher  It’s lower than that offered by  Intel Corp ., which yields
3.03 percent, based on today’s closing price, and Microsoft
Corp., which yields 2.48 percent on that basis. It tops Cisco’s
dividend yield of 1.59 percent and International Business
Machines Corp.’s 1.46 percent yield.  After today’s announcement, Google Inc., owner of the most
popular search engine, is now the only technology company with a
market value of more than $100 billion that doesn’t offer a
dividend.  The growing amount of money on Apple’s balance sheet
followed the introduction of the iPhone, the best-selling
smartphone, and the iPad, the leading tablet computer. The
company last week began selling a third-generation iPad, which
comes with a high-definition screen and faster processor. Apple
sold more than 3 million iPads on its debut weekend, a record,
Apple said in a separate statement today.  “It’s literally become a cash machine,” said  Charlie Wolf , an analyst at Needham & Co. in  New York .  Contrast With Jobs  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., said Jobs,
who died in October, resisted efforts to get Apple to return
money to shareholders.  “It would have been unheard of under Jobs’s watch,” said
Munster. “This is just finance 101, but it looks like rocket
science next to what they’ve done in the past.”  Of Apple’s $97.6 billion in cash and investments at the end
of December, about $64 billion was overseas. Oppenheimer said
Apple will only use money held in the U.S. for the dividend and
buyback to avoid tax consequences.  A dividend is a boon to  shareholders , including Apple
employees, who have already seen the company’s stock rise 48
percent this year.  Fidelity Management, Apple’s largest shareholder, will make
$128.81 million each quarter from the dividend, based on its
holdings as of Dec. 31. Vanguard Group Inc., the second-biggest
shareholder, will receive $98.54 million and State Street Corp.
will make $92.12 million.  ‘War Chest’  “We have used some of our cash to make great investments
in our business through increased research and development,
acquisitions, new retail store openings, strategic prepayments
and  capital expenditures  in our supply chain, and building out
our infrastructure. You’ll see more of all of these in the
future,” Cook said in the statement. “Even with these
investments, we can maintain a war chest for  strategic
opportunities  and have plenty of cash to run our business.”  On the conference call, Cook said adding a dividend will
expand Apple’s investor pool. Some investors will only buy
shares in companies that pay a dividend.  Apple last paid a dividend in 1995, before Jobs returned as
CEO and led the introduction of top-selling products including
the iPod, iPhone and iPad. The final dividend, of 12 cents a
share, was suspended amid leadership upheaval and dwindling
computer-market share. According to a company filing, Apple’s
cash, equivalents and short-term investments dropped by about
half, to $491 million, in the year through Sept. 29, 1995.  Highlighting its turnaround since that period, Apple has
surpassed  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  as the world’s most valuable
company. The iPhone maker’s market value is $560.4 billion,
based on today’s closing price. That compares with $410 billion
for  Exxon Mobil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  