-- Arcapita Files for Bankruptcy Protection as Debt Talks Fail
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-03-19T20:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/arcapita-bank-files-for-chapter-11-bankruptcy-protection.html
Arcapita Bank BSC, a manager of
Islamic-compliant investments with $7 billion under management,
filed for bankruptcy in the U.S. after failing to reach an
agreement with creditors.  Arcapita, formerly known as First Islamic Investment Bank,
and five affiliates sought Chapter 11 protection today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan , listing assets of $3.06 billion
and liabilities of $2.55 billion.  “This global recession has hampered the Arcapita Group’s
ability to obtain liquidity from the  capital markets , and has
also resulted in a reduction in asset values,” lawyers for the
company wrote. Arcapita’s board approved the process “to
protect their business and assets and implement a comprehensive
restructuring,” the Manama, Bahrain-based private-equity firm
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Founded in 1996, the company manages Shari’ah-compliant, or
Islamic compliant investments and operates as an investment
bank, according to the filing. It has 268 employees and along
with its affiliates, has $7 billion in assets under management,
according to the filing. It owns Irish power utility Viridian
Group Ltd., and helped that company refinance its debt earlier
this month with equity.  Arcapita failed to reach an agreement with creditors on a
$1.1 billion syndicated shari’ah complaint loan due this month.  ‘Logical Step’  The bankruptcy filing is a “logical step by the company to
protect its foreign investments and from individual creditors
going after the company’s assets in  Europe , the U.S. and  Asia ,”
Serge Lioutyi, a London-based distressed debt trader at
Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. said in an e-mail today. It “will
help the company focus on reaching a consensual agreement with
creditors rather than worrying about individual claims.”  Arcapita is among companies in Bahrain that have sought
protection to restructure liabilities after the global credit
crisis cut their access to the  debt market  and as asset prices
declined. Awal Bank BSC, a Bahrain-based wholesale bank, filed
for Chapter 11 in October 2010, while Gulf Finance House BSC
reached an agreement with a group of banks led by WestLB AG on a
new two-year $100 million Islamic loan.  Failed Refinancing  The costs to insure Bahrain’s debt against default fell two
basis points to 365 today, according to credit default swap data
from CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Arcapita’s efforts to refinance the $1.1 billion loan were
hurt by the euro-zone debt crisis and the bank held talks with
lenders to extend the facility by three years, Arcapita said in
the statement. “The actions of certain non-bank creditors have
precluded Arcapita from reaching such a consensual resolution
before the March 28th maturity date,” it said.  The  Central Bank  of Bahrain was listed as the largest
creditor, with a $255.1 million claim tied to a  bank loan .
Commerzbank AG has a $164.7 million claim also related to a loan
and National Bank of Bahrain has a $132.3 million claim.
Bahrain’s central bank said it was monitoring the case.  The Chapter 11 provisions will allow Arcapita’s board and
management to operate their business and “decisions related to
asset disposal will also remain with Arcapita,” it said. The
company manages about $7.4 billion and its investments include
those in Viridian and U.S.-based Falcon Gas Storage Co.  Committee of Lenders  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  is chairing a coordinating
committee of lenders that is negotiating the terms of the
restructuring, a person familiar with the plan said Feb. 27.
Arcapita raised the facility in April 2007 at a margin of 85
basis points over the London Interbank Offered Rate, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays Capital ,  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  and WestLB AG helped arrange the loan.  In its first-day pleadings, Arcapita asked the  bankruptcy
court  for an order that specifies foreign creditors can’t seize
its assets.  “The debtors have foreign operations with potentially
large numbers of foreign creditors and counterparties to
contracts who may be unaware of the global-reaching prohibitions
and restrictions of the  Bankruptcy Code ,” lawyers for the
company wrote.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP and Linklaters LLP are
Arcapita’s legal advisers, while NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd. is
the financial adviser, according to the statement.  The case is Arcapita Bank BSC, 12-11076, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  