-- Marine Polymer, Apple, Bridgestone: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-19T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/marine-polymer-apple-bridgestone-intellectual-property.html
     March 19 (Bloomberg) --  Marine Polymer Technologies Inc. (0008300D) ’s
patent damages award of more than $29 million will stand,
according to a March 15 ruling from a federal appeals court.  The Danvers, Massachusetts-based company sued HemCon
Medical Technologies Inc. in federal court in Concord,  New
Hampshire , for patent infringement in March 2006, alleging
infringement of its patent 6,864,245.  Both companies make products such as bandages and dressings
to control bleeding resulting from trauma or surgery.  In April 2010 a federal jury awarded Marine Polymer
Technologies $29,400,246 for the infringement of the patent.
HemCon appealed, and the federal appeals court affirmed the
lower court. The ruling was issued by the entire court rather
than a three-judge panel.  In a March 16 statement, HemCon said it is now selling
reformulated products that “differ significantly” from the
products that were at issue in the case. The reformulation
“will have no impact on product efficacy, performance, or
pricing,” the company said.  HemCon, based in  Portland ,  Oregon , said it will review the
court’s decision with its patent litigation counsel, and “will
continue to operate as usual” until the matter is resolved.  Raymond A. Kurz  of Washington-based  Hogan Lovells U.S. LLP (1131L) 
argued the appeal for HemCon.  Brian M. Poissant  of  Washington ’s
 Jones Day (1113L)  presented Marine Polymer’s argument.  The lower court case is Marine Polymer Technologies Inc.,
v. HemCon Inc., 1:06-00100-JD, U.S. District Court, District of
New Hampshire (Concord). The appeal is Marine Polymer V. Hemcon,
10-01548, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  Apple’s Loss in Motorola Mobility Patent Case Will Stand  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s loss in a case where it accused phonemaker
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. of patent infringement will
stand, a U.S. trade agency said March 16.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said it rejected
Apple’s claims that Judge Theodore Essex erred in finding that
Motorola Mobility wasn’t infringing one Apple patent and that
two others were invalid.  Natural Alternatives International Settles Patent Cases  Natural Alternatives International Inc., a maker of
nutritional supplements, said it settled patent-infringement
cases against BPI Sports LLC and Image Sports LLC.  According to a March 15 NAI statement, the San Marcos,
California-based company will provide the two companies with its
patented CarnoSyn bata-Alanine product through its licensed
distributor. The two companies will also receive a license from
NAI for IP rights related to the compound.  At issue in the case was patent 8,067,381, which was issued
in November. The patent covers a method for increasing tissues’
anaerobic working capacity. NAI filed both cases in federal
court in Houston on Jan. 20.  Also dismissed is the countersuit BPI Sports filed against
NAI in federal court in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , on Jan. 30.  Other than the license and supply arrangement, terms of the
settlement weren’t disclosed.  The two patent cases are Natural Alternatives International
Inc. v. Image Sports LLC, 4:12-cv-00194, and Natural
Alternatives International v. BPX Sports Holdings LLC, 4:12-
00198, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 Texas  (Houston).  The countersuit is BPI Sports LLC v. Natural Alternatives
International Inc., 0:12-cv-60167-KMM, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Bridgestone Wins Appeal Over Federal Corp.’s ‘Milanza’ Mark  Bridgestone Americas Tire Operations LLC (0000797D) , the Nashville,
Tennessee-based tire company, won a trademark dispute with the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  In its March 16 ruling, a Washington-based federal appeals
court reversed a ruling from the patent office’s Trademark Trial
and Appeal Board supporting  Federal Corp. (2102) ’s attempt to register
“Milanza” as a trademark.  Bridgestone, which was using “Potenza” and “Turanza”
had tried to persuade the patent office that “Milanza” was so
similar to those two names that the public would be confused.
The company also claimed that if Federal were to be allowed to
register “Milanza,” the strength of the two Bridgestone marks
at issue would be diminished.  Federal, based in  Taiwan , had argued that the three words
were dissimilar, as the two Bridgestone marks had meanings in
Italian associated with automobiles -- “Potenza” for power,
and “Turanza” for touring -- while “Milanza” was simply
associated with the Italian city of Milan. Federal also claimed
that the two Bridgestone marks were weak trademarks, and not
entitled to broad protection.  The appeals court did not agree, noting that the
Bridgestone marks had fame and strength “undiminished by the
identification of Bridgestone as the manufacturer.” Trademark
law places “a heavy burden on the newcomer to avoid confusion
as to products and their sources,” the court said.  The two Federal marks were similar enough in sound and
connotation that consumers were likely to be confused, the court
said, ruling that the TTAB erred in denying Bridgestone’s
opposition to the use of “Milanza” with tires.  The case is Bridgestone v. Federal Corp., 10-01376,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit.  Zaentz Says It Will Consider Licensing ‘Hobbit’ Mark to U.K. Pub  Saul Zaentz Co., a film company holding the rights to
brands associated with the late British author  J.R.R. Tolkein ,
said it will “amicably resolve” a dispute with a pub in the
U.K. that used “The Hobbit” as its name, the  BBC   reported .  Following criticism from actors Stephen Fry and Sir Ian
McKellen when Zaentz threatened to sue the pub’s owners for
trademark infringement, the Zaentz company said it was open to
licensing the pub’s use of the Tolkein brands, according to the
BBC.  Paul Zaentz, of the company, told the BBC that if the pub’s
owners acknowledge the use of the marks, “we will grant them a
license for a nominal fee -- approximately $100 per year.”  The pub, in Southampton, has been in business as “The
Hobbit” for more than 20 years, the BBC reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Music for Dentist’s Patients Not Subject to Fees, ECOJ Rules  The  Societa Consortile Fonografici , an Italian rights-
collecting agency, lost its argument that a dentist should have
to pay royalties for playing background music in his office.  In its March 15 ruling, the  European Court  of Justice
turned back SFC’s copyright-infringement claim against Marco del
Corso, a dentist in Turin,  Italy , who had background music in
his office.  The ECOJ took the case on appeal from an appellate court in
Turin, which sought clarification on whether the playing of
music in the office constituted “communication with the
public,” and if so, was the rights group entitled to
compensation.  The court said the music is enjoyed by the patients without
an active choice on their part, and that when people visit the
dentist, it is not for the purpose of hearing music. Likewise,
the compensation the dentist receives for his service is not
related to the music that is played.  As a result, the broadcast of the music in the dentist’s
office “is not of a profit-making nature” so it doesn’t meet
the requirements for royalty payments, the court ruled.  The case is  Società Consortile Fonografici (SCF) v. Marco
Del Corso, C‑135/10,  European Court of Justice .  ‘Copyright Alert System’ to Take Effect with U.S. ISPs in July  Some U.S. Internet service providers are expected to begin
issuing a “Copyright Alert System” warning system to customers
beginning in July, PC Magazine  reported .  The system is intended to provide a standardized approach
to infringement warnings, according to PC Magazine.  Among the Internet service providers participating in the
system are  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , PC Magazine reported.  Internet Service Providers will be put on notice by
copyright owners or their representatives that illegal
downloading by customers is occurring, according to PC Magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 