-- Asian Currencies Rise on Stock Gains, Signs of Global Recovery
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-19T08:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/asian-currencies-rise-on-stock-gains-signs-of-global-recovery.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by the Philippine peso, as regional stocks advanced amid signs
the world economy will withstand  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks advanced for a fifth
day after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said last week
European officials have discussed combining euro-area bailout
funds to reinforce the region’s financial firewall. A government
report today showed  sales  at major South Korean department
stores increased 2.9 percent last month, after a 4.1 percent
drop in January, while data tomorrow may say Taiwan’s export
orders rebounded in February.  “There is optimism the global economy is recovering which
supports stocks and the risk appetite,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a
researcher at the Japan Center for Economic Research in Tokyo.
“Europe’s debt problem is a lingering issue and any positive
sign or development is adding further to the risk sentiment
recovery.  Asia  will probably continue to see fund inflows for
the time being.”  The Philippine peso climbed 0.4 percent to 42.89 per dollar
in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. South Korea’s won
appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,122.26 and Malaysia’s ringgit rose
0.2 percent to 3.0545, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global funds purchased $2.8 billion more Indian, Taiwanese
and Thai equities than they sold this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Emerging market bond funds posted their
fourth best week of inflows on record last week, according to
Boston-based EPFR Global.  Rules Relaxed  The peso snapped six days of losses after the central bank
further liberalized rules on foreign-exchange transactions.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on March 16 raised the limit on
dollar purchases by importers that don’t need to be supported by
documents to $500,000 from $50,000. The monetary authority said
the same day that banks and money-changers don’t need to submit
hard copies of inflow and remittance reports.  The relaxation of rules “would be positive for the peso
because of less stringent regulations,” said  Enrico
Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based senior currency analyst at
Malayan Banking Bhd. “The fundamentals remain positive for the
 Philippines .”  The ringgit halted a six-day decline as technical charts
traders watch to predict price movements suggested its losses
may be excessive. The Malaysian currency last week failed to
breach its 200-day moving average of 3.0752, which some chart-
based investors consider a sign that the dollar’s rally is
poised to end.  Export Orders  “The ringgit is recovering after the sell-off last week,”
said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in Singapore. “We expect the ringgit to strengthen over the
course of the year given that the Fed will stay easy.”  Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened on optimism foreign funds will
add to holdings of local stocks as demand for the island’s goods
rebounds amid a global economic recovery. Official data will
show tomorrow export orders climbed 11.5 percent in February
from a year earlier, after slumping 8.6 percent the previous
month, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The currency added 0.1 percent to
NT$29.532 versus the greenback.  “Foreign inflows have led to surges in the  Taiwan
dollar ,” said  Albert Lee , a Taipei-based fixed-income trader at
Cathay United Bank Co.  Elsewhere, India’s rupee rose 0.1 percent to 50.15 per
dollar and Thailand’s baht added 0.1 percent to 30.72.  China ’s
yuan was little changed at 6.3230, while Indonesia’s rupiah
declined 0.2 percent to 9,173.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  