-- U.S. Stocks Gain as Apple Rallies While Treasuries Slump
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-19T20:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/asian-stocks-oil-rise-on-economy-new-zealand-dollar-advances.html
U.S. stocks rose as  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.
announced a dividend and buyback plan and banks advanced, while
10-year Treasuries extended the longest slump since 2006 as
investors bet the economy will continue to strengthen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent to close
at an almost four-year high of 1,409.75 at 4 p.m. in New York,
extending its best first-quarter rally since 1998, while the S&P
600 SmallCap Index jumped 0.9 percent to a record and the Nasdaq
Composite Index closed at an 11-year high.  Ten-year Treasury
yields (USGG10YR)  rose seven basis points to 2.37 percent in a ninth
straight gain. The S&P GSCI commodity gauge climbed 0.3 percent
with oil up 1 percent at $108.09 a barrel.  Technology companies led the advance as Apple, the most-
valuable company, closed above $600 for the first time after
authorizing a $10 billion stock-repurchase plan and a quarterly
dividend of  $2.65 a share . Financial shares in the S&P 500 rose
0.6 percent as a group as Citigroup Inc., Wells Fargo & Co. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. paced gains in banks.  “It’s all about confidence,”  James Paulsen , who helps
oversee about $333 billion as chief investment strategist at
Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, said in a telephone
interview. “You’re seeing more evidence of corporate confidence
rising to the extent that companies are starting to act on that.
You had the Apple announcement on a dividend today and banks
announcing dividend hikes last week. The environment for the
next few years still looks very good.”  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  increased 3.4 percent after
agreeing to buy TNT Express NV to challenge Deutsche Post AG.
E*Trade Financial Corp. rallied 1.6 percent as Wells Fargo
raised its rating on shares of the online brokerage.  Swings Narrow  The S&P 500 is up about 108 percent from a 12-year low in
March 2009 and has climbed 12 percent so far this year. Daily
prices changes in the index are decreasing the most in eight
decades, shrinking to the smallest since 1995 when investors
abandoned stocks just before the biggest rally ever.  The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities gained or lost an
average 0.46 percent a day this year through, compared with 1.04
percent in 2011, the biggest reduction since 1934, during the
Great Depression, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
through last week. Swings are diminishing after valuations fell
40 percent and correlation among shares weakened the most in at
least three decades.  Investors are piling into securities that protect against
losses in equities at the fastest rate ever after the  S&P 500 
climbed to the highest level in almost four years.  Hedging Bets  Demand to hedge gains pushed up the number of shares
available for trading to records last week in four of the five
largest exchange-traded funds and notes that track U.S. stock
volatility, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For the iPath S&P
500 VIX Short-Term Futures ETN, the biggest of the securities,
outstanding stock reached 100.1 million on March 16, up 51
percent since March 9 and more than fourfold since Dec. 30.  Apple’s payout pushed the dividend yield on the S&P 500 to
2.14 percent from 2.06 percent,  Howard Silverblatt , S&P’s senior
index analyst, said in a telephone interview today. The
initiation is the biggest ever for the benchmark gauge of
American equities, surpassing Cisco Systems Inc.’s announcement
of a $1.3 billion dividend in March 2011. Apple now pays the
second-largest dividend in the S&P 500 by dollar amount, behind
AT&T Inc.  Apple Dividend  “It’s probably going to change the demographics, to some
extent, of the investor base,”  Mike Abramsky , analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets , said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“It’ll reduce volatility and I think it will probably help the
valuation which has been suppressed to some extent because of
the lack of productive use of the cash.”  Apple trades at 17 times reported earnings, less than half
its average valuation of 38 times earnings in data going back to
1990.  The 10-year Treasury yield reached the highest level since
October. Two-year yields increased two basis points to 0.38
percent and 30-year rates climbed seven points to 3.47 percent,
also near the highest since October.  The dollar weakened against all 16 major peers except for
the yen. Not since 1999 have currency traders been bullish on
the dollar for so long, a sign that the market sees the U.S.
resuming its role as the engine of global economic growth.  Futures anticipating a stronger dollar against its
developed-market peers have outnumbered those predicting a drop
for 26 consecutive weeks through the five days ended March 13,
according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. That’s
the longest streak since the start of a three-year rally in the
world’s reserve currency 13 years ago.  European Stocks  The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  slipped 0.1 percent from an eight-
month high, paring a drop of as much as 0.6 percent. Standard
Life Plc and DSV A/S paced declining shares after analysts
downgraded the companies.  Misys Plc (MSY)  rallied 7.4 percent after
Vista Equity Partners agreed to buy the company for 1.3 billion
pounds ($2.1 billion). Greek banks climbed as corporate bond
risk fell in  Europe .  Among European bond markets, Italy’s 10-year yield slipped
two basis points to 4.84 percent,  Spain ’s was little changed at
5.20 percent and  Germany ’s added less than one basis point to
2.06 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  said March 16 that  Greece 
may need another bailout, as credit-default swaps dealers held
an auction today to settle as much as $3.2 billion of the
nation’s bond insurance. IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
urged policy makers yesterday to be vigilant about threats to
economic stability, citing  oil prices , debt and the risk of
slowing growth in  emerging markets .  The cost of insuring against default on European corporate
bonds fell for a fifth day, according to traders of credit-
default swaps. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of contracts on
50 mostly junk-rated companies dropped 25.5 basis points to
502.75, the lowest level of the year.  Greek Swaps  Sellers of credit-default swaps on Greece will have to pay
as much as $2.5 billion to settle contracts triggered by the
nation’s debt restructuring. The settlement was determined after
dealers agreed on a final value for Greek bonds of 21.5 percent
of face value at an auction, according to administrators Markit
Group Ltd. and Creditex Group Inc., and is in line with where
the notes have been trading.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets (MXEF)  Index slipped 0.2 percent in a
third straight drop. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of
Chinese stocks listed in  Hong Kong  fell 1.6 percent, its fourth
consecutive decline, after China’s home prices had the worst
performance in at least a year. The BSE India Sensitive Index,
or Sensex, dropped 1.1 percent, extending a four-week slump. The
Micex Index fell 1.9 percent in Moscow.  New home prices in China weakened in 27 of 70 cities last
month from a year earlier and prices were unchanged in six
cities, the national statistics bureau said in a statement on
its website yesterday. That is the worst since the government
began releasing individual data for 70 cities instead of a
national average at the start of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  