-- Mauritius Central Bank to Cut Key Interest Rate, Survey Shows
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-03-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/mauritius-central-bank-to-cut-key-interest-rate-survey-shows.html
Mauritius’s central bank will
probably cut its benchmark interest rate at the first monetary
policy meeting this year to boost the economy after inflation
slowed to a 15-month low.  The newly constituted monetary policy committee will lower
the repo rate by 0.15 percentage point to 5.25 percent,
according to the median estimate of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The decision will be announced on the Bank of
Mauritius  website  at 6 p.m. local time today.  “There is a need to send a signal to the business
community, with the tourism, construction and property segments
suffering the economic downturn,” said Swadicq Nuthay, an
economist at Port Louis-based Axys Capital Management Ltd, in a
phone interview. He forecast a 0.15 percentage point cut, with
“risks of inflation pressures” and the need to keep real
 interest rates  positive precluding a larger reduction.  Central Bank Governor Rundheersing Bheenick said on Dec. 6
that the bank “cannot proceed to drastic cuts” in the
benchmark as the real interest rate “is still in negative
territory.” Inflation in the Indian Ocean nation slowed to 4.1
percent in February, the lowest since November 2010. The target
range is 4 percent to 6 percent. The weighted yield on one-year
government debt dropped to 4.37 percent at a March 15 auction
from 4.43 percent.  ‘Over-Valuation’  Mauritius, with a population of 1.3 million people, has
been hit by the debt crisis in  Europe , its main trading partner.
The economy may expand less than 4 percent this year, down from
4.1 percent in 2011, the  International Monetary Fund  said on
Jan. 25. Exports have declined 4 percent in the first two months
of the year, Le Mauricien reported on March 16, citing Industry
Minister Cader Sayed-Hossen.  The Mauritian rupee has gained about 7 percent against the
euro since the start of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Finance Minister Xavier Luc Duval said last week he
considers that a “relative over-valuation.”  “A cut would help to address the problem of the
appreciating rupee and give breathing space to Euro-centric
companies,” said Imrith Ramtohul, a senior investment
consultant at Port Louis-based AON Hewitt Ltd., in an interview
on March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  