-- Australia Passes 30% Tax on Iron-Ore, Coal Mining Profits
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-20T03:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/australia-passes-30-tax-on-iron-ore-coal-mining-profits.html
Australia passed legislation that
will reap about $11 billion in taxes within three years from  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto Group and other iron-ore and coal
miners as the government seeks to turn its budget to surplus.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Minerals Resource Rent Tax
was passed in the upper house yesterday and will become law on
July 1 after receiving backing from the ruling  Labor party  and
the Greens, who hold the balance of power in the Senate.  Passing the legislation is a success for Gillard, whose
predecessor  Kevin Rudd  was ousted amid a campaign by mining
companies against a broader 40-percent levy that he initially
proposed. Gillard, the country’s first female prime minister, is
trying to hold together a minority government that relies on the
support of independent and Green party lawmakers.  “It’s a victory for Labor and will help the nation’s
bottom line,” said Norman Abjorensen, a political analyst at
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “Most Australians
probably believe the big miners can afford to pay more tax.”  The levy will aid the prime minister’s bid to return the
budget, to be announced May 8, to surplus.  “We’ve got a spectacular resources boom,” Gillard said in
an interview with Channel Nine television today. “It makes
sense to take some money from the turbo-charged section of the
economy and share it more broadly around the nation and that is
what the mining tax does.”  ‘Complex, Inefficient’  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , the nation’s third-biggest
iron-ore exporter, said the tax was “unfair, narrowly based,
complex, inefficient and will reduce investment and future jobs
in the Australian  mining industry .”  “As Fortescue has previously advised, the company has
engaged senior counsel and will commence legal proceedings after
the legislation has been enacted and legal opinion has been
finalized,” it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Fortescue shares were 1.2 percent lower in Sydney trading
at 3 p.m. today, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in the 
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. BHP declined 0.1 percent and Rio
Tinto stock fell 0.6 percent.  The expansion of  China  and other emerging economies has
boosted demand for resources such as  iron ore  and coal in
 Australia , the largest shipper of the steel-making and energy-
producing materials.  Gillard, 50, won support from independent lawmakers for the
measure in the lower house last November after agreeing to set
up a committee to examine coal-seam gas projects and to increase
the threshold at which companies will be subject to the tax to
A$75 million ($79.4 billion) from A$50 million. The Greens
backed the bill after reaching an agreement with the government
on offsetting any resulting shortfall in revenue.  Corporate Tax  Gillard has proposed that proceeds from the levy on mining
profits will be used to reduce the corporate tax rate to 29
percent from 30 percent. The government’s plan to cut the
corporate  tax rate  for businesses with annual revenue of more
than A$2 billion may be blocked in the upper house after the
opposition coalition and Greens said they opposed the measure.  The government also won backing for the laws by promising
to provide A$6 billion in spending for roads, rail and ports,
and increase the amount paid to people’s retirement savings to
12 percent of their salary by 2020 from the current 9 percent.  Labor sank to a six-week low in an opinion poll released
March 13 after Rudd, who was ousted as prime minister in a June
2010 party coup by Gillard, stepped down as foreign minister on
Feb. 22 to challenge her for the nation’s top job. He was
defeated 71 to 31 in a Feb. 27 party ballot.  Trade Deficit  Australia posted its first trade deficit in 11 months in
January, as weaker shipments of  iron ore  and coal contributed to
the biggest drop in total exports in almost three years. The
nation’s economic growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous three-month period, according to
figures released on March 7.  The mining tax will raise A$10.6 billion in the three years
after being implemented from July 1, according to government
estimates.  Parliament goes on hiatus from March 22 and resumes May 8,
when the government will announce its annual budget that it says
will return to surplus. Under laws already passed, the
government will put a tax on  carbon emissions  from July 1 by
charging about 500 polluters A$23 a ton for discharges until the
set price gives way to a cap-and-trade system in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  