-- Taxes on Millionaires Make Great Politics, Poor Economics
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/tax-the-rich-more-but-make-the-system-better-not-worse.html
In this age of austerity, many
governments are looking for ways to fill gaps in their budgets
by taxing the rich more. These proposals make for great
politics, but terrible economics.  This week, the U.K.’s coalition government will produce
its budget for the next year. Among proposals being discussed
between the coalition partners is a so-called mansion tax --
an annual 1 percent levy on homes worth more than 2 million
pounds ($3.2 million).  In  Russia , meanwhile, President-elect  Vladimir Putin  has
put forward a luxury tax to be levied on purchasers of high-
end cars and real estate. In France, the Socialist Party’s
presidential candidate,  Francois Hollande , is proposing a 75
percent tax rate on earnings above 1 million euros ($1.3
million). His conservative opponent, President  Nicolas Sarkozy , has parried with proposals to tax the worldwide
revenue of large French corporations and to collect taxes from
fiscal exiles.  Hollande’s plan may in turn have been inspired by the
debate in the U.S., where President  Barack Obama  has proposed
a surtax on Americans with incomes of more than $1 million.
The plan is known as the Buffett Rule, after  Warren Buffett ,
who argued for higher taxes on billionaires like himself.  Buffett should surely not pay a lower tax rate than his
employees. But few of these proposals would make a dent in the
budget deficits facing the countries involved. Buffett’s own
effective tax rate is lowered by the large proportion of his
income that comes from dividends and  capital gains , which
incur lower tax rates than regular earnings. It isn’t clear a
surtax on the rich would change that.  Take the mansion tax idea in the U.K., which Prime
Minister  David Cameron  has been trying to get his Liberal
Democrat coalition partners to drop. The tax would raise about
1.7 billion pounds annually, according to a Liberal Democrat
estimate, which the  Institute for Fiscal Studies , a
nonpartisan think tank in  London , says is about right. That
would barely scratch the  budget deficit , which the institute
 projects  to be 124 billion pounds over the next year.  The French Socialist party has estimated that its planned
millionaires’ tax would raise 200 million to 400 million
euros, an insignificant figure. And analysts say revenue from
the tax might well prove lower still, depending on how
 France ’s superrich respond.  As for the Buffett Rule in the U.S., the billionaire
investor’s “Je m’accuse” was laudable, but it also switched
debate from whether to raise taxes on the top 1 percent of
U.S. income earners, to whether to raise them on the top 0.1
percent. As we’ve said before, that’s plain silly. Based on
2009 figures from the  Internal Revenue Service , doubling the
tax rate for the top 0.1 percent might raise approximately
$190 billion a year in additional revenue, or 1.3 percent of
gross domestic product -- one-sixth of the deficit reduction
economists estimate would be needed to fix the U.S.
government’s long-term finances.  To give an idea of the distorting effect of ill-conceived
taxes on the rich, consider the 50 percent tax rate for people
earning more than 150,000 pounds that  Gordon Brown , the U.K.’s
last Labour prime minister, introduced just weeks before
losing elections to Cameron in 2010. The U.K. Treasury
 estimated  the increase would generate an extra 2.4 billion
pounds a year, adjusted for all the people who would respond
by leaving the country or designing ways to avoid the tax. If
no one changed their behavior, the tax change would raise more
than double that amount, 7.8 billion pounds. Cameron’s
government says it wants to reverse the 50 percent tax rate,
just two years after it was introduced.  There is no single answer to fixing the tax systems of
all developed economies, as their tax structures and cultures
differ widely. But governments should clearly avoid the
temptation to focus on the superrich alone and instead reach
down to touch the upper middle classes. Doing so would be
politically more difficult, because it would hurt more voters.
But it’s the only way to produce the kind of revenue that
would really bring down budget deficits.  Just as important, governments should start real  tax
reform  aimed at simplifying overly complex tax codes and
eliminating exemptions and loopholes that distort behavior and
favor above all the wealthy. That’s an area where tax-
resistant Americans and free-spending Europeans may find they
have more in common than they think.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 