-- TaxMasters Files for Bankruptcy, Dogged by Fraud Suits
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-03-19T21:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/taxmasters-files-for-bankruptcy-dogged-by-fraud-suits-1-.html
TaxMasters Inc. (TAXS) , the tax-resolution
firm known for its television commercials featuring Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Cox, sought  bankruptcy protection 
after coming under fire from multiple states’ attorneys general.  The company listed debt of more than $1 million and assets
of less than $50,000 in Chapter 11 documents filed yesterday in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Houston, where it’s based.  Johnie Patterson, a lawyer for the company, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
filing.  TaxMasters, which claims to “solve your tax problems” in
its commercials, was sued in 2010 for deceptive trade practices
by Texas and Minnesota attorneys general,  Greg Abbott  and Lori Swanson, according to statements on their websites.  “In the midst of a national economic downturn, TaxMasters
used a nationwide marketing campaign to offer services for
distressed taxpayers who needed help dealing with the IRS,”
Abbott said in a May 2010  statement . “A state investigation and
nearly 1,000 customer complaints indicate that the defendants
routinely misled customers.”  Deceiving Information  The commercials, which have been satirized on NBC’s
“Saturday Night Live,” duped unsuspecting citizens into
believing that their calls to the tax-relief firm would be
answered by one of its “former IRS agents” or tax specialists,
according to the  attorneys general . Instead of speaking with a
highly qualified tax consultant, customers’ calls are answered
by a salesperson providing deceiving information, the attorneys
general contend.  Tax-burdened citizens are misled about the service contract
terms, and are talked into paying thousands of dollars up front
for a tax “solution,” while TaxMasters doesn’t disclose its
no-refund policy, according to the attorneys general statements.
The company also falsely claimed to begin immediately working on
the case, which doesn’t occur until TaxMasters is paid in full,
the AGs said.  “The company gets worried people to pay thousands of
dollars by overstating the help it will provide with their tax
bills,” said Attorney General Swanson in her December 2010
 statement .  ‘Little or No Help’  Swanson said TaxMasters got customers to pay advance fees
of as much as $8,000, claiming to be able to reduce their tax
load by 90 percent in some cases, “but delivered little or no
help.” The company spent about $14 million in advertising in
2009, according to the attorneys general statement.  Swanson is seeking restitution for the customers, and civil
penalties against TaxMasters.  Texas  Attorney General Abbott is
also seeking restitution and civil penalties of as much as
$20,000 for each violation of the Texas Deceptive Trade
Practices Act.  Two customers sued the company in September 2010 in Houston
seeking authority to represent U.S. customers on a “nationwide
basis.” The customers seek damages over “TaxMasters’ explicit
and implicit misrepresentations” and violation of consumer-
protection laws and breach of contract, according to the
complaint.  TaxMasters said it has between 1,000 and 5,000 creditors.
The company estimates that funds will be available for
distribution to unsecured creditors. Three affiliates also filed
for bankruptcy, two of which will liquidate under chapter 7 of
the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code . The publicly traded company hit an all
time low of 1 cent today.  The case is In re TaxMasters Inc., 12-32065,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in New York at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  