-- Banks May Be Skirting Oversight in Muni Bond Sales, SEC Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-03-19T20:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/banks-may-be-skirting-oversight-in-muni-bond-sales-sec-says-1-.html
Wall Street banks may not be
exercising adequate oversight of state and local government bond
sales, the Securities and Exchange Commission said, warning
investors about risks in the $3.7 trillion municipal market.  Reviews of underwriters showed that some may not be
sufficiently examining bond documents for evidence of fraud, the
agency’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations said
today. Banks are required to review bond documents to guard
against false statements and can face sanctions if they don’t.  “To protect investors, it is important that broker-dealers
perform adequate due diligence to assess the financial and
operational condition of states and municipalities before
selling their securities,” Carlo di Florio, the director of the
compliance office, said in a statement.  The SEC has set up an enforcement unit to police the
municipal market for fraud. In August 2010, it settled claims
against  New Jersey  that the state had misled investors by
masking inadequate pension funding in $26 billion of bond sales.
Later that year, four San Diego city officials agreed to
financial penalties to settle the agency’s claims that they
failed to inform investors of “fiscal problems’ tied to
municipal retirement plans.  The SEC also has stepped up oversight of the municipal
market as states and cities continue to deal with the effects
of the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009. Amid such
strains, the number of U.S. municipal-bond defaults doubled
in the past two years, compared with the average from 1970 to
2009, driven by bonds sold for health-care and housing
projects, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Rising Pressure  Governments have also been affected, including Stockton,
 California , which is working to avoid becoming the biggest U.S.
city to enter bankruptcy.  Alabama ’s Jefferson County’s Chapter 9
filing last year made it the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy
ever, in terms of debt. Pennsylvania’s capital of Harrisburg
skipped bond payments this month after a takeover by a state
receiver, while  Detroit  is striving to prevent a receiver from
taking control there.  While the agency can bring fraud claims against municipal
officials, securities laws, including those on disclosure, apply
to securities firms because of decades-long exemptions given to
state and local governments from direct federal regulation.  Compliance by securities firms with SEC rules when lining
up investors for municipal-bond offerings is a concern at the
agency, according to today’s statements. Securities laws require
underwriters to review financial disclosures in bond documents
for potential inaccurate or fraudulent claims.  `Implied Recommendation'  “By participating in an offering, an underwriter makes an
implied recommendation about the securities,” the SEC said in
its Risk Alert. “A municipal underwriter also makes a
representation that it has a reasonable belief in the
truthfulness and completeness of the key representations made in
any disclosure documents used in the offering.”  The agency didn’t single out any companies by name or
indicate that any civil charges are pending as a result of its
examinations of underwriters. During its reviews, the SEC said
it found that some firms may not do enough checking of an
issuer’s finances or keep documentation to show that they have.  “The best way for investors to protect themselves is by
making fully informed decisions,” Lori Schock, the director of
the SEC’s investor education and advocacy office, said in a
statement. “This is true for any investment, including
investments in municipal bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  