-- Barclay Brothers Claridge’s Bid Was Improper, Developer Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-03-19T16:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/barclay-brothers-claridge-s-bid-was-improper-developer-says.html
David and  Frederick Barclay , the
billionaire owners of the Daily Telegraph newspaper, acted
improperly in an attempt to take over a luxury hotel company,
including making a large payment to the wife of a shareholder,
lawyers for an Irish developer said.  Patrick McKillen sued the Barclays and their companies over
“an intense battle for control of  Claridge’s  and associated
hotels,” McKillen’s lawyer Philip Marshall said in opening
arguments of a trial in  London  today. The brothers behaved
dishonorably and unlawfully in trying to acquire Maybourne
Hotels, which also owns the  Berkeley  and  Connaught  hotels in the
U.K. capital, he said.  The hotel company is worth more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion), according to McKillen, who owns 36 percent of it. The
Barclays bought 800 million euros ($1.06 billion) of the hotel
company’s debt last year from Ireland’s National Asset
Management Agency through a holding company called Maybourne
Finance Ltd.  McKillen is seeking a court ruling that he has the right to
buy the remaining shares in Maybourne. His lawyers argued the
Barclays intend to divide up the company and sell the 200-year-
old Claridge’s and the other hotels.  In court papers setting out their defense, the Barclays
denied the allegations and said “they were not involved in the
small details,” of transactions. “These serious allegations
have been made for tactical reasons, to try to embarrass Sir
Frederick and Sir David and to tarnish their reputations.”  Air ‘Grievances’  “The claims are designed to create a public platform for
Mr. McKillen to air his grievances,” Kenneth MacLean, a lawyer
for the Barclay brothers’ companies including Misland Cyprus
Investments Ltd. and Maybourne Finance, told the court today.  The Barclays made a “very significant payment” to the
wife of another shareholder of the hotel group, Derek Quinlan,
who then represented their interests, Marshall said. Beginning
in January 2011, Quinlan did nothing “contrary to the
instruction or wishes of the Barclay brothers,” he said.  “The various tactics deployed by the Barclay brothers and
their vehicles involve a series of infringements of Mr.
McKillen’s rights,” the lawyer said.  Quinlan, a former Irish tax inspector, was one of Ireland’s
biggest real estate investors during a property boom, which
collapsed in 2007. Some of his assets were seized by NAMA in
April 2011 when he failed to agree on a debt repayment plan.  Neither brother will appear at the trial, which David
Barclay says he is too ill attend.  “We just don’t accept that David Barclay is not able to
attend court,” Marshall said.  The case is: McKillen v. Barclay & Ors., case no.
HC11C03437,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  