-- Basel Group Said to Consider National Firewalls for Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-19T15:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/basel-group-said-to-weigh-national-firewalls-for-bank-failures.html
After targeting global banks deemed
too big to fail, regulators are weighing tougher capital rules
for lenders whose collapse would roil national economies.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is considering
extra  reserve requirements  and tougher oversight for smaller
lenders that aren’t caught by measures to protect the world
economy from meltdown. The possible firewalls will be discussed
at a two-day meeting of the group that starts tomorrow,
according to two people familiar with the talks that will also
consider changes to a draft liquidity rule for banks.  Competition may be distorted “if a globally  systemic bank 
has to face surcharges while other banks which are very large in
domestic markets are exempt,” Patricia Jackson, head of
prudential advisory at Ernst & Young LLP in  London , said in a
phone interview. “It could be a problem if you have equally
important banks competing in a national market but one carries a
much bigger capital requirement because it also has
international business.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  are among 29 lenders targeted last year by the Group of 20
nations for capital surcharges of as high as 2.5 percent of
their assets, weighted for risk. This week’s discussions will
focus on  capturing banks  that escaped because their insolvency
would have limited global impact, said the people who couldn’t
be named because the meetings are private.  International Retreat  One reason for regulators to press ahead with the new rules
is to prevent lenders scaling back their international business,
Jackson said.  “If you impose surcharges on banks judged to be globally
systemic but not on other large lenders then you are going to
encourage banks to retreat into their home markets,” she said.
This could have “negative consequences for international
activity such as trade finance.”  The measures would go beyond minimum capital and liquidity
rules for banks, known as Basel III, that were agreed by
international regulators in 2010. The Basel committee hasn’t
identified which nationally important lenders will face the
additional measures, the people said.  Regulators will this week discuss the process for drawing
up the extra rules, including whether the Basel group should
prepare a list of banks that would face surcharges or instead
leave the task of identifying systemic lenders to each national
regulator, the people said.  ‘Herd Issue’  Mark Carney , chairman of the Financial Stability Board, has
called for the stricter rules to be approved by the end of the
year. The Basel committee is drafting the requirements for the
FSB, which brings together regulators, central bankers and
financial ministry officials from G-20 countries.  “There could be nationally systemic banks that when looked
at globally are not individually critical, but when looked at
together could present problems -- a herd issue,” said Patrick
Fell, a director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in London.  This might occur “if you have several lenders in different
countries that are focused around a particular product or a
particular funding style,” he said.  The FSB and Basel committee will publish a progress report
on the plans next month.  The measures for these smaller banks “will follow the same
sort” of line as the requirements agreed to last year for
globally systemic banks, Rene van Wyk, who represents  South
Africa ’s central bank on the committee, said in an interview in
 Pretoria  on March 7.  Van Wyk said the Basel group will this week also “present
some calibration points and technical calculations” on a draft
liquidity rule, known as the LCR or liquidity coverage ratio,
without changing the “fundamentals” of the standard.  The Basel committee includes banking regulators from 27
nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  