-- Basel III Measures May Heighten Repo Volume, Risks, Fitch
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-19T19:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/basel-iii-measures-may-heighten-repo-volume-risks-fitch.html
Risks may rise in the U.S. market
for borrowing and lending securities if tougher global bank
regulation increases some types of trading of  repurchase
agreements , according to  Fitch Ratings .  Capital and liquidity rules for banks, known as Basel III,
were enacted by international regulators in 2010 in a move to
help protect the world’s economy after the worst worldwide
financial crisis in decades following the collapse of the U.S.
subprime mortgage market. Basel III regulations, which need to
be implemented by 2019, require some banks to hold more capital.  “Stricter bank regulations, such as Basel III, could push
some bank-intermediated activities, particularly those involving
riskier exposures subject to higher capital charges, into the
shadow banking sector,” New York-based Fitch analysts Kellie
Geressy-Nilsen, Martin Hansen and Robert Grossman wrote today in
a report. “During the U.S. credit crisis, repo markets were
linked to both illiquidity-driven price volatility, particularly
for securities that lost acceptability as collateral, and to
funding challenges faced by some dealers that faced diminished
market access.”  Repo Trading  Repos are transactions used by the  Federal Reserve ’s
primary dealers for short-term funding. They typically involve
the sale of U.S. government securities in exchange for cash,
with the debt held as collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to
repurchase the securities at a later date, and cash is sent back
to lenders, which often are money-market mutual funds.  The Fed has been seeking to strengthen the tri-party repo
market, which approached collapse in 2008 as Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. went bankrupt. The central bank intensified its
effort after a private-sector Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure
Reform Task Force that it sponsored issued a final report in
February said more time and effort were needed.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  serve as the industry’s clearing banks.  “There is a focus on the possibility of increased banking
regulation incentivizing the shadow banking market, particularly
high-risk activity that attracts higher capital charges under
Basel III,” said Grossman, managing director of macro credit
research at Fitch in New York and one of the report’s authors,
in a telephone interview today. “Repos are a significant part
of the shadow banking market and that is why we are trying to
highlight the potential liquidity risks.”  Shadow Warnings  Global regulatory authorities have warned that shadow
banks, such as structured-investment vehicles, hedge funds and
money-market mutual funds could be used to evade regulators’
attempts to clamp down on excessive risk-taking in the wake of
the global credit crunch and subsequent lender bailouts. The
shadow-banking system had liabilities of about $16 trillion in
the first quarter of 2010, the  New York  Fed said in a  report 
that year.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , chairman of the
Financial Stability Board charged by Group of 20 leaders to
coordinate global financial reform and monitor progress, said in
November that the FSB will help design regulations for the
market-based financing, referring to the shadow banking system.  Prime money-market funds’ investments include banks’
certificate of deposits, commercial paper, repurchase agreements
and short-term notes and deposits.  “Given their inherent leverage, short tenor, and
relatively opacity, repo markets remain a potential channel for
liquidity risks during market distress,” the Fitch report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  