-- Berkshire Investor Suit Over Sokol’s Stock Claims Tossed
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/berkshire-investor-suit-over-sokol-s-stock-claims-tossed.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. directors,
including billionaire founder  Warren Buffett , won dismissal of
shareholder claims over challenged stock trades by former
Berkshire executive  David Sokol .  Investors can’t sue Berkshire’s board because it hasn’t
decided whether to sue Sokol, who headed a Berkshire unit, over
his stock trades in Lubrizol Corp. during a two-month period
starting in December 2010 while Sokol was evaluating the
chemical company as a possible Berkshire acquisition,  Delaware 
Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster concluded yesterday.  “There could be some good reasons” to delay suing Sokol
to recover $3 million in profits he made from the Lubrizol stock
trades and that inaction doesn’t open the board to shareholders’
derivative suits, Laster said.  A Berkshire audit committee concluded in April that Sokol,
who headed Berkshire’s NetJets Inc. subsidiary, violated the
company’s insider-trading policies and misled Buffett and other
officials about his stake in Lubrizol, which he was recommending
as a Berkshire takeover target.  Stock Trades  Sokol’s purchase of more than $10 million in Lubrizol stock
while facilitating Buffett’s deal to buy the lubricant maker
“violated company policies, including Berkshire Hathaway’s Code
of Business Conduct and Ethics and its insider-trading policies
and procedures,” according to the report. Sokol left Berkshire
in March 2011 after questions were raised about the stock
trades.  Buffett didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
e-mailed to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Investors sued Berkshire directors in state court in
Wilmington, Delaware, last year alleging the board was dragging
its feet in making the decision whether to sue Sokol for
usurping a corporate opportunity with the stock trades.  Shareholders filed a so-called derivative action which
would return any recovery from insurance covering directors to
the investment firm’s coffers.  Robert Weiser, a New York-based lawyer for Berkshire
investors seeking to sue the board over Sokol’s trades, told
Laster yesterday that shareholders had to press the case against
the former executive because of directors’ unwillingness to do
so.  ‘Inexcusable’  The board “had declined to prosecute its claims” against
Sokol, Weiser said. “We believe it’s inexcusable for directors
to sit on this claim.”  Barry Levine, a New York-based lawyer representing Sokol,
said the executive disputes investors’ claim that the Lubrizol
trades violated federal securities laws. He told Laster that
Sokol wasn’t a proper target of investors’ suits since he wasn’t
an officer or director of Berkshire.  The fact that Sokol signed a form acknowledging he’d comply
with Berkshire’s ethical policies didn’t put him in the class of
Berkshire executives who could be properly named in a derivative
case, Levine added. “He doesn’t qualify as a de facto officer
or director,” the lawyer said.  William Lafferty, a Wilmington-based lawyer for Buffett and
other Berkshire directors, said the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission reportedly has opened an inquiry into Sokol’s
Lubrizol trades and Berkshire officials could be waiting for the
outcome of that probe before taking any action against Sokol.  “The court should not allow the plaintiffs to hijack” the
board’s right to decide whether to sue over Sokol’s trades,
Lafferty said.  Questions Raised  Prior to dismissing the case, Laster said the board’s delay
in making a decision on whether to seek to recoup the profits
from Sokol’s Lubrizol case clearly raised questions in
investors’ minds.  “If somebody isn’t doing something with a litigation asset
that looks really strong, you have to wonder” about the
inaction, the judge said.  The case is In re  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Shareholders
Litigation, CA 6392, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 