-- Berkshire Succession Gains Scrutiny That Also Dogged Jobs
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-03-19T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/berkshire-succession-gains-scrutiny-that-also-dogged-jobs.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s board of
directors should update shareholders annually on the status of
Chief Executive Officer  Warren Buffett ’s successor, to ensure
the firm sticks to a plan to name an insider, the AFL-CIO said.  Berkshire opposes the union’s proposal that the firm have a
written policy to ease the eventual transition from Buffett, 81,
who said last month that the Omaha, Nebraska-based company had
identified a successor, without publicly disclosing who that is.  “We’re pleased they have picked an internal candidate
because that’s important for the success of a company with a
strong culture like Berkshire Hathaway,” said Brandon Rees,
acting director of the AFL-CIO office of investment. “We’d
prefer to have an assurance it’s the board driving the process
and have an annual update on the process.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  are among firms whose investors previously had raised
concerns that succession planning lacked clarity. Sixty-one
percent of publicly traded companies don’t have a CEO-
replacement plan, according to Korn/Ferry International, a Los
Angeles-based executive recruiting firm.  The AFL-CIO Reserve Fund holds 1,282 shares of Berkshire’s
Class B common stock valued at $103,932 as of March 16. The
fund’s resolution, to be considered at the May 5 annual meeting,
was put forth in part out of concern that the departure in April
of Buffett lieutenant  David Sokol  created uncertainty about
succession plans, Rees said.  Corporate Culture  “We’re encouraged now that they have since disclosed there
is an internal candidate and two back-up candidates,” he said.  The AFL-CIO, which represents 12 million workers in 57
unions, doesn’t expect Berkshire to identify a candidate by
name, just to assure that it’s someone who can maintain the
corporate culture Buffett has established, Rees said.  Rees said he understands the resolution probably will be
defeated. Similar resolutions failed in 2010 and 2011 at Bank of
America, Verizon Communications Inc., Comcast Corp., FedEx,
Kohl’s Corp. and United Natural Foods Inc., Rees said, citing
data from Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., a proxy
advisory company.  The Central Laborers’ Pension Fund made a similar request
at Apple last year amid concerns that co-founder  Steve Jobs ’
health had deteriorated as he announced a third leave of absence
since 2004. Shareholders rejected that proposal and Jobs
relinquished the CEO title to Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook 
in August. Jobs died on Oct. 5.  ‘Elderly CEOs’  “There are many companies with elderly CEOs who will need
a replacement, and there are other situations where shareholders
are very concerned about who will replace a popular company
leader,” said  Paul Hodgson , senior research associate at GMI
Ratings, a New York-based governance consulting firm and rating
service.  Clear plans for CEO succession are proper for good
governance, he said. It’s not necessary for a company to give
specific names because that might lead to other companies trying
to poach the executive and it can be disruptive in terms of
stock market reaction, Hodgson said.  Berkshire said in a proxy filing last week that the current
process is sufficient.  “The board’s judgment as to the most capable successor
could change over time and it would be highly unusual for a
public company to name a successor for its CEO prior to either
the incumbent leaving that position or to the establishment of a
specific date for the CEO to relinquish the position,” the
company said in the filing. “It would be inadvisable to
publicly report on an annual basis its plans as requested by the
proposal or to add additional details.”  Annual Letter  Buffett didn’t identify the choice in his annual  letter  to
shareholders on Feb. 25, saying instead that directors were
“enthusiastic” and have had “a great deal of exposure” to
the person designated to take over as CEO. Buffett didn’t
specify a timeline for the switch.  Berkshire said last year that it had identified four
company executives capable of being CEO. One had board approval
to step in “should a replacement be needed currently,”
according to a passage in a 2011 regulatory filing.  In addition to the current CEO successor designee, there
are “two superb back-up candidates as well,” Buffett wrote in
the letter.  Berkshire relies on Buffett, also the chairman and head of
investments, to oversee a $77 billion stock portfolio and
operating units with more than 270,000 workers. The board’s
primary job is to ensure it has the right people running the
business and that “the next generation of leaders is identified
and ready to take over tomorrow,” Buffett wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Detroit at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at 
 dreichl@bloomberg.net  