-- Bernanke Seen Not Knowing Jobless Rate Below Fed Forecasts
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-19T17:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/bernanke-seen-not-knowing-jobless-rate-less-than-fed-predictions.html
David Waldrop, 59, says he
considers himself retired after searching unsuccessfully for
work comparable to the job he lost in July 2007 at the U.S.
Department of Energy in Atlanta.  “There was certainly nothing in my area at my level,” he
said. While the right opening might pull him back to employment,
for now he sees his exit from the  U.S. labor force  as permanent.
“I don’t see it happening,” he said. “I don’t see anything
offering opportunities.”  Waldrop is one of millions who have dropped out of the
labor market in the aftermath of the deepest recession since the
Great Depression, causing the employment-to-population ratio to
fall to  58.6 percent  from 62.7 percent at the end of 2007.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  says the decline
reflects weakness in the economy that’s causing discouraged
Americans to leave the workforce, bolstering his decision to add
to his record monetary stimulus in January.  Economists at  Barclays Capital , UBS AG and Moody’s Corp.
disagree. They say the percentage of people aged 16 and older
with jobs is shrinking permanently because of a structural shift
as  baby boomers  like Waldrop retire. This will contribute to the
jobless rate falling to 7.8 percent by December, below the Fed’s
prediction of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent, according to  Drew Matus , senior U.S. economist at UBS and  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at Barclays.  Tighten Sooner  That may force Bernanke and his colleagues to tighten
monetary policy sooner than their plan to keep the benchmark
federal funds rate  near zero  until at least late 2014, or risk a
surge in inflation, Matus and Maki predict. The policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  said after its March 13 meeting
that “elevated” joblessness will “decline gradually,” in
support of its rate pledge.  “Unemployment will come down faster, and the participation
rate will be lower -- that is what they have been missing,”
Matus said in a telephone interview from his Stamford,
Connecticut, office. “Every month that goes by, and the labor
market performs differently than they expect, they are going to
have to ask themselves: Are they using the right models?”  Joblessness was  8.3 percent  in February, the lowest in
three years, after the most robust six-month period of
employment growth since 2006. It had risen as high as 10 percent
in October 2009. The Fed lowered its forecast in January, after
predicting in November that unemployment would be 8.5 percent to
8.7 percent at the end of this year.  Natural Rate of Unemployment  The cause of lower participation is a key component in
determining the so-called natural rate of unemployment, or the
level that neither accelerates nor decelerates inflation. The
Fed in January projected a “longer-run” jobless rate of 5.2
percent to 6 percent.  “If the goal became to restore the employment-to-
population ratio to where it was prior to the recession, we’d
need an unemployment rate of about 3 percent, and that would
clearly lead to monetary policy being too easy for too long,”
said Maki, who is based in  New York . “We think this is a factor
contributing to medium-term inflation risks.”  Inflation expectations have climbed this year, bond prices
show. The break-even rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, was
 2.16 percentage points  on March 16. The rate, a measure of the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the securities, has
climbed from 1.53 points on Dec. 16.  Slack ‘Remains Substantial’  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said today that “real economic activity has yet to be
strong enough on a sustained basis to make a big dent in the
overall amount of slack in the  U.S. economy ,” and he pointed to
falling participation as support for his view that labor-market
gains are exaggerated.  About half the drop in unemployment since September “was
due to a declining  labor-force  participation rate,” Dudley said
in a speech in Melville, New York. Had the rate not fallen
“from around 66 percent in mid-2008 to under 64 percent in
February, the unemployment rate would still be over 10
percent.”  It is “very important” to look not just at unemployment,
Bernanke said in response to questions during a Senate Budget
Committee hearing in  Washington  last month. “The 8.3 percent no
doubt understates the weakness of the labor market in some broad
sense.” Some people are leaving the workforce because they
can’t find jobs, and others are taking part-time jobs because
they can’t find full-time employment, he said.  Modest Recovery Pace  Charles Lieberman , chief investment officer at Advisors
Capital Management LLC, said he supports Bernanke’s view,
particularly given the modest pace of the recovery. The U.S.
economy will grow 2.2 percent this year, according to the median
response among 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from
March 9 to March 13. The U.S. expanded 1.7 percent in 2011.  “The  unemployment rate  has dropped more than would be
expected, given the slow growth,” said Lieberman, former head
of monetary analysis at the New York Fed and now in  Hasbrouck
Heights ,  New Jersey . “The pace of decline in unemployment will
slow while the inflow back into the labor market is absorbed,
unless growth accelerates significantly.”  While Bernanke argues that the falling participation rate
reflects these cyclical changes, Fed researchers predicted in a
2006 study that the measure would decline because of structural
shifts to the economy from the retirement of the generation born
between 1946 and 1964.  ‘Ignoring Their Own Work’  Bernanke and his FOMC colleagues “are really ignoring
their own work on the subject,” Matus said.  The oldest boomers hit 65 in 2011, and every day for the
next 17 years, about 10,000 more will reach the age historically
associated with retirement, according to the Pew Research Center
in Washington.  The 2006 Fed study predicted what the authors called a
“conservative” three percentage-point decline in the
participation rate during the next decade. It already has fallen
2.5 percentage points since the end of 2006, to  63.9 percent ,
with the participation rate among people in the prime working
ages of 25 to 54 falling to 81.6 percent in February from 83.4
percent in January 2007.  Demographic Drivers  Demographics, not the poor economy, “are the driver”
behind people leaving the workforce, Maki said. Only 15 percent
of those between 25 and 54 years old who are exiting the labor
market say they want a job, so it’s “completely unlikely”
throngs of re-entrants will halt the drop in unemployment as Fed
policy makers have suggested, he said.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects the participation
rate will continue falling, to  62.5 percent  in 2020 from 64.7
percent in 2010. While the rate for people 55 and older will
rise, to an estimated 43 percent from 40 percent, the aging of
America will produce the overall decline.  “Labor-force growth will be weaker for longer due to
demographic forces, the expiration of emergency unemployment
insurance and very low wage growth, which will keep potential
workers from re-entering the workforce,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . He predicts the jobless rate will be 7.9 percent
at the end of 2012 and 7.4 percent in December 2013.  “Odds are high that the  Federal Reserve  will raise
 interest rates  well before the end of 2014,” he said.  ‘Call Myself Retired’  Waldrop left the labor force when he gave up on his
yearlong job hunt. Now “I call myself retired; I didn’t
always,” Waldrop said. “I was unemployed for awhile.”  He said he was prepared for the transition, with a “very
nice 401K,” and had “maxed out” contributions to his
retirement funds in recent years. He’ll also draw Social
Security as early as age 62, though he may delay that date to
increase the monthly payments.  “It was always the plan to be able to retire at 55” if he
chose to, he said. “I was forced into it because of the
economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  