-- Biggest Budget Miss Since 2009 Hurts Confidence: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n ,   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-03-19T05:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/biggest-budget-miss-since-2009-hurts-confidence-india-credit.html
Indian Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  missed his budget-deficit target by the most in three
years and announced a 12 percent increase in debt sales, sending
bond yields to a two-month high.  The  shortfall  in finances in the year ending March will be
5.9 percent of gross domestic product, 1.3 percentage points
more than the goal, Mukherjee said in a March 16 speech in
parliament. That was the biggest margin of failure since falling
short of the aim by 3.5 percentage points in the 12 months
through March 2009, the height of the global financial crisis.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Ltd. and FIM Asset
Management Ltd. said the budget didn’t do enough to restore the
credibility of Mukherjee, who pledged to cut the deficit to 5.1
percent of GDP in the 12 months starting April. The yield on 10-
year bonds had the biggest weekly increase since January to 8.43
percent last week, compared with 3.55 percent in  China , where
the 2012 deficit was 1.5 percent of GDP.  “There is nothing in this budget that’s going to make
people believe that India is now on a more credible long-term
fiscal path,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said in an interview to Bloomberg UTV on March 16.
“Some of the concerns and risks that many people would have had
before the budget, stay in place.”  India missed its  deficit  target three times in the last 10
years. Mukherjee fell short of his revenue goal for the current
fiscal year as economic growth slowed and the government met
only 35 percent of a program to raise 400 billion rupees ($8
billion) by selling state assets.  Asia ’s third-largest economy
is likely to grow 6.9 percent in the year through March, the
least in three years, Mukherjee told parliament.  Rating Constrained  Standard & Poor’s , which ranks India’s bonds at BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, said the deficit target for the next
fiscal year is “still quite high.” The shortfall has been the
“single-most constraining factor” in improving the country’s
ratings,  Takahira Ogawa , a Singapore-based director of sovereign
ratings at S&P, said in an interview on March 16.  The  finance ministry  plans to sell a record 5.69 trillion
rupees of debt the next fiscal year, compared with 5.1 trillion
rupees in the 12 months ending March 31. Underwriters had to buy
unsold bonds at nine auctions this fiscal year, central bank
data show, signaling demand didn’t match supply of notes. The
government will set the first-half borrowing target on March 23,
Shaktikanta Das, additional secretary in the ministry, said on
March 16.  Yields on  10-year (GIND10YR)  sovereign debt jumped 14 basis points,
0.14 percentage point, last week after data on the website of
the Controller General of Accounts showed India’s budget  gap 
widened to 4.35 trillion rupees in the 10 months through
January, exceeding the full-year target of 4.13 trillion rupees.
A year earlier, the shortfall was 58.3 percent of the annual
goal.  ‘Always Overspends’  “I doubt they can achieve the fiscal-deficit target,”
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based director of Asian
economics at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in an interview on
March 16. “We know from history that the government always
overspends relative to its targets.”  The shortfall will reach 5.8 percent of GDP in the year
starting April, he predicts. The finance ministry has exceeded
its budgeted  spending  target in eight of the last 10 years,
according to government data.  The yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021 fell
one basis point today after climbing seven basis points on March
16. The  extra yield  investors seek to hold the notes instead of
U.S. Treasuries has rebounded 11 basis points from an eight-
month low of 601 reached on March 14, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Spectrum Sale  Rupee-denominated bonds handed investors a loss of 0.3
percent in March, compared with a 0.2 percent return on yuan
notes, according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.
 India ’s revenue collection was 69.5 percent of the full-year
target in the 10 months through January, compared with 92.2
percent a year earlier, official data showed this month. The
rupee advanced 0.2 percent today to 50.0885 per dollar after
declining 0.7 percent last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  India may cut the fiscal deficit more than budgeted,
benefiting from the sale of telecom spectrum, according to
Gordon Rodrigues, an investment director at HSBC Global Asset
Management, a unit of  Europe ’s biggest bank that oversees $25
billion of Asian fixed-income assets. The spectrum sales may
earn India 400 billion rupees in the year starting April 1, R.
Gopalan, the top bureaucrat in the department of economic
affairs at the Ministry of Finance, said on March 16.  “The budget measures are a move in the right direction in
terms of the fiscal deficit,” Hong Kong-based Rodrigues said in
an interview on March 16. “There is a possibility the
government may actually do better than what they said as
proceeds from a 4G spectrum auction and 2G rebidding have not
been taken into account. So there’s less implementation risk in
this budget.”  Investment Outflows  Still, global investors have cut  holdings  of Indian debt by
$634 million since Feb. 29, pulling money out of the local
market for the first time in six months, exchange data show.  The cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank  of India,
seen as a proxy for the sovereign, against non-payment climbed
this month. Five-year credit-default swaps on the lender now
cost 305 basis points, compared with 300 at the end of February,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets. The
swaps pay face value in exchange for the underlying debt should
a company fail to adhere to its agreements.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is facing
hurdles to his policies from its largest coalition partner,
Trinamool Congress. The ally’s leader, Mamata Banerjee, opposed
a plan to raise passenger rail fares, proposed by her party
colleague Railway Minister Dinesh Trivedi this week.  ‘No Roadmap’  The government was forced to scrap plans to allow foreign
retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  into India in December amid
opposition from its allies, including Trinamool. Singh shelved
proposals to allow foreign direct investment in pensions in
December after Trinamool refused support.  “As a foreigner, I am disappointed because there is no
roadmap for reforms and no indication of how the most difficult
task of curbing the deficit will be met,” Taina Erajuuri, a
Helsinki-based  money manager  at FIM that oversees about 1.1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) of emerging-market assets, said in
an interview on March 16. “The government may not be able to
meet its deficit target because of deepening global
uncertainties.”  The 10-year yield may climb to 8.6 percent in three months,
she predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story: Sandy Hendry
at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 