-- Bloomberg New Energy Finance Picks 10 ’Pioneers’ for 2012
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-03-19T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/bloomberg-new-energy-finance-picks-10-pioneers-for-2012.html
Bloomberg New Energy Finance
recognized 10 companies for developing innovative solar,
biofuel, power-storage and electricity-management systems.  The research company announced its New Energy Pioneers at
its fifth annual conference today in  New York .  The recipients were selected for both the potential value
of their products and services and the companies’ ability to
bring them to market, according to a statement. Some are focused
on financing rather than energy, such as Clean Power Finance
Inc., which operates an online marketplace for investors to fund
consumers’ rooftop solar projects, said  Nathaniel Bullard , an
analyst at New Energy Finance.  “Buying a solar system five years ago was like buying an
automobile in the 1950s, as there was one way to do it -- you
had to pay cash,” Bullard said in an interview. Clean Power
Finance’s market mechanism may address one of the basic hurdles
of residential solar projects. “They still require more money
than most consumers are willing to lay out in one go.”  Other Pioneers, such as Xtreme Power Inc., Smarter Grid
Solutions Ltd,  Maxwell Technologies Inc. (MXWL) , Silver Spring Networks
Inc. and Tendril Networks Inc., are developing storage systems,
smart meters and software that may make the  power grid  more
efficient.  Joining them are:  - Ecotality Inc. (ECTY) , which develops electric-vehicle charging
stations.  -Emefcy Ltd., which creates bacteria that generates
electricity from treating wastewater.  -LanzaTech Inc., a developer of microbes that convert
waste gas into fuel and chemicals.  -Va-Q-Tec AG, a maker of vacuum-based insulation
materials.  The  Bloomberg New Energy Finance Summit  begins today and
runs through March 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  