-- BNY Mellon, State Street Replaced as Ohio Pension Custodians
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-19T18:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/bny-mellon-state-street-replaced-as-ohio-pension-custodians-1-.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  and
 State Street Corp. (STT)  are being replaced as the custodians of
international investments for four Ohio pension funds by
 JPMorgan & Chase Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , state Treasurer Josh Mandel said.  The move comes after  BNY Mellon , the world’s largest
custody bank, was sued March 12 by Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, who claimed the institution swindled pension funds
through foreign-currency transactions. Boston-based State
Street, the third-biggest custody bank, is being sued by the
 U.S. Department of Justice  and other states over fraud and
deceptive-practice allegations, Mandel said in a release.  “I have a duty to end custodial agreements with banks
being sued for defrauding taxpayers,” Mandel said in today’s
release.  Custody banks earn fees for keeping records, tracking
performance and lending securities to institutional investors
such as mutual funds, pensions and  hedge funds . BNY and State
Street managed $41.3 billion in the international portfolios for
the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System, Ohio Police & Fire
Pension Fund, School Employees Retirement System of Ohio and the
State Teachers Retirement System of Ohio, Seth Unger, a Mandel
spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  The Police & Fire fund and the school fund seek to recover
more than $16 million in losses from BNY Mellon, according to
the attorney general.  ‘Baseless Allegations’  The bank, which has been sued by several states and the
U.S. over pricing practices in foreign-exchange transactions,
was accused of “systematically overcharging” the funds,
according to a March 12 statement from DeWine.  “We’re disappointed by the treasurer’s actions, because we
believe we have provided the state valuable services at
competitive prices,” Kevin Heine, a spokesman for BNY, said in
a telephone interview. “The suit by the  Ohio  attorney general
recycles baseless allegations, and we are confident we are right
on the facts and the law.”  Ohio “remains a valuable client of State Street, and we
will not otherwise comment on our relationship with the state,”
Alicia Curran Sweeney, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  