-- Boehner’s Latest Leadership Test Is Adopting a Budget
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/boehner-s-latest-leadership-test-is-adopting-a-budget.html
After struggling to corral his
fractious Republican caucus for more than a year, U.S. House
Speaker  John Boehner  is nearing another test: passing a
multitrillion-dollar budget for the federal government.  Republicans, after months of criticizing Senate Democrats’
decision to skip a  budget , aim to adopt their own this month.
Yet a group of self-described conservatives within Boehner’s
ranks is pushing for a fresh round of cuts, even if it means
upsetting a spending-reduction deal reached with Democrats in
August.  “It’s just one more headache for Boehner,” said  Sarah Binder , a congressional scholar at the Washington-based
 Brookings Institution . “It sounds like much of what we’ve seen
over the past year.”  Boehner of Ohio, who became speaker in January 2011, has
grappled with intra-party fights over raising the federal  debt
limit  and extending a payroll tax cut, as well as a still-
unresolved dispute over legislation to finance highway
maintenance. Though the federal government can operate without a
budget, so long as Congress passes individual spending bills to
fund the agencies, failure by the House to agree on a budget
plan would cap a year of conflict with embarrassment.  “It’s imperative that they put one out given that they’ve
been pointing fingers at the Senate,” said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin ,
a former economic adviser to President  George W. Bush .  Representative  Tom Price , a Georgia Republican, and other
self-described conservative members of the Republican Study
Committee have proposed as much as $116 billion in cuts. An
election-year budget fight with Democrats would underscore the
difference between the parties, he said in an interview.  ‘Positive Contrast’  “It’s important that we put forward a positive contrast,”
Price said. “We’re in the minority party in Washington -- we
don’t control the Senate and we don’t control the White House.”  More moderate Republicans say the proposed cuts are so
large they are unrealistic, following the agreement last August
with Democrats and President  Barack Obama . All sides agreed to
cap spending and impose $1 trillion in automatic cuts that will
start in 2013 because a legislative supercommittee couldn’t
agree on how to cut the  deficit .  Breaking that agreement would risk making Republicans
appear intransigent to voters, said Steve Bell, a former
Republican budget aide.  “The speaker of the House, the minority leader of the
Senate and the majority leader of the Senate made a deal before
God and everybody else,” said Bell. “We are giving our
adversaries weapons.”  $19 Billion  House Republican leaders are attempting to split the
difference by pushing for an additional $19 billion in cuts,
much less than conservatives demand and more than moderates
want, probably leaving no one happy.  Democrats say that would renege on the August agreement and
risk a shutdown because lawmakers must pass spending bills to
keep the federal government operating when the next fiscal year
starts Oct. 1.  “This wasn’t only a handshake, a pat on the back -- it was
a law we passed,” said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat.  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, said additional
reductions wouldn’t break the agreement.  “The spending limit is only broken if exceeded,” he said.
“Spending less not only satisfies the agreement struck last
summer, but means we’re borrowing less from places like  China .”  Tea Party Members  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, plans to unveil Republicans’ proposal this week. If
Republicans insist on more cuts, it wouldn’t be the first time a
bipartisan deal threatened to come apart at the hands of Tea
Party conservatives in the House.  In December, an agreement between Reid and Senate
Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  to extend a payroll tax cut
was defeated by the House.  House Republicans  later backpedaled
and accepted the plan amid widespread criticism.  Before that, a series of disputes over funding federal
agencies and raising the debt limit brought the government to
the brink of a shutdown four times. That’s one reason why
Congress’s approval ratings plummeted to a record-low 10
percent, according to a Gallup poll last month.  Boehner’s challenge this time is that the budget debate
comes in an election year, amid a primary season in which many
Republicans are facing intra-party challenges. Representative
Jean Schmidt, an  Ohio  Republican and member of the Republican
Study Committee, lost her primary bid earlier this month.  ‘Could Do Better’  “We’re seeing more primaries because when congressional
approval is so low, there’s a lot of people who think: ‘I could
do better,’” said  Nathan Gonzales , an analyst for the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report. “There are a lot of
members who are very concerned.”  Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas Republican, said his
colleagues are well aware that for all their differences over
the budget, it would be a political disaster for them to fail to
agree on a plan.  “We’ll come to a deal,” Huelskamp said. “It would be
quite a failure of leadership in general if we didn’t have one,
so we’re all committed to passing one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  