-- Express Scripts, BofA, JPMorgan, UBS, Lehman in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-19T10:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/bofa-jpmorgan-cardinal-health-ubs-bnp-lehman-in-court-news.html
Five states are considering whether
they will sue to challenge  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s bid for  Medco
Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  if federal antitrust regulators approve
the deal, two people familiar with the matter said.  State attorneys general in  New York , Pennsylvania, Ohio,
Texas and California are waiting to see if the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission approves the $29.1 billion proposed
acquisition, said the people, who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly and asked not to be identified.  State officials are concerned the FTC will approve the deal
with conditions that don’t guard against rising prescription
prices and decreased pharmacy services, the people said. A
combined Express Scripts-Medco would be the largest U.S. manager
of pharmacy benefits.  More than 25 states, including the five considering a
lawsuit, are investigating the deal for possible antitrust
violations, the people said.  Two pharmacy groups opposing the acquisition said last week
the FTC asked them to suggest ways to revise the deal so it
wouldn’t harm competition. The request may indicate the agency
will approve the deal with conditions, said Jeffrey Schmidt, a
former director of the FTC’s Bureau of Competition.  The states could seek a temporary delay in the
acquisition’s close and a court order to permanently prevent the
deal’s consummation, said Billy Vigdor, an antitrust lawyer with
Vinson & Elkins LLP in  Washington  who represents investors with
an interest in the deal.  It can be difficult for states to win when the FTC has
allowed a deal to go through, said Andrew Gavil, an antitrust
law professor at  Howard University  in Washington.  Dan Tierney, a spokesman for the Ohio attorney general, and
Danny Kanner, a spokesman for the New York attorney general,
declined to comment on the possibility of a lawsuit. Nils
Frederiksen, a spokesman for the Pennsylvania attorney general,
and Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for the Texas attorney general,
also declined to comment. Nick Pacilio, a spokesman for the
California attorney general, declined to comment. Brian Henry, a
spokesman for St. Louis-based Express Scripts, declined to
comment.  Lowell Weiner, a spokesman for Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-
based Medco, and Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, also
declined to comment.  Verdicts/Settlements  Bank Whistle-Blower Awarded $18 Million in Foreclosure Deal  Attorney Lynn Szymoniak had spent a career investigating
insurance fraud when a bank moved to foreclose on her Florida
home in 2008. Almost four years later, the fraud she said she
uncovered by combing through mortgage documents earned her $18
million, Bloomberg News’s Jef Feeley and David McLaughlin
report.  Szymoniak, 63, is among six whistle-blowers who will pocket
$46.5 million as part of a $25 billion national foreclosure
settlement that state and federal officials reached in February
with five banks, including  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to the U.S. Justice Department.  “When they did this to her, they picked the wrong person
at the wrong time in the wrong place,” Richard Harpootlian,
Szymoniak’s attorney in two whistle-blower cases, said in an
interview. “They stuck their hand into the beehive.”  Szymoniak’s examination, in which she relied on her
experience as an insurance-fraud investigator, led to her claims
against banks for submitting fraudulent documents to the federal
government asserting that they owned loans insured by the
Federal Housing Administration, she said.  The national foreclosure settlement with the five banks,
which resolves claims of abusive foreclosure practices, provides
mortgage relief to borrowers, pays $1.5 billion to those who
lost their homes to foreclosure, and sets standards for how the
banks service mortgage loans.  As part of the agreement, whistle-blower claims are being
settled for about $228 million, according to court papers filed
in federal court in Washington. A group of six whistle-blowers
will receive $46.5 million out of that amount, said Alisa
Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman.  The national foreclosure settlement case is U.S. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 12-00361, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Brian Kim Admits to Grand Larceny in $6 Million Ponzi Case  Brian Kim, founder and operator of the hedge fund Liquid
Capital Management LLC, pleaded guilty to grand larceny after
being accused by Manhattan prosecutors of running a $6 million
Ponzi scheme.  Kim entered the plea March 16 before Justice Charles
Solomon of New York State Supreme court in Manhattan, admitting
nine of 26 counts against him. Sentencing was set for April 20.  Kim, 36, who fled overseas when he was about to be tried in
another case, apologized for dragging out the proceedings.  “I know these matters could have been resolved a long time
ago,” he told the court. He said he had no “malicious
intent.”  Kim was taken into custody in October 2011 by authorities
in Hong Kong, where he fled before a U.S. trial scheduled to
begin in January 2011 on charges that he stole $430,000 from a
Manhattan condominium complex where he lived.  He admitted that crime March 16 as well. Kim told the judge
the stolen money went to his investors.  The Ponzi scheme indictment in February 2011 charged him
with running a fraud from January 2003 to January 2011.  Kim told clients they were investing in safe and stable
securities, prosecutors said. Instead, he traded in highly
speculative contracts and diverted money to himself, they said.  The state case is People v. Kim, 2011/86, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). The CFTC suit is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Kim, 11-cv-01013,
and the federal criminal case over the passport fraud is U.S. v.
Kim, 11-cr-00642, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan.)  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Gupta’s Lawyer Says ‘Wrong Man’ on Trial in Insider Case  A lawyer for former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat
Gupta, accused of passing nonpublic information to Galleon Group
LLC fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , said March 16 that the U.S. had
the “wrong man” on trial.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , said that Rajaratnam had a
different Goldman Sachs tipper, who gave him confidential
information about  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the lawyer said.
That Goldman source was also caught on government wiretaps
passing the inside information, Naftalis said.  Gupta, 63, who denies wrongdoing, is scheduled to go on
trial May 21 for leaking tips to Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs
and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also a director.  “There are wiretaps, wiretaps that they’ve had for years,
that this confidential information is being given out,”
Naftalis argued March 16.  “The fact is important because we have the issue that you
have the wrong man on trial here,” Naftalis said. “They know
that there is a person at Goldman Sachs who has leaked inside
information on at least two securities, on Apple and Intel, to
Mr. Rajaratnam. It is certainly clear to us this is hot
information. We intend to press on this issue. We think there is
a much more circumstantial case that that person should be
sitting in the box than us.”  Prosecutors disclosed in a Feb. 3 letter to U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the case, that
Rajaratnam had a second “insider at Goldman Sachs” who leaked
tips to Rajaratnam. Rakoff has referred to this individual as
“Mr. X.”  Prosecutors also said the tips didn’t relate to Goldman
Sachs or Procter & Gamble.  Two Goldman Sachs executives, David Loeb and Henry King,
are under investigation by the U.S. for possible insider-trading
charges, according to people with knowledge of the probe who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.
Testimony from Rajaratnam’s trial last year showed that Loeb,
head of Asia Equity Sales in New York with a focus on Taiwan,
had dealings with Rajaratnam.  Lawyers didn’t identify the Goldman Sachs insider in court
March 16.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on Naftalis’s assertions.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted by a jury last year of all 14
counts against him, is serving an 11-year prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Morgan Keegan Loses Dismissal Bid in $8 Billion Fairfax Suit  Morgan Keegan, the brokerage being sold to  Raymond James
Financial Corp. (RJF) , lost its bid to be dismissed from an $8 billion
lawsuit brought by Canadian insurer Fairfax Financial Holdings
Ltd.  Fairfax, in its 2006 lawsuit, accused investors of
conspiring with analysts and researchers to spread false rumors
and drive down Fairfax’s stock price in a so-called bear raid.  New Jersey  Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury in
Morristown ruled March 16 that there was more to the case than
whether Morgan Keegan’s analyst reports were free speech
protected by the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment.  “There’s more to this case than the statements made in a
couple of reports,” the judge said. “It seems to me an
innocent truthful statement could be part of the conspiracy,”
he said.  The suit once included as defendants the hedge funds SAC
Capital Advisors LP, Third Point LLC and Kynikos Associates LP.
The remaining defendants, including New York hedge fund Exis
Capital Management Inc., have argued the case doesn’t have
enough connection to New Jersey to allow Fairfax’s anti-
racketeering counts, which allow for tripling the $8 billion in
claims. Toronto-based Fairfax brought other claims in the suit.  Hansbury said he will schedule a trial for September. Bruce
Collins, a lawyer for Morgan Keegan, told the judge he will file
another motion before then to get his client dismissed. Collins
declined to comment on the ruling after the hearing.  Fairfax, which owns stakes in Canadian and U.S. insurers,
said in its complaint that the hedge funds coordinated with
stock analysts so the funds could profit through short sales,
selling borrowing shares in anticipation of making money by
replacing them with cheaper shares after the price dropped.  The company’s $8 billion damage claim is based on
allegations that the hedge funds’ actions depressed Fairfax’s
 credit ratings , diminished its ability to make acquisitions and
reduced the amount it could raise in debt and equity offerings,
according to court papers.  The case is  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  For more, click here.  Former Madoff Employees Seek Evidence They Were Lied To  Five former employees of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC asked that prosecutors be ordered to turn over
evidence they were lied to about the firm’s activities to help
them fight charges they aided their boss’s fraud.  Annette Bongiorno, Joann Crupi, Daniel Bonventre, Jerome
O’Hara and George Perez asked U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor
Swain March 16 to order prosecutors to turn over potentially
favorable information, including statements from Frank DiPascali
Jr., a key Madoff lieutenant who is cooperating with the
government.  “We seek disclosure of any and all information suggesting
that Madoff and others provided false explanations to customers,
financial institutions, and regulators or employees in order to
disguise the fact that BLMIS was not investing customer funds,”
the defendants said in papers filed in federal court in
Manhattan.  The defendants claim the government last month turned over
partial FBI reports of interviews with DiPascali that suggest
that Madoff, DiPascali and others kept them in the dark about
the fact they weren’t investing any of their clients’ money.  O’Hara and Perez, both former computer programmers, were
arrested and charged in November 2009. Bonventre, Madoff’s ex-
operations chief, was charged in February 2010. Bongiorno, who
recruited investors and helped run Madoff’s investment advisory
office, and Crupi, who worked for Madoff for 25 years, were
charged in November 2010.  According to the defendants’ papers, the notes show
DiPascali told investigators that Madoff told people he was
trading in  Europe , not on U.S. exchanges. When confronted by
Perez and O’Hara, Madoff “gave the impression he was not doing
anything wrong,” according to the notes.  The case is U.S. v. Bonventre, 10-CR-228, U.S. District
Court,  Southern District of New York  (Manhattan).  Cardinal Health Drug Shipments in Florida Blocked by Court [bn:WBTKR=CAH:US]   Cardinal Health Inc. [] must stop distributing controlled
substances from its Lakeland, Florida, center as an appeals
court weighs the legality of a U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration order blocking the shipments.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington rejected March 16
Cardinal Health’s request to put on hold a lower court’s Feb. 29
decision upholding the DEA suspension.  Cardinal Health “has not satisfied the stringent
requirements for an injunction pending court review,” the three
judge panel ruled.  U.S. District Judge Reggie Walton on Feb. 29 said that the
government sufficiently proved that the distribution facility
posed a public safety threat by shipping heavy volumes of the
prescription painkiller oxycodone to pharmacies, including two
owned by a unit of  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)   “We activated our contingency plans earlier in the month
and will continue to endeavor to meet our customers’ needs with
minimal disruption from our other distribution centers,” Debbie
Mitchell, a spokeswoman for Dublin, Ohio-based Cardinal Health,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Walton, on March 14, ordered two CVS stores in Sanford,
Florida, to stop filling prescriptions of controlled substances
during the DEA investigation. He said the DEA produced enough
information to show that pharmacists at the stores filled
prescriptions for the painkiller oxycodone that they knew or
should have known would lead to the drug being diverted for
illegal uses.  CVS appealed that ruling and Walton’s order was temporarily
placed on hold.  The three judges in the March 16 ruling on Cardinal Health
-- U.S. Circuit Judges Karen LeCraft Henderson, David Tatel and
Janice Rogers Brown -- are the same ones considering the CVS
appeal.  The cases are Cardinal Health v. U.S. Department of
Justice, 12-05061, and Holiday CVS LLC v. Holder, 12-05072, U.S.
Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  UBS, BNP Paribas Roles Probed in French Madoff Investigation  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  are the focus of a Paris criminal
investigation of claims French investors were duped into putting
their money in funds linked to  Bernard Madoff  via the banks.  A Paris appeals court issued rulings in January and
February instructing Investigating Judge Renaud Van Ruymbeke to
expand his probe and concentrate on the banks, which acted as
intermediaries between the investors and the Madoff funds,
lawyers for investors said March 16.  “The appeals court very strongly advised the investigating
judge to look into BNP and UBS to verify whether these didn’t,
by participation or negligence, take part in the crime or the
harm suffered,” said Jean Reinhart, representing a Frenchwoman
who lost money in LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection fund.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in North
Carolina. Van Ruymbeke is investigating how French investors
came to lose money in the New Yorker’s fraud.  UBS denied having had any knowledge of Madoff’s fraud and
“will take all appropriate steps to demonstrate that these
allegations are false and without foundation,” the Zurich-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement March 16.  A spokesman for BNP Paribas didn’t return calls for
comment.  The court also told Van Ruymbeke to get the official list
of LuxAlpha investors from Luxembourg’s financial regulator,
where the fund was registered, said Veronique Lartigue, a lawyer
for other investors.  Lartigue said she thinks the list will show the banks
themselves are the listed shareholders, rather than the
individuals for whom they were acting. If so, “the private
investors, individuals, bank clients wouldn’t be the losers,
they would have to be repaid their losses because in fact it’s
the banks who were” invested with Madoff, she said.  Van Ruymbeke refused to follow up on these angles, leading
the prosecution and victims to ask the court to order him. “It
didn’t interest him,” Lartigue said.  About 20 investors have claimed to be victims as part of
the French investigation, Reinhart said. Local losses attributed
to Madoff’s fraud may have been as much as 500 million euros
($659 million), France’s financial markets regulator estimated.  Lehman Brothers Receives $850 Million in Neuberger Berman Deal  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , the failed investment bank
that is planning a payment to creditors next month, received
$850 million for its preferred equity in asset manager Neuberger
Berman Group LLC.  Lehman won court approval in December for a plan to sell
its minority equity stake in Neuberger Berman, a transaction
that it said would generate $1.5 billion, almost double an offer
received in 2008.  The $850 million will be available when Lehman makes a
distribution to creditors scheduled for April 17, Lehman said
March 16 in a statement. New York-based Lehman, which collapsed
in 2008, said March 6 that it exited bankruptcy.  Neuberger Berman intends to be fully employee-owned in the
next four to five years,  Standard & Poor’s  wrote in a March 6
note.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  TV Cameras Rejected in U.S. Supreme Court Health-Care Case  The U.S. Supreme Court rejected media and lawmaker requests
for television coverage of this month’s arguments on President
Barack Obama’s health-care law, and agreed to release same-day
audio recordings.  The court, in a statement citing the “extraordinary public
interest” in the case, said it will post the audio on its
website each afternoon of the three-day argument. The court
generally releases audio on a weekly basis.  The court will hear six hours of arguments March 26-28 --
the most in 44 years -- and probably rule in late June. The
central question in a challenge by 26 states and a business
trade group is whether Congress exceeded its authority by
requiring Americans to either get insurance or pay a penalty.  The justices have never allowed video coverage of their
arguments. Over the years, the justices have provided a number
of explanations: that they would lose their anonymity, that
cameras would change the dynamic in the courtroom, and that news
organizations would use only snippets of the arguments.  In the health-care case, the court received requests for
live video or audio coverage from a dozen lawmakers and more
than 30 media organizations, including Bloomberg News and C-
SPAN.  The court’s three-paragraph statement didn’t mention video
cameras. The court’s spokeswoman,  Kathy Arberg , said that the
court won’t allow television coverage.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court Filings  Lehman Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg Law system last week.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s, which filed the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history in 2008, had the most-read docket on
the Bloomberg Law system last week.  Lehman’s bankruptcy became America’s most costly in April
2010, when it surpassed the $757 million cost of  Enron Corp. (ENRNQ) ’s
three-year liquidation, according to data assembled by
bankruptcy professor  Lynn LoPucki  at the University of
California, Los Angeles.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  