-- BofA Said to Warn Equities Unit Employees of Staff Cuts
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-03-19T21:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/bofa-said-to-warn-equities-unit-employees-of-staff-cuts.html
Bank of America Corp.  dismissed
Steven Milunovich and two other energy analysts as the lender
seeks to trim expenses in its investment bank, said two people
with knowledge of the moves.  Peter Christiansen and Gilbert Yang also lost jobs in the
past week at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm, said the
people, who requested anonymity because the moves are private.  Milunovich was a managing director who had worked more than
two decades at investment banks including Merrill Lynch & Co.,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Salomon Brothers . He was ranked No. 2 among
computer hardware analysts by Institutional Investor in 2004 and
first in a 2005 Wall Street Journal survey, covering firms such
as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
and Apple Computer Inc.  “The fact that a senior analyst of Steven’s stature was
let go confirms to me that Bank of America views cost reduction
as a long-term process that won’t end anytime soon, and is
indicative of what’s happening on Wall Street,” Richard Lipstein, a managing director for Boyden Global Executive Search
in New York, said in a phone interview. “This is also part of a
trend to have fewer analysts cover more stocks.”  Wall Street  firms are reducing staff and pay to align costs
with lower revenue from trading and underwriting. More cuts are
coming at Bank of America as part of Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan ’s efficiency plan, which he said would be
completed in April and may target as much as $8 billion in total
annual savings.  Alternative Energy  Christiansen, who reported to Milunovich, covered
 alternative energy , and Yang followed oil and gas exploration
and production. Remaining analysts will take over their
responsibilities, one of the people said. Joseph Osha, who
writes about the solar industry, will cover more clean-energy
firms, and Doug Leggate, who follows oil refiners, will take
over Yang’s companies, the person said.  Bank of America informed employees in equity sales, trading
and research last month of reductions scheduled for mid-March.
Workers were told that the dismissals were meant to free room to
hire outsiders while leaving headcount almost unchanged, two
people said in February.  Some chose to join competitors before the deadline. James Farrell, who traded Canadian equities, is set to work for
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and Esteban Garcia, who traded shares of
telecommunications firms, will go to International Strategy &
Investment Group Inc., the people said.  Lost Market Share  Employees were told last month that results were improving
from the beginning of the year, one of the people said. Equities
sales and trading revenue dropped 16 percent in the fourth
quarter to $660 million. The global banking and markets unit,
run by co-chief operating officer Thomas K. Montag, posted a
$433 million loss.  Bank of America lost market share last year to rivals
including New York-based Morgan Stanley in the trading of
equities, bonds, currencies and commodities, Matthew O’Connor,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Jan. 19 research note.  Milunovich has a history of leaving Merrill Lynch only to
rejoin. He departed in 2005 to start a hedge fund and returned
the following year. In 2007, he became a partner at
communications firm Brunswick Group LLC and went back to Merrill
Lynch as an analyst in 2008, shortly before its takeover by Bank
of America.  Milunovich, Christiansen and Yang didn’t return e-mail and
phone messages left at their offices. Calls to residential phone
numbers listed in Milunovich’s and Yang’s names weren’t
answered. A woman who answered at a listing matching
Christiansen’s name said it was the wrong number.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  