-- Bolton’s Muamba Able to Recognize Family, Respond, Club Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-20T12:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/bolton-s-muamba-critical-after-collapsing-during-soccer-game.html
Bolton Wanderers midfielder Fabrice Muamba has been able to recognize family members and respond to
questions at the  London  hospital where he’s being treated after
suffering a heart attack in an F.A. Cup soccer match.  The 23-year-old remains in intensive care at the London
Chest Hospital, though is also able to breathe independently
without the aid of a ventilator, the English Premier League team
said on its website. He had a “comfortable night,” Bolton said
today.  “These are all positive signs of progress,” Bolton said
in a  joint statement  with the hospital released last evening.
“However, his condition remains serious and the medical staff
in intensive care will continue to monitor him.”  The club and hospital said earlier yesterday that Muamba’s
heart was beating without the aid of medicine and he was also
moving his arms and legs, although “his long-term prognosis
will remain unclear for some time.”  The player was put into a medically-induced coma two days
ago after collapsing on the pitch near the end of the first half
of the game against Tottenham at White Hart Lane in north
London. Medical staff at the stadium treated the player on the
pitch with a defibrillator before he was carried off on a
stretcher as both sets of supporters chanted his name.  “It was the first time in my 19 years as a professional
that I’ve seen a football stadium unite,” Bolton captain  Kevin Davies  said on his team’s website. “It was touching.”  It took two hours to get Muamba’s heart working after his
collapse. Players and fans were visibly upset, with some in
tears. Match referee  Howard Webb  took both teams off the field
and moments later abandoned the game with the score tied 1-1.  F.A. Cup Doubt  Bolton is considering withdrawing from the F.A. Cup,
 England ’s premier cup competition, the  Daily Mirror  reported
yesterday. The Trotters may pull out of a re-match with Spurs
because of the likely psychological impact on Muamba’s
teammates, the newspaper said.  Bolton’s Premier League game at  Aston Villa  scheduled for
today has been postponed. Blackburn Rovers manager  Steve Kean 
said his club would do “whatever Bolton wish” with regards to
their March 24 league match.  Bolton yesterday invited supporters to attend the Reebok
Stadium tonight for a period of “quiet reflection and prayer in
support of Fabrice Muamba.”  Democratic Republic  of Congo-born Muamba, a member of the
England under-21 national team and a former Arsenal midfielder,
is in his fourth season with Bolton. He has appeared in 19
matches this season, scoring once.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  