-- Bovespa Futures Fluctuate as Weaker Real Outweighs IMF Warning
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-19T12:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/bovespa-futures-fluctuate-as-weaker-real-outweighs-imf-warning.html
Bovespa-index futures swung between
gains and losses as a weaker real boosted the outlook for
Brazilian exports, offsetting concern raised by International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  about economic
growth in  emerging markets .  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas , Latin America’s largest
brewer, may be active after Credit Suisse Group AG cut its
recommendation to the equivalent of hold.  Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) , Brazil’s second-biggest airline by market
value, may move after saying local debt owners approved a waiver
to covenant breaches on bonds from two series.  Bovespa futures were little changed at 68,125 at 9:40 a.m.
in  Sao Paulo . The real fell 0.5 percent to 1.8086 per  U.S.
dollar , heading for its lowest level in two months.  “A weaker real helps companies that depend on exports,
such as commodities producers, which account for a big part of
the Bovespa index.” Clodoir Vieira, an economist at Sao Paulo-
based brokerage Souza Barros Corretora, said by phone. “ Brazil 
should keep growing at a reasonable pace, although there
probably won’t be any further help from the central bank, which
has signaled it’s close to finish its easing cycle.”  Lagarde urged policy makers to be vigilant as oil prices,
debt levels and the risk of slowing growth in emerging markets
threaten global economic stability.  “Optimism should not give us a sense of comfort or lull us
into a false sense of security,” Lagarde said March 17 at a
speech in Beijing at the China Development Forum.  The Bovespa has advanced 19 percent this year after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by Brazil’s interest-rate
cuts, signs of growth in the U.S. and renewed optimism  Europe 
may be closer to solving its debt crisis. The Bovespa trades at
11 times analysts’ earnings estimates, which compares with a
10.8 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  