-- BP Whistle-Blower Seeks Shutdown of Atlantis Oil Platform
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-03-19T16:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/bp-whistle-blower-seeks-shutdown-of-atlantis-in-gulf-of-mexico.html
BP Plc’s (BP/)  Atlantis platform, its
second-largest oil producer in the  Gulf of Mexico , should be
shut down until it’s proven to comply with U.S. safety and
environmental laws, a whistle-blower’s lawyer told a judge.  BP misled U.S. offshore regulators to win operating permits
for the platform, located about 150 miles (240 kilometers) south
of  New Orleans , according to the whistle-blower. The facility
produced an average of 60,000 barrels of oil daily last year and
is capable of producing as much as 200,000 barrels a day,
according to data on London-based BP’s website.  “Atlantis is presently not fit for service under normal
engineering standards,”  David Perry , a lawyer for Kenneth
Abbott, a former BP contractor, said at a hearing today in
federal court in Houston. “We ask the court to take action to
oversee remediation to make it fit for service.”  Abbott, who sued BP on behalf of the U.S. government in
2009, has asked U.S. District Judge Lynn Hughes to move quickly
to halt production and appoint a special master to oversee
measures to ensure the platform is brought into compliance.
Abbott also seeks $7.8 billion from BP, which he estimates is
the value of oil and gas BP has pumped through Atlantis since
the facility came online in 2007.  Undersized Valves  Perry told Hughes there’s a specific pressure-relief valve
“that is protecting a 16-inch pipeline” connecting Atlantis to
shore and “that is undersized by a factor of 20 to 1.” A
failure in that valve “could cause catastrophe at any time,”
Perry said.  “There is no urgency on this, Atlantis is safe,” BP’s
lawyer, Lynne Liberato, told Hughes. “The Interior Department
said it was safe after an extensive investigation,” which
included looking into Abbott’s allegations, she said at today’s
hearing.  Abbott, who worked as an engineering documentation
supervisor on Atlantis, testified before the  U.S. Congress  in
June 2010 that almost 90 percent of the facility’s design and
construction drawings weren’t approved by licensed professional
engineers, as required by regulators. BP lied to regulators
about its engineering certifications to obtain operating permits
for the platform, Abbott’s lawyers said in a March 15 filing.  ‘Unsafe Conditions’  “Immediate court action is needed to remedy unsafe
conditions on Atlantis,” attorney Mikal Watts said in the
filing. “These unsafe conditions are a direct result of shoddy
engineering by unlicensed personnel and the absence of reliable
drawings that match the ‘as-built’ construction of the
facility.”  BP said in its own  court  filings that Atlantis is safe and
that Abbott’s complaints were dismissed by federal regulators
who investigated the issue after the 2010 blowout of BP’s
Macondo well, drilled by the Deepwater Horizon. Atlantis is
located about 100 miles south of where the Deepwater Horizon
disaster occurred.  “Based on years of intensively regulating Atlantis, the
 Department of Interior  has affirmatively determined that
Atlantis is safe, that BP is in compliance, and that there is no
basis to shut it in,” Otway Denny, BP’s lawyer, said in a
January court filing. “The court should not substitute its
judgment for the judgment of DOI’s engineers, inspectors and
regulatory experts.”  ‘Serious’ Safety Risks  The U.S. Interior Department in March 2011 said that BP’s
deficiencies in documentation for the platform posed no
“serious” safety risks, following its investigation of
Abbott’s allegations.  “Although we found significant problems with the way BP
labeled and maintained its engineering drawings and related
documents, we found the most serious allegations to be without
merit, including the suggestion that a lack of adequate
documentation created a serious safety risk” on the platform,
the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and
Enforcement said in an e-mailed statement March 4, 2011.  Abbott’s lawyers asked Hughes to exclude the agency’s
investigative report, which they said in court papers was
“obtained by fraud.”  The Interior Department regulator assigned to lead the
Atlantis investigation “was appointed to investigate his own
conduct, and he is now BP’s witness to the safety of Atlantis,”
according to the March 15 filing. “His training was to rely on
BP’s certifications without verifying their accuracy. He and his
inspectors never discovered the major safety violations now
documented.”  Pressure Relief Valves  Perry said today that a BP “service and operations audit,’
which is under seal in the case, showed that 150 of 500 pressure
relief valves on Atlantis never received proper sizing
calculations to determine if they were the right size. Some of
the valves were “under-sized by very large amounts,” Perry
said.  “All the pressure relief valves are in compliance,”
Damond Mace, BP’s attorney, said at the hearing.  Atlantis has already experienced multiple well-control
lapses, during which subsea well valves opened and closed on
their own and platform operators temporarily lost the ability to
control some wells, Perry said today. Abbott has accused BP of
hiding this information from Interior Department regulators to
keep production flowing from Atlantis.  ‘Thorough Investigation’  “We fundamentally disagree with plaintiffs’ claims in this
lawsuit,”  Daren Beaudo , a BP spokesman, said in a March 15 e-
mail. “The Department of Interior conducted a thorough
investigation of Mr. Abbott’s lawsuit allegations and concluded
that Mr. Abbott’s allegations are unfounded and the Atlantis
platform is safe and should continue to be operated by BP.”  Beaudo had no immediate reply to questions last week
concerning Abbott’s allegations of unreported well-control
incidents on Atlantis.  Abbott’s lawyers have told Hughes he shouldn’t take BP’s
word that Atlantis is safe given the company’s track record,
which includes the Deepwater Horizon blast, which sparked the
largest offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. They also called
Hughes’s attention to BP’s largest Gulf oil platform,  Thunder
Horse , which almost sank in 2005 after an improperly installed
valve allowed hurricane storm water to pour into the floating
platform’s ballast tanks instead of out.  “Thunder Horse was designed and fabricated by the same
Korean shipbuilding firm as Atlantis, a firm BP admits does not
employ registered professional engineers,” Watts said in court
papers.  The case is U.S ex rel. Abbott v. BP Exploration and
Production Inc., 4:09-cv-01193, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  