-- Bulgaria Antitrust, Italy Unbundles, Goldman: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-19T13:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/bulgaria-antitrust-italy-unbundles-goldman-letter-compliance.html
Bulgaria’s antitrust regulator said
four fuel retailers including the Bulgarian units of  OMV AG (OMV)  of
Austria,  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , Russian oil producer,  Rompetrol Rafinare SA (RRC) 
and  Petrol AD (5PET)  are suspected of being involved in price fixing.  Their potential “violation consists of a banned
agreement” to set prices, which “aims to avert, limit or
hinder competition” on Bulgaria’s gasoline and diesel fuel
wholesale market, the Commission on Protection of Competition in
Sofia said on its  website  March 16.  The companies have 30 days to present their written
objections to the commission before it rules on the issue, it
said in the statement.  Rompetrol has always complied with all national and
international laws, the company’s Bulgarian unite said in an e-
mailed statement March 16. “The Commission’s allegations are
entirely groundless,” it said.  Lukoil’s press office in Moscow didn’t answer calls after
business hours and company spokesman, Gleb Ovsyannikov, couldn’t
be reached on his mobile phone. Petrol’s office in Sofia didn’t
answer calls after business hours. OMV spokesman Johannes Vetter
declined to comment.  Special Section: Goldman Op-ed, Letter  Goldman Sachs Op-Ed Submitted to New York Times Unsolicited  The New York Times, drawing criticism for running an op-ed
by a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive attacking the
bank, said the  piece  was one of thousands of unsolicited
submissions it receives weekly.  “We got it by e-mail,” New York Times editorial page
editor Andrew Rosenthal said in a telephone interview. Smith was
paid about $150 for his submission, a typical amount, said a
person with direct knowledge of the situation who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Wall Street, including Morgan Stanley Chief Executive
Officer James Gorman, has faulted the newspaper for publishing
an op-ed piece based on the view of one among more than 30,000
Goldman Sachs employees. All the facts that could be checked
were checked in Smith’s submission, Rosenthal said.  “The purpose of the op-ed page is to air an important
position,” Rosenthal said. “We’re saying, ‘This is
interesting,’ and by the way, ‘interesting,’ very often means
it’ll make you crazy.”  In the March 14 op-ed that explained why he was quitting,
Greg Smith called Goldman Sachs’s culture “toxic and
destructive.”  Goldman Sachs Chairman and CEO  Lloyd Blankfein  rebutted
Smith’s claims in a  letter  to employees the same day, saying his
assertions didn’t reflect the New York-based bank’s values and
how the “vast majority” of its employees think about their
firm.  Cohan Not Surprised Politics Has Entered Goldman Debate  William Cohan, author of “Money and Power: How Goldman
Sachs Came to Rule the World” and a Bloomberg View columnist,
and Bloomberg’s Christine Harper talked about the ramifications
of the opinion piece from outgoing Goldman Sachs Group executive
Greg Smith.  They spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  Goldman Opinion Piece Political Fallout Discussed  Bloomberg’s Phil Mattingly, Julianna Goldman and Peter Cook
discussed the political repercussions of Greg Smith’s  New York
Times (NYT)  op-ed piece on Goldman Sachs. They spoke on Bloomberg
television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Seeks Information on Italy’s Draft Law on Unbundling Rules  The  European Commission  is seeking information from Italy
to determine if proposed legislation will affect the powers of
the national telecommunications authority.  “A national legislative provision which would restrict the
decision-making authority” of the Italian agency “would be
incompatible with EU telecoms rules,” Dennis Abbott, spokesman
at the Brussels-based commission, said in an e-mail summarizing
part of a letter the EU sent to the Italian government.  In an amendment to a draft law, Italy is seeking to boost
competition in the telecommunications market with rules to open
up network access and services, including maintenance.  The EU said there would be no “such concern” on the draft
law’s compatibility with EU law if the provision were limited to
“explicitly facilitating” the Italian agency’s exercise of its
powers, including the ability to require network operators to
set out access terms that avoid charging rivals for facilities
they don’t need.  Overseas Borrowings by Indian Companies May Surge After Tax Cut  Indian companies building the nation’s roads, ports and
power plants may borrow more from overseas after the government
reduced the tax on interest paid to foreign investors.  The so-called withholding tax was cut to 5 percent from 20
percent, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said March 16 in his
budget presentation for the year starting April 1.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh plans to spend $1 trillion in
the next five years to improve infrastructure as the South Asian
nation seeks to lift out of poverty 828 million people the  World
Bank  says live on less than $2 a day. The central bank raised
rates 13 times in the past two years, the fastest pace of
increases by any monetary authority in  Asia , making rupee-debt
costlier.  Five-year borrowing  costs  in the local currency for
companies rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s Indian unit Crisil Ltd.
are at 9.46 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A surge in overseas borrowings is “inevitable” because
rates are not likely to soften immediately, said K. Raja Gopal,
chief executive officer at the power unit of Lanco Infratech
Ltd.,  India ’s second-largest, non-state power utility, said in a
phone interview from New Delhi March 16.  Barnier to Propose Retail Investment Product Rules Next Month  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
chief, said that he would present proposals next month to
bolster oversight and protection of money managed by so-called
ucits funds. The EU will also publish rules on investment
opportunities that banks offer their customers, Barnier said.  Ucits are undertakings for collective investment in
transferable securities. The rules on ucits are needed to
prevent another Bernard Madoff-type scandal, Barnier said.  Compliance Action  Worldspreads Finds ‘Financial Irregularities,’ Suspends Shares  Worldspreads Group Plc (WSPR) , a British broker and spread-betting
company, suspended trading in its shares after finding
“possible financial irregularities.”  The company has informed the Financial Services Authority
and will make further announcements “in due course,” London-
based Worldspreads said in a statement March 16.  “Given the uncertainty as to the outcome, Worldspreads is
currently unable to assess its financial position, and inform
the market accordingly, and considers the suspension to be
appropriate,” the company said.  Google Will Answer Privacy Questions Over Safari ‘Cookies’  Google Inc. (GOOG)  will cooperate with privacy regulators looking
into how its advertising “cookies” were enabled by  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari Internet browser.  Google has been removing the files since discovering that a
temporary link created between Safari and Google’s servers
enabled other ad cookies to be set on the browser program, the
company said March 16. The Wall Street Journal reported March 16
that Google is being investigated by U.S. and European Union
regulators for using Safari users’ information and bypassing the
Apple software’s privacy settings.  “We will of course cooperate with any officials who have
questions,” Mountain View, California-based Google said in an
e-mailed statement. “We didn’t anticipate this would happen,
and we have been removing these advertising cookies from
Safari.”  Google’s privacy policy is under review by France’s data-
protection agency acting on behalf of other European regulators.
The world’s largest Web-search provider defied two requests by
the National Commission for Computing and Civil Liberties, known
by its French acronym as CNIL, to suspend changes to the policy
while it was determined whether those changes comply with
European privacy standards.  CNIL is preparing a list of questions to send to Google
next week, a spokeswoman for the agency said March 16. She
declined to comment on whether the questionnaire would cover the
Safari cookies, and declined to be cited by name, citing CNIL
policy.  Italy Said to Pay Morgan Stanley $3.4 Billion on Derivative  When  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said in January it had cut its “net
exposure” to Italy by $3.4 billion, it didn’t tell investors
that the nation paid that entire amount to the bank to exit a
bet on  interest rates .  Italy, the second-most  indebted  nation in the European
Union, paid the money to unwind derivative contracts from the
1990s that had backfired, said a person with direct knowledge of
the Treasury’s payment. It was cheaper for Italy to cancel the
transactions rather than to renew, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the terms were private.  The cost, equal to half the amount to be raised by Italy’s
sales tax increase this year, underscores the risk of
derivatives countries use to reduce borrowing costs and guard
against swings in interest rates and currencies can sour and
generate losses for taxpayers. Italy, with record debt of $2.5
trillion, has lost more than $31 billion on its derivatives at
current market values, according to data compiled by the
Bloomberg Brief Risk newsletter from  regulatory filings .  The transaction may prompt regulators to push for greater
transparency and regulation of how governments use derivatives,
said the head of the  European Parliament  panel that deals with
market rules.  Morgan Stanley said in a Jan. 19  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that it “executed certain
derivatives restructuring amendments which settled on January 3,
2012” and reduced its Italian exposure by $3.4 billion.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
firm, declined to comment further. Officials at the Italian
treasury in  Rome  declined to comment on the contracts.  For more, click here.  Exchange-Traded Funds Targeted in EU Clampdown on Shadow Banks  Exchange-traded funds may face tougher regulation of their
derivatives trades as part of a European Union clampdown on so-
called shadow banks that could pose a threat to the region’s
financial system.  The European Commission said today that it is examining
potential “conflicts of interest” affecting ETFs, a type of
fund that tracks an index and whose shares are publicly traded.
The regulator is also reviewing whether banks and other
financial firms are using so-called repurchase agreements, or
repos, to build up excessive levels of debt.  While financial watchdogs have reined in excessive risk
taking by banks in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008, they are concerned that lenders and other
financial firms can use ETFs, repos and other off-balance sheet
activities to evade the rules.  Adair Turner, chairman of the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, warned last week that shadow banking is “potentially
very unstable” and vulnerable to liquidity shocks. Supervisors
shouldn’t allow “complex interconnectivity” and “high
leverage to develop in unregulated institutions or markets,” he
said. The shadow banking industry in  Europe  is worth $22
trillion, and $25 trillion in the U.S., by some estimates,
Turner said.  For more, click here.  Geithner’s Bid to Recoup TARP Money Gets Boost From Stress Tests  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is getting a boost
from the  Federal Reserve  as he seeks to recoup taxpayer money
used to bail out banks during the financial crisis.  Regions Financial Corp. and  Zions Bancorporation (ZION)  last week
said they plan to repay money they received through the Troubled
Asset Relief Program after passing Fed stress tests. The tests,
designed to ensure that the largest U.S. banks could withstand
another severe recession, indicate that that the two lenders are
strong enough to repay TARP.  The Treasury is trying to unwind the biggest chunks of TARP
as President Barack Obama gears up for his re-election campaign.
The public outcry over bailouts in 2008 and 2009 remains part of
the political debate. Republican presidential candidate Rick
Santorum, who was against bailouts, has criticized rival Mitt
Romney for supporting aid to banks while opposing help for
automakers.  Regions and Zions are the biggest recipients of aid among
the 361 banks left in the bailout program. Regions, based in
Birmingham, Alabama, owes $3.5 billion, and Salt Lake City-based
Zions must return $1.4 billion. Their payments would reduce the
total still owed by banks to the Treasury by about a third, to
$11.1 billion.  The Treasury is now starting to divest stakes in the
remaining banks, most of them small or medium-sized.  For more, click here.  Japan FSA to Increase Asset Manager Oversight, Nikkei Reports  The Financial Services Agency will more closely monitor
asset managers that cater to smaller numbers of investors, the
Nikkei newspaper reported.  The group includes 3,000 asset managers, according to the
Nikkei publication.  The regulator March 14 received reports from 265 asset
managers surveyed after the loss of funds at AIJ Investment, the
Nikkei reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 