-- Cameron Calls for Plan to Privatize Britain’s Road Network
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-19T12:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/cameron-to-call-for-plan-to-privatize-britain-s-road-network.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
private investment in Britain’s roads must be accelerated, as he
seeks ways to stimulate the economy without using public money.  Cameron will ask the Treasury and the Department for
Transport to explore ways of attracting “large-scale private
investment” from sovereign wealth funds, pension funds and
other private investors. He called for “new ownership and
financing” plans to be in place by the third quarter.  “The truth is we are falling behind,” Cameron said in a
speech in  London  today. “There is now an urgent need to repair
the decades-long degradation of our national infrastructure and
to build for the future with as much confidence and ambition as
the Victorians once did.”  While companies such as  Carillion Plc (CLLN)  already operate some
U.K. roads, Cameron is looking at ways to pay for building
programs that are being delayed because of his austerity plans.
The prime minister said the U.K. loses 7 billion pounds a year
because of road congestion.  “How do we do more when, frankly, there isn’t the money?”
Cameron said. “We need to look at innovative approaches to the
funding of our national roads.”  Regulator Mooted  Cameron said he is considering several ways of running the
road system. One option would be to establish a regulator that
oversees private operators as already exists in the water
industry.  “Road tolling is one option -- but we are only considering
this for new, not existing, capacity,” Cameron said. “It’s
about getting more out of the money that motorists already
pay.”  The premier outlined his plans two days before Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  presents his annual budget. In
November, Osborne announced a 30 billion-pound ($47 billion)
program to finance the construction of roads, railways and
infrastructure projects.  The decade-long plan is already seeking to attract 20
billion pounds of investment from pension funds and by savings
from existing budgets. Cameron said today pension funds will
invest an initial 2 billion pounds by 2103.  The opposition  Labour Party  attacked Cameron’s proposals.  `Repeating the Mistakes'  “Ministers look set to let private companies take over the
strategic road network and charge drivers for access,” Labour’s
transport spokeswoman, Maria Eagle, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Ministers seem to be intent on repeating the
mistakes of rail privatization, which was supposed to lead to
cheaper fares and lower costs but has instead given powerful
vested interests the chance to rip off passengers while
increasing the cost to the taxpayer.”  John Major 's Conservative government gained parliamentary
backing for the Railways Act 1993, paving the way for the
privatization of British Rail, the state-owned rail monopoly. By
1996, the track, signaling and stations were put under the
control of Railtrack Plc, leaving private operators to own and
run trains and lease most stations. The Labour government took 
over Railtrack in 2002 following a series of high-profile 
accidents involving track and signaling failures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  