-- Canadian Dollar Fluctuates Amid Decline in U.S. Stock
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-19T21:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-amid-decline-in-u-s-stock.html
Canada ’s dollar traded almost to
the strongest level since September as a rally in risk-sensitive
assets lifted the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  to the highest in
four years.  The Canadian currency, which benefits as the outlook for
global economic growth and demand for its raw materials
improves, outperformed the majority of its 16 most-traded
counterpart as the greenback fell against all but the Brazilian
real.  “The U.S. dollar has softened across the board,” said
Matthew Perrier, Toronto-based director of foreign exchange at
Bank of Montreal, in a telephone interview. “Canada’s obviously
doing alright.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, was up 0.5 percent at 98.69 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching 98.61. It
gained to 98.42 cents on March 1, the strongest since Sept. 19.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0133.  Government bonds  fell for a fifth day, pushing the yield on
the 10-year benchmark higher by five basis points, or 0.05
percentage points, to 2.29 percent, from 2.01 percent on March
9. Last week saw the biggest increase since July. Federal bonds
have lost 1.5 percent this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,409.75 after touching 1,412.28, highest since May 2008. Crude
oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.8 percent.  The Canadian dollar’s outperformance may have been driven
by automatic orders to sell the greenback when the pair reached
the 98.75 cent-to-98.80 cent area, Perrier said, as the euro
strengthened above $1.32.  Doji Signals  Technical factors are also affecting the loonie, according
to  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank’s TD Securities unit.  “Two daily doji signals suggest that the market has lost
its sense of direction,” Osborne wrote in a note to clients
today, referring to signals occurring at the end of last week.
“The sideways range-trade evident since February remains in
force. The 40-day moving average continues to trade through the
200-day moving average. The moving averages reinforce resistance
in the high 99s at the moment.”  Resistance refers to the upper boundary of a trading range,
where sell orders may be clustered. A Doji candle is formed when
a security closes near the previous day’s closing price after
moving higher and lower during the trading session. The pattern
typically occurs at the end of a prolonged trend.  ‘Bear Channel’  Osborne recommends selling the greenback if it strengthens
above parity with the Canadian dollar, because “the broader
trend has been and remains clearly lower given the well-
developed bear channel in place since the start of the year,”
he wrote.  The loonie has gained 3.4 percent this year versus the  U.S.
dollar . Trader have been “quite indecisive over the past couple
of weeks, so maybe the incentive is emerging for the market to
retest the early-March low,” Osborne said in an e-mail.  The yield on the September 2012 bankers’ acceptances
contract, a barometer of short-term rate projections, rose as
high as 1.39 percent on March 16, the highest level since
August. The increasing yield reflects the expectations for
higher  interest rates .  “If the U.S. data stays strong, then that really is an
opportunity for Canada to catch up a little bit,” Tom Levinson,
a currency strategist in  London  at ING Groep NV, said in a
telephone interview. “People are pricing in a decent chance of
rate hikes for the  Bank of Canada  even this year. There’s an
opportunity for the Canadian dollar to do a little bit better.”  Viterra Pursuit  A potential purchase of  Viterra (VT)  Inc. may also be helping
the loonie. Glencore International Plc, the largest publicly
traded commodity supplier, and two Canadian agricultural
companies are nearing a deal to buy Viterra, said three people
with knowledge of the plan.  Glencore is bidding with Agrium Inc. and Richardson
International Ltd. for Regina, Saskatchewan-based Viterra, the
people said, asking not to be identified before a formal
announcement.  No final accord has been reached and the talks could fall
apart, one of the people said. An agreement may be reached at
the lower end of a price range of C$16 to C$19 a share, two
people said. Viterra dropped 1.5 percent to close at C$15.97 in
Toronto, giving the company a market value of C$5.94 billion
($6.02 billion). Trading in Viterra was halted in Toronto today.  “Mergers and acquisitions have turned favorable for the
Canadian dollar,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients
today, citing speculation about the Glencore bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  