-- Canada January Wholesale Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-19T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/canada-january-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of Canada’s wholesale trade report for January from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales declined 1.0% to $49.0 billion in January,
largely because of lower sales in the motor vehicles and parts
subsector and the miscellaneous subsector.  Wholesale sales decrease in January  January’s decrease in sales was the second in three months.
The declines followed an upward trend that began in May 2011.  In volume terms, wholesale sales were down 1.0% in January.  Widespread decline in wholesale sales  In January, six of the seven subsectors, representing almost
all wholesale sales, posted decreases.  The declines in the motor vehicles and parts subsector and
the miscellaneous subsector accounted for more than three-
quarters of the decrease at the national level.  Sales in the motor vehicles and parts subsector fell 3.0% in
January, as a result of lower sales in the motor vehicle
industry and the new motor vehicle parts and accessories
industry. The decline did not completely offset the advance
observed in December. The subsector’s sales have remained
relatively stable since the end of 2010.  Sales of miscellaneous wholesalers declined 2.5%, reflecting
lower sales in the majority of its components. The leading
contributor was the agricultural supplies industry, where sales
were down 6.3%.  Weak global demand for fertilizers was reflected in prices.
International merchandise trade data for January show a 32%
decrease in the value of exports of fertilizers and fertilizer
materials.  Sales of building materials and supplies fell for the second
time in three months, down 0.7% in January. The decrease was
mainly the result of lower sales in the lumber, millwork,
hardware and other building supplies industry.  Sales in the machinery, equipment and supplies subsector
declined 0.4%, largely as a result of weak sales in the computer
and communications equipment and supplies industry (-1.5%).  Sales lower in six provinces  In January, wholesale sales declined in six provinces. Most
of the decreases were in central and western  Canada .  Ontario wholesalers reported the largest decline in dollar
terms, followed by wholesalers in Saskatchewan and Manitoba.  Ontario had a 1.2% decrease in wholesale sales in January,
which nearly offset December’s gain (+1.6%). The decline was
primarily the result of lower sales in the motor vehicles and
parts subsector.  In Saskatchewan (-7.2%), weaker sales in the agricultural
supplies industry, which accounts for about 35% of the
province’s wholesale sales, were responsible for much of the
decrease. The decline in January, the third consecutive decline,
coincided with a decrease in Canadian exports of fertilizers and
fertilizer materials.  Manitoba wholesalers posted a 6.0% decline in January.
Alberta wholesalers (+0.8%) had the only increase in the western
provinces.  In  Quebec , sales declined 0.5% after advancing 1.4% in
December.  Sales were up in the Atlantic provinces, except in  Nova
Scotia  (-0.5%).  Inventories continue to rise  Inventories increased 0.9% to $59.2 billion in January. It
was the 12th month of inventory growth in Canada since the
beginning of 2011.  Inventories increase in January  Inventories were up in 10 of the 25 industries in January.
Wholesalers in the construction, forestry, mining and industrial
machinery, equipment and supplies industry (+4.1%) and the
personal goods industry (+14.4%) had the largest inventory
increases in dollar terms.  The inventory-to-sales ratio rose from 1.18 in December to
1.21 in January.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time in
months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to remain
at their current level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted and in
current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the prices of
goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is a
chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  