-- Carrefour Shuts Store in China’s Henan After Mislabeling Chicken
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-19T05:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/carrefour-shuts-store-in-china-s-henan-after-mislabeling-chicken.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, shut an outlet in central  China ’s Henan
province on orders from the local government after it falsely
labeled meat sold at the store.  Carrefour will focus on training employees in food
handling, it said in an e-mailed statement today. The closure is
temporary, the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based retailer said,
without specifying how long the shop will be shut for or whether
it will extend to outlets nationwide.  The move follows closures by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  in China
after the world’s largest retailer was ordered to close all 13
stores in Chongqing city in October for mislabeling ordinary
pork as organic. Carrefour sold regular chicken as premium for
higher prices at the Zhengzhou outlet in Henan and altered
labels for meat production dates,  China Central Television  said
in a broadcast to mark  World Consumer Rights Day  on March 15.  Carrefour removed fresh meat from shelves at the Zhengzhou
store a day after the broadcast by state-owned CCTV, the
retailer said today. The company said it has set up an emergency
committee to investigate the matter and suspended an official
working at the outlet.  The French retailer today repeated the “sincere apology”
it issued on March 16 to Chinese customers after the CCTV
report. Carrefour, which officially opened its  204th hypermarket 
in China on March 15, also pledged to provide better service.  Wal-Mart’s Chongqing outlets were shut for two weeks over
the pork mislabeling. The retailer was fined 3.65 million yuan
($578,000) and 37 employees were detained, the most serious
punishment for the company since entering the market in 1996.  Ed Chan, president of Wal-Mart’s China operations, resigned
for personal reasons after the incident.  Scott Price , the head
of Asia operations, apologized to Chongqing Mayor Huang Qifan
and promised to correct the problems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  