-- Chaleo, Red Bull Co-Founder and Thailand’s 3rd-Richest Man, Dies
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-03-19T04:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/chaleo-red-bull-co-founder-and-thailand-s-3rd-richest-man-dies.html
Chaleo Yoovidhya,  Thailand ’s third-
richest man whose energy drink spawned the Red Bull franchise
popular with partiers, students, truckers and athletes around
the globe, has died. He was 89.  Chaleo passed away on March 17 in Bangkok, according to a
message of condolence  posted  on the company’s website. He owned
49 percent of Red Bull GmbH, a venture he formed with Austrian
entrepreneur  Dietrich Mateschitz  in 1984 that created a new
category of energy drinks.  Chaleo “lived a simple life,” Sarawut Yoovidhya, his son,
said in a video posted to  Youtube  last month. “I never heard
him complain that he was tired. When talking about his work, he
looked lively and happy. He valued honesty and credibility.”  In 1962, Chaleo developed an uncarbonated drink laced with
sugar and caffeine called Krating Daeng, which means “ red
bull ” in Thai. The drink, a copy-cat competitor to Japanese
energy drink Lipovitan-D, quickly became a hit with truck
drivers and laborers, according to “Thai Capital After the 1997
Crisis” edited by Chris Baker and Pasuk Phongpaichit.  Chaleo targeted rural consumers for his product, unlike his
competitors who sought wealthier urban consumers, Sarawut said.
In particular, Chaleo focused on building the brand to convey
strength and power, he said.  Twenty years later, toothpaste salesman Mateschitz tried
the drink on a trip to Thailand and found that it cured his jet
lag. In 1984, he approached Chaleo with a plan to carbonate the
drink and introduce it to the rest of the world, Bloomberg
Businessweek reported last year.  Both invested $500,000 to establish a 49/49 partnership,
with the remaining 2 percent going to Yoovidhya’s son.  Chaleo was worth $5 billion, third-richest in Thailand
behind Dhanin Chearavanont, chairman of Charoen Pokphand Group,
and Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, who owns the nation’s largest
beer and whiskey maker, according to Forbes.  Red Bull, based in Fuschl am See,  Austria , sold more than
4.6 billion cans of its energy drink last year, up 11 percent
from 2010, the company said on its  website . It employs more than
8,000 people in 164 countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  