-- Chevron, Transocean Managers Banned From Leaving Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-03-19T20:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/chevron-transocean-managers-banned-from-leaving-brazil.html
The chief executive officers of
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s and Transocean Ltd.’s Brazilian units are among
17 executives at the two companies banned from leaving the
country pending an investigation into an offshore oil spill.  Chevron’s  George Buck  and Transocean’s Michael Legrand were
on the list of managers that federal prosecutors asked Judge
Vlamir Costa Magalhaes to ban from leaving Brazil, according to
a copy of the request sent today by Marcelo Del Negri, a
spokesman for the prosecutor’s office. The judge issued the ban
March 16, referring to the “people listed” on the request.  The Nov. 7 leak of 3,000 barrels of oil at Chevron’s $3.6
billion Frade field off the coast of Rio de Janeiro occurred at
a time when  Brazil  is increasing scrutiny of deepwater drilling
following the 2010 Macondo spill in the U.S.  Gulf of Mexico ,
about 1,630 times bigger. Transocean owned the rig involved in
the spill, which state and federal lawmakers have criticized.  “They took this out of proportion,” Cleveland Jones, an
oil specialist and geology professor at Rio de Janeiro State
University, said in a telephone interview, referring to Brazil’s
reaction to the leak. “It’s far from the coast and it’s a small
volume.”  Seepages are common in regions such as the Gulf of Mexico
and the North Sea, Jones said.  Chevron has not been notified of the court order yet,
Claudia Afflalo, a press officer for the company, said in a
telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro. Chevron will defend
itself and its employees, spokesman  Kurt Glaubitz  said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Guy Cantwell , a spokesman for
 Transocean, (RIG)  declined to comment today.  Clear Motives  The executives “appear to have foreign citizenship or
financial conditions and clear motives to want to leave the
country,” Costa Magalhaes said in the order. Their departure
“at this time and under the current circumstances, would pose
great risk to the investigation and the eventual application of
the criminal law,” he said.  Last week, Chevron shut what oil production remains at the
field after detecting a new leak, Glaubitz said. He said the
shutdown was temporary and the company will conduct a geologic
study of the area.  Frade was producing about 60,000 barrels a day before last
week’s spill.  Chevron, the second-biggest U.S. oil company by market
value, and the Brazilian Navy identified a “thin” sheen of oil
at the Frade field on March 16 that extended about a kilometer
(3,280 feet).  Chevron rose 0.5 percent to $110.80 at 3:50 p.m. in  New
York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  