-- China’s Stocks Advance to One-Week High; Shale Gas Shares Climb
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-19T07:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/china-s-stocks-drop-extend-weekly-loss-on-home-prices-chalco.html
China’s stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index to a one-week high, after International Monetary
Fund official Zhu Min said China will avoid an economic hard-
landing as investment remains strong.  Kingdream Public Ltd. (000825) , whose businesses include gas
distribution, jumped 10 percent after the government said it
will boost development of the shale gas industry. Inner Mongolia
Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. advanced 4.3 percent, pacing
a rally for producers of rare earth.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and  Poly
Real Estate  Group Co. led property developers to the biggest
decline among industry groups in the Shanghai Composite Index
after home prices posted the worst performance in a year.  “The government has the tools to offset a decline in
economic growth such as monetary policy or measures targeting
specific industries,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund
manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.
“The property market is still the biggest risk the economy is
facing now.”  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  rose 5.45 points, or 0.2 percent, to
2,410.18 at the close, its highest since March 13. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.3 percent to 2,630.01. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, slid less than 0.1 percent in  New York  on March 16.  About 15.8 billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai
Composite on March 16, or 25 percent higher than the daily
average this year. Thirty-day  volatility  on the gauge was at
15.81, near the lowest in a week.  The Shanghai Composite retreated 1.4 percent last week, the
biggest weekly loss since January. Still, the index has gained
9.6 percent this year on speculation the government will ease
monetary policy to spur economic growth. Stocks in the index
trade at 10 times estimated profit, compared with a record low
of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  ‘Soft-Landing’  “ China ’s heading for a soft-landing,” Zhu, a deputy
managing director at the IMF, said in  Hong Kong  today. At the
same conference,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn
Stevens also expressed confidence in an economy he said is
closing in on that of the U.S.  China is targeting a 7.5 percent expansion in gross
domestic product this year, down from the 8 percent goal in
place since 2005. Zhu’s comments contrast with JPMorgan Chase &
Co. strategist  Adrian Mowat  saying last week that weakness in
car sales and cement and steel production indicate the nation is
already experiencing “a hard landing.”  Shale Gas  Kingdream Public surged by the maximum 10 percent to 14.92
yuan.  Yantai Jereh Oilfield Services Group Co. (002353) , which is
involved in natural gas compression, gained 2.9 percent to 84.36
yuan. Zhangjiagang Furui Special Equipment Co. rose 4.4 percent
to 44.15 yuan.  China will study and release “concrete” fiscal and tax
supportive policies to promote and encourage the development of
shale gas, according to a report by a newspaper owned by the
Ministry of Finance that was posted to the ministry’s website
today. The measures include increasing investment in shale gas
resource appraisal and drafting subsidy policies for shale gas,
it said.  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co., China’s
biggest producer of rare earth, jumped for a second day, gaining
4.3 percent to 71.91 yuan. Rising Nonferrous Metals Share Co.
surged 8.6 percent to 69.40 yuan.  China may start the trial use of specialized receipts for
the rare earth industry in Inner Mongolia and Sichuan province
in June this year, the Information Times reported, without
saying where it got the information. This implies that the rare
earth industry may be incorporated into a list of goods that can
only be sold with government approvals, the report said.  Home Prices  A gauge of property stocks fell 0.4 percent. Vanke declined
0.6 percent to 8.22 yuan, while Poly Real Estate slid 0.8
percent to 10.73 yuan. February home prices posted the worst
performance in a year with almost half of the cities monitored
by the government falling from a year ago as the country
maintained curbs on the  property market .  New home prices fell in 27 of 70 cities last month from a
year earlier and prices were unchanged in six cities, the
national statistics bureau said in a statement on its website
yesterday. That is the worst since the government began at the
start of 2011 releasing individual data for 70 cities instead of
a national average.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  