-- Google Says Motorola Buyout Boosts Choice as China Extends Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-20T01:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/china-extends-probe-of-google-s-acquisition-of-motorola-mobility.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said its proposed $12.5
billion purchase of  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  would
improve consumer choice after Chinese regulators extended their
probe of the deal, the last hurdle before the sale is completed.  China’s Anti-Monopoly Bureau has expanded the second phase
of its investigation, Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility said in a regulatory filing yesterday. While Motorola
Mobility and Google expect the transaction to close in the first
half, they said they can provide no assurances the transaction
will be approved by China.  Google, facing legal disputes over its Android smartphone
software, is counting on the deal to be able to draw on more
than 17,000 patents from Motorola Mobility. The acquisition is
the largest wireless-equipment deal in at least a decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We continue to work closely with regulators in  China  on
their review of our planned acquisition, which will enhance
competition, bringing consumers faster innovation and more
choice,” Taj Meadows, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Google, said
in an e-mail today.  Shen Danyang, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce,
of which the Anti-Monopoly Bureau is part, declined to comment
on the case today.  The acquisition, announced last year, has received
approvals in  Europe , the U.S. and other jurisdictions around the
world. Motorola Mobility said in a  regulatory filing  in February
that it needed approval in China and Taiwan.  Motorola Mobility rose less than 1 percent to $39.34 at the
close in  New York , while Google  rose  1.4 percent to $633.98.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  