-- China Increases Fuel Prices Second Time in Two Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-20T03:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/china-to-increase-fuel-prices-second-time-in-two-months.html
China , the world’s largest oil
consumer after the U.S., increased gasoline and diesel prices
for the second time in less than six weeks after crude gained
last month the most in a year.  Prices will rise by 600 yuan ($95) a metric ton starting
today after the three crude grades tracked by the National
Development and Reform Commission climbed more than 10 percent,
according to a statement on the planning agency’s website
yesterday. Refiners will charge 7 percent more for gasoline and
7.8 percent more for diesel, the biggest price increases in more
than two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This price hike comes sooner than our expectations,”
said  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy research at  Mirae
Asset Securities Ltd. (037620)  in  Hong Kong . “It signals the official
ending of China’s anti-inflation campaign.”  China’s biggest refiners,  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
or Sinopec, and  PetroChina Co. (857) , have urged the government to
increase fuel prices to stem their processing losses amid rising
global crude costs. After controlling tariffs last year to curb
inflation, the government now has more room to maneuver after
consumer prices grew at the slowest pace in 20 months. Fuel
charges last increased on Feb. 8, by 300 yuan a ton, the first
gain in 10 months.  Crucial Increase  It’s “crucial” for China to ensure domestic fuel supplies
by increasing prices amid the planting season and instability in
the  Middle East , the NDRC said. Motor fuel will rise by 0.44
yuan a liter and diesel by 0.51 yuan, it said.  Sinopec declined 2 percent to HK$8.87 as of 11:30 a.m., and
PetroChina fell 1 percent to HK$11.18. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  dropped 0.8 percent.  “Following the hike, the domestic margins this month would
still be loss-making at $7.1 a barrel, almost similar to losses
in February at $7 a barrel,” Cheng Khoo, an Hong Kong-based
analyst with BNP Paribas SA, said today in a research note.
Sinopec has advanced in Hong Kong trading over the past few days
in anticipation of yesterday’s news, Khoo said.  Fuel tariffs “ought to be” adjusted, PetroChina Chairman
 Jiang Jiemin  said in Beijing March 14. The company’s losses from
processing crude are widening and the deficit last year was
larger than the 50 billion yuan expected, he said March 5.  Closer to Breakeven  The tariff increase will boost Chinese oil refiners’
breakeven crude cost by $7 a barrel, according to Shi Yan, a
Shanghai-based oil analyst with UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. Sinopec’s
breakeven crude cost will rise to $112 a barrel while
PetroChina’s will advance to $105 a barrel after the fuel price
increase, said Shi.  “We are going to see some demand reduction from gasoline
and diesel users against this record cost,” Shi said by phone.  Brent oil rose 11 percent in February, the biggest monthly
gain since February 2011. Prices are up 2 percent this month on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  and the futures
declined 0.5 percent to $125.12 a barrel today.  The government considers changing fuel tariffs when the 22-
day moving average of Brent, Dubai and Cinta crudes increases
more than 4 percent from the last revision under a pricing
mechanism introduced in December 2008.  The agency delayed price adjustments last year to cushion
the impact on inflation, which exceeded the government’s 4
percent annual target every month. Consumer prices rose 3.2
percent in February from a year earlier, the smallest increase
since June 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  