-- China Home Prices Fall in More Than Half Cities Tracked
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   B o n n i e   C a o
-- 2012-03-19T08:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/china-home-prices-fall-in-more-than-half-cities-tracked.html
International Monetary Fund
official Zhu Min said  China  will avoid an economic hard-landing
even as government data showed property prices falling in most
of the nation’s biggest cities.  “China’s heading for a soft-landing,” Zhu, a deputy
managing director at the IMF, said in  Hong Kong  today. At the
same conference,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  also expressed confidence in an economy he said is
closing in on that of the U.S. Prices of new apartments fell in
45 of 70 cities in February from January, the statistics bureau
said yesterday.  Premier Wen Jiabao has prolonged a crackdown on real-estate
speculation to reduce the risk of asset-price bubbles and make
housing affordable, telling lawmakers this month that prices
remain far from “reasonable.” Zhu’s comments contrast with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategist  Adrian Mowat  saying last week
that weakness in car sales and cement and steel production
indicate the nation is already experiencing “a hard landing.”  Chinese stocks fell on the property data, with the Shanghai
Composite Index down 0.2 percent as of 1:32 p.m. local time.  Zhu, a former deputy governor of China’s central bank, said
the nation’s pace of investment remained strong even after
moderating. Stevens said that “it seems likely that the Chinese
economy will grow pretty strongly on average for a while yet,”
adding that officials have “the will and the capacity” to spur
the expansion as needed.  Matching the U.S.  The Australian central banker said Chinese gross domestic
product may equal that of the U.S. in about a decade in
purchasing power parity terms, which account for differences
in exchange rates. He spoke at a Credit Suisse Group AG Asian
investment conference.  Zhu, meanwhile, echoed IMF head  Christine Lagarde  in
highlighting risks to the global economy even as he acknowledged
signs of improvement.  Europe ’s financial markets are “very
fragile” and while emerging-market growth is strong, it’s
“weaker than expected,” he said. The world expansion is
slowing, he added.  In Beijing yesterday, Lagarde cautioned policy makers
against a false sense of security as the world economy
stabilizes, highlighting elevated  oil prices , debt levels in
developed nations and the risk of slowing growth in  emerging
markets .  Elsewhere in  Asia , South Korea today reported that
department store sales rebounded last month, while Hong Kong
reported that unemployment climbed in the three months through
February to 3.4 percent, the highest rate in seven months.  European Reports  Italy may say industrial orders fell in January from the
previous month, a Bloomberg survey showed. The  European Central
Bank  will release euro-zone current account figures for January,
while the European Union’s statistics office will report the
region’s construction output for the same month.  In the U.S., the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo may say its index of builder confidence
rose for a sixth straight month to 30 in March, from 29 in
February, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  In China, a two-year campaign to rein in property prices
has included measures such as higher down payments and mortgage
rates, and purchase restrictions. A government program to build
millions of low-cost homes may help to counter the drag on an
economy that grew 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter.  China Policy Outlook  New  home prices  fell in 27 of 70 cities last month from a
year earlier and prices were unchanged in six cities, the
national statistics bureau said in a statement on its website
yesterday.  “China’s home prices fell further, but it doesn’t mean
there will be a policy loosening any time soon,” said  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The
government is not worried too much about the impact of a slowing
property market on economic growth because investment in social
housing will still be big.”  Among major cities, home prices in both Beijing and the
financial center of  Shanghai  fell 0.4 percent last month from a
year ago. In the south, Shenzhen declined 0.2 percent, while
Guangzhou rose by 0.3 percent from 2011.  “We’re still not sure when is the bottom but we’re sure
that we’re still heading for the bottom rather than hitting the
bottom,” said Bei Fu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s . “Liquidity is the highest risk Chinese developers are
facing.”  Prices have gone up “very substantially” over the past
few years and the central government is very determined to
control prices to maintain social stability, said Fu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  