-- Citigroup Weakness Shows in Stress Test, Says Peabody: Tom Keene
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-19T15:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/citigroup-weakness-shows-in-stress-test-says-peabody-tom-keene.html
Investors in  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the
U.S. bank that took the most government aid during the financial
crisis, should consider selling shares after stress tests showed
the lender is vulnerable to an economic downturn, said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC.  “If you think the second half of the year is going to show
economic weakness, then you want to sell a Citigroup,” Peabody
said in an interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The sensitivity of their portfolio
to an economic downturn is much greater than anyone else’s.”  The  Federal Reserve  required financial firms with more than
$50 billion in assets to submit capital plans that would
demonstrate whether the industry can withstand another crisis.
U.S. banks deemed strong enough, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
were cleared to raise dividends and repurchase shares.  Citigroup was among four lenders whose capital plans failed
after the central bank estimated that, under the New York-based
lender’s capital proposal, it might fall short of requirements
in a stressed scenario. While the capital distribution plans
approved by the Fed last week helped financial stocks continue
recent gains, Peabody said a slowing global economy could halt
the advance.  “We’re going to have a very anemic second half and with
the possibility of a recession by 2013,” Peabody said. “Banks
are cyclical beasts, and there’s no getting around it, they
underperform or sell off going into a recession. I think we’re
putting in a top on the financial stocks.”  Citigroup climbed 44 percent this year and 7.5 percent
since the March 13 Fed stress-test results were released. The
24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  advanced 28 percent this year and 4.5
since the Fed results. The bank’s shares advanced $1.36, or 3.7
percent, to $38.05 in New York trading at 11:07 a.m.  Peabody changed his recommendation on Citigroup to
underperform, meaning he expects the stock to return less than
the average of its peers, the day after the stress-test results.
He had rated the stock outperform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  