-- Citigroup Sells Pudong Bank Stake, Generates $349 Million
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-20T02:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/citigroup-sells-pudong-bank-stake-generates-349-million.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , which this month
failed U.S. stress tests, sold its entire stake in  Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank (600000)  nine years after the purchase for an
after-tax gain of about $349 million.  Citigroup sold its 2.71 percent holding through block
trades to institutional investors for a total of $668 million,
the New York-based lender said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The shares were sold at 8.33 yuan apiece, or about 10
percent less than Pudong Bank’s closing price in  Shanghai 
yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  joins  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in paring stakes in Chinese
lenders to shore up capital. Citigroup, which owns 20 percent of
China Guangfa Bank Co. and operates 47 branches in the nation,
this year became the second foreign lender to issue credit cards
in  China  and plans to set up a securities venture.  The stake sale “will help both of them,” said Xie Jiyong,
a Shanghai-based analyst at Capital Securities Corp. “For Citi,
it can focus on helping its main partner Guangfa Bank in China,
in which it has a bigger stake and bigger say. For Pudong Bank,
it removes the last overhang as its four largest shareholders
now are all big Chinese firms.”  Shares of Pudong Bank fell 1.2 percent to 9.17 yuan in
Shanghai trading as of 10:03 a.m. local time, curbing its gains
this year to 8 percent. Citigroup rose 1.3 percent to close at
$37.17 yesterday in New York trading.  China’s Wall Street  The two banks reached a cooperation agreement that includes
use of Citigroup’s global network and credit lines to support
Pudong Bank’s international expansion, they said in separate
statements.  Pudong Bank, based in Shanghai, was established in 1992 by
the local government to finance development of the city’s Pudong
financial district into China’s Wall Street. The lender said
last week profit rose 42 percent in 2011 to 27.3 billion yuan
($4.3 billion). China Mobile Ltd., the world’s largest phone
company by users, is the biggest shareholder of Pudong Bank with
a 20 percent stake.  Citigroup, based in  New York , bought a 5 percent stake in
Pudong Bank in 2003 for 600 million yuan. The U.S. lender in
2007 expressed interest in raising its holding to 19.9 percent,
the maximum allowed under Chinese law. Delays in regulatory
approval and the U.S. subprime-mortgage crisis held up that
plan, and Citigroup’s holding was diluted after a number of
equity offerings by Pudong Bank.  Top Market  “China remains a top-priority market for Citi, and in 2012
we will continue to invest in China in support of our growing
client base across all lines of business,” Andrew Au, chief
executive officer of Citigroup China, said in its statement. The
sale won’t affect Pudong Bank’s operations, according to the
Chinese lender.  Citigroup bought the 20 percent stake in Guangfa Bank in
2006. Guangzhou-based Guangfa in May hired Citigroup, Bank of
America, Deutsche Bank AG and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  for the Hong Kong
portion of an initial public offering that may raise about $4
billion, according to people familiar with the matter.  Citigroup, which currently employs more than 6,000 people
in China, in February became the first Western bank allowed to
issue credit cards in the country. It has also won preliminary
regulatory approval to set up a securities venture with  Orient
Securities (ORSECZ) .  U.S. Stress Test  The U.S. Federal Reserve on March 13 objected to
Citigroup’s capital plan, which may have included a request for
higher dividend, prompting the company to say it will submit a
revised version later in 2012.  Bank of America  sold 10.4 billion shares of  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the Asian nation’s second-largest bank,
in November for a profit of about $1.8 billion, leaving it with
a 1 percent stake.  Earlier that month, Goldman Sachs raised $1.1 billion
selling shares of Beijing-based  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , trimming an investment for the third time after its
initial purchase in 2006.  China Pacific Insurance Group Co. and its asset management
unit are the buyers of Citigroup’s stake in Pudong Bank,
according to a  sales record  on the Shanghai stock exchange.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  