-- Clemens Shouldn’t Tell Jurors About Mistrial, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-19T22:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/clemens-shouldn-t-tell-jurors-about-mistrial-u-s-says-1-.html
Former Major League Baseball
pitcher  Roger Clemens  shouldn’t be allowed in his retrial on
perjury charges to tell jurors about the collapse of his first
trial, the U.S. said in a court filing, claiming it could
“foster confusion and sympathy.”  In addition to the mistrial, Clemens, whose second trial is
scheduled to begin April 16, should be barred from making
statements about the amount of government resources spent in the
case or the possible penalties he faces, according to a filing
by prosecutors today in the federal court in  Washington .  “At defendant’s first trial, defendant presented an
opening statement containing an appeal that the jurors put
themselves in defendant’s shoes,” prosecutors said. “This type
of argument is inappropriate and should be precluded because it
invites jurors to decide the case based on bias, personal
interests, and prejudice instead of the evidence and the law.”  The seven-time Cy Young Award winner is charged with one
count of obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts
of making false statements and two counts of perjury in
connection with a congressional probe of ballplayers’ alleged
use of performance-enhancing drugs. If convicted on all charges,
he faces as long as 30 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  declared a mistrial in
July after finding that prosecutors violated a court order when
they showed the jury a video clip of a 2008 congressional
hearing where the wife of government witness  Andy Pettitte  was
discussed. Walton ruled earlier that no references to Laura
Pettitte, or an affidavit she gave Congress, could be made
during the government’s case.  The charges stem from Clemens’s statements to the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February 2008,
in an interview with committee staff and later at a public
hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever using anabolic
steroids or human growth hormone, according to the indictment.  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, didn’t immediately
return a telephone message seeking comment on the filing.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 