-- Company Default Swaps in U.S. Plunge to Lowest Level in a Year
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-19T22:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/company-default-swaps-in-u-s-drop-to-lowest-level-in-a-year.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell for a ninth day in the longest stretch of
declines since December 2010 after the  Federal Reserve ’s
upgraded assessment of the world’s biggest economy drove
investors to higher-risk assets.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
dropped 3.1 basis points to a mid-price of 85.4 basis points at
4:45 p.m. in New York, reaching the lowest level in more than a
year, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The gauge slid after the Federal Reserve raised its
assessment of the economy last week. New York Fed President
 William Dudley  said today in a speech on  Long Island  that
improving economic data don’t negate “meaningful” risks to the
expansion, including higher gasoline prices, fiscal cutbacks and
a weak housing market.  “It’s generally a relatively healthy environment for risk
taking,”  Rizwan Hussain , a New York-based credit strategist at
Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview. “The path of
least resistance, at least for the near term, is tighter.”  Treasury 10-year notes fell for a ninth straight trading
day as investors bet a strengthening economy will diminish the
refuge appeal of U.S. government securities. Yields reached the
highest since October last week after the Fed’s revised economic
assessment.  Greece Auction  Sellers of credit-default swaps on Greece will have to pay
as much as $2.5 billion to settle contracts triggered by the
nation’s debt restructuring, after dealers agreed on a final
value for Greek bonds of 21.5 percent of face value at an
auction, according to administrators Markit Group Ltd. and
Creditex Group Inc. That’s in line with where the notes have
been trading. Traders were anticipating a swaps payout of about
80 cents, based on the price of  Greece ’s new 30-year securities.  The auction is “a little cathartic,” Hussain said. “It’s
come and gone and not turned out to be the big stress point”
that some expected.  The contracts are being settled after investors were forced
to exchange their bonds at a loss in the biggest ever debt
restructuring. Contracts wouldn’t have been triggered if the
debt exchange had been voluntary, according to  ISDA ’s rules. The
auction ends more than two years of speculation over whether the
derivatives are reliable for insuring sovereign debt after
European policy makers sought to prevent payouts on concern
they’d worsen the region’s crisis.  Index Roll  The U.S. swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched 84.7
basis points, the lowest intraday level since March 9, 2011.  A new version of the index begins trading tomorrow,
replacing two of the 125 companies in the benchmark in a twice-
yearly “roll.” Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. is
being replaced by Black & Decker Corp., the toolmaker acquired
by Stanley Works. Exelon Corp. will take the place of
Constellation Energy Group Inc., the Baltimore-based company it
acquired this month.  The new constituents don’t alter the  default risk ,
according to a note by CreditSights Inc. strategists Isaac Codrey and  Louise Purtle . The high-yield index rolls next week.  Credit-default swaps on  AK Steel  Corp., which pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt, dropped two percentage points to
10.5 percent upfront, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $1.05 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of AK Steel’s debt. The  West Chester , Ohio-based
steelmaker plans to issue $250 million of notes to repay debt,
according to a prospectus  filed  today with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  