-- Copper Climbs on Bets Gains in U.S. Economy to Bolster Demand
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-03-19T18:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/copper-swings-between-gains-losses-on-chinese-housing-stocks.html
Copper rose to the highest closing
price in two weeks as signs of economic gains bolstered
prospects for metal demand in the U.S., the world’s second-
biggest consumer.  Government and industry reports this week may show U.S.
home purchases climbed in February to the highest in almost two
years, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Separate data from the Commerce Department may signal
homebuilding increased. The Copper Development Association says
that construction accounts for 40 percent of demand.  “There’s some euphoria starting to appear about the  U.S.
economy , and that’s working to support copper,” Sterling Smith,
an analyst at  Country Hedging  in  St. Paul , Minnesota, said in a
telephone interview.  Copper futures for May delivery advanced 0.8 percent to
settle at $3.909 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the highest settlement since March 1. The metal has gained 14
percent this year.  In the week ended March 13, money managers increased bets
on a rally by 4.7 percent to 14,259 futures and options
contracts from a week earlier, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data showed on March 19. Inventories monitored by the
London Metal Exchange have slumped 29 percent this year to the
lowest since July 2009, statistics showed today.  Earlier, copper fell as much as 0.6 percent amid prospects
for less demand in  China , the top consumer of industrial metals.
 House prices  fell in 27 of 70 cities in February, government
data showed.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months rose 0.7
percent to $8,570 a metric ton ($3.89 a pound).  Aluminum, nickel and zinc gained in London. Lead declined,
and zinc was unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  