-- Costa Rica Seeks $500 Million Bond Sale in Wake of Tax Vote
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2012-03-19T17:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/costa-rica-seeks-500-million-bond-sale-in-wake-of-tax-overhaul.html
Costa Rica  will seek to sell at
least $500 million in bonds abroad this year to help sustain
economic growth and improve the Central American nation’s
infrastructure, Finance Minister Fernando Herrero said.  Costa Rica joined Trinidad & Tobago and  Bolivia  in
announcing plans to sell benchmark dollar bonds amid near-record
low borrowing costs in the world’s largest economies. Costa
Rica’s bonds would probably be 10-year notes, Herrero said,
without commenting on a target yield for the securities.  “This will allow us to take advantage of global market
conditions with very low  interest rates ,” Herrero, 59, said in
an interview yesterday in Montevideo, Uruguay, where he is
attending the annual meetings of the  Inter-American Development
Bank . “Costa Rica is in a very good position.”  President Laura Chinchilla’s government is requesting
congressional approval for the debt sale after winning initial
support in the legislature this month for the first significant
overhaul of the nation’s tax laws since 1995, Herrero said.  The yield on Costa Rica’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.9 percent at
of 12:38 p.m. New York time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Costa Rica’s colon was little changed at 505.95 per
dollar after rising 0.1 percent last year.  The country has a BB+ rating from  Standard & Poor’s , one
level below investment grade, putting the $40 billion economy in
the same category as Indonesia and  Romania .  Costa Rica’s economy will grow 4 percent to 4.5 percent
this year, Herrero said. The country will release its fourth
quarter 2011 report on gross domestic product on March 30.  Tax Overhaul  Changes to the country’s tax laws that could bring the
government an additional $650 million in annual revenue passed a
first-round Congressional vote and await a review by the  Supreme
Court  before being sent back to Congress for final approval.
Herrero said the overhaul could be approved within 30 days or
may extend for months, depending on the high court’s decision.  Approval would help Chinchilla’s government reduce its
deficit to 3.3 percent of gross domestic product from about 5
percent, Herrero said.  “That would be a manageable level,” said Herrero, who
studied economics at the Universidad de Costa Rica and  New York
University .  As an alternative to the bond sale, the government also has
the option of voluntarily swapping about $500 million in global
bonds due in 2013 and 2014 for longer-term securities, Herrero
said.  Bolivian Debt Sale  Bolivian Finance Minister Luis Arce said March 16 that the
land-locked South American nation plans to sell as much as $500
million in bonds for the first time since the 1920s, targeting a
yield of under 10 percent. The government would use the funds
for mining and energy projects.  “This is the best moment for Bolivia to enter
international financial markets,” Arce, 48, said in an
interview in Montevideo. “We want to take advantage of capital
flows in Latin America that are escaping from Europe and the
U.S.”  Trinidad & Tobago  is planning its first global bond sale
since 2007 as the Caribbean nation’s economy is poised to expand
for the first time in three years, Finance Minister Winston Dookeran said. The sale of as much as $500 million in notes
should take place by the end of September, Dookeran said in a
March 16 interview in Montevideo.  Gas-Rich Nation  The natural gas-rich island nation, located off the
northeastern coast of  Venezuela , has an investment-grade “A”
rating from Standard & Poor’s, putting it in the same category
as  South Korea  and  Spain . The nation’s economy will probably
expand 1.7 percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a Feb. 10 statement.  The bond sales come as Latin American economies face
slowing growth in the aftermath of the European debt crisis. The
IDB said in a report yesterday that growth in the region will
slow to 3.6 percent in 2012 from 5.4 percent in 2011. The IDB
cited  Latin America ’s reliance on commodity exports and its
dependence on European, primarily Spanish, banks as liabilities
in the face of future crises.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Montevideo at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Faries in Montevideo at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  