-- Daimler Plans to Raise Stake in Russian Truckmaker KamAZ
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-03-19T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/daimler-plans-to-raise-stake-in-russian-truckmaker-kamaz.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  plans to increase its
stake in Russia’s  OAO KamAZ (KMAZ)  as the world’s largest maker of
heavy-duty vehicles targets a 64 percent rise in truck sales by
the end of the decade.  The manufacturer of Mercedes-Benz vehicles, which already
controls 15 percent of  KamAZ (KMAZ) , aims to expand its holding in
Russia’s biggest truckmaker in the next three to four years,
 Andreas Renschler , head of the Daimler Trucks division, said
today. The German company isn’t planning to buy a majority of
KamAZ in the near future, he said.  “Our cooperation with KamAZ is going great,” Renschler
said at a press briefing at Daimler’s headquarters Stuttgart.
“Russia is the largest truck market in  Europe  and remains one
of the most dynamic growth markets on the continent.”  Expansion in Russia is part of Daimler’s strategy of growth
in  emerging markets  to keep ahead of  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) , which aims
to create a truckmaking alliance with subsidiaries  Scania AB (SCVB)  and
 MAN SE (MAN) . Daimler, which initially bought 10 percent of
Naberezhnye Chelny-based KamAZ in December 2008, has won Russian
antitrust approval to increase the holding in KamAZ to a
blocking minority of 25 percent plus one share.  Daimler aims to use its global position to increase
deliveries to 700,000 trucks by 2020 from 425,800 last year.  “No other manufacturer is better positioned than Daimler
Trucks to profit sustainably from growth” in global truck
demand, Renschler said.  Tailoring Models  Daimler (DAI) , which also makes Freightliner trucks in the U.S.
and Fuso models in Asia, is rolling out commercial vehicles
tailored for the demands of emerging markets. Daimler received
final approval from  China ’s government in December to make
trucks in the country under the Auman brand. The company is
rolling out vehicles under the new BharatBenz badge in India.
KamAZ will show a truck this fall that uses Daimler components.  The German manufacturer forecasts truck earnings before
interest and taxes will at least match last year’s 1.88 billion
euros ($2.48 billion), held back by slowing sales in Europe and
Brazil offsetting gains in  North America  and  Japan . Daimler
Trucks, which increased sales 20 percent last year, is planning
unspecified growth in deliveries in 2012 and targeting annual
sales of 500,000 vehicles by 2013.  Daimler is closely watching the European market and is
prepared to reduce production in as little as 14 days if
necessary, Renschler said. Industrywide truck sales in the
region will be flat to down 10 percent in 2012, he said.  Competitors’ Cutbacks  Some European competitors have already reacted.  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ,
based in Gothenburg, Sweden, has allowed the contracts of
hundreds of temporary workers in its home market to lapse and is
scaling back production at its Renault Trucks unit in France in
response to an expected decline in European demand. Scania is
cutting production by about 15 percent this year.  Daimler, which is also the world’s third-largest maker of
luxury cars, aims to lift its Ebit margin to an average of 8
percent through a business cycle by 2013. The company last year
increased its return on sales to 6.5 percent from 5.5 percent.  The company is “on track” to achieve the goal, helped by
more parts sharing among its vehicles, Renschler said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Stuttgart at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  