-- Democrat Says Issa Hasn’t Shown ‘ Scandal’ in Energy Loans
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-03-19T19:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/democrat-says-issa-hasn-t-shown-broad-scandal-in-energy-loans.html
Republicans in Congress failed to
show evidence after reviewing more than 300,000 pages of
documents that an Energy Department loan program was driven by
political favoritism, a Democrat on the House Oversight
Committee said.  Representative  Darrell Issa , the Republican-led House’s
chief investigator, started 11 investigations into the
department in the past year based on “unsubstantiated
allegations that proved inaccurate,” Representative  Elijah Cummings , the senior Democrat on the oversight committee, said
in a letter to Issa, the panel’s chairman.  The committee is scheduled to hold a hearing tomorrow on
the loan-guarantee program, with Energy Secretary Steven Chu set
to testify.  Cumming’s letter doesn’t address new allegations from Issa
that the Energy Department may have cut corners in awarding $1.6
billion loan guarantees to two solar projects in California and
 Arizona .  “From the outset of the Obama administration’s energy loan
programs, red flags were raised about the risk to taxpayers, and
a process open to mismanagement, abuse and missed opportunities
-- with taxpayers underwriting the risk and paying the bill,”
Issa said in a statement.  Antelope Valley Project  The committee released a June 23, 2011, e-mail from Dong
Kim, the chief engineer of the Energy Department’s loan program,
saying a technology used for the Antelope Valley Solar Ranch
project wasn’t innovative.  Projects had to use technology that wasn’t commercially
available to be eligible for awards.  An Aug. 4, 2010, memo from Kim said a review by the
technical division about two months earlier found that Antelope
and the Agua Caliente project did include “new and innovative
components.”  Among the Issa accusations Cummings cites is a complaint
that Chu is selecting officials to serve on an advisory panel on
hydraulic fracturing who were anti-industry. The drilling
technique, also known as fracking, injects water, sand and
chemicals underground to free natural gas. Environmentalists say
the process threatens drinking water.  Industry Ties  Cummings said four of the seven subcommittee members had
ties to the  energy industry . While the panel’s report said
drillers should disclose the chemicals they use to frack, it
found that the risk of the fluid leaking up to drinking water
sources was remote.  The letter also notes comments Issa made on television on
Sept. 20, 2011, that the loan guarantee program was a “broad
scandal” that led to corruption.  By then, Solyndra LLC had filed for  bankruptcy protection ,
two years after winning a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee to
build solar panels.  “The committee has identified no evidence that the
department’s decisions were the result of political favoritism
or corruption,” Cummings wrote in the letter.  Jeffrey Solsby, a Republican spokesman for the committee,
said Cummings mischaracterized the committee’s work.  Sending “this freakish missive on energy loans speaks
volumes about his own deficiencies as a congressional
investigator,” Solsby said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  