-- Detroit Wants State’s Money, but No Real Reform
-- B y   S h i k h a   D a l m i a
-- 2012-03-19T23:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/detroit-wants-state-s-money-but-no-real-reform.html
Most people who are drowning would
gratefully grab a lifeline tossed their way. But the elected
leaders of the (formerly) great city of Detroit might actually
prefer to drown.  How else to interpret their response to a proposal -- or a
“consent agreement” --  crafted by   Michigan  Governor  Rick Snyder 
to help the city avoid bankruptcy when it runs out of operating
cash in less than 60 days?  Detroit Mayor Dave Bing, a former guard for the  Pistons  and
a businessman who can barely raise his voice to a whisper when
dealing with the city’s public unions, has found his inner lion
against the Republican governor’s plan.  Unless Bing, a Democrat, and the city council sign the
agreement, it can’t go into effect. But, Bing roared in a recent
radio interview, “Why the hell would I sign it?” Likewise, some
city council members have described the agreement as a hostile
takeover that eviscerates the rights of  Detroit ’s voters.  What exactly in the agreement has gotten them so mad?  Essentially, in exchange for letting the city borrow an
additional $137 million in state-backed debt so it can pay its
bills until the end of the year, the agreement would put the
city’s finances in the hands of a nine-member financial advisory
board.  New Executives  The board, which would be appointed jointly by the
governor, mayor and city council, would pick a new chief
operating officer and chief financial officer who would run the
city’s day-to-day finances.  The panel would have sweeping powers to sell assets,
outsource city services, and rewrite or void union contracts to
put the city’s long-term fiscal health on a sound footing.  A consent agreement is actually the least intrusive deal on
the table because, if Detroit stays on track and meets the
benchmarks laid out in the restructuring plan crafted by the
board, it would avoid the nuclear option: a takeover of its
books by a state-appointed emergency manager. That is the worst
option for everyone involved because it entails an even greater
loss of control for the city. And it makes the governor solely
responsible for its fiscal destiny, something that is
politically risky.  But Bing and others reckon that they can play hardball with
Snyder on the consent agreement and get more out of him for even
less loss of control.  That’s because the bankruptcy of Michigan’s largest and
most visible city would be damaging for the whole state. Coming
at the heels of the federal bailout of  General Motors (GM)  and
 Chrysler (2251Q) , it would cement Michigan’s reputation as an economic
basket case, potentially raising statewide borrowing costs while
making it harder to attract businesses.  Bing is leveraging this fear to demand that the state hand
over $220 million in cash -- not debt, mind you -- that Detroit
is allegedly owed as part of a previous revenue-sharing formula.
And he wants more control over the city’s finances.  There is certainly some room to negotiate on the second
count given that, as the consent agreement currently stands, the
advisory board would remain in charge of Detroit’s budget until
the city posts three consecutive years of financial solvency and
transforms its junk-bond  credit rating  to AA. But it might take
Detroit 20 years to improve its rating that much, if it ever
can, effectively giving the board control into perpetuity.  Timidity on Unions  It would be foolish of Snyder to run Detroit for that long,
so he should back down on that provision. But it is hard to see
how he can let Bing retain any control over the collective-
bargaining aspects of the agreement, especially given Bing’s
track record of timidity with public unions.  Detroit’s accumulated debt stands at more than $10 billion,
something that puts its  debt-to-asset ratio  at 33-to-1. By
contrast, GM’s debt-to-equity ratio when it went into bankruptcy
was 22-to-1. Detroit’s annual debt payments -- $600 million a
year -- exceed its primary  tax revenue  by $60 million.  This, despite the fact that Detroit has the highest income
tax rates for residents (2.5 percent) and nonresidents (1.25
percent) in Michigan and its  corporate tax  rate is 1 percent. In
other words, Detroit has maxed out its credit cards and is
taxing its residents to the hilt, and it will still run out of
money to pay its employees and creditors by the end of this
year. Some vendors have been complaining that they have not been
paid for months.  The main cause of Detroit’s fiscal crisis is simple: Its
unions have fought tooth and nail to protect jobs and pay even
as Detroiters, reeling from their demands, have rushed to the
exit doors. Detroit has lost two-thirds of its population since
its peak of 2 million in the 1960s, but the rolls of city
employees had until recently shrunk by only about one-third. The
city government is the  second largest employer  -- after
Detroit’s schools. Employee benefits alone make up half of the
city’s general fund costs.  What’s more, Detroit’s public-sector legacy costs are
astronomical. They include $5 billion to cover health care and
other promises for retirees in decades to come and a billion for
the unfunded liabilities to pension funds. This is not
surprising given that the city has twice as many retirees as
employees. And retirees get deals virtually unheard of in the
private sector. For example, firefighters can retire at the ripe
age of 55 with 70 percent of their salaries and automatic cost-
of-living adjustments along with nearly full health-care
benefits.  It would be futile to give Detroit any money without razing
this opulent entitlement edifice. Otherwise, a year from now,
Detroit will be back rattling its tin cup in Lansing, and
Michigan voters will have far less patience for extending any
more largesse.  Governor Snyder understands this, which is why Detroit will
either have to accept his lifeline -- or sink in its own red
ink.  ( Shikha Dalmia  is a senior analyst at Reason Foundation and
a columnist at The Daily. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Shikha Dalmia at  shikha.dalmia@reason.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 