-- Dish Seen Avoiding Interference That Hurt Falcone in Probe
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-19T20:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/dish-seen-avoiding-signal-problem-that-hurt-falcone-in-fcc-probe.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the satellite-
TV company seeking government approval for mobile-phone service,
will probably avoid the interference concerns that thwarted a
similar plan by LightSquared Inc., executives and analysts said.  Charlie Ergen , chairman of the second-largest U.S.
satellite-TV company, is seeking Federal Communications
Commission clearance to offer wireless service in competition
with AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Wireless . He wants to convert
satellite airwaves to provide voice and data service over land-
based towers, a strategy similar to that of hedge-fund manager
 Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared, which was shot down by the FCC
amid opposition from global-positioning systems providers.  Ergen is likely to avoid a similar fate because his
airwaves, or spectrum, have certain advantages over Falcone’s.
The frequencies Dish owns sit further away from those used by
GPS devices than  LightSquared (SKYT) ’s, and there’s a narrow space
between Dish’s spectrum and other frequencies, helping mitigate
interference with rival carriers’ signals.  “It’s not as close to GPS, so it’s unlikely to
interfere,” said Matthew Desch, chief executive officer of
 Iridium Communications Inc. (IRDM) , which operates more than 60
satellites. “But the approval is going to take some time. The
FCC is going to make sure they don’t have another LightSquared
problem on their hands.”  LightSquared Reversal  Dish must wait until regulators write new rules that allow
airwaves now used by satellites to be approved for high-traffic
ground-based networks, the FCC said this month. The so-called
rulemaking period allows the FCC to examine competitive and
technical issues, including potential GPS interference.  The FCC gave LightSquared a partial go-ahead to convert
satellite-only airwaves in January 2011, only to say this year
it will block approval after tests showed the network would
disrupt GPS devices. LightSquared has said it is studying
options including legal fight to be able to build its network.  Dish will probably gain approval in six to 12 months, said
Bryan Kraft, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York .  While Ergen insists Dish’s plan is to become a wireless
provider, the spectrum’s good quality would also make it easier
for Ergen to sell the asset. Analysts including Wells Fargo &
Co.’s Marci Ryvicker have said he may seek to divest the
spectrum rather than spending billions building a network.
Dish’s spectrum portfolio may be worth about $7.3 billion,
according to Barclays Capital Inc.’s  James Ratcliffe .  ‘All Options’  Dish said it is reviewing alternatives after the FCC didn’t
grant it immediate approval on March 2. In February, Ergen said
“all options would be on the table for how we move forward with
the company and the spectrum” if the FCC “went to
rulemaking.” Dish spokesman Marc Lumpkin declined to elaborate
further on those options.  Dish shares have advanced 35 percent in the past 12 months
amid investor speculation the company or the spectrum assets
will be sold. The stock  fell  0.3 percent to $31.43 at 4 p.m. New
York time.  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , acquired spectrum in
deals for bankrupt TerreStar Networks Inc. and DBSD North
America Inc. at a cost of about $3 billion. That’s approximately
the same amount Falcone has invested in Reston, Virginia-based
LightSquared through his Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund.  Guard Band  The FCC grants businesses licenses to transmit signals on
certain frequencies. LightSquared’s airwaves were once reserved
primarily for satellites and are adjacent to spectrum used by
GPS providers, at around 1,500 to 1,600 megahertz. The Dish
licenses are for frequencies around 2,000 megahertz and above.  What’s more, the narrow space around Dish’s spectrum -- a
so-called guard band -- keeps it separate from other
frequencies, said Mike Marcus, director of Marcus Spectrum
Solutions LLC, an adviser on engineering and policy issues.  “I’d say there’s no problem,” he said. “But it depends
on what handset carriers like  AT&T (T)  have sold or have plans to
sell in the next few years, with respect to their sensitivity to
being close in frequency.”  In a Jan. 26 letter to the FCC, AT&T Inc., which according
to Marcus owns bands that lie close to Dish’s in some markets,
said the buildout requirements for Dish’s spectrum should be
comparable to those imposed on LightSquared. The second-largest
U.S. wireless carrier said it wants regulators to impose certain
conditions on Dish, including being subject to existing
interference rules.  Unique Problems  The U.S. GPS Industry Council, representing navigation-gear
makers that fought LightSquared’s proposal,  told the FCC  it
doesn’t object to Dish’s planned use of its airwaves.  “LightSquared had unique interference problems that
cropped up in the middle of the waiver process,”  Paul Gallant ,
a Washington-based analyst with Guggenheim Partners, said in an
interview. “As far as anyone can tell, Dish doesn’t have those
problems here. This should be a much smoother path for Dish.”  The rulemaking process allows any individual or company to
voice concerns to the FCC about Dish’s strategy, said  Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI Group in New York.  One of the issues that’s almost sure to arise is Dish’s
buildout schedule, Jayant said. Dish has said it’s beneficial
for it to delay spectrum deployment until more advanced long-
term evolution technology will reach “widespread availability”
in 2015, according to a Feb. 2 letter to the FCC. AT&T wrote a
response letter last month urging regulators to force Dish to
use the spectrum earlier to “serve the public interest.”  The conditions FCC imposed on LightSquared in 2010 required
that carrier to build a network that covers at least 100 million
Americans by the end of 2012 and 260 million by the end of 2015.  Black Eye?  Dish CEO Joseph Clayton said on a conference call last
month that Dish’s motives were based on providing customers with
“wireless video, wireless voice, and wireless broadband.”  Regulators may also set limitations on a future sale of the
spectrum, affecting Dish if it attempts to flip it for profit
instead of putting it to use, Jayant said. The LightSquared
spectrum license requires the owner to seek approval before
leasing capacity to the largest or second-largest wireless
provider.  If the government sets rules that limit how Dish can use
the spectrum, Ergen may choose to hoard it, said Jayant, which
could be antithetical to the government’s mission of promoting
wireless competition.  “Dish isn’t a patsy for the government,” Jayant said.
“Dish’s attitude is, ‘Make the rules fair and we’ll do the
right thing. Make them unfair and we’ll sit on the spectrum,’
and it will be another black eye for the government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  