-- Disney Sees $200 Million Loss From ‘John Carter’ Picture
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-20T20:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/disney-sees-200-million-john-carter-loss-for-film-studio.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s
largest entertainment company, said the box-office
disappointment “John Carter” will post a loss of about $200
million, possibly the biggest ever for a single film.  The film division will report a fiscal second-quarter
operating loss of $80 million to $120 million as result of the
picture, Burbank, California-based Disney said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  “I do think this is the largest loss on a single film that
I have ever seen,” said  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst with
Wunderlich Securities in Denver who has followed the industry
for 20 years. He has a hold rating on Disney stock.  “John Carter,” about a Civil War veteran transported to
Mars, cost an estimated $250 million to produce, according to
Box Office Mojo. The loss exceeded the estimate of  Alan Gould ,
an analyst at Evercore Partners in  New York . He said Disney is
unlikely to commit such a sum again to an untested project.  “It’ll have to be an established franchise,” said Gould,
who has an overweight or buy  rating  on the stock.  Disney fell 0.5 percent to $43.24 at the close in New York.
The shares have advanced 15 percent this year.  The film, which opened March 9, has collected $184 million
in worldwide ticket sales, according to the company. Studios
split ticket revenue with theater operators.  “As we look forward to the second half of the year, we are
excited about the upcoming releases of ‘The Avengers’ and
‘Brave,’ which we believe have tremendous potential to drive
value for the studio and the rest of the company,” Disney said
in its statement.  Franchise Focused  To boost profitability, the Disney studio has been making
fewer movies and trying to focus on films with multipicture
potential, such as Pixar’s animated features and the “Pirates
of Caribbean” series. Rich Ross, who served as head of the
company’s Disney Channel networks, took over the studio in
October 2009.  “ John Carter ” is based on a 100-year-old series of novels
by Tarzan creator Edgar Rice Burroughs. It marked the live-
action debut for writer-director Andrew Stanton, who won Oscars
for “Finding Nemo” and “Wall-E,” at Pixar.  Gould was expecting a $165 million loss for the movie and a
break-even fiscal second quarter for the film unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  