-- LDK Solar Posts Sales at Bottom of Target After Prices Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-19T19:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/ldk-solar-s-sales-below-forecast-after-component-prices-decline.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the second-biggest
maker of solar wafers, reported fourth-quarter sales at the
bottom end of its forecast after component prices slumped.  Revenue totaled $440 million to $450 million, compared with
the $440 million to $520 million forecast by LDK and $921
million a year earlier, the Jiangxi, China-based company said
today in a  statement . LDK will report audited earnings April 12.  Solar developers have reduced orders for components after
European nations cut subsidies for renewable-energy projects,
resulting in a glut of plant parts. Prices for solar modules
declined almost 50 percent last year, according to London-based
researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  LDK shipped 215 megawatts to 220 megawatts of wafers in the
fourth quarter, within a forecast range of 200 megawatts to 270
megawatts, the company said. The manufacturer, which has dropped
59 percent in  New York  trading in the past year, expects to
write down inventories and may report a negative gross margin.  LDK is among Chinese solar companies that are expanding
even after prices fell, aiming to grab market share as smaller
rivals are driven out of the business. In January LDK bid about
24.2 million euros ($32 million) for  Germany ’s  Sunways AG. (SWW)  In
November it said it’s building a polysilicon factory that will
help triple its output of the material for photovoltaic cells.  ‘Reckless’ Growth  LDK’s American depositary receipts fell 5.5 percent to
$4.63 at the close in New York, the biggest drop in a month.
Each receipt represents one ordinary share.  “LDK Solar’s reckless drive to expand has made its
business model unsound,” Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst at
Auriga USA LLC in New York, wrote in a report in January. The
solar industry faces unstable policies and irrational pricing,
he said.  In November, LDK reported a third-quarter net loss of
$114.5 million on sales of $471.9 million. The company didn’t
release fourth-quarter income data today.  Sales will be $2 billion to $2.7 billion this year, and
shipments of cells and modules will reach as much as 1,300
megawatts, according to the statement.  The world’s largest maker of solar wafers is  GCL-Poly
Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  