-- Dollar Bulls Beat Bears in Futures for Longest Since 1999
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-19T18:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/dollar-bulls-beat-bears-in-futures-for-longest-since-1999.html
Not since 1999 have currency
traders been bullish on the dollar for so long, a sign that the
market sees the U.S. resuming its role as the engine of global
economic growth.  Futures anticipating a stronger dollar against its
developed-market peers have outnumbered those predicting a drop
for 26 consecutive weeks through the five days ended March 13,
according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. That’s
the longest streak since the start of a three-year rally in the
world’s reserve currency 13 years ago.  While much of the 2.4 percent gain in the Dollar Index
since 2009 has come from investors seeking safety from European
debt turmoil and the global financial crisis, analysts now say
expansion is trumping fear as a reason for buying U.S. assets.
Growth in retail sales and jobs in the world’s biggest economy
has damped expectations for more Federal Reserve stimulus that
might debase the currency.  “The key message is that it’s not a flash-in-the-pan shift
in sentiment, this seems to be something more structural,”
 Gareth Berry , a foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in
 Singapore  said in a March 13 telephone interview. “The
psychology around the dollar does appear to be changing and I’m
confident that dollar strength will probably continue.”  Expectations for U.S. growth have diverged from the Group
of 10 nations since December. America’s gross domestic product
will expand 2.2 percent this year, according to the median
forecast of 91 economists in a Bloomberg News survey, while
developed nations increase 1.2 percent. The G-10 prediction is
down from 2.5 percent in July, while the U.S. figure has
stabilized near 2 percent.  Dollar Index  “There’s substantial scope going forward for the dollar to
recover a lot more,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency
research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said in a March
14 interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday”
with  Tom Keene . “One of the stories is this very, very
significant dichotomy between the fundamentals in the U.S. and
the fundamentals in  Europe .”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trade
partners, fell 0.3 percent to 79.786 last week.  After the Australian dollar and the British pound, the U.S.
currency is up the most in the past six months against its nine
developed-nation counterparts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It has gained 1.5 percent, compared with the yen’s
9.3 percent drop and the euro’s 2.4 percent decline.  Increased Forecasts  The dollar traded at $1.3241 per euro at 2:50 p.m. in  New
York  from $1.3175 on March 16, and bought 83.39 yen from 83.43.  Berry expects the dollar to appreciate to $1.30 per euro in
the next month and to $1.25 in three months, and the euro to
trade at 106 yen by the end of the second quarter, UBS says.  Currency strategists have increased forecasts for the
dollar against the euro and yen this year. The greenback will
trade at $1.30 per euro, down from expectations of $1.45 in
September, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 53 analysts.
The dollar will trade at 87 yen next year, up from 83 yen
forecast earlier this year.  Treasury bonds with yields higher than their German
counterparts are luring foreign investors to  U.S. debt . Two-year
Treasuries yield 0.36 percent, 3 basis points more than similar-
maturity German bunds. Six months ago, bunds were yielding 34
basis points more than Treasuries.  ‘More Comfortable’  China (HOLDCH) , the largest foreign U.S. creditor, increased its
holdings of U.S. government securities in January for the first
time in six months, boosting them by 0.7 percent to $1.16
trillion, Treasury data released March 15 show.  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Country members boosted
 net purchases  of government debt by $43.3 billion, or 20
percent, in the 12 months ended Jan. 31, compared to a 13
percent rise for non-OPEC foreign holdings.  “Market players feel more comfortable holding U.S.
dollars,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in
New York at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the world’s largest
custodial bank, with more than $26 trillion in assets.  Traders’ positions reflect the shift. The difference in the
number of wagers by all commercial futures traders on a gain in
the dollar versus the euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc and the
Canadian, Australian and New Zealand dollars -- so-called net
longs -- was 143,884 on March 13, according to CFTC data
compiled by Bloomberg. Net shorts, or bets the currency will
fall, totaled 387,327 a year ago.  Matching 1999  There have been more positive than negative contracts every
week since Sept. 20, matching the stretch ending in July 27,
1999, which was seven months after the introduction of the euro.
The  Dollar Index  rose 8.2 percent that year, 7.6 percent in 2000
and 6.6 percent the next year.  Another sign that the dollar is rising in reaction to a
strengthening economy is that the typical relationship between
the currency and stocks is breaking down.  During September 2008, as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in the largest U.S. bankruptcy, the Dollar Index
gained 6 percent and the Dow Jones Industrial Average slumped 34
percent as investors sought the currency to buy safe Treasuries.
The next year stocks rallied 19 percent on optimism about an
economic recovery while the currency gauge fell by 4.2 percent
and Treasuries lost 3.72 percent as measured by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  The negative relationship between the dollar and stocks,
intact since October 2008, is now breaking down, with the 60-day
percent-change correlation rising to minus 43 percent last week
from as low as minus 85 percent in December. A reading of minus
100 percent means that the two assets always move in the
opposite direction.  ‘Significant Development’  The dollar has gained 1.3 percent this month and is down
0.5 percent so far this year, and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  rose to 13,289 March 16, the highest level since
December 2007, and gained 8.3 percent in 2012.  “Typically when we see the Dow up, the dollar is down and
that hasn’t happened,” said Woolfolk of Bank of New York
Mellon. “That is a very significant development that’s happened
rarely since the Lehman crisis.”  Stronger economic data this year damped market expectations
of further monetary stimulus after the Fed  bought  $2.3 trillion
of Treasuries and mortgage-backed bonds in two rounds of
purchases known as quantitative easing from December 2008 to
June 2011. During the second program, which started in November
2010, the Dollar Index fell 3.9 percent.  ‘Downside Risks’  Sixty-one percent of respondents in a March 9-12 Bloomberg
News survey of economists said Bernanke would refrain from any
action to expand the Fed’s $2.89 trillion balance sheet this
year. In January, 50 percent predicted more bond buying.  With  unemployment  at 8.3 percent, above the 10-year average
of 6.6 percent, the Fed isn’t ruling out further moves. Strains
in financial markets pose “significant downside risks” central
bankers said in a statement after the March 13 meeting.  Possible further stimulus, as well as the Fed’s forecast of
rates at zero to 0.25 percent through late 2014, will limit
dollar gains, according to Jens Nordvig, a managing director of
currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “In order to have a real pronounced dollar move we need to
have an actual hiking cycle” for  interest rates , Nordvig said
in a March 14 telephone interview. “As long as we’re in an
adjustment phase where U.S. growth expectations are being
revised higher, the dollar can gain further in conjunction with
risk assets doing OK.”  Strengthening Recovery  The currency has moved higher as U.S. economic data show a
strengthening recovery. Employers in February added 227,000 jobs
following a revised 284,000 gain in January and the jobless rate
remained at a three-year low. Retail sales in February rose by
1.1 percent, the most since September.  Euro zone economies contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, while  Japan  shrunk 0.7 percent and the U.K fell 0.2
percent, according to government data.  Policy makers are trying to restore stability and ignite
growth by flooding their financial systems with cash. European
banks got 529.5 billion euros ($705 billion) in a second round
of three-year loans from the  European Central Bank  on Feb. 29.  The yen has been the worst performing major currency this
year, losing 8.5 percent against the dollar, as  Bank of Japan (8301) 
Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  indicated last week the central bank
will keep using monetary policy as a tool to tackle deflation.
The BOJ unexpectedly added 10 trillion yen ($128 billion) to its
asset-purchase program on Feb. 14.  ‘Different Situation’  Foreign demand for U.S. assets and the increasing use of
the euro as a funding currency for so-called carry trades have
also helped support the dollar. Net buying of long-term
equities, notes and bonds rose to $101 billion in January from
$19.2 billion in December, the Treasury said March 15.  “Better U.S. data has helped the dollar versus the euro,
sterling and yen,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said
in a March 9 telephone interview. “It makes sense that it would
be strengthening against those currencies because their central
banks are in a bit of a different situation, their economic
growth profile and outlook is in a different situation, so we
see some advantage for the dollar against them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  