-- Dollar Index Falls to One-Week Low as Traders Bet on Fran
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-19T21:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/dollar-index-falls-to-one-week-low-as-traders-bet-on-fran.html
The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell to a one-week
low as traders sold the U.S. currency in favor of the Swiss
franc, triggering automatic sell orders for the pair that
further weighed on the greenback.  The 17-nation euro also rose against the dollar as it broke
through its 100-day moving average, a technical level that once
breached, may spur further appreciation. The shared currency
earlier fell against most of its major counterparts before a
report forecast to show a contraction in industrial output.
Higher-yielding currencies, including the Swedish krona and
 South Africa ’s rand, rose against the dollar as stocks gained
amid increased risk-asset demand.  “Given the dollar’s sharp run-up last week, investors are
paring back some of those positions,” said  Mark McCormick , a
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New
York . “The euro has been able to sustain that $1.30 level and
it looks now like there’s more upside momentum after the break
of $1.32 on the upside.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, fell 0.4 percent to 79.451 at 5 p.m. in New
York. It touched 79.355, the weakest level since March 9.  Franc, Euro  The franc was the biggest gainer against the dollar among
the major currencies, strengthening 0.5 percent to 91.12
centimes. The dollar weakened 0.5 percent to $1.3238 per euro.  “The dollar’s fall against the Swiss franc came below
91.56,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New York. “Stops
were triggered and that spilled over into the euro.” A stop is
a pre-established order to buy or sell when a specific price
level is reached.  The shared currency reached as high as $1.3266,
strengthening beyond its 100-day moving average at $1.3207. The
break may trigger further appreciation in the euro against the
dollar, Forcheski said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.4 percent and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials rose 0.5
percent.  Sweden’s krona appreciated 0.4 percent to 6.7150 per dollar
and the South African rand rose 0.2 percent to 7.5421 versus the
greenback.  The euro may strengthen 3.6 percent to 113.29 yen should it
breach a key level of so-called resistance, Commerzbank AG said,
citing trading patterns. The currency is poised to rise to a
seven-month high against the Japanese currency if investors buy
it beyond the 111.57 yen level, according to  Karen Jones , the
London-based head of fixed income, commodity and currency
technical analysis.  Market Swings  Implied volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies has dropped to 10.03 percent after it reached 10.72
last week, its highest level since Feb. 16, according to the
JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index .  Brazil ’s real fell for a second day as analysts watching
 Latin America ’s largest economy reduced forecasts for the
currency to 1.80 per dollar, compared with a 1.75 forecast a
week ago, according to the median estimate of the five most
accurate economists in the central bank’s weekly survey of about
100 analysts released today.  Recent steps by the government to expand taxes on foreign
loans and intervene in foreign-exchange markets has discouraged
traders from betting on a stronger real, said Luis Otavio de Souza Leal, chief economist at Banco ABC Brasil SA.  The real weakened 1.2 percent to 1.8207 per  U.S. dollar . It
was the only major currency that fell against the dollar.  Lagarde Concern  The euro weakened earlier after International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  urged policy makers to be
vigilant about global economic stability. Lagarde, speaking in
Beijing yesterday, said  oil prices , debt levels, and the risk of
slowing growth in  emerging markets  threaten global economic
stability.  “Optimism should not give us a sense of comfort or lull us
into a false sense of security,” she said. “We cannot go back
to business as usual.”  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 49.6 in March from 49.3 a month
earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction. A report today showed
Italian industrial orders slumped 7.4 percent in January.  U.S. employers in February added 227,000 jobs as the
jobless rate remained at a three-year low, while retail sales in
February rose by 1.1 percent, the most since September.  Data Difference  “We’re still seeing divergence between U.S. data, which is
generally printing better than expected, and euro-zone data,
which continues to show it really is lagging behind,” said
Melinda Burgess, a foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London .  The euro has declined 1.2 percent in the past three months,
the third-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar fell 2.5 percent and the yen declined 9.5 percent.  The U.S. currency pared losses against the yen today. The
dollar’s 14-day relative strength index against the Japanese
currency was at 72.1, more than the 70 level some traders see as
a sign an asset may reverse direction.  Futures anticipating a stronger dollar against its
developed-market peers have outnumbered those predicting a drop
for 26 consecutive weeks through the five days ended March 13,
according to CFTC data. That’s the longest streak since the
start of a three-year rally in the world’s reserve currency 13
years ago.  While much of the 2.4 percent gain in the  Dollar Index 
since 2009 has come from investors seeking safety from European
debt turmoil and the global financial crisis, analysts now say
expansion is trumping fear as a reason for buying U.S. assets.
Growth in retail sales and jobs in the world’s biggest economy
has damped expectations for more Federal Reserve stimulus that
might debase the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  