-- Dollar Rises Versus Risk Currencies on China Slowdown Con
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-03-20T21:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/dollar-near-one-week-low-versus-euro-before-fed-bernanke.html
The dollar rose against most of its
major counterparts as concern increased that China’s economic
growth outlook has cooled, spurring demand for the currency of
the world’s largest economy.  Higher-yielding currencies weakened, led by the New Zealand
and Australian dollars, as global stocks declined amid reduced
demand for risk. The U.S. currency strengthened after  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  said China’s steel production is slowing, boosting
concern about the nation’s growth outlook. The euro fell against
the dollar after earlier briefly erasing losses.  “The Chinese slowdown had an effect on the commodity
currencies, such as Aussie and kiwi, which we saw come off,”
said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. in  New York . “We had a fairly good risk-on
type of scenario for the past week and we were due for a little
bit of a pullback.”  The dollar climbed 1.1 percent to 81.72 cents versus New
Zealand’s currency at 5 p.m. in New York. It strengthened 1.2
percent to $1.0480 per Australian dollar. The euro dropped 0.1
percent to $1.3225 after earlier weakening as much as 0.5
percent. The dollar gained 0.4 percent to 83.70 yen.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.3 percent after
earlier declining as much as 0.9 percent, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  dropped 0.5 percent. It reached 13,289 March
16, its highest level since 2007.  ‘Out of Steam’  “The bounce in currencies the last few days didn’t really
seem to have much underpinning it and whoever the buyer has been
ran out of steam,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York.  The euro rose 0.4 percent against the dollar last week and
the Swedish krona added 0.9 percent to 6.7438.  Canada’s dollar fell as much as 1 percent against its U.S.
counterpart as  oil prices  dropped. Crude fell as much as 2.5
percent to $105.35 a barrel before trading at $105.61. Oil is
Canada’s largest export.  The U.S. currency has gained 0.8 percent in the past month
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro advanced 0.7 percent,
and the yen weakened 4.5 percent.  Implied volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies rose to 9.97 percent, snapping a three-day drop. It
reached 10.72 last week, its highest level since Feb. 16,
according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index .  Pound Path  The pound strengthened against most of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg after U.K. data showed inflation slowed
less than economist estimates in February. Consumer prices rose
3.4 percent from a year earlier, compared with the 3.3 percent
median estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Sterling advanced most against the  New Zealand  and
Australian dollars.  The euro may weaken to an 18-month low against the pound
after falling below a key level of so-called support,
Commerzbank AG said, citing trading patterns.  The 17-nation currency last week dropped through the 55-day
moving average, currently at 83.49 pence per euro, and is now
poised to weaken beyond the January low of 82.21 pence,  Karen Jones , head of fixed-income, commodity and currency technical
analysis in  London , wrote in a research report.  Technical Considerations  “Euro-pound has eroded the two-month uptrend, currently at
83.20 pence, but seen no follow through on the downside,” Jones
wrote. “The longer-term outlook will remain bearish with a drop
below the January low of 82.21 being on the cards.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to 83.36 pence, after declining
to 82.84 pence yesterday, the weakest since Feb. 16. The last
time the currency dropped below 82.21 pence was Sept. 10, 2010.  BHP, whose biggest customer is  China , is re-evaluating
spending plans amid slowing Chinese growth, the Australian
Financial Review reported today, citing comments by Chairman
Jacques Nasser to investors.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao this month announced an economic
growth target of 7.5 percent for this year, down from an annual
8 percent over the past seven years. Steel output growth in
China, the biggest producer, may slow to 4 percent this year,
the China Iron and Steel Association said March 6.  “Comments from BHP and  Rio Tinto  talking about a slowdown
in China are hurting commodity currencies led by the Australian
dollar,” said  Tim Kelleher , Auckland-based head of
institutional foreign-exchange sales at ASB Institutional, a
unit of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “The U.S. dollar and
yen are rallying.”  Europe’s Economy  The euro fell against the greenback and pound as concern
mounted about European economic growth. The Netherlands today
increased its 2013  budget deficit  forecast to 4.5 percent of
gross domestic product from a previous estimate of 4.6 percent.  The German Federal Statistics Office said today that
producer prices climbed 0.4 percent from January, when they
gained 0.6 percent. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts called for an increase of 0.5 percent.  Housing starts in the U.S. fell in February from a three-
year high, showing the recovery in the residential real estate
market will take time to develop.  Builders broke ground on 698,000 homes at an annual rate,
in line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and down 1.1 percent from a January pace that was
stronger than previously reported, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . Building permits, a proxy for future
construction, climbed to the highest level since October 2008.  “Yes the U.S. may be recovering but with the rest of the
world in a slowdown, how beneficial is that going to be,” said
 Geoffrey Yu , a currency analyst at UBS AG in London.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.2 percent 79.627.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  