-- EFSF Gets 1.5 Billion Euros from Sale of 20-Year Rescue Bond
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-19T16:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/efsf-said-to-sell-as-much-as-1-5-billion-euros-of-20-year-bonds.html
The euro area’s bailout fund raised
1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) from the sale of 20-year bonds
today as part of efforts to contain the European debt crisis.  The European Financial Stability Facility sold 3.875
percent securities due 2032 that were priced to yield 115 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate, the Luxembourg-based
issuer said in a statement.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and
 DZ Bank AG (DZBK)  managed the issue, which attracted almost 4.8 billion
euros of investor orders, according to the statement.  EFSF Chief Executive Officer Klaus Regling said March 16
that it plans to tap markets three times this week. The 440
billion-euro fund has committed 192 billion euros for rescue
programs in Greece, Ireland and Portugal, leaving 248 billion in
uncommitted resources.  “At 115 basis points over swaps, it was priced to sell,”
said Chris Scicluna, the head of economic research at Daiwa
Capital Markets  Europe  in  London . “We expect it to tighten a
little further from here.”  European leaders have warned against complacency as the
debt crisis, in its third year, eases following the delivery
last week of the final element of  Greece ’s 130 billion-euro
bailout package. The lull has given policy makers breathing room
to plot efforts to resolve the crisis.  EFSF to ESM  Finance ministers from the 17-member monetary union plan to
decide by the end of the month how to manage both the EFSF and
its permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism, which
comes online later this year. They may increase crisis funding
to a total capacity of 692 billion euros when they meet March 30
in Copenhagen.  The EFSF had its  credit rating  cut to AA+ by  Standard &
Poor’s  in January. Along with the 20-year sale, the fund planned
offerings this week of 2 billion euros in six-month bills and at
least 3 billion euros in benchmark five-year bonds on March 22.  “The EFSF is likely to need to be active pretty much
across the curve given the high volume of issuance for which
they’ll have to find a home over the coming months,” said
Daiwa’s Scicluna. “Once, as we expect, a second bailout package
for  Portugal  is thrown together, the demands on the market from
the EFSF and ESM will rise even further.”  The bailout fund’s 3.5 percent bonds due 2022 yield 124
basis points more than similar-maturity AAA rated benchmark
German notes, down from as much as 214 basis points in November,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  