-- Elpida Seeks U.S. Protection During Japanese Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-03-19T17:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/elpida-seeks-u-s-protection-during-japanese-bankruptcy.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the last
Japanese maker of computer-memory chips, sought protection from
creditors in the U.S. as it pursues a bankruptcy case in Japan.  The Tokyo-based chipmaker filed court papers today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware , listing more than $1
billion in assets and debt. It asked the court to recognize the
Japanese case as the main bankruptcy proceeding.  Chapter 15 of the  bankruptcy code  allows foreign companies
reorganizing abroad to protect their assets from creditors and
lawsuits in the U.S.  Elpida last month filed the biggest Japanese bankruptcy in
more than two years, after semiconductor prices fell and it
failed to obtain a second government bailout. The company, which
makes dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips, listed debt
of about 448 billion yen ($5.4 billion) in a Feb. 27 filing with
 Japan ’s finance ministry.  “This Chapter 15 case is being filed in an effort to
maximize recoveries to, and provide for an equitable
distribution of the value among, all creditors,” the company
said in court papers.  The chipmaker seeks to protect the stock of its Elpida
Memory USA Inc. unit, accounts receivables held at the unit
totaling 5.8 billion yen ($69.5 million), as well as patents
registered in the U.S.  “The enjoining of certain ongoing litigation to which
Elpida is a party and the protection of Elpida’s U.S. assets in
conjunction with the protections afforded by the Japan
proceeding is essential to this effort,” the company said.  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of NEC Corp.’s
and Hitachi Ltd.’s memory businesses. Elpida employed 5,898
people as of March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is In re Elpida Memory Inc., 12-10947,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 