-- Emaar Properties May Expand Board to 11 Members, Drop Four
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-03-19T08:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/emaar-properties-may-expand-board-to-11-members-drop-four-1-.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  may expand
its board to 11 members from eight and replace four directors as
the developer of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai considers
dividend payments for last year at a meeting today.  Four of the current board’s eight members have been
nominated by Sheikh Hamdan Bin Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum,
Dubai’s Crown Prince and chairman of the Executive Council of
the emirate, according to a company  statement  posted on the
 Dubai Financial Market ’s website today. They include Chairman
Mohamed Ali Alabbar, Noor Islamic Bank CEO Hussain Al Qemzi,
Ahmad Jamal Jawa and Ahmad Thani Al Matrooshi.  The new members would be DP World Ltd. Vice Chairman Jamal Majid Bin Thaniah and the Dubai-based port operator’s senior
vice president, Arif Al Dehail. Dubai Holding LLC’s chairman of
operations Fadel Al Ali, Abdul Rahman Hareb Rashed Al Hareb,
Marwan Iqbal Mohammed Abdullah Abdeen, Abdullah Saeed Balyoahah
and Abdullah Mohammed Al Marri were also nominated to the board.  Four current board members who are listed on the  company’s
website  -- Drake & Scull International Chairman Majid Saif Al Ghurair, Saeed Al Tayer, Lowai Mohamed Belhoul and Khalifa
Hassan Aldaboos -- weren’t included in the new board. The term
of the current board will end in April.  Emaar’s board will meet later today to discuss whether to
pay a dividend for 2011. The United Arab Emirates’ biggest
developer by market value paid a 10 percent cash dividend for
2010 after the company hadn’t initially proposed a dividend. The
decision was made after a three-hour meeting that saw arguments
between shareholders and executives.  Emaar’s shares  gained 0.3 percent to 3.07 dirhams at 12:44
p.m. in Dubai. The stock has gained 19 percent this year
compared with 24 percent advance for the benchmark  Dubai
Financial Market General Index. (DFMGI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  