-- Emerging Stocks Slip Third Day as China Homes Drop Curbs Outlook
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-19T21:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/emerging-stocks-drop-for-a-3rd-day-after-china-home-prices-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks slid for a
third day, led by property developer Poly ( Hong Kong )
Investments Ltd., as the worst month for Chinese home prices
since at least 2011 bolstered global slowdown concerns.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.2 percent to
1,061.31 at the close in New York, as energy producers and
telecommunications companies dropped.  Moscow-based  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s biggest gas producer,
slumped to a one-month low as  Russia ’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  had the
largest decline in almost two weeks.  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s biggest lender by market value,
fell 1.5 percent, as lenders and developers led the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lower for the fourth day.  Brazil ’s
 Bovespa Index (IBOV)  advanced for the first time in four days.  New home prices in  China  fell in 27 of 70 cities in
February from a year earlier and prices were unchanged in six,
government data showed yesterday, the worst performance since
officials began releasing data for individual cities at the
start of 2011.  Christine Lagarde , the International Monetary
Fund’s managing director, also warned of slowing growth in
 emerging markets  in a March 18 speech in Beijing.  “The government’s been trying to get house prices down,
and clearly from that data point they’ve been successful,” Tim Hall, who manages $700 million at Deltec Asset Management in New
York, said by phone. “If the policy makers deem that prices
have stabilized enough or have come down enough, they might
either curb those restrictive policies or they might implement
policies that are more stimulative to the housing sector.”  EM ETF Slips  The three-day decline in MSCI’s emerging-market benchmark
has pared the gauge’s advance this year to 16 percent, while
developed-market stocks have gained 12 percent. The emerging-
market measure trades for 10.8 times estimated earnings, cheaper
than the 13.3 ratio for developed-market stocks listed on the
MSCI World Index. The valuation gap is the largest since
February 2009.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
fell 0.4 percent in New York to $43.92, dropping for a second
day.  The Chicago Board Options  Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 0.3 percent to 23.92,
declining for a third day.  Poly Investments (119) , based in Hong Kong, tumbled 7.9 percent
in the city in the biggest one-day drop since November.  Gazprom fell 3.2 percent in Moscow to the lowest close
since Feb. 22. Preferred shares of  OAO Transneft (TRNFP) , Russia’s oil
pipeline monopoly operator, lost 2.1 percent, while the 30-stock
Micex slipped 2 percent.  Mexico Closed  Aluminum Corp of China Ltd.  fell 4.2 percent to a six-week
low in Hong Kong after saying it may be unprofitable in the
first quarter following a second-half net loss of 174.6 million
yuan ($28 million), according to Bloomberg calculations based on
the company’s full-year earnings announced last week. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index’s four-day losing streak is the
longest this year.  The Bovespa rose 0.1 percent in Sao Paulo, its first
advance since March 13.  Brasil Insurance Participacoes e
Administracao SA  gained 2.3 percent to the highest since March
1, after Banco BTG Pactual SA said the company is its top pick
in Brazil’s insurance industry and recommended that clients buy
the stock.  Markets in  Mexico , Colombia and Venezuela are closed today
for holidays.  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  slid 0.6 percent in Warsaw. Industrial
output growth in  Poland  slowed to a 4.6 percent annual pace in
February, lagging behind the 8.8 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 24 economists.  Sensex Drops  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , slipped 1.1
percent as rising oil prices spurred concern that the government
will find it difficult to curb the  budget deficit .  State Bank of
India , the nation’s largest lender, dropped 3.2 percent.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose for a fifth day, adding 0.3
percent.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s biggest bank by
market value, gained 1.4 percent.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the world’s largest
contract maker of chips, advanced 3.2 percent in Taipei after
saying that it may raise capital spending and as Morgan Stanley
said the stock is on the bank’s preferred list.  Morgan Stanley upgraded semiconductor stocks in  Asia  and
emerging markets to overweight, meaning investors should hold a
greater proportion of the stock than the benchmark indexes,
according to a report today.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 314 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  