-- Energy Week Ahead: House Pumps Up for Gas Price Assault on Obama
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-03-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/energy-week-ahead-house-pumps-up-for-gas-price-assault-on-obama.html
President  Barack Obama ’s energy
policies will face a double-barreled assault this week as the
Republican-controlled House holds two hearings focused on
surging gasoline prices.  The Natural Resources Committee says the subject of its
March 21 session is “Harnessing American Resources to Create
Jobs and Address Rising Gasoline Prices.” Chairman Doc Hastings
of  Washington , in the Republican radio address on March 3,
blamed administration policies for the jump in prices, which he
noted have more than doubled since Obama took office.  On March 20, a subcommittee led by Doug Lamborn of Colorado
will grill  Bob Abbey , the director of the Bureau of Land
Management, about the pace of permitting for oil and gas
drilling on federal lands. Hastings accuses the president of
delaying leases.  Democrats led by Ed Markey of  Massachusetts  will defend the
administration, giving it credit for record natural-gas
production and what Obama said is the highest oil output in
eight years.  Fracking, a technique used by companies including Exxon
Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. to release natural gas and oil
trapped in rocks, may also be a hot topic at the hearings, as
the Republicans want to expand the practice that the Obama
administration plans to regulate.  The  American Petroleum Institute , the largest energy trade
group, says the industry is responsible for the surge in natural
gas and oil production. Output in federal territories, such as
in the Gulf of Mexico, is down, the API says.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  CHINA  SOLAR TARIFFS:  The Commerce Department tomorrow is
expected to make a preliminary determination on whether to
impose additional tariffs on China’s solar-equipment imports.
U.S. manufacturers, led by SolarWorld AG’s U.S. unit, are
seeking duties on more than $1 billion in imports, claiming
China’s companies are unfairly subsidized.  GAS RESOURCES: U.S. Geological Survey Director  Marcia McNutt 
will be testifying before the House Natural Resources Committee
on March 22 in Washington. Republicans are expected to ask about
the agency’s estimates of U.S. natural-gas and oil resources
from shale rock and a study its conducting on hydraulic
fracturing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  