-- Mercedes Record 25% Discount Tops Shrinking China Margins
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-20T17:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/mercedes-record-25-discount-tops-shrinking-china-margins.html
There has never been a better time
to buy a Mercedes-Benz in  China (CNVSTTL) . The problem for luxury
carmakers such as  Daimler AG (DAI)  is that the incentives are likely
to get even bigger.  Mercedes dealers are offering record markdowns of 25
percent on high-end models such as the S300 sedan, according to
data stretching back to 2009 at cheshi.com, which tracks prices
at more than 3,000 Chinese dealerships.  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) ’s 7-series and  Audi AG (NSU) ’s A8Ls sell for 20 percent below
sticker prices, waiting lists have vanished and salesmen are
dangling perks ranging from free iPhones to Hermes-bag coupons.  The escalating price competition shows that the case is
weakening for luxury cars to fetch higher prices and profit
margins in Beijing than in  New York  and Berlin as supply catches
up to demand. The discounts, which began late last year with
entry-level models, are spreading to the priciest high-end
sedans as the world’s second-largest economy slows and  China ’s
rich find an increasing abundance of vehicles to choose from.  “This year’s luxury-car discounting is the most I’ve ever
seen,” said  Scott Laprise , automotive analyst at CLSA Asia
Pacific, who has been based in Beijing for more than five years.
“China’s luxury car price premium is eroding.”  China’s 2012 vehicle sales will probably miss an 8 percent
growth forecast as the slowing economy and rising fuel costs
curb buying, an official at the state-backed auto association
said. Deliveries may fail to increase by even 5 percent because
of the “difficult” economic backdrop, Gu Xianghua, deputy
secretary general of the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers, said today, citing his personal opinion.  Shares Drop  Growth in premium-light vehicle sales in the country, the
world’s second-largest luxury-auto market, will slow to 24
percent this year after jumping 34 percent in 2011, according to
Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst at IHS Automotive.  BMW  declined  3.62 euros, or 5 percent, to 68.22 euros in
Frankfurt trading today. Daimler dropped 4.4 percent to 45.05
euros and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which owns Audi, fell 4.4 percent to
133.05 euros.  Profitability -- in terms of earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization as a proportion of sales --
will shrink at BMW, Daimler and Audi this year, based on analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Falling Margins  The trend may continue.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  projects
average profit margins in China at the three high-end German
carmakers will fall 4 percentage points by 2014 from the current
16 percent to 18 percent, closing in on global standards of
about 10 percent to 12 percent.  “The margins they currently achieve in China are not
sustainable,”  Arndt Ellinghorst , London-based analyst at Credit
Suisse, said in a telephone interview. “Price competition will
intensify.”  For luxury carmakers, the rising competition from a slowing
China adds to intensifying pressure from  Europe , where carmakers
are forecasting a contraction in the market this year. Europe’s
luxury demand is set to dip 2 percent to 3.07 million units, IHS
predicts. In the U.S., market leaders BMW, Mercedes-Benz and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus all forecast higher sales this year,
as unemployment falls and consumer confidence rises.  For Mercedes-Benz salesman Jack Ren, the days when
customers paid extra to cut in front of the line are over. His
dealership in  Shanghai  introduced unprecedented discounts for S-
Class models in February to clear inventory.  End of Heydays  “A buyer of a S600 sedan last year would have to pay an
additional 200,000 yuan ($31,600) to hasten delivery of his
car,” said Ren, referring to Mercedes-Benz’s 2.59 million-yuan
luxury sedan. “This year, the same car is selling for 200,000
yuan less.”  At Renfu Teli Motor Co., a Mercedes distributor in the
southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, female customers can get as
much as 20 percent off on Chanel,  Louis Vuitton (MC)  and Hermes bags
if they buy a car in March. BMW dealers offered iPhones, free
car insurance and maintenance in January and February, while
Volvo gave C30 buyers a free trip to  Hong Kong , according to
Kate Zhu, an analyst with Morgan Stanley.  Audi doesn’t dole out “substantial” incentives in China,
where distributors are free to offer discounts, Martin Kuehl,
Beijing-based spokesman for the automaker, said in an e-mail.
 BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. (BMWCHZ)  President Ivan Koh said his
company has a “stable price” strategy for the long term.
Mercedes-Benz didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Luxury Leaders  Audi, BMW and Mercedes accounted for more than 70 percent
of luxury-car sales in China, with Audi having the largest share
at more than 30 percent, according to  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Sanford C.
Bernstein estimates China generated about 30 percent of Audi’s
earnings in 2010, and accounted for almost half of Munich-based
BMW’s last year.  The German carmakers aren’t the only ones battling for
China’s rich.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest foreign automaker
in China, plans to increase deliveries of its Cadillac and
sport-utility vehicle lineup in the country as part of plans to
double sales to 5 million by 2015.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar
Land Rover, Toyota Motor Corp.’s Lexus and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s
Infiniti are also expanding in China to loosen the German trio’s
grip.  While China may be slowing, luxury car deliveries, which
more than doubled last decade, have further room to grow.
Premium automobiles accounted for about 6 percent of total
passenger-vehicle deliveries in 2010, versus 13 percent in the
U.S., 18 percent in western Europe and 7.6 percent worldwide,
according to estimates this month at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Protecting Image  “High-end cars won’t grow at the same explosive pace, but
they will still grow,” said Xiong Chuanlin, vice secretary-
general of China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.
“Chinese consumers have a fondness for luxury.”  Luxury automakers should be careful that discounts don’t
dull the luster of their brand even as they chase gains in
market share, said Credit Suisse’s Ellinghorst.  “You’d rather lose a customer because of pricing because
that is part of your premium heritage: people can’t afford it,”
he said. “Protecting your brand should be the most important
thing.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  