-- Mets’ Owners Get ‘Massive Relief’ From Madoff Settlement
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-20T01:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/mets-owners-get-massive-relief-from-bernard-madoff-settlement.html
The owners of the  New York  Mets can
spend opening day focused on  David Wright ’s bat and not BernardMadoff’s fraud after agreeing to settle a $303 million lawsuit
brought by the liquidator of the convicted con man’s firm.  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz will pay $162 million as part of
a settlement that was announced only minutes before their trial
was scheduled to start today in New York.  The deal reached with trustee Irving Picard is a “massive
relief” to Wilpon, whose club slashed payroll during the
offseason and is scheduled to open the Major League Baseball
campaign on April 5 at home against the  Atlanta Braves ,  Leo Hindery , former chief executive office of the Yankees
Entertainment & Sports Network, said in an interview with
Bloomberg television.  “He can go back to turning his attention to the Mets,”
said Hindery, managing director at InterMedia Partners LP,
adding that he considers the team co-owner a close friend. “His
primary objective was to remove this overhang and get back to
playing baseball.”  Wilpon, speaking outside of the courthouse with Katz’s left
arm draped over his shoulders, reiterated that neither he nor
Katz knew Madoff was swindling clients, and that he was eager to
return the focus to the Mets, who are in spring training in  Port
St. Lucie ,  Florida .  “The first order of business and our first priority will
be getting down to Florida tomorrow, getting to spring training
and trying to bring the  New York Mets  back to the prominence
that our fans deserve,” said Wilpon, whose club lost $70
million last season, according to General Manager  Sandy Alderson .  Five-Year Payout  Wilpon and Katz will pay the money over a five years
beginning in 2016, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said. The
agreement was brokered by former New York Governor  Mario Cuomo ,
who was appointed by the  bankruptcy court  to mediate. Picard
alleged that the owners were sophisticated investors and should
have known that Madoff was running a Ponzi Scheme. As part of
the settlement, Picard dropped all claims that the owners
ignored the fraud.  Additionally, Wilpon and Katz won’t have to pay much out of
pocket because they’re eligible to share in up to $178 million -
- their losses -- from the pool of money that Picard collects
from net winners in their Madoff accounts. Those proceeds will
be credited toward what they owe. It wasn’t immediately clear
how much they would have to pay.  Madoff’s Ponzi scheme cost investors an estimated $20
billion in principal, according to Picard.  The Mets cut payroll during the offseason to about $90
million from about $140 million, the largest one-year drop in
major-league history. The club lost shortstop  Jose Reyes , last
season’s National League batting champion, to the  Miami Marlins 
after he was offered more money and a longer contract.  Move Forward  “I’m sure there’s a great amount of relief in that
everyone can move forward,” Joe Bailey, a former chief
executive officer of the  Dallas Cowboys  and chief operating
officer of the  Miami Dolphins  who is now a managing director at
RSR Partners, a corporate board and executive search firm, said
in a telephone interview. “If you don’t have control over
financial assets, it does not allow you to execute the strategy
that you have in place.”  The Mets have only two players, pitchers Zack Wheeler and
Matt Harvey, ranked among Baseball America’s top 100 prospects.
The roster has only a few household names, including the 29-
year-old Wright, a five-time All-Star whose production slipped
last season, and former Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana, a
33-year-old left-hander who missed last season with shoulder
trouble.  Plea to Fans  The payroll and minor-league talent pool don’t bode well
for a speedy turnaround from 2011, when the Mets finished fourth
out of five teams in the National League East. The club, which
won the  World Series  in 1969 and 1986, last made the playoffs in
2006. Wilpon asked fans to “stick with us.”  “We’ll be there,” Wilpon said. “We have done it before,
twice in the 33 years. We will do it again.”  The Mets are seeking a recapitalization from the sale of
10-or-so minority shares, each netting the owners $20 million.
The money will be used to repay a $25 million loan from baseball
and a $40 million loan from  Bank of America  Corp.  The Wall Street Journal, quoting two people with direct
knowledge of the deals who requested anonymity, reported today
on its website that the Mets had closed on the sale of 12
minority stakes in the team for $240 million and used the money
to repay those loans from MLB and Bank of America.  Convincing fans to return to Citi Field might be the most
important thing for Wilpon and Katz. The owners make money from
ticket sales to 81 home games a year. Bondholders get all
revenue from luxury suites premiums; some ticket sales from club
and premium seats; food, beverage and merchandise concessions;
advertising and most of the naming rights; some sponsorships;
and parking.  Revenue Drop  Revenue from the stadium fell 12 percent in 2011 as
attendance dropped to 2.29 million, according to Standard &
Poors analyst Jodi Hecht. Baseball-reference.com said the Mets’
2010 home attendance was 2.6 million.  Former  Texas  Rangers President  Michael Cramer  said the
settlement is a step toward winning fans back, though the Mets
must produce a winning team for the stadium to be filled.  “It takes the stigma away, and fans pay attention,” said
Cramer, the director of the Texas Program in Sports and Media at
the  University of Texas . “With this, I think they would be
willing to give the team a break.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  