-- Ex-Investment Adviser Allen Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-19T21:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/ex-investment-adviser-allen-pleads-guilty-to-insider-trading-1-.html
Scott Allen , a former Mercer LLC
investment adviser, pleaded guilty to charges that he supplied
nonpublic information to a friend in a $2.6 million insider-
trading scheme involving drug-company acquisitions.  Allen, 45, of Atlanta, admitted in federal court in
Manhattan today that he shared illegal tips about the April 2008
acquisition of  Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MLNM)  by  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  and about the 2009 purchase of Sepracor Inc.
by  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. (4506)   “I had discussions with a personal friend and shared that
information with him and he in turn traded on that
information,” Allen told U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts .
“The motive behind my decision was primarily friendship but
also for financial gain.”  Allen pleaded guilty to seven counts of  securities fraud 
and a charge of conspiracy to commit securities fraud. His trial
was set to begin March 27 before Batts. He said today in court
that he betrayed his fiduciary duty to his employers by passing
the tips to his friend,  John Bennett , an independent film
producer. Bennett pleaded guilty to insider trading charges in
November.  Charles Salmans, a spokesman for Mercer, said his firm “is
fully cooperating with the authorities in their investigation
matter concerning a former employee. Mercer is not a subject or
target of the investigation.”  Wrong and Illegal  Batts today asked Allen if he knew what he was doing was
wrong and illegal.  “I did, your honor, and I deeply regret those decisions,”
he said.  Batts allowed Allen to remain free on $500,000 bond and
scheduled his sentencing for Aug. 20. While each count of
securities fraud carries a term of as long as 20 years in
prison, the  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney’s Office agreed as part of
Allen’s plea not to seek a term of incarceration longer than 57
months.  Allen and his attorney, Brian McEvoy, declined to comment
after court.  Bennett has acted in several films, including the 1990
courtroom drama “Presumed Innocent” and “Last Exit to
Brooklyn” according to the website IMDb.com. In 2008, he co-
founded Bennett Robbins Productions, which in 2010 produced
“Playback,” described on the company’s website as a
“supernatural thriller” starring Christian Slater.  Bennett, of Norwalk,  Connecticut , who’d previously worked
for  Merrill Lynch & Co. (MER)  from 2005 to 2007, was accused of making
illegal trades using the information Allen had provided.  During his guilty plea, Bennett said he met his colleague
at Manhattan restaurants and paid him an unspecified amount of
money for the tips.  Batts has postponed Bennett’s sentencing after originally
scheduling it for April. Bennett pleaded guilty in November to
one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and two
counts of securities fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Bennett, 11-cr-927, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  