-- Exchange-Traded Funds Targeted in EU Shadow-Bank Clampdown
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-19T16:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/exchange-traded-funds-targeted-in-eu-clampdown-on-shadow-banks.html
Exchange-traded funds may face
tougher regulation of derivatives trades as part of a European
Union clampdown on so-called shadow banks that could pose a
threat to the region’s financial system.  The European Commission said today that it is examining
potential “conflicts of interest” affecting ETFs, a type of
fund that tracks an index and whose shares are publicly traded.
The regulator is also reviewing whether banks and other
financial firms are using so-called  repurchase agreements , or
repos, to build up excessive levels of debt.  Regulators will not allow “new sources of risk to
accumulate in the financial sector,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial-services chief, said in an e-mailed statement.  While financial watchdogs have reined in excessive risk
taking by banks in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008, they are concerned that lenders and other
financial firms can use ETFs, repos and other off-balance sheet
activities to evade the rules.  Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, said last week that shadow banking is “potentially
very unstable” and vulnerable to liquidity shocks. Supervisors
shouldn’t allow “complex interconnectivity” and “high
leverage to develop in unregulated institutions or markets,” he
said. The shadow banking industry in  Europe  is worth $22
trillion, and $25 trillion in the U.S., by some estimates,
Turner said.  ‘Relative Opacity’  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together G-20
regulators, central bankers and finance ministry officials, said
last year that ETFs may “generate new types of risks, linked to
the complexity and relative opacity of the newest breed” of
funds.  The global ETF industry had $1.2 trillion of assets under
management at the end of September 2010, according to the FSB.
While the U.S. remains the largest market in terms of assets,
the number of ETFs listed in Europe surpassed the U.S. in April
2009, according to  data  from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Some so-called
synthetic ETFs use derivatives to track an index’s movements.  “We’ve seen a dramatic rise in the role of ETFs in recent
years and of course this causes regulators’ warning bells to
start ringing,”  Richard Reid , research director for the London-
based International Centre for Financial Regulation, said in an
e-mail. Still, such funds can “provide investors with much
needed access to financial markets,” he said.  Tighter Collateral Rules  Options being weighed by the commission include tightening
rules on the collateral that banks and other firms managing ETFs
have to provide when carrying out derivatives trades, the
commission said.  The regulator is also considering how to address conflicts
of interest that arise when the bank that manages an ETF is also
the fund’s counterparty on a derivatives trade, the commission
said.  “Shadow banking poses particular challenges for regulators
who must address the potential systemic risk posed by entities
that undertake bank-like activities” without “undermining the
benefits they bring in diversifying risks and supporting
economic growth,” said Simon Lewis, chief executive officer of
the  Association for Financial Markets in Europe ,  AFME represents lenders and brokers including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and BNP
Paribas SA.  Money Market Funds  The Commission will seek views on today’s plans before
deciding whether to press ahead with legislation.  Other shadow banks being targeted for new rules include
 money-market funds  and insurers, the commission said.  Barnier said he’s concerned lenders may resort to
securitizations, repos and other shadow-banking measures to
evade higher  capital requirements  and limits on bank
indebtedness that have been agreed on by global regulators. The
measures were drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  to prevent a re-run of the financial crisis.  “What we do not want is for financial activities and
entities to circumvent existing and foreseen rules,” Barnier
said.  One measure known as a “large exposure rule” may be
expanded to further limit the amount of business a bank can
undertake with any single counterparty, the commission said.  The regulatory crackdown on shadow banking presents “a
danger of demonizing activities which could be vitally important
in the provision of credit to struggling economies,” Reid said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  