-- Express Scripts’ Medco Deal May Be Delayed by Potential Suit
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-19T13:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/express-scripts-medco-deal-may-be-delayed-by-potential-suit-1-.html
  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s bid to
acquire  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  and create the largest U.S.
pharmacy-benefits manager may be delayed by a lawsuit being
considered by five states.  Attorneys general in New York,  Pennsylvania ,  Ohio ,  Texas 
and California are waiting to see if the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission approves the $29.1 billion proposed deal, said two
people familiar with the matter, who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly and asked not to be identified.  State officials are concerned the FTC will approve the deal
with conditions that don’t guard against rising prescription
prices and decreased pharmacy services, the people said. Should
the acquisition be cleared by the FTC, a lawsuit by the states
may slow the formal close of the merger, said  Les Funtleyder , a
health strategist and portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co.,
which owns  Express Scripts  shares.  “This signals the states think the Federal Trade
Commission is going to green-light the deal,” Funtleyder said.
“Whether or not five states are enough to scuttle the deal,
that would seem unlikely since that’s the Federal Trade
Commission’s job.”  The gap between Medco’s share price and the value of
Express Scripts’ cash-and-stock bid narrowed to $2.53 on March
16, about the smallest difference since the deal was announced
in July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That indicates
traders betting on the deal’s outcome now have more confidence
it will close than they did a few months ago, Funtleyder said.
Medco closed at $70.29 on March 16.  Medco fell 1.1 percent to $69.52 at 9:42 a.m.  New York 
time. Express Scripts declined less than 1 percent to $53.94.  Greater Scrutiny  More than 25 states, including the five considering a
lawsuit, are investigating the deal for possible antitrust
violations, the people said.  Two pharmacy groups opposing the acquisition said March 9
that the FTC asked them to suggest ways to revise the deal so it
wouldn’t harm competition. The request may indicate the agency
will approve the deal with conditions, said Jeffrey Schmidt, a
former director of the FTC’s Bureau of Competition.  The states may seek a temporary delay in the acquisition’s
close and a court order to permanently prevent the deal’s
consummation, said Billy Vigdor, an antitrust lawyer with Vinson
& Elkins LLP in  Washington  who represents investors with an
interest in the deal.  Brian Henry , a spokesman for St. Louis-based Express
Scripts, and Lowell Weiner, a spokesman for  Franklin Lakes , New
Jersey-based Medco, declined to comment on the potential lawsuit
by the states.  Difficult to Win  A 1990 Supreme Court case,  California  v. American Stores
Co., endorsed the states’ ability to challenge acquisitions that
federal antitrust regulators had approved. In that case,
California sued to block American Stores’ purchase of Lucky
Stores Inc. after the FTC had approved the deal on the condition
the company sell several supermarkets.  It can be difficult for states to win when the FTC has
allowed a deal to go through, said Andrew Gavil, an antitrust
law professor at  Howard University  in Washington.  Any conditions the FTC imposes before approving a deal --
such as selling parts of a business -- show the agency had
concerns over the acquisition as originally proposed, he said.  In that case, the “issue becomes the adequacy of the
remedy to solve” the anticompetitive nature of the deal, Gavil
said.  Negotiate Prices  Pharmacy-benefits managers like Express Scripts and Medco
negotiate prices with drugmakers for health-plan sponsors,
manage worker claims and track patients’ use of medicines. Their
profits are tied to cutting their clients’ drug costs.  Spokesman for the attorneys general of the five states and
Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  A combined Express-Medco would handle 34 percent of
prescriptions in the U.S. this year, according to Adam Fein,
founder and president of Pembroke Consulting Inc. in
Philadelphia.  That share will shrink to 29 percent next year because
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  of Minnetonka,  Minnesota , the biggest
U.S. health insurer by sales, switched from Medco to its own
pharmacy-benefits unit, OptumRx, Fein said.  The question for regulators is whether the combination will
create a near-monopoly leading to higher consumer prices or
whether rivals can provide enough competition.  A decision by the FTC has been expected by the end of the
month, though the time frame can be extended if necessary,
according to one of the people. Express Scripts has said it
expects the transaction to close in the first half of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  