-- MF’S Freeh Group Hiring Doesn’t Comply With Law, U.S. Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-19T19:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/mf-s-freeh-group-hiring-doesn-t-comply-with-law-u-s-says-1-.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s hiring of
consultant Freeh Group International Solutions LLC doesn’t
comply with the  bankruptcy code , said the U.S. Trustee, a
Justice Department arm that oversees bankruptcies.  Former Federal Bureau of Investigation director Louis Freeh, MF Global Holdings’ Chapter 11 trustee, sought permission
to hire the consulting firm along with his  law firm , Freeh
Sporkin & Sullivan LLP. The law only allows a trustee to hire a
law firm or accounting firm to protect the trustee’s
disinterestedness, U.S. Trustee Tracy Hope Davis said in papers
filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “Such inconsistency may be curable should FGIS be able to
demonstrate that it is an accounting firm authorized under
applicable law to practice public accounting,” Davis said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn had approved six lawyers
and consultants to work on the bankruptcy while asking for more
information about whether Freeh Group could be hired.  MF Global Holdings, once run by former New Jersey Governor
 Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31
after getting margin calls and bank demands for money at its
operating unit, MF Global Inc. The brokerage and the parent are
in different bankruptcy proceedings handled by two trustees.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  