-- Facebook Is Said to Plan Paying 1.1 Percent Fee to Banks
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-03-19T21:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/facebook-is-said-to-plan-paying-1-1-percent-fee-to-banks.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social-
networking website seeking to raise $5 billion in an initial
public offering, will pay underwriters a 1.1 percent fee, two
people with knowledge of the company’s plans said.  The fee will be shared among Facebook’s underwriters, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the details are
private. Facebook has hired 31 banks to manage the IPO,
including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as lead underwriter. The lead bank
typically earns a bigger cut of the total.  At 1.1 percent, the company will be paying its banks one-
fifth the typical rate for IPOs. Underwriters were paid an
average of 5.48 percent in 127 offerings last year, Bloomberg
data show. With larger IPOs, banks can often afford to take a
smaller percentage fee, and high-profile offerings such as
Facebook can lead to future business, making securities firms
willing to accept less.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment on banker fees.  Facebook said in a regulatory filing earlier this month
that it received an $8 billion package of financing, including a
$5 billion five-year revolving line of credit and a $3 billion
364-day bridge loan. The company also named 25 new underwriters.  Facebook had already named Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and Allen & Co. to handle the deal.  The list of banks added to the offering this month includes
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Credit Suisse Group AG and  Citigroup Inc. (CLQ) 
Smaller banks were added as well, such as M.R. Beal & Co.,
Muriel Siebert & Co. and William Blair & Co.  Two people told Bloomberg in February that Facebook’s banks
could collect a fee of 1 percent to 1.5 percent from the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  