-- Facebook Mimics Apple by Spending Less on R&D Than Rivals
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/facebook-mimics-apple-by-spending-less-on-r-d-than-rivals.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  spends a smaller
percentage of revenue on engineering than other Internet
companies, mimicking  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s strategy of keeping costs low
by relying on outside developers for research and development.  Facebook devoted 10 percent of its sales to R&D spending
last year, a fraction of the level of some other companies
holding recent initial public offerings, including  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) 
and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  Facebook, the biggest social-networking
service, is planning its own IPO this year.  The company, known for its hacker culture and marathon
coding sessions, has increasingly encouraged other companies to
add features to its site. Lower expenses have given Facebook
fatter profit margins than the typical prospective IPO, said
 Colin Gillis , an analyst with BGC Partners LP in New York. The
challenge is maintaining that growth amid mounting competition
from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and younger startups.  “They are robust margins to be coming out of the gate
with,” Gillis said. “Typically what happens is a company goes
public and investors like to see margin expansion.”  Facebook’s profit margin in 2011 was 27 percent, up from 19
percent in 2010 and 16 percent the previous year. That tops the
14 percent average for companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. (SPX)   Room to Grow?  Excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
Facebook’s profit margin was 56 percent last year. That doesn’t
give the company much room for improvement, Gillis said.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment.  For now, Facebook is operating in the mold of Apple, the
world’s most valuable company. While Apple develops plenty of
its own technology, it lets outside developers create the
hundreds of thousands of apps that run on its iPhones and iPads.
The approach keeps customers loyal to its hardware without R&D
eating up as much revenue. Apple devoted 1.6 percent of sales to
research and development last quarter.  “We don’t see any of the R&D spend by the app developers
in Apple’s numbers, but we see it in the result of the
innovativeness,” said Ron Adner, an  author and professor  at
 Dartmouth College . “Same thing with Facebook.”  In Facebook’s case, developers such as Zynga carry much of
the weight. Zynga, based in San Francisco, offers the most
popular games on Facebook’s site, including “FarmVille,”
“Mafia Wars” and “Words With Friends.”  Sales Gains  For both Facebook and Apple, the relatively small R&D
budgets stem in part from having booming sales. Facebook’s
revenue almost doubled to $3.71 billion last year after
expanding more than 150 percent the previous year. It’s a
challenge to hire enough engineers to keep pace with that
growth, said Avi Goldfarb, a  professor  at the  University of
Toronto .  “It’s a very complicated process,” he said. “R&D is not
something you can just throw money at and hope everything works
out.”  Still, increasing competition for  Internet users  and
advertisers may push  Facebook  into stepping up its research
spending. The Google+ social-networking site, started last year,
has attracted more than 100 million users. Google also is making
gains in display advertising -- Facebook’s main source of
revenue. It’s expected to take the lead from Facebook in the
market for U.S. display ads next year, according to research
firm  EMarketer Inc .  Upstart Rivals  To keep up, Facebook may have to spend 15 percent of
revenue on engineering, said  Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst at
Wedge Partners Corp. in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado . Newer
rivals could quickly emerge to challenge its supremacy in social
networking, just as Facebook itself displaced MySpace, he said.  Even so, Facebook’s lower R&D spending doesn’t mean the
company is underinvesting in future products, said Nate Elliott,
an analyst with Forrester Research Inc. in  New York . Facebook
has continued to roll out new products, including a revamped
timeline feature for its profile pages and mobile services that
let members show their locations.  “I would be more concerned if they weren’t leading the
social-media space in innovation,” Elliott said. “This is the
social site that has done more than any other to introduce new
features and new ways for consumers to interact with their
property.”  And unlike Google,  Facebook (FB)  is dabbling in fewer projects
that are far afield of its main business, Adner said.  “They’re not out there coming up with driverless cars,”
he said. “They’re not out there coming up with solutions for
solar energy. They’re completely focused on their business. That
probably increases the effectiveness of whatever spend we’re
seeing.”  Facebook’s future research budget may hinge on the company
getting a better idea of what areas it needs to focus on, said
Sameet Sinha, an analyst with B. Riley & Co. For example, if it
decides to pursue e-commerce more aggressively, that would put
it in more competition with Amazon.com Inc.  “Once they decide what’s going on, what’s going to be
important for them, I think they will intensify their R&D
efforts,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  