-- FDIC Sues Former Omni National Bank Officers for Loan Losses
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-03-19T17:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/fdic-sues-former-omni-national-bank-officers-for-loan-losses-1-.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
sued former executives of Omni National Bank to recover losses
from community development loans and spending on low-income
properties.  The FDIC says violations of banking laws cost the fund
$330.6 million, according to a complaint filed March 16 in
federal court in Atlanta. The agency accuses 10 former officers
of the failed bank of negligence and gross negligence. Jeffrey L. Levine, one of the bank’s cofounders and a defendant, is
serving a five-year sentence in federal prison for fraud related
to bad  mortgage loans  at Omni National, a unit of  Omni Financial
Services Inc. (OFSI)   Officers violated the bank’s loan policies and procedures
by using straw borrowers, by exceeding loan-to-value ratio
limits and by failing to properly appraise real estate,
according to the FDIC complaint.  The FDIC seeks a jury trial and repayment of $37.2 million
from bad low-income property loans and “wasteful expenditures”
on other low-income real estate property in bank holdings,
according to the complaint.  Lawyers for defendant Stephen M. Klein, Omni National’s
former chief executive officer, couldn’t immediately be located
for comment on the complaint.  Shannon Livengood, a former vice president who is also a
defendant, declined to comment.  Federal regulators took over Omni National in 2009 after
examiners discovered officers were “disregarding and failing to
investigate obvious problems” in the community development
lending division, according to the complaint. The bank’s
executives also failed to properly account for losses and
reserves, the FDIC said.  The case is  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  as
Receiver of Omni National Bank v. Klein, 12-cv-00896, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta  at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net ;
 David Beasley  in New York at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  