-- Fed’s Dudley Says U.S. Isn’t ‘Out of the Woods’: Economy
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-03-19T16:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/fed-s-dudley-says-u-s-expansion-not-yet-out-of-the-woods-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said signs the economy is improving
don’t dispel risks to growth that include higher gasoline prices,
fiscal cutbacks and a weak housing market.  “The incoming data on the U.S. economy has been a bit more
upbeat of late, suggesting that the recovery may be getting
better established,” Dudley said today in a speech in Melville,
New York. “But, while these developments are certainly
encouraging, it is far too soon to conclude that we are out of
the woods in terms of generating a strong, sustainable
recovery.”  Dudley’s comments elaborated on a March 13 statement by the
 Federal Open Market Committee , which noted that unemployment has
declined while remaining “elevated.” Dudley, FOMC vice
chairman, said the economy has shown signs of strength partly
because of inventory building and unseasonably warm weather.
Responding to an audience question, he said “nothing has been
decided” about more bond-buying by the Fed to spur growth.  The New York Fed chief’s comments “reiterate a very dovish
position among the leaders of the FOMC, those setting the policy
agenda,” said  Eric Green , chief economist at TD Securities Inc.
in New York and a former economist at the New York Fed. The
speech is “consistent with the FOMC statement last week, but
must also be seen as being more dovish, couching progress on the
economic front with uncertainty,” he said.  The FOMC last week upgraded its assessment of the economy
while saying the  benchmark interest rate  was likely to stay
close to zero through at least late 2014.  Weighing Stimulus  Policy makers are weighing whether the stimulus that helped
fuel the best six-month streak of job growth since 2006 is
sufficient for meeting the Fed’s goal of full employment.
Joblessness has fallen to 8.3 percent, the lowest in three years.  “Real economic activity has yet to be strong enough on a
sustained basis to make a big dent in the overall amount of
slack in the  U.S. economy ,” Dudley, 59, said in his prepared
remarks.  About half of the drop in the  unemployment rate  since
September “was due to a declining labor force participation
rate,” Dudley said. “Had the labor force participation rate
not declined from around 66 percent in mid-2008 to under 64
percent in February, the unemployment rate would still be over
10 percent.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,410.36 at 12:16 p.m. in New York, while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury note was at 2.31 percent.  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said Dudley’s comments were too downbeat.  ‘Pessimistic Forecast’  “The FOMC vice chairman seems overly committed to a
pessimistic forecast,” Rupkey said. “Their dismal outlook for
the economy may hurt the very recovery that their policy seeks
to bolster.”  Stocks rallied last week and Treasuries tumbled as reports
showing growth in manufacturing in the northeast and a drop in
jobless claims bolstered confidence in the world’s largest
economy. The  S&P 500  advanced 2.4 percent in five days to
1,404.17 on March 16, the highest since May 2008.  Bonds of all types worldwide are generating their biggest
losses since 2010 this month, raising concern that the four-year
 bull market  that pushed interest rates to record lows may be
ending as the Fed’s flood of liquidity begins to subside.  The drop has been led by U.S. Treasuries, which are down
1.5 percent, including a 5.9 percent plunge in the benchmark 30-
year bond.  Inventory Contribution  Dudley downplayed some recent positive signals. The U.S.
economy expanded at a 3 percent annual pace in the last three
months of 2011, the fastest since the second quarter of 2010.
Inventories accounted for 1.9 percentage points of growth during
the fourth quarter.  “Historically, a quarter in which inventory investment
makes a significant growth contribution is typically followed by
a quarter in which that growth contribution is modest or even
negative,” Dudley said. “That appears to be what is shaping up
for the first quarter of this year.”  Dudley’s remarks to the Long Island Association, an
organization of business groups, unions, nonprofits and
government agencies representing Nassau and Suffolk counties,
which have each declared fiscal emergencies, were his first
public comments since the FOMC met on March 13.  Dudley also said that though the “unusually mild weather”
recently in the U.S. has curbed demand for heating, it
“temporarily boosts economic activity overall,” leading to
“higher-than-normal levels of construction activity.”  ‘A Little Brighter’  Dudley said in response to audience questions after his
speech that interest rates have moved up in the market over the
past week as parts of the economy look “a little brighter.”
Credit availability is “still tight,” while improving
gradually, he said.  The Fed’s outlook for low interest rates until late 2014
“is a forecast of what we currently anticipate we’re going to
do,” and policy makers could decide to raise their benchmark
rate earlier or later, depending on how the economy evolves,
Dudley said.  Claims for jobless benefits dropped the week before last to
match a four-year low, Labor Department figures showed March 15.
Applications for unemployment insurance payments fell by 14,000
to 351,000 in the period ended March 10.  Inflation Concerns  Inflation concerns contributed to the rise in Treasury
yields last week after a government report showed that consumer
prices increased in February by the most in 10 months, with
gasoline accounting for 80 percent of the gain.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent in February,
after increasing 0.2 percent the prior month. The so-called core
measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy costs,
advanced 0.1 percent.  Consumer prices increased 2.9 percent in the 12 months
ended in February, the same as in January. The Fed aims for an
inflation rate of 2 percent.  Inflation will probably “moderate further” this year
despite the increase in gasoline prices, Dudley said, adding
that inflation expectations “remain well anchored.”  While  core inflation  “has been somewhat higher than
expected a few months back, it appears that the annual rate of
core inflation has peaked and we expect it to begin to decline
later this year,” Dudley said.  Unemployment Outlook  Unemployment will “decline gradually” toward Fed’s goals,
and the inflation outlook is “subdued,” the FOMC said in a
statement after its March 13 meeting. Policy makers said they
expect “moderate economic growth,” compared with a prediction
of a “modest” expansion after their January meeting.  The Fed has kept its benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008, and in January extended a previous pledge to keep
rates low through mid-2013. It has bought $2.3 trillion of bonds
in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing to hold down
borrowing costs.  “We cannot lose sight of the fact that the economy still
faces significant headwinds and there are some meaningful
downside risks,” Dudley said.  “The risk of higher gasoline prices is a real one for the
U.S. economy,” Dudley said in response to audience questions.
 Consumer spending  is often hurt by higher commodity costs, he
said. Dudley said he is “cautiously optimistic” about the
outlook for the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe , and that the
risks of a municipal debt crisis in the U.S. are also receding.  Consumer Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly dropped in
March as the jump in gasoline prices threatened to squeeze
household budgets. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment fell to 74.3, the lowest
this year, from 75.3 the prior month.  Life Time Fitness Inc., which operates 95 fitness centers,
is among companies expressing caution about the outlook for
consumer demand. The company is seeing “pressure” in
enrollment fees,  Michael Robinson , chief financial officer of
the Chanhassen, Minnesota-based company, said last week at UBS
AG’s Global Consumer Conference.  “We made a decision back in early 2009 that we don’t
expect a consumer to rebound back to the vibrant levels that we
were seeing back in 2005 and 2006 and 2007,” Robinson said.  “There has been some improvement in the economy, but we
still see a very discerning member or a very discerning customer
trying to decide whether to be a member or not,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  