-- Fornero to Present Italy Labor Revamp Even Without Unions
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-19T18:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/fornero-to-present-italy-labor-revamp-even-without-unions.html
Labor Minister Elsa Fornero said
she will present a plan to overhaul  Italy ’s labor laws even if
talks with unions and employers fail to produce an agreement.  “We can’t keep going ahead and having endless
discussions,” she said last night on the television program
“Che Tempo Che Fa.” Fornero said that the two-month-old talks
had “matured” and that an agreement could be reached.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  will lead the final round of
negotiations starting tomorrow as the government seeks an
agreement by the end of the week on expanding  unemployment
benefits , limiting the use of part-time contracts and easing
firing rules. Monti said yesterday that he was “confident”
that the talks would produce an agreement.  Fornero may meet this evening with unions and employers to
discuss the plan before the talks with Monti, said a spokesman
for Italy’s biggest union, CGIL, asking not to be named because
the meeting had yet to be confirmed.  Two of the main unions, the CGIL and the UIL, oppose
efforts to ease Article 18 of the labor code, which forces
employers to compensate and rehire any worker that a labor court
rules was fired without just cause.  Raffaele Bonanni, head of the CISL union, said in an
interview with newspaper  Corriere della Sera  today that unions
putting the entire labor market reform at risk by opposing any
change to Article 18 would be “irresponsible.”  President Giorgio Napolitano, a former member of Italy’s
now-defunct Communist Party, called on unions and employers to
reach a deal for the sake of “future generations.”  “Lack of an agreement would be very bad,” Napolitano told
reporters in  Rome  today in comments broadcast on Sky TG24. “An
agreement is required in light of the difficulties the country
is going through and of the problems facing the job market and
future generations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  