-- Fracking Wells’ Air Emissions Pose Health Risks, Study Finds
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-03-19T16:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/fracking-wells-air-emissions-pose-health-risks-study-finds.html
Chemicals released into the air
when natural gas is produced by hydraulic fracturing may pose a
health risk to those living nearby, the Colorado School of
 Public Health  said.  Researchers found potentially toxic airborne chemicals near
wells in Garfield County, Colorado, during three years of
monitoring, the school said today in a  statement . Drilling has
expanded in the county, about 180 miles (290 kilometers) west of
Denver.  Emissions from the wells include methane and volatile
organic compounds that react with heat and sunlight to form
ozone, according to Elena Craft, a health scientist with the
 Environmental Defense Fund  who is studying  air quality  near gas
wells in  Texas . The U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency  has
proposed rules that would reduce oil and gas well emissions.  “If you’re leaking natural gas, then you’re leaking a
number of pollutants including methane and volatile organic
chemicals,” Craft said in an interview. “Health implications?
That’s the million dollar question.”  Hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, has enabled oil
and gas companies to access fuel trapped in previously
impenetrable shale rock, reversing a decline in U.S. gas
production. Environmentalists have previously raised concerns
about water contamination as a result of chemicals used in
fracking.  Air, Water  “It is important to include air pollution in the national
dialogue on natural-gas development that has focused largely on
water exposures to hydraulic fracturing,” Lisa McKenzie, lead
writer of the study and a research associate at the  Colorado 
School of Public Health in Denver, said in the statement.  The research focused on those living about a half mile from
the wells and was requested by county officials in response to
the rapid expansion of fracking in the state. One operator has
proposed drilling 200 wells about 500 feet from homes in
Garfield County.  Wells near Battlement Mesa, where the research was
conducted, are tapped by injecting millions of gallons of water
mixed with sand and chemicals underground. The mixture is
withdrawn during the process of completion as wells are readied
for production.  Health Impacts  “Non-cancer health impacts from air emissions due to
natural-gas development is greater for residents living closer
to wells,” according to the release. “We also calculated
higher cancer risks for residents living nearer to the wells.”  Benzene, a carcinogen, and chemicals that can irritate eyes
and cause headaches, sore throats or difficulty breathing, were
found in air close to the wells. The study will be published
this month in  Science of the Total Environment , according to the
statement.  The EPA proposal would cut smog-forming emissions by 25
percent through existing technologies that capture escaping gas,
the agency said. The rule would also prevent the release of 3.4
million tons of methane, a greenhouse house that’s 20 times more
potent than carbon dioxide. That’s equal to taking 11 million
passenger cars off the road, the EPA said.  According to the EPA, the rule would also lead to net gain
of $30 million a year for drillers who will have more gas to
market. Howard Feldman, director of regulatory and scientific
affairs for the Washington-based  American Petroleum Institute ,
said drillers are already reducing emissions from the well where
it makes economic sense to do so.  Costs, Controls  “In places where people think its cost effective, they’re
putting in those reduced emissions controls already,” Feldman
said in an interview. “We think the controls may outweigh the
value of the gas your capturing.”  In his Jan. 24 State of the Union address, President  Barack Obama  said his administration would “take every possible
action” to see that gas fracking is done without putting the
public’s health or safety at risk. A November report from a task
force named by Energy Secretary Steven Chu said that among other
steps to reduce the environmental impact of drillers, emissions
of air pollutants, ozone precursors, and methane should be
reduced “as quickly as practicable.”  The EPA hasn’t tried to count emissions from oil and gas
wells since 1993, according to Fred Krupp, president of the
Environmental Defense Fund and a member of Chu’s  task force . He
called EPA’s proposed rule “a critical step.”  “Nobody has really studied the leaks from shale gas yet,”
Krupp said in an interview. “We all need to be searching for
the data.”  Texas Study  A study in  Fort Worth , Texas, released in July found air
pollution levels above state limits at five sites, and reported
visible emissions at 296 of 388 gas well sites it examined. Fort
Worth, with a population of 741,000, is in the Barnett Shale gas
field and has more than 1,400 permitted wells in the city
limits.  Garfield County is in Colorado’s gas-producing Piceance
Basin. The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment
sampled air around some gas wells in 2000, according to a 2002
 report . It concluded that concentrations of non-cancer-causing
chemicals in Parachute Valley, Colorado, were too low to pose
significant health risk and that benzene levels were high enough
to merit further study.  The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment
tested gas sites in Garfield County from 2005 to 2007, and found
levels of benzene and other pollutants that were high enough to
be hazardous. There weren’t enough samples, though, to draw a
clear conclusion, according to a white paper by the Colorado
School of Public Health that urged more extensive testing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  