-- Fukushima Farmers Face Decades of Tainted Crops as Fears Linger
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-03-19T00:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/fukushima-farmers-face-decades-of-tainted-crops-as-fears-linger.html
Farmers in  Japan ’s Fukushima face
years of additional losses as consumers continue to doubt the
safety of produce from the region devastated a year ago by the
tsunami and nuclear fallout, which may taint crops for decades.  Almost 100,000 farmers lost about 58 billion yen ($694
million) by March 1, or 25 percent of production, according to
JA, the country’s biggest agricultural group. Imports of farm
products jumped 16 percent to 5.58 trillion yen in 2011,
according to the agriculture ministry.  Inadequate testing by the government of rice, milk and fish
from the region has prompted consumers to leave them on
supermarket shelves and instead select produce from other
regions or from overseas. Checks conducted nationwide so far are
only 1 percent of what Belarus checked in the past year, a
quarter century after the Chernobyl disaster, according to
Nobutaka Ishida, a researcher at Norinchukin Research Institute.  “Consumer worries may deal a severe blow to farming in the
region for the next five years or more,” said Takaki Shigemoto,
commodity analyst at research company JSC Corp., in  Tokyo . “The
number of farmers will decline and agricultural production will
decrease, leading to further increase in Japan’s farm imports.”  Tests are conducted usually once a week by local health
offices, with samples taken mainly from rice, vegetables and
meat. The government bans food shipments from areas where
contaminated products are found.  Rice Crops  Fukushima farmer Naoto Matsumura, 52, who lives 12
kilometers (7.5 miles) from the nuclear plant in the town of
Tomioka, defied a government order to evacuate. He had to
destroy his rice crop a year after the disaster tainted his
field, he said on a visit to Tokyo on Feb. 28.  The prefecture was the fourth-largest rice producer in
Japan in 2010, representing about 5 percent of the nation’s
harvest, according to the farm ministry. It slipped to the
seventh place last year, as production slumped 20 percent to
351,900 tons.  “Radioactive cesium may remain in our crops for the next
two to three decades,” Matsumura said. “ Tokyo Electric Power (9501) 
did not take responsibility for what they have caused. I wish
the company would go bankrupt and disappear.”  The government is preparing a Tepco bailout package of as
much as 11 trillion yen, the largest in Japan since the rescue
of the banking industry in the 1990s. Only 6 percent of the 22.5
million tons of debris left by the water has been cleared.  Tainted Produce  Contaminated produce still found a way to markets even as
the government assured people that testing was adequate. Sample
surveys last year failed to prevent contaminated tea leaves from
Saitama prefecture and beef and rice from Fukushima from being
shipped to the market. The tainted rice came after Fukushima
Governor Yuhei Sato said in October that grain from the
prefecture was safe to eat, deepening consumer concerns.  To eliminate tainted items completely from the  food supply ,
all products must be tested, which can’t be done, said Hideshi Michino, a director at the health ministry’s food safety
department. The ministry asked prefectural governors on March 17
last year to start testing food so that tainted products would
not be sold.  “The government has taken measures to lower radiation
risks on human health from food consumption,” Michino said in
an interview. “The current testing system and the radiation
standard for food have done enough to reduce the risk.”  Still, consumers became confused about who they can trust
after the government’s safety guarantee turned out to be wrong,
said Junichi Sato, an executive program director at Greenpeace
in Japan.  Aeon Safeguards  Retailers such as  Aeon Co. (8267)  are safeguarding food against
radioactive contamination, Sato at Greenpeace said. Aeon,
Japan’s biggest supermarket chain, strengthened testing in
November with a goal of selling cesium-free food only.  “I purchase rice from a farm in Kyushu through a direct
sales contract,” said Ayako Ishikawa, a 34-year-old mother of
three daughters, said by phone in Tokyo. “There are no other
options but to select food based on its production areas given
the current way of testing.”  Japan must continue monitoring food for radiation for
decades, just as Ukraine and Belarus still do 26 years after
Chernobyl, said Ishida at Norinchukin, a unit of the Norinchukin
Bank, the central bank for Japan’s system of agricultural,
forestry and fishery cooperatives. Cesium remaining in soil and
water will be absorbed by crops and accumulated by fish and
wildlife, he said.  Sunflower  Along with testing, Japan needs to build a system to
produce uncontaminated farm products, Ishida said. On heavily
tainted farmlands, planting of non-edible crops such as
sunflower for biofuel may be an option, he said. The development
of a farming method to reduce crop contamination is also
necessary, he said.  “I personally would buy more foods from Fukushima if they
were absolutely confirmed as safe,” said Katsumi Hirose, a 51-
year-old father of two boys who was shopping at a Cataloghouse
store in Tokyo on Feb. 17. “In reality, products labeled as
made in Fukushima are left unsold in supermarkets.”  Cataloghouse Ltd., a mail-order company based in Tokyo,
allocated space for fresh food from Fukushima in its store in
Tokyo last August to help farmers in the region.  The store bought a testing machine for 3.5 million yen and
checks the level of cesium in food in front of customers. It
sells only products that clear safety standards and gives an
explanation on labels, store manager Motoi Kitazawa said.  ‘Ghost Town’  The agriculture ministry banned rice planting last April in
paddy fields that contain radioactive cesium of more than 5,000
becquerels per kilogram. It will expand the restriction to areas
where rice containing more than 100 becquerels of cesium a
kilogram was produced last year, said Shin Sato at the farm
ministry’s grain division.  Twelve months after the magnitude-9 earthquake, more than
340,000 people are still living in temporary homes after a
tsunami as high as 39 meters (128 feet) washed away entire towns
and crippled a nuclear power plant.  “Tomioka is like a ghost town,” farmer Matsumura said of
his Fukushima village. “All the other residents have gone. My
parents have gone too. We don’t know when they can return to
their hometown.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  