-- Gaspar Says ‘Crucial’ for Portugal to Meet Targets in Package
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-03-19T19:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/gaspar-says-crucial-for-portugal-to-meet-targets-in-package.html
Portugal ’s Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said it’s “crucial” that the country meets the
conditions of its international aid program in order to regain
access to the markets.  “The decisive aspect” is for the country “to be able to
regain access to market financing as close to normal levels” as
possible, Gaspar said today at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington . “To do so, Portugal has
to fulfill its program in a timely way. It has to deliver the
quantitative limits and the structural benchmarks” of the
program.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is cutting spending and
increasing taxes to meet the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($103
billion) aid plan from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund . As the country’s borrowing costs surged, Portugal
followed Greece and Ireland in April in seeking a bailout.  “Some of the risks that we face are risks which are beyond
our control,” Gaspar said. Other euro-area countries, though,
“have repeatedly proclaimed that they stand ready to support
the country in case it continues to fulfill its obligations”
and still finds it difficult to return to the  bond market , he
said.  While Portugal is on track to address its fiscal situation,
it’s “essential” for the country to stick to its target of a
 budget deficit  equal to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product
this year in order reach the 3 percent target next year, EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said March
14.  Portugal has issued treasury bills for six months and 12
months, Gaspar said today. “We intend to continue that process,
issuing treasury bills with a maturity of 18 months,” he said.
“We are working very hard at it.”  The IMF expects Portugal’s  ratio  of debt to GDP to
stabilize at about 115 percent in 2013 and then gradually
decline, Abebe Aemro Selassie, the head of the IMF’s aid mission
to the country, said in an interview March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  