-- GE Capital Swaps Rise After Moody’s Begins Rating Review on Risk
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-03-20T20:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/ge-capital-rating-may-be-cut-below-parent-as-moody-s-sees-risk.html
The cost to protect debt from
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance unit against a default rose after
Moody’s Investors Services said the business may receive a debt
rating lower than the parent company’s because of higher risk.  Moody’s cited a shift in methodology for evaluating finance
companies when it put the Aa2 grades of Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE and  General Electric Capital Corp. (GELK)  under review
yesterday for possible downgrade and said they may “no longer
be equalized.”  “It’s Moody’s deciding to change the rules of the game,”
said  Joel Levington , head of corporate credit at  Brookfield
Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  in  New York . “There’s not a lot as a
company they can do about that.”  Five-year credit-default swaps on  GE Capital  debt added 9.7
basis points to 135.7 basis points, the highest in a week, at 3
p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA. The contracts
typically rise as investor confidence declines.  The swaps pay a buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 a year on a contract protecting $10
million of debt. CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  GE’s “liquidity and capital position have never been
stronger,” said  Andrew Williams , a spokesman. The decision by
Moody’s “has nothing to do with our credit position, but rather
a change in their methodology.”  Dividend Plan  The company hasn’t changed its plans to restart GE
Capital’s payment of a dividend to the parent company, pending a
review from the  Federal Reserve , Williams said today. GE and GE
Capital have had the same grades from Moody’s and  Standard &
Poor’s  since at least 1990, according to GE and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Moody’s review is getting under way even as GE works to
diversify funding at the finance unit by reducing borrowing in
unsecured debt markets and seeking alternative sources of
capital such as deposits.  Moody’s said yesterday that it published new ratings
parameters showing that “finance companies have higher risks
than previously considered, implying a wider gap between the
risk profiles” of GE Capital and GE’s industrial businesses.  GE has been bolstering its industrial divisions with
acquisitions focused on energy while paring its financial unit.
Moody’s said the industrial businesses have “characteristics”
of an Aaa rating, the highest grade. GE’s current grade is two
steps below that.  GE Capital has improved liquidity and capital levels since
the 2008 credit crisis, Moody’s said. “However, Moody’s
believes that these steps are unlikely to have fully neutralized
the risks associated with the firm’s funding model.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  