-- Geithner Says Europe Faces Difficult Reforms, Weak Growth
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-03-19T23:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/geithner-says-europe-faces-difficult-reform-path-weak-growth.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said that while Europe has assuaged financial tensions,
it faces a “long and difficult path of reform.”  “For these economic reforms to work, policy makers in the
euro area will have to be careful to calibrate the mix of
financial support and the pace of fiscal consolidation,”
Geithner said in  remarks  prepared for delivery tomorrow to the
House Financial Services Committee and posted on the panel’s
website. “The reforms will take time and they will not work
without financial support that enables governments to borrow at
affordable rates and keeps the overall rates of interest across
the economy at levels that won’t kill growth.”  While Europe is facing its second recession in less than
three years, the  European Central Bank  has helped ease concern
in the markets and won governments time to agree on measures to
contain the debt crisis by pumping cash into the economy. In a
second operation in February, 800 financial institutions
received 529.5 billion euros ($701 billion) in loans from the
ECB compared with 489 billion euros in loans provided to more
than 500 banks in December.  “The most important unfinished piece of the broader
financial strategy is to build a stronger European firewall to
provide a backstop for the governments undertaking reforms,”
Geithner said.  Greek Loan  The  International Monetary Fund  on March 15 approved a 28-
billion-euro loan for  Greece  as part of a second bailout led by
euro-area governments that requires more austerity and an
overhaul of its economy.  “The IMF has substantial financial resources available
today, and it has the ability, as it has demonstrated in the
past, to mobilize temporary resources if that were necessary to
help contain the damage from a further intensification of the
crisis in  Europe ,” Geithner said. “For these reasons, we have
no intention to seek additional U.S. resources for the IMF.”  Geithner said that “economic growth is likely to be weak
for some time” in Europe and that the “path of fiscal
consolidation should be gradual with a multiyear phase-in of
reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  