-- Germany’s $263 Billion Renewables Shift Biggest Since War
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-03-19T11:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/germany-s-270-billion-renewables-shift-biggest-since-war.html
Not since the allies leveled
 Germany  in World War II has Europe’s biggest economy undertaken
a reconstruction of its energy market on this scale.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is planning to build offshore wind
farms that will cover an area six times the size of New York
City and erect  power lines  that could stretch from London to
Baghdad. The program will cost 200 billion euros ($263 billion),
about 8 percent of the country’s gross domestic product in 2011,
according to the DIW economic institute in Berlin.  Germany aims to replace 17 nuclear reactors that supplied
about a fifth of its electricity with renewables such as solar
and wind. Merkel to succeed must experiment with untested
systems and policies and overcome technical hurdles threatening
the project, said Stephan Reimelt, chief executive officer of
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s energy unit in the country.  Utilities running gas-generating plants in Germany lost
10.92 euros a megawatt-hour today at 12:16 p.m. local time,
based on so-called clean-spark spreads for the next month that
take account of gas, power and emissions prices. That compared
with a profit of 20.95 euros in October 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.K. generators earned 2.06 pounds
($3.27), down from a profit of 7.02 pounds in October.  “Germany is like a big energy laboratory,” Reimelt said
in an interview. “The country has a political and societal
consensus to drop nuclear power but lacks a clear technological
solution.”  Already, the program is expanding markets for  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s biggest solar panel maker, and  Vestas
Wind Systems A/S (VWS) ., the largest maker of  wind turbines . It’s
hurting utilities from  RWE AG (RWE)  to  EON AG (EOAN) , which have stepped up
cost-cutting to curb losses from closing nuclear stations early.  Bloomberg Conference  Technology officers from  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  IBM Corp. (IBM) 
and  BP Plc (BP/)  will discuss innovations that are spurring renewable
energy businesses on a panel at the Bloomberg New Energy Finance
conference in New York today.  “The German energy transformation is as challenging as the
first moon landing,” said Peter Terium, who in July takes over
as chief executive officer of RWE, Germany’s second-largest
utility. “It’s a huge challenge we’ll be able to master only if
everyone works together.”  Germany is among the first nations to grapple with a global
need to upgrade power stations. By 2035, at least $10 trillion
of investment is needed to add 5,900 gigawatts of generation
worldwide, more than five times the capacity of all U.S.
utilities, the International Energy Agency estimates. Half of
that will come from renewable. A gigawatt is about enough to
supply 800,000 homes in the U.S. and a bit less than the
capacity of a nuclear reactor.  ‘Be a Disaster’  “If Germany succeeds, it could be a role model for
economies all over the world,” said Claudia Kemfert, DIW’s
senior energy expert. “If it fails, it will be a disaster for
Germany’s politicians, society and economy.”  Germany’s efforts in the industry are sending shocks
through European power markets. When it’s windy and sunny,
turbines and solar cells flood the grid with electricity,
undermining the economics of natural-gas fired generators, since
clean energy has supply priority over fossil fuels.  Utilities running gas generating plants in Germany lost
10.92 euros a megawatt-hour today at 12:16 p.m. local time,
based on so-called clean-spark spreads for the next month that
take account of gas, power and emissions prices. That compared
with a profit of 20.95 euros in October 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.K. generators earned 2.06 pounds
($3.27), down from a profit of 7.02 pounds in October.  Statkraft SF, a Norwegian power generator, said last month
it’s shutting a gas-fired plant in the German city of Emden near
the Dutch border because prices are so low. A biomass plant at
the same site will keep working, the Oslo-based utility said.  ‘Negative Margin’  “The picture for last year, the year before and the next
two to three years is so negative that we see a negative margin
going forward,” Asbjoern Grundt, a Statkraft executive vice
president for markets operations, said in reference to his
utility’s gas plants.  Norbert Roettgen, the 46-year-old lawyer who is Merkel’s
environment minister and protege, is managing the transition and
aims for the nation to generate at least 35 percent of its power
from renewables by 2020, up from 20 percent last year.  Roettgen seeks 25,000 megawatts of power generated by wind
farms in the  North Sea  and  Baltic Sea  by 2030, about the same as
25 nuclear power stations. About 200 megawatts of offshore wind
plants are working now.  Scale of Shift  That will require 5,000 turbines, each standing taller than
Big Ben and taking up 247 acres of sea each, on average.
Combined, their footprint would cover 1,931 square miles (5,000
square kilometers), compared with the 305 square miles
comprising New York’s five boroughs.  In January, German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler
estimated grid operators would have to add or upgrade 4,500
kilometers (2,800 miles) of high-voltage power lines to connect
the turbines with the national electric grid. Operators also
must modernize their systems to integrate fluctuating supplies
from renewable with the steady output that comes from coal and
nuclear stations.  “The energy transformation is the biggest modernization
and infrastructure project in the coming decade,” Roettgen said
in a televised speech on March 11. “Whether other countries
follow our model will depend on whether we succeed.”  Others are making similar pledges, and Germany’s only ranks
fifth in Europe in terms of ambition. Sweden, Austria, Spain,
Slovenia, each of which have richer hydro-electric resources,
are promising a bigger share than Germany for renewable by 2020.
The U.S. has no federal mandate on renewable. Japan, also
phasing out nuclear power, will announce policies to accomplish
the goal in the next few months.  ‘Open-Heart Surgery’  “The energy transformation is open-heart surgery,”
Hannelore Kraft, state prime minister of North Rhine-Westphalia,
said Dec. 20 in Essen. “We need a master plan and careful
monitoring so this operation can succeed.”  After lobbying against clean-energy subsidies for years,
utilities are gearing up to make money from the industry. EON,
the country’s biggest operator of nuclear power stations, plans
to invest 7 billion euros in renewable energy projects in the
next five years. That includes 1 billion euros on the Amrumbank
West wind farm in the German North Sea, a project that  Siemens
AG (SIE)  will supply with 80 of its turbines.  “We don’t do this because we think it’s nice, but because
we believe we can be successful,” Johannes Teyssen, EON’s chief
executive officer, said Dec. 20 in Essen. The German energy
experiment, Teyssen said, is “a task that will occupy an entire
generation.”  Hurdles to Clear  Roettgen faces difficulty on a number of fronts in
achieving his targets:  -- Delays in connecting offshore wind turbines to the grid
are threatening the government’s aim to have 10 gigawatts
installed by 2020, according to RWE and EON, which say slow
permitting and the short supply of cables and transformer
stations are to blame.  -- German solar manufactures including  Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Q-
Cells SE (QCE)  and  Conergy AG (CGYK)  are struggling to finance their
operations after competition from Chinese companies led by
Suntech depressed margins and panel prices.  Solon SE (SOO1)  and  Solar
Millennium AG (S2M)  are in bankruptcy proceedings.  -- Output from solar panels and wind turbines is highly
unpredictable, which strains the stability of the power grid and
has forced utilities to pay renewable generators to shut off
supplies on some days. Last month, the Czech government
complained it was close to a blackout because wind farms in
northern Germany overloaded the grid.  Mixed Messages  Merkel herself is raising questions about how quickly
companies should push into the new business, slashing subsidies
for solar energy. A record 7.5 gigawatts of solar capacity was
installed last year, more than double the government’s target
for this year. Her government plans to cut rates for solar power
by as much as 29 percent from April 1 and make further
reductions each month beginning in May.  “We’re very concerned by the government’s recent steps on
solar energy,” said Eicke Weber, the head of the  Fraunhofer
Institute for Solar Energy Systems , a Freiburg-based institute
researching renewable energy technologies. “They look like an
about-face.”  Germany’s advantage is it was the first major economy to
provide incentives for clean energy, offering a feed-in tariff
guaranteeing above-market prices for solar power starting in
2004. That made it the world’s biggest market for solar panels
when it comes to total capacity and an innovator in other
technologies from wind to building materials.  Germany’s Edge  Already, Germany has built the world’s biggest renewable
generation complex, with 53.8 gigawatts of wind and solar
generators at the end of last year. Italy last year added a
record 9 gigawatts of solar panels, overtaking Germany for the
first time. The U.K. plans 18 gigawatts of offshore wind
capacity by 2020, up from 1,500 megawatts now.  Some of Germany’s biggest companies are entering the
renewables business and backing the innovations needed to make
expand the scale of the industry.  Robert Bosch GmbH (RBOS) , the world’s biggest car parts supplier
based in Stuttgart, has invested about 1.5 billion euros into
its solar energy business by purchasing companies and building
new plants.  Hochtief AG (HOT) , Germany’s biggest builder, has
commissioned four heavy-duty ships to erect wind farms at sea
including the 200 million euro “Innovation.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi luxury car division plans to build a
plant that uses water and carbon dioxide to convert electricity
into natural gas, backed by 5 million euros of investment from
EON in a pilot plant based on a similar technology.  “This energy transformation is about innovation,”
Roesler, the German economy minister, said in Stuttgart in
January. “If we do it right, there will be many chances for
economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  