-- Get TV Political Ad Data Out of the Cabinet, Onto the Web: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-19T23:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/get-tv-political-ad-data-out-of-the-cabinet-onto-the-web-view.html
Since the  Federal Election
Commission  has shown itself to be virtually  incapable  of
ensuring transparency in campaign finance, it would be nice if
someone else picked up the slack. It turns out someone can.  The Federal Communications Commission has  proposed 
requiring broadcasters to post online the name of anyone who
buys time for political advertising along with the purchase
price and airdates. It’s an excellent idea, made more salient in
an era of shady super-PACs. It can be accomplished with no great
effort by broadcasters.  In fact, television stations are already required to make
this information available to the public. And it is -- if you go
to a local station, in person, and ask someone to dig through a
file cabinet.  The FCC thinks there’s room for improvement. The commission
would like the information uploaded and stored digitally on a
centralized database that it would administer. This would allow
anyone who’s interested to see who is paying for political ads,
what they are paying for them and where they are being
broadcast. It would also allow broadcasters to meet the public-
interest obligation they bear in return for their use of public
spectrum, which yielded them an  estimated  $2.3 billion in
political ad spending alone in the 2010 campaign and will
probably produce even more political revenue this year.  Predictable Wails  The proposal has been met with predictable wails. Deploying
the partisan cliche of the season, Robert McDowell, the sole
Republican of the FCC’s three commissioners -- two short of its
five-person mandate -- has called it a “jobs destroyer.” On the
other hand, Hearst Television Inc.  warned  that the change from
paper to digital could require as many as four new full-time
employees per station, costing each station as much as $140,000
per year.  Neither claim is credible. However, broadcasters are
understandably concerned about regulatory mission creep. The FCC
should allay those fears by making sure disclosure documents are
standardized, digitally scannable and restricted to essential
information. Perhaps a greater concern to stations is the
likelihood that readily accessible disclosure data will lead to
a loss of control over pricing. Once that information moves from
the back of a drawer to the Internet, not only campaign
watchdogs but also commercial time buyers will have a fuller,
more timely picture of the television marketplace.  In a  reply  to the FCC, one group of broadcasters
acknowledged the need for information about political spending,
but said it “is not immediate and can be satisfied by visiting
the station either during or after the election campaign.”
Really? The point is to know what’s happening with political
spending in real time, so voters can factor it into their
decisions at the ballot box. It’s impossible for even the most
dedicated researchers to visit most, let alone every, television
station. And “after the election campaign” is a bit slow for a
functioning democracy.  Broadcasters contend their industry is being drafted to
compensate for the deficiencies of the campaign finance system.
They have a point. But modernizing existing disclosure
requirements is not too onerous a burden. Given the shabby state
of campaign-finance disclosure, the FCC shouldn’t wait until
after November to adopt its sensible idea. For the next election
cycle, it should require digital disclosure by large cable and
radio stations. The expense is not great. The need is.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 