-- U.K. Gilts Advance as Lagarde Warns of Threats to Global Economy
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-19T16:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/gilts-advance-as-stocks-drop-amid-house-price-slowdown-correct-.html
U.K gilts rose for the first time
in five days as International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  urged policy makers to beware threats to the
global economy, boosting demand for safer investments.  Ten-year bond  yields  fell from near the highest level since
October after Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said  Portugal  was likely to
become a second  Greece . Gilts were also boosted before a
government report tomorrow that economists said will show U.K.
inflation slowed for a fifth month in February. The pound
strengthened for a third day against the dollar.  “Equity and risk markets are trading weaker in general so
it’s not such a great surprise to see safe-haven assets trading
better,” said  Brian Barry , a strategist at Investec Bank Plc in
 London . “It’s not immediately obvious that we are going to see
any large change in the economic outlook in the medium term.”  The 10-year gilt yield declined three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.42 percent at 4:08 p.m. London time after
rising to 2.49 percent on March 16, the highest since Oct. 31.
The 4 percent bond due March 2022 climbed 0.255, or 2.55 pounds
per 1,000-pound ($1,590) face amount, to 113.935.  “Optimism should not give us a sense of comfort or lull us
into a false sense of security,” Lagarde said yesterday at a
speech at the China Development Forum in Beijing. “We cannot go
back to business as usual.”  Portugal Concern  Gilts rallied along with Treasuries and German bunds as
Pimco’s El-Erian said Portugal may need additional bailouts.  “Unhappily, this will be the case,” El-Erian said in an
interview with  Germany ’s  Der Spiegel . The first rescue package
for the Portuguese will prove insufficient and the country will
ask the euro region for more money, he was cited by the magazine
as saying.  Gilts have returned 12 percent in the past year as
investors sought a haven from the region’s debt crisis,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.1 percent today.  “Risk sentiment is slightly worse” and that’s boosting
demand for gilts, said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “Technically the
market has been pretty badly beaten up and there’s room for some
retracement of the losses.”  Pound Gains  The pound advanced 0.3 percent to $1.5889, and weakened 0.2
percent to 83.33 pence per euro.  Sterling’s advance versus the dollar today pushed it above
its 200-day moving average for the first time since March 2. The
average was at $1.5862 today.  “A sustained break could well see another run toward the
$1.60 level,”  Michael Hewson , an analyst at CMC Markets in
London, wrote in a note to clients. A decline below $1.5610 may
signal further weakness toward $1.5530, the lowest since Jan.
23, he wrote.  U.K. consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in February from a
year earlier after a 3.6 percent gain in January, the  Office for
National Statistics  will say, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Slower inflation helps preserve the purchasing power of
the fixed income from bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  