-- Glencore Said to Near Viterra Deal With Agrium, Richardson
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-03-20T10:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/glencore-said-to-near-viterra-takeover-with-agrium-richardson.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
largest publicly traded commodity supplier, and two Canadian
agricultural companies are nearing a deal to buy  Viterra (VT)  Inc.,
said three people with knowledge of the plan.  Glencore is bidding with  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  and Richardson
International Ltd. for the Regina, Saskatchewan-based grain
handler, the people said, asking not to be identified before a
formal announcement. A deal may be announced within 24 hours,
two of the people said yesterday.  Glencore plans to sell parts of Viterra to Richardson and
Agrium immediately after completing the acquisition, one of the
people said. The takeover may be agreed to at a price of C$16
($16.14) to C$17 a share, the person said.  Viterra said yesterday in a statement it’s in exclusive
talks with an unnamed third party for a possible acquisition at
a price consistent with its March 15 statement that referred to
approaches at “approximately C$16 a share.” That would value
Viterra at about C$6.86 billion including net debt.  Glencore’s move on Viterra is part of Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Glasenberg’s efforts to extend the trader’s
geographical reach and expand its agriculture unit. The Baar,
Switzerland-based company is also trying to seal a 22.4 billion-
pound ($36 billion) friendly takeover of metals and coal
producer  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , which it announced in February.  Reducing Political Pressure  “We see a deal consortium as credible, with the inclusion
of Canadian firms likely going some way to mitigating political
pressure arising from foreign control of assets,” Liberum
Capital Ltd. analysts said today in a note to clients.  Viterra dropped 1.5 percent to C$15.97 in Toronto yesterday
and 1.3 percent to A$15.13 by the close in Sydney today.
Glencore fell 2.5 percent to 410.15 pence at 9:34 a.m. in
 London . The Viterra sales process closed March 18 and other
parties had expressed an interest, one of the people said.  Viterra has said its earnings and market share will
increase after Aug. 1, when wheat and barley farmers in western
 Canada  can sell to buyers other than the Canadian Wheat Board.
It owns more than half the grain-export capacity in Canada as
well as ports in  South Australia , which are gateways to growing
markets in  Asia , according to the  company .  Tracey Shelton, a spokeswoman for Richardson,  Simon Buerk ,
a spokesman for Glencore, and Todd Coakwell, an Agrium
spokesman, declined to comment.  Exclusive Talks  “Viterra confirms that it has begun exclusive negotiations
with a party and the basis of this exclusive negotiation is at a
price which is consistent with our previous statement,” the
company said in the statement yesterday.  A purchase at C$16 a share would value Viterra at about 9.8
times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in fiscal 2011. That compares with a median of 10.3
times Ebitda for North American food and agriculture takeovers
worth at least $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At about 0.5 times sales, it would also be cheaper
than the industry’s median revenue multiple of 1.1 times, the
data show.  A deal at C$16 a share also would be at a 53 percent
premium to Viterra’s 20-day average before the company announced
March 15 it had received interest from third parties. The
average premium in the industry is 31 percent.  Annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will rise by C$50 million a year after 2014 as
Viterra’s market share expands to almost 50 percent from 45
percent, the company forecast March 8.  Grains and Marketing  Grain handling and marketing made up 68 percent of
Viterra’s sales in the year through Oct. 31, with agricultural
products accounting for 19 percent and food processing at 13
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg  show .  Richardson, the second-largest grain handler in Canada, is
a unit of Winnipeg-based James Richardson & Sons Ltd. Calgary-
based Agrium is  North America ’s largest fertilizer supplier by
revenue.  Glencore is among companies exploring an offer for Omaha,
Nebraska-based grain trader Gavilon Group LLC, people familiar
with the matter said March 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  