-- Global Food Price Rally Will Drive Investment, Nestle Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-03-19T11:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/global-food-price-rally-will-drive-investment-nestle-ceo-says.html
Rising agricultural prices may spur
increased investment in research and infrastructure, helping
lift farm yields and output to feed a larger and richer global
population, according to  Nestle SA (NESN) , the biggest food company.  “Prices are getting to a level that may result in an
effect that is positive for  food production ,” Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Bulcke  said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“People are motivated again to be in agriculture.”  Global food prices rose for a second month in February on
higher costs for cereals, cooking oils and sugar, according to a
55-item gauge tracked by the  United Nations ’  Food and
Agriculture Organization . Costs may remain near current levels
in the coming months as demand absorbs increased supply,
 Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior FAO economist, said on March 8.  Food-price volatility has increased as production isn’t
growing at the same pace as demand, cutting stockpiles, Bulcke
said in  Kuala Lumpur . Raw-material costs for Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle such as coffee and sugar were expected to continue
to climb this year, although at a slower pace than 2011, he said.  The FAO’s  World Food Price Index (FAOFOODI)  rallied 20 percent in 2009
and a further 26 percent in 2010 as the global economy recovered
from recession. The gauge, which was at 215.27 last month,
reached a record 237.92 in February last year. A decade ago, it
was at 88.3, according to data tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘More People’  Prices are “going up from a low base, so whatever that
goes up, it looks like it’s doubling,” Bulcke said yesterday.
“We’re going to have a world that is going to have 2 to 3
billion more people in the next few years.”  Global food output must rise 70 percent by 2050 as the
world population grows to 9.3 billion from 7 billion, and
wealthier consumers eat more meat, according to the FAO. The
global trade in agriculture may climb 43 percent to more than $1
trillion by 2020 on rising emerging-markets demand, according to
a projection from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  last July.  Asian demand will grow as the middle class expands, making
it a key market for products such as Milo, a chocolate-malt
drink, and Maggi noodles, said Bulcke, who was in the country
for events to mark the centenary of Nestle Malaysia Bhd.  Raw-material inflation will probably be less than 5 percent
this year, Bulcke said, reiterating a forecast made by Chief
Financial Officer Jim Singh on Feb. 16. Costs were being cut by
operating more efficiently, Bulcke said.  Stock in the maker of Kitkat chocolate bars has rallied 11
percent in the past year to 56.75 Swiss francs today, valuing
the company at 187.4 billion francs ($204.5 billion). Of the 40
 analysts’ calls  tracked by Bloomberg, 17 are “buy”
recommendations, with 20 “holds” and three “sells.”  Nestle and Danone SA made first-round bids for  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s baby-formula unit, which may fetch as much as $10.5
billion, people with knowledge of the process said in January.
While Bulcke declined to comment on Pfizer, he said that Nestle
was open to so-called “bolt-on” acquisitions that complemented
existing operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  