-- Gold Stock Premium at Low on ETF Demand: Corporate Canada
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-03-19T20:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/gold-stock-premium-at-low-on-etf-demand-corporate-canada.html
Investors are abandoning  Canadian
gold producers  including  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  for exchange-traded
bullion funds, leaving valuations at a record low compared with
the rest of the market.  Gold shares in the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (STGOLD) 
fell 28 percent as of March 16 from an historic high in
September, while the market benchmark is down only 1.5 percent.
Miners in the index are trading for 16.7 times reported profits,
or 12 percent more than the index. The  premium  is the smallest
since February 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buying gold and ETFs tracking bullion prices such as the
$69 billion  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD)  has become increasingly popular for
investors as companies struggle to develop mines in remote
locations and pay higher operating costs.  “In the past, they had to buy the equities,” said  George Topping , a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Gold
ETFs “remove all of the technical risks” associated with
mining the metal.  Kinross, the Toronto-based producer that last month took a
$2.49 billion writedown on a Mauritanian mine and said it would
delay projects in Ecuador and  Chile , fell 15 percent this year
through March 16. Gold gained 5.5 percent.  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM) , also based in Toronto, slumped 43
percent since Oct. 18, the day before it said a Quebec mine
would close because geological conditions made it unsafe. The
company took a $161 million writedown on the mine. Agnico-Eagle
last month also reported a $644.9 million writedown on its
Meadowbank mine in Nunavut Territory in northern Canada because
of “persistently high” operating costs.  Premium Dissipates  “There’s been a lot of operational issues in the Canadian
gold companies that have caused that premium valuation they used
to receive to dissipate,” Craig Basinger, chief investment
officer for Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Canadian private wealth unit
in Toronto, said in an interview. The unit oversees about C$15
billion ($15.2 billion) of assets.  Seven of the world’s 20 largest gold producers are based in
 Canada . The premium for 38 gold companies in the S&P/TSX index
has averaged 190 percent over the past five years, according to
data on reported profits compiled by Bloomberg. The premium
relative to forecast earnings has been  erased,  from 166 percent
in February 2009.  Gold traded at a record $1,925 an ounce on Sept. 6 in New
York amid concern the European debt crisis would slow global
growth and on demand for the metal as a hedge against inflation.
Central banks added 439.7 tons to reserves last year, according
to the London-based World Gold Council.  Gold Declines  The precious metal declined 3 percent this month, trading
at a two-month low on March 14, after the U.S. Federal Reserve
increased its forecast for the world’s biggest economy and
refrained from new actions to stimulate growth. The  S&P TSX
Global Gold Index (TTGDAR)  lost 8.8 percent over the same period.  A resolution to the European debt crisis may end gold
stocks’ underperformance against the commodity, said Jorge M. Beristain, a Greenwich, Connecticut-based analyst for Deutsche
Bank AG. He recommends investors buy Barrick, Kinross and
Vancouver-based  Goldcorp Inc. (G)   Gold futures for April delivery closed at $1,655.80 on the
Comex in New York on March 16.  Holdings (.GLDTONS)  of the metal through ETFs have more than tripled
in the last five years and reached a record 2,410.2 metric tons
on March 13, valued at about $131.3 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Earnings  Gold prices advancing for 11 straight years have helped
producers report record profits.  Cash flow  from operations rose
by an average of 33 percent last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries from nine gold companies.  Investors are skeptical that cash will be put to good use,
said Deutsche Bank’s Beristain, citing acquisitions made in the
past two years by Barrick and Kinross. Kinross bought Red Back
Mining Inc. for C$8 billion in September 2010, giving it the
Tasiast mine project in Mauritania. Kinross took the writedown
on the mine 16 months later.  Red Back was “an absolutely, not just defendable, but a
cornerstone acquisition for the company,” Kinross CEO Tye Burt
said in a March 16 interview.  Most large producers are generating “strong” cash flow
and earnings and the valuations of gold stocks will start
outperforming “at some point,” he said. Gold miners plan
decades into the future while investors focus on short-term
results, he said.  ‘Longer Time Frame’  “There is a need for companies to use a longer time
frame,” Burt said.  Barrick declined 1.2 percent today to close at C$43.11 in
Toronto. Goldcorp dropped 0.6 percent to C$43.38, and Kinross
fell 1.2 percent to C$9.78. Agnico-Eagle declined 1.9 percent to
C$32.80.  Barrick purchased copper producer Equinox Minerals Ltd. in
July for C$7.3 billion. Companies producing copper and other
base metals typically trade at a lower multiple of earnings.
Barrick trades at  9.7 times earnings , down from 15.5 on April
22, the trading day before it said it would buy Equinox.  Barrick, which has the second-lowest price to earnings
ratio in the 38-member S&P/TSX Gold Index, is trading at a
discount to the S&P/TSX Composite Index. Investors are paying a
35 percent discount for earnings relative to the index, after
paying an average 9.7 percent premium in the past five years.  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for Barrick, declined to comment
beyond what CEO Aaron Regent said last month in an interview.
Gold stocks are heading for an “inflection point” triggering a
rally after becoming increasingly cheap, Regent said Feb. 16.  Price-Earnings Ratio  Dale Coffin, a spokesman for Agnico-Eagle, declined to
comment. Jeff Wilhoit, a Goldcorp spokesman, wasn’t immediately
available to comment. Goldcorp CEO Chuck Jeannes said Feb. 27 at
a conference in Hollywood,  Florida , that the trend in gold
stocks was becoming “unsustainable.”  Agnico-Eagle’s price-earnings ratio decreased to 10.8 from
26.4 on Oct. 19, when it said it would close the Goldex mine in
 Quebec . Kinross’s valuation ratio declined to 13.1 from 35.7 at
the end of July 2010, before the announcement of the Red Back
purchase.  Meanwhile, the so-called cash costs reported by mining
companies -- their production costs minus items such as taxes
and royalties -- climbed 24 percent in the past year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  “We have seen operating costs and especially  capital costs 
rise way above inflation,” Stifel Nicolaus’s Topping said.  Europe ’s debt crisis is encouraging investment in companies
whose earnings seem more certain, said Robert Cohen, who
oversees $1.25 billion in precious-metals equities at Bank of
 Nova Scotia ’s GCIC Ltd. unit.  Gold stocks will “eventually” turn around and start
outperforming the metal, said Joe Foster, portfolio manager for
the Van Eck International Investors Gold Fund at Van Eck Global
in  New York .  “Fundamentally, the current valuations just don’t make
sense,” he said in an interview. “We’re just looking for a
catalyst to make that happen.”  (This was the final story written by Matt Walcoff, who
passed away last week.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  