-- Grandmother’s Burst Breast Implant May Speed Rule Changes
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-03-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/grandmother-s-burst-breast-implant-may-speed-rule-changes.html
Annie Mesnil survived cancer, only
to have the implant that replaced her right breast leak
industrial-grade gel into her body. Now European regulators are
trying to figure out how to make sure it doesn’t happen again.  Employees of the manufacturer of the faulty device, Poly
Implant Prothese SA of  France , have told police they used
unapproved filler and deceived the company hired to certify
quality control. French authorities pulled the devices from the
market in 2010 and last year recommended that all PIP implants
should be removed after a woman died in November.  Doctors and patients like Mesnil are pushing European Union
regulators to revamp rules that leave medical-device  makers  in
charge of checking the safety of their own products. The
companies are required to hire outside contractors to certify
quality controls and production systems before they can sell
devices throughout the 27-nation bloc and in countries that
recognize its standards. About 400,000 PIP implants were sold in
nations including Australia, Brazil, Germany and the U.K.  “Our oversight system isn’t adequate,” Dominique Maraninchi, director general of  Afssaps , France’s health
industry regulator, said in an interview. “It allowed a fraud
of this size to take place for years. The system is based on
certifying companies that check only what is presented to them.
With PIP they were fooled, the health authorities were fooled.”  What Went Wrong  Reports on what went wrong and how to avoid recurrences
have started arriving as Afssaps works on a list of high-risk
implants and how to better police their safety with a new
surveillance system due later this year. Another report is due
next month on the state of the silicone breast-implant industry,
a decade after it was authorized in France, a spokeswoman for
the agency said.  French health inspectors suspended PIP operations on March
29, 2010. The company filed for bankruptcy the next day and
health authorities around the world were told of the deception.  “According to Afssaps, there was no reason to worry so
much,” Mesnil, a 62-year-old grandmother who had an implant in
2001 after treatments for  breast cancer , said of the first
alerts she saw in 2010. “They didn’t speak of any danger
certainly, just a little more frequent rupture rate.”  As the police investigated and evidence emerged of the
deception, Mesnil said she began worrying both about the safety
of her implant and why complaints from surgeons in France, the
high rupture rate, and the U.S. regulator’s refusal to approve
the devices didn’t lead to greater scrutiny by Afssaps.  System Failure  “The system failed,” said Christian Marinetti, a
Marseille plastic surgeon who said his calls, e-mails and
registered letters to Afssaps about PIP’s high rupture rate went
unanswered for years. The problem, he said, is “the checks
assume the company is virtuous. No one ever could have imagined
such a fraud.”  In 14 percent of the women in France whose implants were
removed, the device was found to have ruptured or leaked,
officials said.  Afssaps, which uncovered the scam after a whistle-blower’s
alert, pledged in a report to reinforce oversight with surprise
inspections, tests of devices taken during audits and from
clinics, checks on how much manufacturers spend on raw
materials, and a simpler, more efficient means for doctors to
report concerns.  Afssaps also called for its recommendations to be applied
EU-wide in the 170-page report to Health Minister Xavier Bertrand last month. Clinical trials should be required for
devices to be approved and there should be follow-up tests after
they’re on the market, the French regulator said. Patients
should be better informed of devices’ risks before operations,
and  certification  companies should be more exacting. Regulators
within the EU and around the world should improve information-
sharing and collaboration, Afssaps said.  Coordinating Oversight  At the EU level, Health Commissioner  John Dalli  ordered
stress tests -- similar to those used to gauge banks’ fiscal
health -- to see how the regulatory system failed to detect
PIP’s deception. The results are expected by May so they can be
incorporated into a new regulatory framework due out by June,
said  Frederic Vincent , a spokesman for Dalli.  “There are some propositions that are being discussed at
the European Commission level, in order to coordinate how the
oversight system should work and, going one step further, what
the obligations should be in terms of in-depth clinical data
gathering before risky devices are put on the market,”
Afssaps’s Maraninchi said.  TUEV’s Job  PIP hired TUEV Rheinland Holding AG, a German technical
certification company, to audit the chain of production and
quality-control measures, Olivier Gutkes, TUEV’s Paris-based
lawyer, said last month.  TUEV’s job “isn’t to check the final product,” Gutkes
said. “It’s about avoiding having unsuitable products because
of disorganization or production errors.”  Jean-Claude Mas, 72, PIP’s founder, began using industrial-
grade silicone years ago, according to police, cutting the cost
of the filling to as little as 5.10 euros ($6.67) a kilogram
from the 41.54 euros a kilogram for the substance he claimed was
used. He also used thinner casing, making ruptures and leaks
more likely and heightening the risk posed by the cheaper
silicone, never authorized for use inside people, said
Marinetti, the surgeon.  Mas didn’t return messages left on his mobile phone
requesting comment. His lawyer, Yves Haddad, didn’t respond to
requests for comment by phone, e-mail and fax.  Unapproved Gel  Mas, who previously worked as a wine and cognac seller and
spent 10 years with U.S. drugmaker Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.,
will stand trial for fraud with four former co-workers later
this year or in early 2013. Police are investigating
manslaughter claims made after the woman’s death and allegations
that PIP’s bankruptcy was a sham.  Almost all PIP employees knew most devices were filled with
an unapproved gel, which Mas always insisted was “better” than
the authorized one, according to transcripts of police
interviews with Mas and other workers seen by Bloomberg News.  PIP workers hid barrels of the unauthorized substitute in a
separate warehouse and on a truck when TUEV certifiers visited
for their annual audits, former employees told investigators,
according to the transcripts. Another said he was asked to erase
evidence of the unapproved substances from the computer system
before the audits and to reintegrate the data afterwards.  Each year, after TUEV auditors left, workers celebrated
with drinks, according to another former PIP employee.  TUEV has accused PIP of fraud and doctoring documents in
its own complaint, and defended its conduct as complying with
the existing rules “to the letter,” said Gutkes. It hasn’t and
won’t change its practices until those rules change, the TUEV
lawyer said.  ‘No One Imagined’  “An unannounced audit is carried out only in one case:
when the notified body has doubts about a fraud which can be
substantiated,” Gutkes said. “No one at TUEV ever imagined
that the whole company was involved in covering up the fraud.”  Mas himself repeatedly told police he felt “nothing” for
women like Mesnil who found themselves in danger because of
PIP’s implants, saying the women who complained were “weak
people” or “doing this just for the cash,” according to the
transcripts.  Mesnil heard similar comments at first, as people said
“they should have stayed like they were, they didn’t need to
look like bimbos, like Barbie dolls.” She sought an implant
because it was difficult to look at the scarring left behind
after her mastectomy.  Mesnil had scans done after she saw the Afssaps alert on
the brand. While nothing showed up, she said she decided to
replace the implant after hearing the manufacturer cut corners.  When she woke from surgery, her doctor said the implant had
ruptured, leaking gel into her body. He’d tried to wash out as
much as he could, though he couldn’t be sure he got it all.  “It’s gone somewhere,” Mesnil said over coffee one
February morning at her apartment in Malesherbes, south of
Paris. “I can’t get it out of my mind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  