-- Greece Must Meet Goals, Embrace Reform, Central Bank Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-03-19T16:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/greece-must-meet-goals-embrace-reform-central-bank-says.html
Greece ’s political leaders should
continue cooperating to ensure the country meets the targets set
out under its second aid package from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund , the nation’s central bank said.  “The most crucial parameter, which will define its
success, is consistent implementation,” the Athens-based  Bank
of Greece (TELL)  said in an e-mailed copy of its 2011-2012 Monetary
Policy report released today. “The fastest possible return of
the economy to GDP growth rates is key to meeting the targets
set out” in the 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) new aid plan.  Greece completed the exchange of 177.2 billion euros of
Greek-law bonds last week, part of the world’s largest
sovereign-debt restructuring, and agreed to 3.2 billion euros of
additional spending cuts this year to secure the new loans.
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s interim government, formed in
November, was charged with securing approval for the package,
which provides funds to recapitalize Greek banks, before general
elections.  The government, backed by the two biggest parliamentary
groups, provided stability that halted Greece’s “catastrophic”
course, the central bank said. “This development proved in the
most convincing way the importance of consensus and cooperation
of the political powers in light of the historically
unprecedented challenges we face.”  The new aid package and the “exceptionally positive”
participation rate in the debt swap give Greece an opportunity
to fix imbalances as a euro-area member and get the economy back
to sustainable growth, the central bank said in the report.  Greece’s debt reached 165 percent of gross domestic product
last year and its economy shrank 6.9 percent, its fourth year of
recession, European Commission estimates released last week
showed. The economy is expected to contract 4.5 percent this
year and 0.5 percent in 2013, while unemployment is seen at 19
percent this year, the central bank said today.  Greece will need to adopt additional measures, with an
emphasis on spending cuts, to achieve sustainable reduction of
its fiscal deficit and public debt and speed-up the
implementation of structural reforms, the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  