-- Greek Bonds Get Initial Value of 21.75% in Swaps Auction
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-03-19T11:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/greek-bonds-get-initial-value-of-21-75-in-swaps-auction-1-.html
Sellers of credit-default swaps on
 Greece  may have to pay 78.25 cents on the euro to settle
contracts triggered by the nation’s debt restructuring.  Dealers set an initial value of 21.75 percent at an auction
for Greek bonds today, according to administrators Markit Group
Ltd. and Creditex Group Inc., in line with where the notes have
been trading. The auction is being held under the rules of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association and a final rate
will be determined at 3:30 p.m. in  London .  Greek credit-default swaps are being settled after
investors were forced to exchange their bonds at a loss in the
biggest ever debt restructuring. The auction ends more than two
years of speculation over whether the derivatives are viable for
insuring sovereign debt after European policy makers sought to
prevent payouts on concern they’d worsen the region’s crisis.  “The fact that it works means it can remain a viable
hedging instrument and used for trading purposes as well,” said
 Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in London.
That’s important because “the product is there as a hedge for
other sovereign investors, and significant risk remains in
Europe.”  Sellers of  protection  will pay buyers face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent.
The results of the auction are posted on  Creditfixings.com , a
website run by Creditex, a New York-based derivatives broker,
and financial information provider Markit.  Portugal Risk  There were 4,369 outstanding swaps contracts insuring a net
$3.2 billion of Greek debt as of March 9, according to data from
the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central
registry for the market.  Greece was stripped from the Markit iTraxx SovX Western
 Europe  Index last week, causing a drop of about 100 basis points
in the measure of government debt risk. The gauge, which now
includes swaps on 14 nations, was trading at 225 basis points
today.  “Triggering CDS might have more positive than negative
implications for European government bond markets,” said
 Ioannis Sokos , a fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “It’s a clear demonstration that there is a functioning
hedging tool out there for holders of other peripheral bonds.”  Investor concern that  Portugal  will follow Greece in
seeking to reduce its debt burden by imposing losses on private
bondholders has driven up the cost of insuring $10 million of
that nation’s debt for five years to $3.6 million in advance and
$100,000 annually. The price of credit-default swaps signals a
66 percent chance of default, according to CMA.  Trichet Opposition  Former European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
led opposition to triggering Greek swaps on concern traders
would be encouraged to bet against failing nations and profit
from the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  In Greece’s restructuring, investors were forced to write
off more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion) of debt in return
for new bonds worth 31.5 percent of their original investment.
Contracts wouldn’t have been triggered if the debt exchange had
been voluntary, according to  ISDA ’s rules.  Traders were anticipating a swaps payout of about 80 cents,
based on the price of Greece's new 30-year securities.  “If Greece and EU authorities had invalidated the reason
for existence of CDS contracts, this could create selling
pressures on other peripheral bond markets,” BNP’s Sokos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  