-- Greek Swaps Sellers to Pay $2.5 Billion to Settle Contracts
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-03-19T15:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/greek-bonds-get-final-value-of-21-5-in-default-swaps-auction.html
Sellers of credit-default swaps on
 Greece  will have to pay as much as $2.5 billion to settle
contracts triggered by the nation’s debt restructuring.  The settlement was determined after dealers agreed a final
value for Greek bonds of 21.5 percent of face value at an
auction, according to administrators Markit Group Ltd. and
Creditex Group Inc., and is in line with where the notes have
been trading.  Greek credit-default swaps are being settled after
investors were forced to exchange their bonds at a loss in the
biggest ever debt restructuring. The auction ends more than two
years of speculation over whether the derivatives are reliable
for insuring sovereign debt after European policy makers sought
to prevent payouts on concern they’d worsen the region’s crisis.  “Markets may bounce after the smooth settlement in spite
of the fact it should have been expected,” said Peter Tchir,
founder of TF Market Advisors in  New York . People were too
worried about “the potential for a daisy chain of counterparty
defaults -- in spite of how unlikely that situation was,” he
said.  Sellers of  protection  will pay buyers face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent.
The results of the auction are posted on  Creditfixings.com , a
website run by Creditex, a New York-based derivatives broker,
and financial information provider Markit.  Outstanding Swaps  There were 4,369 outstanding swaps contracts insuring a net
$3.2 billion of Greek debt as of March 9, according to data from
the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central
registry for the market. Ecuador was the last government to
default and the first to have its debt auctioned in 2008.  “The fact that CDS works means it can remain a viable
hedging instrument and be used for trading purposes as well,”
said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in
London. That’s important because “the product is there as a
hedge for other sovereign investors, and significant risk
remains in  Europe .”  Greece was stripped from the Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index last week, causing a drop of about 100 basis points
in the measure of government debt risk. The gauge, which now
includes swaps on 14 nations, was trading at 220.5 basis points
today. Cyprus will be added to the index when it rolls into a
new series tomorrow, Markit said.  “Triggering CDS might have more positive than negative
implications for European government bond markets,” said
 Ioannis Sokos , a fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “It’s a clear demonstration that there is a functioning
hedging tool out there for holders of other peripheral bonds.”  Investor concern that  Portugal  will follow Greece in
seeking to reduce its debt burden by imposing losses on private
bondholders has driven up the cost of insuring $10 million of
that nation’s debt for five years to $3.6 million in advance and
$100,000 annually. The price of credit-default swaps signals a
66 percent chance of default, according to CMA.  Trichet Opposition  Former European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
led opposition to triggering Greek swaps on concern traders
would be encouraged to bet against failing nations and profit
from the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  In Greece’s restructuring, investors were forced to write
off more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion) of debt in return
for new bonds worth 31.5 percent of their original investment.
Contracts wouldn’t have been triggered if the debt exchange had
been voluntary, according to  ISDA ’s rules.  Traders were anticipating a swaps payout of about 80 cents,
based on the price of Greece’s new 30-year securities.  It’s “fortunate” that the price of the new bonds is
“almost exactly the same” as the bonds that were exchanged,
according to Michael Hampden-Turner, a strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in  London . The swaps payout might have been smaller if the
new bonds had a higher face value, he wrote in a March 16 note.  “The result was something of a lucky break,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  