-- Greece Auction to Settle $3.2 Billion of Credit-Default Swaps
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-03-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/greece-auction-to-settle-3-2-billion-of-credit-default-swaps.html
Credit-default swaps dealers will
hold an auction today to settle as much as $3.2 billion of Greek
bond insurance triggered by the nation’s debt restructuring.  The auction will be held under the rules of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association and will determine
the amount that sellers of protection must pay by setting a
recovery price for Greek bonds. An initial rate will be set at
11 a.m.  London  time with a final value determined at 3:30 p.m.  Greek credit-default swaps are being settled after
investors were forced to exchange their bonds at a loss in the
biggest ever debt restructuring. The auction ends more than two
years of speculation over whether the derivatives are viable for
insuring sovereign debt after European policy makers sought to
prevent payouts on concern they’d worsen the region’s crisis.  “Triggering CDS might have more positive than negative
implications for European government bond markets,” said
 Ioannis Sokos , a fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “It’s a clear demonstration that there is a functioning
hedging tool out there for holders of other peripheral bonds.”  Sellers of  protection  will pay buyers face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent.
The results of the auction will be posted on  Creditfixings.com ,
a website run by Creditex, a New York-based derivatives broker,
and financial information provider Markit Group Ltd.  Portugal Risk  Investor concern that  Portugal  will follow Greece in
seeking to reduce its debt burden by imposing losses on private
bondholders has driven up the cost of insuring $10 million of
that nation’s debt for five years to $3.65 million in advance
and $100,000 annually. The price of credit-default swaps signals
a 66 percent chance of default, according to CMA.  Former European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
led opposition to triggering Greek swaps on concern traders
would be encouraged to bet against failing nations and profit
from the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  In Greece’s restructuring, investors were forced to write
off more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion) of debt in return
for new bonds worth 31.5 percent of their original investment.
investment. Contracts wouldn’t have been triggered if the debt
exchange had been voluntary, according to  ISDA ’s rules.  “If  Greece  and EU authorities had invalidated the reason
for existence of CDS contracts, this could create selling
pressures on other peripheral bond markets,” BNP’s Sokos said.  Traders will set a recovery rate for the bonds of about 20
cents on the euro, causing a swaps payout of 80 cents, based on
the price of the new 30-year Greek securities. Investors are
using the longest-dated notes to calculate the settlement,
according to Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at
ING Groep NV.  “It’s positive for the CDS market because the meaning of
the instrument is to protect against default,” said Amsterdam-
based Giansanti. “It’s important to give investors a way to
hedge exposure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  