-- Microsoft Said to Finish Windows 8 in Summer, Debut October
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-03-20T14:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/microsoft-said-to-finish-windows-8-in-summer-with-october-debut.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will finish work on
Windows 8 this summer, setting the stage for personal computers
and tablets with the operating system to go on sale around
October, according to people with knowledge of the schedule.  The initial rollout will include devices running  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  chips, making good on Microsoft’s
promise to support both standards, said the people, who declined
to be named because the plans are confidential. In embracing ARM
technology, Microsoft is using the same kind of processors as
Apple Inc.’s iPad. Still, there will be fewer than five ARM
devices in the debut, compared with more than 40 Intel machines.  The timing would let Microsoft target Christmas shoppers
with the new software, which works with touch-screen devices as
well as laptops and desktop PCs. The Redmond, Washington-based
company, which hasn’t announced timing for the Windows 8
release, aims to take back sales lost to the iPad and
reinvigorate the sluggish PC market.  Apple (AAPL)  released the third
version of the iPad this month, posing an even stiffer challenge
to Microsoft.  “If they miss the September-October time frame, they’re
going to be stuck without being able to ship anything in 2012,”
said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-
based Gartner Inc. “The last thing Microsoft wants to have is a
situation where there are no compelling Windows tablets at a
time when the new iPad looks like it’s going to be a good seller
for the holidays.”  April Event  The launch of Windows 8 and the “excitement” generated by
ultrabooks and other ultra-thin notebooks should drive sales of
personal computers in the second half of next year, after “only
modest shipment growth” in the first six months, IDC Corp. said
in a statement today. IDC expects 2012 PC growth to be 5 percent
after an 1.8 percent gain last year.  Microsoft will host an event for its industry partners in
early April, the people said. The company will spell out its
release strategy for Windows 8, giving more details on timing
and marketing, they said.  There will be fewer ARM-based devices in the rollout
because Microsoft has tightly controlled the number and set
rigorous quality-control standards, said one of the people. The
new version of Windows will be the first to use ARM processors,
which are most commonly found in smartphones. Windows 7, the
current version, only works with Intel’s technology. Three of
the Windows 8 ARM devices will be tablets, the people said.  Texas Instruments, Qualcomm  Mark Martin , a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment, as did Intel’s Jon Carvill. Representatives of  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA) ,  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the three chip
companies that are supplying ARM-based processors to the makers
of the new computers, referred questions on the availability of
devices to Microsoft.  More than 103 million tablet devices will be sold in 2012,
with sales rising to 326.3 million in 2015, according to
Gartner. For now, Apple remains dominant, accounting for two-
thirds of the market in 2012, Gartner estimates. The company’s
share will drop to 46 percent by 2015, while Microsoft’s
percentage will climb to 11 percent.  Getting Windows 8 ready for Intel processors is the easier
part -- Windows has always run on Intel chips. The full version
of Windows has never run on ARM products, meanwhile, so that
process is taking longer. When Microsoft released a test version
of Windows 8 for developers in September, the software only ran
on Intel technology.  Steven Sinofsky, president of the Windows business, has
said repeatedly that Microsoft plans to have both ARM and Intel-
based systems available when Windows 8 is released.  “Our collective goal is for them to ship at the same
time,” he said in an interview last month. “I wouldn’t be
saying it’s a goal if I didn’t think we could do it.”  Microsoft fell 1.2 percent to $31.83 at 9:46 a.m. New York
time. The shares had risen 24 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  