-- Microsoft Taps McCann Manager to Head Windows Phone Marketing
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-03-19T21:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/microsoft-taps-mccann-manager-to-head-windows-phone-marketing.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  named Thom Gruhler,
who oversaw advertising campaigns for telecom and technology
clients at McCann Worldgroup, to run Windows Phone marketing.  Gruhler, 42, was global managing partner of telecom and
technology at the agency, Microsoft, the world’s biggest
software company, said today in a  statement  on its website.
Before that he ran the Verizon Wireless account, overseeing the
teams that developed the “Can you hear me now?” campaign. He
becomes the third marketing vice president to try selling
Microsoft’s revamped Windows Phone software.  While the product has gotten positive reviews, it accounts
for a 2 percent share of the market for smartphone operating
systems, according to Gartner Inc., a research company. In
December, Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer 
removed  Andy Lees  as head of the phone-software business, naming
Terry Myerson to the post.  “Windows Phone is a uniquely compelling product, and Thom
will help us bring that to life for our customers,” Myerson
said in the statement.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft is refining its
marketing plan for targeting the consumers it believes will
respond to the Windows Phone brand, Myerson said in an interview
last month.  Lees said in an interview last year that the phones would
see an increase in marketing dollars, which may be spent to
improve incentives for retailers’ employees to tout Windows
Phones to customers.  The job of marketing vice president was last held by Achim
Berg, who moved to oversee relationships with operators last
year. Windows Phone 7 was introduced in 2010 with marketing led
by Todd Peters, an executive Microsoft recruited from Staples
Inc. to add consumer-marketing experience.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  