-- Highfields Calls CoreLogic’s Board Proposal ‘Disappointing’
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-03-19T20:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/highfields-says-corelogic-board-expansion-plan-disappointing-.html
Highfields Capital Management LP,
the $11 billion investment firm run by Jonathon S. Jacobson,
said  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) ’s plan to add new independent directors to
its board doesn’t go far enough to address investor concerns.  CoreLogic, which sells property and credit data, said today
in a statement that it intends to add two independent directors
and has hired an executive-search firm to help in the process.  “Today’s announcement of a simple board expansion does not
go nearly far enough and reminds us of half-measures taken in
the past,” Jacobson said in a statement today.  CoreLogic said on Feb. 27 that its board voted to end a
strategic review started in August to explore options including
a sale or merger of the  Santa Ana , California-based company and
divestiture of some of its businesses. The following day,
Boston-based Highfields, CoreLogic’s largest shareholder, called
for a management change, saying the firm failed to meet promises
on monitoring management’s progress on its latest operating
plan.  CoreLogic’s announcement today is “disappointing,”
Jacobson said. The firm’s planned expansion won’t change the
fact that the board continues to be controlled by the same six
directors hand-picked by the current or former chairman and
won’t result in a change in leadership, he said.  “It indicates that the CoreLogic board remains interested
only in making cosmetic changes rather than recognizing that
shareholders deserve better stewardship,” Jacobson said.  Meeting Postponed  Alyson Austin, a spokeswoman for CoreLogic, didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment.  “Our business continues to perform well and the market
reaction to the successful execution of our business plan and
most recent results has been extremely positive,” Anand Nallathambi, CoreLogic’s chief executive officer, said in the
firm’s statement. “We appreciate the strong support we have
received from our stockholders during this period, and we
welcome their input as we embark on the director search
process.”  The firm said that it will postpone its annual general
meeting of stockholders so that the corporate governance
committee has enough time to select qualified candidates.  CoreLogic gained 0.3 percent to close at $16.78 in New York
trading. The firm’s shares have climbed 30 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  