-- IMF’s Zhu Sees ‘Soft-Landing’ Even as Property Slides: Economy
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-03-19T04:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/imf-s-zhu-sees-soft-landing-even-as-property-slides-economy.html
International Monetary Fund
official Zhu Min said  China  will avoid an economic hard-landing
even as government data showed property prices falling in most
of the nation’s biggest cities.  “China’s heading for a soft-landing,” Zhu, a deputy
managing director at the IMF, said at a conference in Hong Kong
today, adding that the pace of investment remained strong even
after slowing. Prices of new apartments fell in 45 of 70 cities
in February from January, the statistics bureau said yesterday.  Premier Wen Jiabao has prolonged a crackdown on real-estate
speculation to reduce the risk of asset-price bubbles and make
housing affordable, telling lawmakers this month that prices
remain far from “reasonable.” Zhu’s comments contrast with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategist  Adrian Mowat  saying last week
that weakness in car sales and cement and steel production
indicate the nation is already experiencing “a hard landing.”  Chinese stocks fell on the property data, with the Shanghai
Composite Index down 0.3 percent as of the 11:30 a.m. local time
break in trading.  Zhu, a former deputy governor of China’s central bank,
echoed IMF head  Christine Lagarde  in highlighting risks to the
global economy even as he acknowledged signs of improvement.
 Europe ’s financial markets are “very fragile” and while
emerging market growth is strong, it’s “weaker than expected,”
he said. The world expansion is slowing, he added.  In Beijing yesterday, Lagarde cautioned policy makers
against a false sense of security as the world economy
stabilizes, highlighting elevated  oil prices , debt levels in
developed nations and the risk of slowing growth in  emerging
markets .  South Korea, Hong Kong  Elsewhere in  Asia , South Korea today reported that
department store sales rebounded last month, while  Hong Kong  may
say unemployment climbed in February, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  Italy may say industrial orders fell in January from the
previous month, a Bloomberg survey showed. The  European Central
Bank  will release euro-zone current account figures for January,
while the European Union’s statistics office will report the
region’s construction output for the same month.  In the U.S., the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo may say its index of builder confidence
rose for a sixth straight month to 30 in March, from 29 in
February, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  Property Campaign  In China, a two-year campaign to rein in property prices
has included measures such as higher down payments and mortgage
rates, and purchase restrictions. A government program to build
millions of low-cost homes may help to counter the drag on
economic growth.  New  home prices  fell in 27 of 70 cities last month from a
year earlier and prices were unchanged in six cities, the
national statistics bureau said in a statement on its website
yesterday.  “China’s home prices fell further, but it doesn’t mean
there will be a policy loosening any time soon,” said  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The
government is not worried too much about the impact of a slowing
property market on economic growth because investment in social
housing will still be big.”  Among major cities, home prices in both Beijing and the
financial center of  Shanghai  fell 0.4 percent last month from a
year ago. In the south, Shenzhen declined 0.2 percent, while
Guangzhou rose by 0.3 percent from 2011.  “We’re still not sure when is the bottom but we’re sure
that we’re still heading for the bottom rather than hitting the
bottom,” said Bei Fu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s . “Liquidity is the highest risk Chinese developers are
facing.”  Prices have gone up “very substantially” over the past
few years and the central government is very determined to
control prices to maintain social stability, said Fu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  