-- IMF May Conclude Egypt Loan Talks ‘In Next Couple of Months’
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 1 5 1 9 4 4 ]   M a r i a m   F a m   [ ]
-- 2012-03-19T17:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/imf-may-conclude-egypt-loan-talks-in-next-couple-of-months-1-.html
     March 19 (Bloomberg) --The  International Monetary Fund 
expects that “if everything moves forward,” talks with  Egypt 
over a $3.2 billion loan should conclude “in the next couple of
months,” the fund’s regional director said.  “This visit was never intended to conclude an agreement,”
 Masood Ahmed , director of the IMF’s  Middle East  and Central Asia
Department, said in a phone interview during a trip to the North
African country. The fund’s technical team “will work with the
authorities on the contents of the program. We will then also
work with them to identify that the program has broad support.”  Egypt officially requested the loan from the fund in
January, as the government seeks to boost an economy struggling
to recover from a year of unrest in the wake of the uprising
that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . The economy grew 1.8 percent in the
fiscal year through June, the slowest pace in at least a decade.
The Washington-based lender wants the Arab country to submit an
economic program that has popular support.  Such support “is needed to ensure implementation in a
transitional period, beyond the transition,” said Ahmed. “We
will be working with them over the next few weeks to help them
mobilize financing for the program.”  After meeting the IMF mission today, the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Freedom & Justice Party, which makes up the
largest bloc in the parliament, said it still doesn’t have
enough information about how Egypt will use and repay the
requested loan.  Loan Alternatives  The Egyptian government “hasn’t yet provided the economic
measures plan linked to the loan,” party chairman Mohamed Morsi
said, according to an e-mailed statement. The government
“didn’t exert the required effort to find alternatives that do
not add to the public debt burden,” it cited him as saying.  The comments by the group “definitely point to the lack of
political consensus,” Said Hirsh, a Middle East economist at
 Capital Economics  in  London , said by phone. “There are
definitely several obstacles to overcome in relation to the IMF
program.”  Ahmed said the feedback from Freedom and Justice party
officials “was that they’re open to the idea of working with
the IMF and the  World Bank . They see these as credible
institutions.”  The party “also said that at this stage they
want to get some more information on the details of the policies
behind the program that the government has put forward to the
parliament,” he said.  Falling Reserves  “We have said from the very beginning that it’s better to
take one’s time and make sure that there’s a program that has a
broad support,” said Ahmed. “We think it’s a good idea that
there’s a discussion and a broad debate about the measures
before they are finalized.”  Egypt’s net international reserves have fallen for 14
straight months since last year’s uprising, to $15.7 billion in
February.  “While reserve decline has slowed in February this year,
that should not be any cause for complacency - reserve decline
slowed previously as well, only to pick up pace sharply,” Raza Agha, London-based senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc., said in response to e-mailed questions. “Hence, the
pressure remains to come to an IMF agreement sooner rather than
later, so that inflows from other donors can also start
flowing.”  Ahmed said the deterioration in reserves “demonstrates the
need to act on a program that will both stabilize and then
increase and build these reserves.”  The IMF mission will meet tomorrow with members of
parliament, he said.  “I think that will be a very good opportunity to hear
their views and to explain and answer any questions they have
about the IMF,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  