-- India Rail Chief Resigns Over Fares Amid Coalition Strains
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c a s k i l l
-- 2012-03-19T15:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/india-rail-chief-resigns-over-fare-rise-backlash-pti-says-1-.html
India’s Railway Minister Dinesh Trivedi resigned following opposition to a decision to raise
train fares, underscoring rifts within the government of Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  that have led to policy paralysis.  Trivedi stepped down after being told to do so by the head
of his party, the Trinamool Congress, he told reporters at the
railway ministry today. Trivedi said he had tried to do what was
best for the country by raising fares to boost revenue.  “I told my leader the day you want me to go all you have
to do is tell me, that’s what happened yesterday,” Trivedi said
as he thanked employees. “I’ve acted as a disciplined soldier.
Discipline is what my parents taught me.”  Divisions within Singh’s ruling group have hampered
government efforts to push through policy changes, like the
easing of investment rules for foreign retailers. The decision
to raise fares for the first time in a decade on  Asia ’s oldest
network drew criticism from Trivedi’s party, Singh’s largest
governing partner, whose members complained they weren’t
consulted on the plan.  ‘Economic Medicine’  “It is yet another sign that the government is struggling
to deliver necessary but unpopular economic medicine,” said P. Phani Sekhar, a  fund manager  at Angel Broking Ltd. based in
 Mumbai . “This has been an utter fiasco.”  President Pratibha Devisingh Patil accepted Trivedi’s
resignation on the advice of Singh, her office said in an e-mail
statement today. Mukul Roy, a Trinamool lawmaker in India’s
upper house, will be sworn in as a cabinet minister at 10 a.m.
tomorrow in New Delhi, according to the statement.  Trinamool controls the railways ministry as part of an
informal agreement in which it provides support for the
Congress-led government.  Trinamool, which took power in West Bengal state last year
as it ended 34 years of communist rule, has 19 lawmakers in the
545-seat lower house of  India ’s parliament. Trinamool leader
Mamata Banerjee has been a source of opposition to Singh in the
past, stalling his plans to bring foreign supermarket chains to
India, as well as blocking passage of an anti-corruption law and
proposals for a nationwide counter-terrorism center.  The government was forced in December to scrap plans to
allow foreign retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  into India
amid opposition from its allies, including Trinamool. Singh
shelved proposals to allow foreign direct investment in pensions
in the same month after Trinamool refused to support the move.  Trivedi denied last week he had been asked to step down,
contradicting statements from Trinamool lawmakers. Trinamool
legislator Suvendu Adhikari said Banerjee had sent Singh a
letter asking for Trivedi to be removed.  “I’m not at all disappointed, I’m very happy,” Trivedi
said today. “I’ll take charge of my family now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  