-- India Stock Futures Gain on Signs Global Economy Stronger
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-03-19T11:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/india-stock-futures-gain-on-signs-global-economy-stronger.html
Indian stocks fell, extending a
four-week loss, as a gain in oil prices spurred concern the
government will find it difficult to curb the fiscal deficit.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest lender, dropped
to a two-week low, pacing decline among its peers.  Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , biggest power-equipment maker, retreated for a
third day.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the country’s top
software exporter, sank 4.1 percent.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, slid 1.1 percent
to 17,273.37 at the close, taking its three-day decline to 3.6
percent. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  missed his deficit
target by the most in three years. The  gap  in finances in the
year ending March 31 will be 5.9 percent of GDP, exceeding the
goal set last year, he said in his speech on March 16. Oil rose
the most in more than three weeks that same day, raising costs
for the nation that relies on imported crude to meet almost 80
percent of its oil requirements.  “Global  oil prices  are the single most important variable
for India,” Prashant Jain, the chief investment officer at HDFC
Asset Management Co., the nation’s biggest money manager with
$18 billion, told Bloomberg UTV. “The U.S. or European growth
rates don’t matter much to us.”  Mukherjee forecast a narrowing in the fiscal gap to 5.1
percent in the year from April 1. Aside from raising taxes, he
proposed capping a subsidy program spanning diesel and cooking
gas to fertilizers to less than 2 percent of GDP, beginning in
the year to March 2013. Higher crude prices deepen losses for
state refiners, which sell fuels below cost under a government
plan to cap prices.  ‘Slippage’  “The government has been too aggressive on the subsidy
assumptions; they seem to be too low,” Manishi Raychaudhuri,
head of Indian equity research at BNP Paribas SA, said in an
interview with Bloomberg UTV today. “If you add up potential
subsidies the government may have to pay on oil, fertilizers and
fuel, that alone would amount to a 50-basis point slippage on
the fiscal-deficit target.”  Higher  government spending  has added to the struggle to
curb inflation, prompting the central bank to call for better
deficit control to boost scope for interest-rate cuts. Growth
slowed to 6.1 percent last quarter from a year ago, the slowest
pace in three years, as costlier credit hurt  consumer spending 
and dented investment. Funding costs have been raised record 13
times from March 2010 to October last year to curb inflation.  “Interest rates will come down over time but the extent of
the fall will be determined by how we tackle the diesel and
petrol prices,” HDFC Asset’s Jain said. “Fuel subsidy should
be close to zero because bulk of the fuel is consumed by people
who are well off.” Diesel costs haven’t been raised since July.  Fund Flows  The Sensex has still risen 12 percent this year as  foreign
funds  poured a net $8.8 billion into local stocks on optimism
slowing inflation will spur the RBI to ease monetary policy.
Emerging-market stock funds are enjoying their best start to a
year since 2006 in terms of inflows, according to data by EPFR
Global. Funds focused on developing nation stocks posted a net
inflow of $453 million for the week ended March 14, the 11th
straight weekly increase, the data show.  “The world is awash with liquidity and India has received
a significant share relative to other  emerging markets ,” BNP’s
Raychaudhuri said. “We could receive a slightly smaller share
in relation to other emerging markets in coming months, causing
Indian equities to underperform.”  The Sensex trades at a price-to-book  ratio  of 2.8, less
than the 10-year average of 3.3, according to Bloomberg data.  India VIX  The S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India slid 1.1 percent to 5,257.05. India VIX, which measures
the cost of protection against declines in the Nifty, fell 0.7
percent to 22.97. The  BSE 200 Index (BSE200)  lost 1.2 percent.  The BSE and NSE  traded  a combined 1,305 million shares on
March 16, 43 percent more than the daily average of 914 million
shares in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  State Bank  dropped 3.2 percent to 2,157.55 rupees.  HDFC
Bank Ltd., (HDFCB)  the third-biggest lender, lost 1.8 percent to 498.85
rupees.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the biggest mortgage
lender, sank 2.4 percent to 650.25 rupees.  Bharat Heavy plunged 4.9 percent to 260.15 rupees.  Tata
Power Co. (TPWR) , the biggest generator outside state control, slid 2.8
percent to 102.6 rupees.  Tata Consultancy sank 4.1 percent to 1,122 rupees.  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s largest refining complex,
lost 2.2 percent to 755.1 rupees, its lowest since Jan. 17.  Overseas  investors  bought a net  9.2 billion rupees  ($182.6
million) of Indian stocks on March 16, raising their investment
in equities this year to 436.5 billion rupees, according to the
market regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  