-- Indian Court Quashes Charges Against Microsoft on Content
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-03-19T12:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/indian-court-quashes-charges-against-microsoft-in-content-case.html
An Indian court quashed charges
against Microsoft Corp.’s local unit of hosting content that was
deemed offensive by some people in the country.
      Delhi High Court  Judge Suresh Kait set aside today a trial
court order for initiating criminal proceedings against
Microsoft for allegedly hosting the content. Company officials
don’t need to appear before a lower court on May 23, he said.  India ’s Information Technology Minister  Kapil Sibal  has
called for stringent rules to restrict provocative online images
and text having the potential to incite religious riots. Vinay
Rai, who edits an Urdu-language newspaper, had asked the lower
court to prosecute 21 companies, saying some material on their
websites had the potential to trigger conflict.  “Microsoft had filed a petition on the grounds that
neither the text of the complaint nor evidence adduced by the
complainant made any reference to Microsoft, and that it was
contrary to law to summon a party against whom no allegation was
made,” Debjani Mukherji, a spokeswoman for Microsoft in the
southern Indian city of Hyderabad, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Judge Kait this month quashed criminal proceedings against
 Yahoo! Inc (YHOO) .’s local unit in the same case. He also last month
exempted executives of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  from
appearance in a lower court.  Google’s local unit last month told a court that it has
removed some content from its India domains, blocking the
material from search results, YouTube and the social-networking
site Orkut.  Hindu-majority India is home to more than 138 million
Muslims, comprising about 13 percent of the world’s second-
largest population. The other minorities include Christians,
Sikhs and Buddhists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  