-- India Ministry Said to Seek Extension of Wind Farm Tax Break
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-19T12:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/indian-ministry-said-to-seek-extension-of-wind-farm-tax-break.html
India’s  renewable energy  ministry
is seeking to extend a tax break for wind farms in the world’s
third-largest market for turbines, said two government officials
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has applied for
approval from Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Cabinet to extend
the incentive known as accelerated depreciation, which is set to
expire on March 31, said the officials, declining to be
identified because the information is private.  The tax break may benefit  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s
largest wind-turbine maker, as the company is more dependent
than other suppliers on customers who claim accelerated
depreciation, an accounting method that allows them to write off
investments at a faster rate, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. If the incentive lapses, demand for turbines in  India 
could slump by 15 percent in the financial year starting April,
according to the London-based researcher.  “The continuation of the accelerated depreciation policy
will allow the sector to be more globally competitive” because
it encourages investment in wind projects especially from
smaller businesses, Suzlon Chairman  Tulsi Tanti  said in comments
e-mailed to Bloomberg News last week before India revealed its
budget proposal, which failed to clarify speculation that the
incentive would be discontinued.  Alternative Subsidy  The government introduced an alternative subsidy called
generation-based incentive in 2009 that rewards farms based on
the amount of power they generate. That’s also due to expire on
March 31 and the ministry has applied for an extension with the
Cabinet, the officials said.  About 90 percent of wind projects built before 2009 claimed
accelerated depreciation, and the incentive still drives about
25 percent of yearly installations, according to Mumbai-based
Ambit Capital Pvt.  India installed some $3 billion of turbines from
manufacturers including  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) ,  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA last year,
according to the Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers’ Association.
The two biggest suppliers, Suzlon and Enercon India Ltd., along
with Leitner Shriram Manufacturing Ltd. are the most dependent
on accelerated-depreciation customers, according to New Energy
Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  