-- Inflation in U.S. May Rise to 3% This Year, Barclays’ Pond Says
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-19T19:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/inflation-in-u-s-may-rise-to-3-this-year-barclays-pond-says.html
Inflation will rise to near 3
percent this year as the  Federal Reserve  makes unemployment its
top priority, believing it can tackle potential price increases
with monetary policy, according to Barclays Plc’s Michael Pond.  “The core  Federal Open Market Committee  voters are all for
risking higher inflation in order to get the unemployment side
of their mandate closer to where they want it to be,” Pond, co-
head of interest-rate strategy at the bank’s  Barclays Capital 
unit in New York, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “We think  core
inflation  continues to move up towards three percent to the end
of this year.”  Year-over-year core inflation rose 2.2 percent in February,
the U.S. Labor Department reported March 16, the seventh
straight month over 2 percent and the longest such streak since
November 2008. During those seven months, the unemployment  rate 
fell to 8.3 percent from 9.1 percent. The Fed’s goal is 5.5
percent, Pond said.  The 10-year  break-even  rate, a measure of inflation
expectation derived from the difference between 10-year notes
and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, climbed to 2.42
percent today, the most since August.  “One of the things we have seen is a big pick-up in
inflation expectation the last couple weeks with the economy
showing signs of continued life and the Fed keeping its foot on
the gas pedal,” Pond said. “Not pressing down harder, but not
putting on the brakes.”  ‘Just Experiment’  The Fed is willing to risk higher inflation, Pond said,
because an environment with high inflation and low unemployment
is easier to fix through monetary policy.  “When inflation is high, monetary policy is very easy for
them -- they simply raise rates until they crush the economy
enough that inflation comes down,” he said. “When it is too
low and you’re at a fed funds rate of zero percent, you just
experiment. They want to get in their comfort zone.”  The central bank has kept its overnight-lending rate
between zero and 0.25 percent since Dec. 2008, while buying $2.3
trillion of securities in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing in a bid to boost the economy. The Fed is also replacing
$400 billion of shorter-term Treasuries with longer-term debt in
a program known as Operation Twist, due to end in June.  There is concern that because so much money has been pumped
into the market by the central bank that inflation could become
very elevated, as much as “6, 7, 18 percent,” Pond said.
Inflation levels are remaining low due to the lack of velocity,
or spending, in the economy, he said.  “The Fed can put as much money as it wants out there, but
if people put that in bank accounts or banks park it in
reserves, it won’t cause massive inflation,” he said. “Once
the economy picks up, the velocity of money will increase, and
that’s when the Fed could let the inflation cat out of the
bag.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  