-- Iranian Supertanker Shows Southern Malaysia as Next Destination
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-03-19T03:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/iranian-supertanker-shows-southern-malaysia-as-next-destination.html
A fully loaded Iranian tanker that
can hold as much as 2 million barrels of oil is heading toward
the southern Malaysia port of Tanjung Pelepas, near  Singapore ,
according to data from AISLive compiled by Bloomberg.  The Hamoon, a very large crude carrier owned by National
Iranian Tanker Co., set its destination to Tanjung Pelepas on
March 17 and was traveling at 8.8 knots, the data shows. The
ship signaled on March 9 that it was headed to Singapore. The
Hamoon is 22 meters (72 feet) deep in the water, compared with a
maximum draft of 22.2 meters, the data shows.  A National Iranian official contacted in Tehran on March 11
said the ship was heading to Singapore. The final buyer for the
cargo and destination wasn’t known, the official said, declining
to be identified because of company policy. Data on destinations
are usually entered by ships’ officers and are sometimes subject
to errors.  Another VLCC owned by the Iranian company, the Delvar, set
sail to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s 500,000-barrel-day refinery off
Singapore on March 2 after anchoring for almost one week
offshore the city-state, according to ASLive data. The Delvar
was 15.5 meters deep in the water when it signaled it was headed
to the Bukom facility on March 1, the data showed. After
anchoring for two days, it set its destination to Kharg Island
and departed with a draft of 11.8 meters, according to the
AISLive data.  Iran  faces a European Union embargo on the purchase,
transportation, financing and insurance of its oil from July 1
because of its nuclear program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  