-- Isner Breaks Into Top Ten, Djokovic Keeps No. 1 Spot in Tennis
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-19T11:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/isner-breaks-into-top-ten-djokovic-keeps-no-1-spot-in-tennis.html
John Isner  of the U.S. broke into
the top ten of the men’s tennis tour for the first time in his
career after he reached the BNP Paribas Open finals in Indian
Wells, California.  Isner, who lost his first Masters finals to Roger Federer
of Switzerland in straight sets yesterday, moved up one spot to
No. 10 on the rankings of the ATP World Tour released today.
Isner, 26, had reached the title match by beating Wimbledon,
U.S. Open and Australian champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia in
the semi-finals.  The top eight of the ATP World Tour remained the same, with
Djokovic at No. 1, followed by Rafael Nadal of Spain, Federer at
No. 3 and Britain’s  Andy Murray  occupying the fourth spot.  Juan Martin Del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion from
Argentina, dropped two places to No. 11. Mardy Fish of the U.S.
stayed at No. 8.  Isner achieved global fame in 2010, when he played the
longest match in tennis history. He beat France’s Nicolas Mahut
in the first round of Wimbledon in a match that lasted 11 hours,
5 minutes and took three days to complete. The 6-foot-9 American
is one of the strongest servers on the tour, producing an
average of 15.1 aces per match. Djokovic averages 6.3 aces per
match, Nadal 3.7 and Federer 7.6, according to statistics on the
ATP website.  Victoria Azarenka remained at No. 1 on the women’s WTA
Tour. The Belarussian yesterday posted her 23rd victory this
season with a straight sets win over second-ranked  Maria Sharapova  of Russia. Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the
 Czech Republic  is at No. 3. Former world No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki dropped two spots to No. 6, after the Dane lost in the
fourth round in  Indian Wells .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 