-- Israelis Grow Confident Strike on Iran’s Nukes Can Work
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-03-19T23:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/israelis-grow-confident-strike-on-iran-s-nukes-can-work.html
In 2005, Benjamin Netanyahu, who
was then  Israel ’s finance minister, made an official visit to
 Uganda .  For Netanyahu, visits to Uganda are weighted with sadness.
It was at the airport in Entebbe that his older brother, Yonatan
Netanyahu, was shot dead by a Ugandan soldier. Yonatan was the
leader of an Israeli commando team dispatched by Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin in July 1976 to rescue Jewish hostages held by
pro-Palestinian terrorists. The terrorists had diverted an Air
France flight to Uganda, where the then-dictator, the infamous
 Idi Amin , gave them refuge.  The raid was a near-total success. The hijackers were all
killed, along with dozens of Ugandan soldiers posted to the
airport by Amin to protect the terrorists. Only three hostages
died; 102 were rescued. (A fourth was later murdered in a
Ugandan hospital.) Yonatan was the only Israeli soldier killed.  In his 2005 visit,  Benjamin Netanyahu  was welcomed by the
current president of Uganda,  Yoweri Museveni , who was an anti-
Amin guerilla leader at the time of the Entebbe raid. Museveni
accompanied Netanyahu to the airport, and unveiled a plaque in
his brother’s memory. The Ugandan president told him that the
Israeli raid on Entebbe was a turning point in the struggle
against Amin. It bolstered the opposition’s spirits and proved
to them that Amin was vulnerable. Amin’s government would fall
some two and half years later.  Unclothe the Emperor  A widely held assumption about a pre-emptive strike on
Iran’s nuclear facilities is that it would spur Iranian citizens
-- many of whom appear to despise their rulers -- to rally
around the regime. But Netanyahu, I’m told, believes a
successful raid could unclothe the emperor, emboldening  Iran ’s
citizens to overthrow the regime (as they tried to do,
unsuccessfully, in 2009).  You might call this the Museveni Paradigm. It’s one of
several arguments I’ve heard in the past week, as I’ve shuttled
between Tel Aviv and  Jerusalem , that have convinced me that
Israeli national-security officials are considering a pre-
emptive strike in the near future.  Last week, I argued that Netanyahu’s campaign to convince
the West that  Iran’s nuclear program  represents a threat -- not
only to his country but also to the entire Middle East and
beyond -- has worked so well that it could represent the perfect
bluff. After all, on his recent visit to  Washington , Netanyahu
managed to avoid discussing the Palestinian issue with President
 Barack Obama , and he heard Obama vow that the U.S. wouldn’t be
content to merely contain a nuclear Iran.  After interviewing many people with direct knowledge of
internal government thinking, however, I’m highly confident that
Netanyahu isn’t bluffing -- that he is in fact counting down to
the day when he will authorize a strike against a half-dozen or
more Iranian nuclear sites.  One reason I’m now more convinced is that Netanyahu and
Defense Minister Ehud Barak are working hard to convince other
members of the Israeli cabinet that a strike might soon be
necessary.  But I also heard from Israeli national-security officials a
number of best-case scenarios about the consequences of an
attack, which suggested to me that they believe they have
thought through all the risks -- and that they keep coming to
the same conclusions.  All-out War  One conclusion key officials have reached is that a strike
on six or eight Iranian facilities will not lead, as is
generally assumed, to all-out war. This argument holds that the
Iranians might choose to cover up an attack, in the manner of
the Syrian government when its nuclear facility was destroyed by
the Israeli  air force  in 2007. An Israeli strike wouldn’t focus
on densely populated cities, so the Iranian government might be
able to control, to some degree, the flow of information about
it.  Some Israeli officials believe that Iran’s leaders might
choose to play down the insult of a raid and launch a handful of
rockets at  Tel Aviv  as an angry gesture, rather than declare
all-out war. I’m not endorsing this view, but I was struck by
its optimism. (A war game held by the U.S. military this month
came to the opposite conclusion, according to the New York
Times: A strike would likely lead to a  wider war  that could
include the U.S.)  Another theory making the rounds was that Obama has so
deeply internalized the argument that Israel has the sovereign
right to defend itself against a threat to its existence that an
Israeli attack, even one launched against U.S. wishes, wouldn’t
anger him. In this scenario, Obama would move immediately to
help buttress Israel’s defenses against an Iranian
counterstrike.  Some Israeli security officials also believe that Iran
won’t target American ships or installations in the  Middle East 
in retaliation for a strike, as many American officials fear,
because the leadership in Tehran understands that American
retaliation for an Iranian attack could be so severe as to
threaten the regime itself.  This contradicts Netanyahu’s assertion, first made to me
three years ago, that Iran’s rulers are members of a “ messianic,
apocalyptic cult ,” unmoved by the calculations of rational self-
interest. It also contradicts the results of the U.S. war game.
But it does make sense if you believe that regime survival is an
important goal of the ayatollahs.  Finally, and even more disquieting, was the contention I
heard repeatedly that an Israeli strike in the next six months -
- conducted before Iran can further harden its nuclear sites, or
make them redundant -- will set back the ayatollahs’ atomic
ambitions at least five years. American military planners tend
to think that Israel could do only a year or two worth of
damage.  The arguments I’ve outlined here -- and those I’ll describe
in my next column -- all lead to a single conclusion: The
Israeli political leadership increasingly believes that an
attack on Iran will not be the disaster many American officials,
and some ex-Israeli security officials, fear it will be.  These were vertigo-inducing conversations, to say the
least. Next week, I’ll discuss why, from Netanyahu’s
perspective, a strike on Iran, even if only marginally
successful, might be worth the risk -- and may be historically
inevitable.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 