-- Italy Holds Derivatives on $211 Billion of Debt
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-03-19T15:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/italy-holds-derivatives-on-211-billion-of-debt.html
Italy  holds derivatives contracts
on about 160 billion euros ($211 billion) of debt or almost 10
percent of  government securities  in circulation, a government
official said.  “The notional value of derivatives to cover debt issued by
the Italian Republic amounts to about 160 billion euros, and the
circulating securities on Jan. 31 were 1.624 trillion euros
worth,” Education Undersecretary Marco Rossi Doria told the
Italian Parliament on March 15, according to  minutes  posted on
the Lower Chamber’s website.  Italy has lost more than $31 billion on its derivatives at
current market values, according to data compiled by the
Bloomberg Brief Risk newsletter from  regulatory filings . In the
mid-1990s Italy began using interest-rate swaps and swaptions,
options to enter into a swap, to cut the cost of servicing that
debt, a person with knowledge of Italy’s contracts said.  Out of the notional value of the derivative contracts Italy
currently holds, about 100 billion euros are in interest-rate
swap contracts, 36 billion in cross-currency swaps and 20
billion euros in swaptions, Doria said.  Morgan Stanley  On Jan. 19  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said in  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that it had reduced its
Italian exposure by $3.4 billion. Italy paid the money to unwind
derivatives from the 1990s that had backfired, said a person
with direct knowledge of the Treasury’s payment, who declined to
be identified because the terms were private.  The Treasury “closed the derivative contracts, two
interest swaps and two swaptions, with Morgan Stanley as a
consequence of an ‘Additional Termination Event’ clause included
in the master agreement” with the bank, Doria told lawmakers.
“Such a clause, dating back to the signing of the contract in
1994, was unique and not included in any other contract between
the Treasury and its counterparts.”  The five largest U.S. swap dealers --  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. -- have a combined net derivative
counterparty exposure to Italy of $19.5 billion, filings show.
When added to figures for European banks released in the
European Banking Authority’s round of stress tests last year,
the total rises to as much as $31 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  