-- Japan’s Teachers Fund to Start Investing in REITs, Hedge Funds
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-03-19T01:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/japan-s-teachers-fund-to-start-investing-in-reits-hedge-funds.html
Japan ’s  Teachers’ Mutual Aid Co-
operative Society , which manages $8.4 billion on behalf of its
members, plans to start investing in real estate investment
trusts and  hedge funds  for the first time to diversify risk.  The organization may allocate as much as 60 billion yen
($719 million) in J-REITs and hedge funds as early as September,
said Toru Higuchi, a general manager of the organization’s asset
management department. Teachers’ Mutual Aid will also invest in
open-ended real estate funds and stocks that provide stable
dividends, such as  utility companies , he said.  The 47-year-old organization voted last week for the
adoption of a new investment strategy designed to counter a
decline in value for both stocks and bonds, which have been its
only investments. The plan may buoy Japan’s listed REITs, which
have gained 18 percent this year.  “We have drastically changed our way of managing assets,”
Higuchi said in an interview in  Tokyo  last week. “There is a
limit to what stocks and bonds can do. We aim to expand our
choice of investment to diversify risks.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average plunged by more than 30
percent in the six months from September 2008, when Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, while the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index dropped 38 percent in 2008. The U.S. benchmark 10-year
note yield also fell by almost half that year and the 10-year
Japanese government bond yield dropped 33 1/2 basis points, the
most since 2002.  AIJ Suspension  Those declines prompted Japan’s Teachers’ fund to report
its first ever loss for the year ended March 2009, according to
the fund.  The suspension last month of AIJ Investment Advisors Co. by
the nation’s regulator for possibly losing clients’ money hasn’t
deterred the Teachers’ fund from seeking alternatives to stocks
and bonds, Higuchi said.  “AIJ is an individual case and problems lie in decision
making and risk management of pension funds that entrusted their
funds with AIJ. What happened to AIJ doesn’t mean that others
are like AIJ,” he said. “We haven’t changed our cautious
stance in terms of risk management and decision process.”  Japan’s pension funds have the world’s second-largest pool
of assets after the U.S. with $3.47 trillion, according to
 Towers Watson & Co.  The pension assets had a compound annual
growth rate of 0.2 percent over the past ten years, it said.  Growing Alternatives  Japanese pension funds have a total of 37 percent
investment in equity and 56 percent in bonds, with only 4
percent in alternative assets such as real estate, according to
the report. That compares with 24 percent in such assets in the
U.S. and 25 percent in  Australia , it said.  In the year ended March 2011, 53 percent of the Teachers’
Mutual’s assets were in government and corporate bonds. It had 6
percent of assets in Japanese stocks, 5 percent in foreign bonds
and 4 percent in overseas stocks. The rest were in cash and
general account of life insurers, according to the fund.  The 529,800-member organization offers teachers coverage
including medical, automobile and fire insurance. Teachers’
Mutual earned returns on assets of 0.5 percent in the year ended
March 2011 and 0.3 percent a year earlier. The fund had a loss
of 0.6 percent in the book value of its assets in the year ended
March 2009, according to its statements.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index (TSEREIT)  has a dividend yield of
5.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, compared
with 2.2 percent for the benchmark Topix index. The  REIT index 
has gained 19 percent this year.  Teachers’ Mutual, which manages 703.9 billion yen, will
finalize its asset allocation target in June and select
investment advisers to help with its investment in REITs, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  