-- Jumeirah May Manage Second Istanbul Hotel After Pera Palace
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-03-19T12:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/jumeirah-may-manage-second-istanbul-hotel-after-pera-palace-1-.html
Jumeirah Group LLC, the Dubai-based
company that agreed to operate Istanbul’s Pera Palace Hotel last
week, is in talks to manage another hotel in  Turkey ’s largest
city.  Jumeirah may also run the Macka Hotel, which is due to open
by the end of the year, Executive Chairman Gerald Lawless said
at a briefing at the Pera Palace Hotel today. The Macka Hotel is
being built by  Demsa Group , owner of the Pera Palace, at a cost
of about $145 million, he said.  “In the hotel business, one hotel leads to another in a
country,” Lawless said.  Jumeirah will manage 20 properties around the world by the
middle of the year, Lawless said in an interview after the
briefing. The company currently operates 13 hotels, including
Dubai’s sail-shaped Burj Al Arab hotel, according to its
 website .  Like      Hilton Worldwide Inc (HLN) . and  Rezidor Hotel Group AB (REZT) ,
Jumeirah is trying to benefit from a Turkish economy that grew
more than any other major industrial country apart from  China 
last year. Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is
seeking more investment from Middle East countries including the
United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Qatar as the sovereign debt
crisis in  Europe  crimps the capital available to European
companies for investment overseas.  The Pera Palace was built in 1892 to accommodate passengers
on the Orient Express train service from Europe, according to
its  website.  The 115 rooms include one named after Agatha Christie, where the author is said to have written “Murder on
the Orient Express,” according to the hotel’s website.  Greta Garbo and  Ernest Hemingway  also stayed at the hotel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 