-- Kensington and Chelsea Home Prices Top 2 Million Pounds: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-19T11:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/kensington-and-chelsea-home-prices-breach-2-million-pound-mark.html
Kensington and Chelsea helped to
push the asking price of a London home to a record this month as
average values in the district broke through the 2 million-pound
($3.17 million) level for the first time,  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  said.  Asking prices in Kensington and Chelsea increased 5.9
percent from February, the operator of Britain’s biggest
property website said in a report today. Values in London rose
1.3 percent to 455,159 pounds, while the  average price  across
England and Wales gained 1.6 percent to 236,939 pounds.  “The traditionally buoyant spring market has combined with
a shortage of supply and brisk turnover of property,” said
 Miles Shipside , commercial director of Rightmove. “Sellers
again have the confidence and required level of funds to
motivate them to trade up, though no doubt some are deciding to
take advantage of the record prices and trade out.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday
that he plans a crackdown on  tax evasion  on property
transactions and that his budget in two days will aim to help
lower-income workers. Osborne is trying to win the backing of
his Liberal Democrat coalition partners, who have called for a
“mansion tax” on expensive homes.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a member of the Liberal
Democrats, has said that the threshold for the levy should be
houses valued at more than 2 million pounds.  Temporary Boost  U.K. housing is getting a temporary boost as first-time
buyers move to beat the expiration of a property-tax exemption
this month. A  price gauge  by the  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors rose to a 19-month high in February.  Rightmove said indicators suggest that property-market
activity in 2012 will be “more robust” than last year. Still,
it added that the end of the exemption on a transaction tax for
some first-time buyers is a “potential blow to the all-
important lower end of the housing market.”  From a year earlier,  home prices  in England and Wales were
up 2.2 percent in March, Rightmove said. In London, the annual
increase was 7.3 percent. Nationally, all 10 regions of England
and Wales tracked by the company showed asking prices gained in
March from February.  Osborne has sought to calm speculation over whether he will
scrap Britain’s top 50 percent income-tax rate by promising to
use his budget this week to help less well-off workers. Pledging
“extremely aggressive” measures to stop tax evasion,
particularly on property, Osborne said yesterday that the budget
will include changes “for lifting low-income people out of
tax.”  Deficit Action  The chancellor wants to erase by 2017 the bulk of a  budget
deficit  that equals 9 percent of gross domestic product. Fitch
Ratings cut its outlook on Britain’s AAA credit rating to
negative earlier this month.  The Liberal Democrats say their priority is to take more
low-income households out of paying tax altogether. Cable said
on March 6 the party is willing to scrap the top  tax rate  as
long as Osborne’s Conservatives agreed to introduce new taxes on
the wealthy. Osborne said a decision was made last week on
whether to cut or abolish the 50 percent tax rate on earnings
above 150,000 pounds, without saying what it was.  European stocks fell today, snapping a rally that drove the
region’s benchmark equity index to an eight-month high.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  broke a four-day rally, slipping
0.4 percent as of 11:10 a.m. in London, and Standard & Poor’s
500 Index futures lost 0.2 percent. The yield on the  10-year
Treasury note  declined 2 basis points to 2.27 percent while the
yield on the U.K. note fell 5 basis points to 2.4 percent.  China Property  In  Asia , International Monetary Fund official Zhu Min said
 China  will avoid an economic hard landing even as government
data showed property prices falling in most of the nation’s
biggest cities. “China’s heading for a soft landing,” Zhu, a
deputy managing director at the IMF, said in  Hong Kong  today.  At the same conference,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens also expressed confidence in an economy he said is
closing in on that of the U.S.  The U.S. National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
may say its index of builder confidence rose for a sixth
straight month to 30 in March, from 29 in February, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The report is due to
be published at 10 a.m. in  Washington .  A report in  Europe  today showed  construction output  dropped
for a second month in January, as declines in Spain and Italy
offset gains in Germany and France.  Construction (EUCPTSAM)  in the 17-
nation euro region fell 0.8 percent from December, the European
Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said. From a year
earlier,  output  fell 1.4 percent.  In Italy, industrial orders fell 7.4 percent in January
from the previous month, a separate report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  