-- Korea Set to Try Again on Carbon Trading, Climate Head Says
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-03-19T11:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/korea-set-to-fine-tune-co2-trading-after-vote-climate-head-says.html
South Korea , the fastest-growing
emitter among rich nations, will try again to pass a bill that
sets up  emissions trading  in 2015 and allows lawmakers to work
out details later this year, a top climate official said.  The country, which delayed a decision on Feb. 27 about
legislation to start cap-and-trade, is working to reschedule the
vote, with a target of April or May, Nam Kwang Hee, director
general of the  Presidential Committee  on Green Growth, said in
an interview. The main parties have agreed that emissions
trading will reduce  greenhouse gases  linked to  climate change ,
so the debate is focused on “procedures,” said Nam, 51.  “Ruling and opposition parties shared the conviction that
the bill is needed,” he said. “It’s a matter of procedure
whether the assembly holds session for voting in April or May.”  South Korea would follow Australia and  New Zealand  as the
third country in the Asia Pacific region to use a cap and trade,
a system that lets emitters buy and sell a fixed number of
pollution permits. The Federation of Korean Industries and the
Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, the nation’s largest
business lobbies, have asked the government to delay the plan,
saying it will increase costs and make them less competitive
against countries that don’t charge for emissions.  “We don’t think our legislation pace is slow,” Nam said,
noting that Australia took several years to overcome political
opposition and pass legislation in 2011 that establishes a cap
and trade system in 2015.  Unlike Australia  Tony Abbott ,  Australia ’s opposition leader, has vowed to
repeal climate legislation if he is elected in 2013. Australia’s
upper house of parliament voted in November to support Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s plan to impose a carbon price of A$23
($24.40) a ton for carbon discharges starting in July 2012,
before cap and trade starts three years later.  “Our case is different from Australia, as ruling and
opposition parties are supporting the bill,” Nam said.  Lawmakers hope to avoid the “worst-case scenario” for
South Korea, he said. If the assembly doesn’t hold a session by
the end of May, the government would face having to start over
on the climate bill. All unfinished bills would be abolished
when a new National Assembly is formed in June, Nam said.  Fastest Growing Emitter  South Korea’s greenhouse-gas emissions jumped to about 640
million tons in 2011 from 350 million metric tons in 1990,
making it the fastest-growing pollution source among 34 nations
in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in Feb. 9 report.  Lawmakers agreed at a multiparty panel of the assembly last
month on the need to create a market to help reduce carbon-
dioxide discharges. The assembly’s Legislation and Judiciary
Committee, in a review of the carbon bill, set back a final vote
scheduled for Feb. 27, saying it left too many details to be
resolved after the law is passed.  The government submitted a revised bill on March 2,
specifying that emission limits will apply to companies emitting
more than 125,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide a year or
workplaces having 25,000 metric tons of emissions a year. Park
Jun Seon, a member of parliament who chaired the session this
month of the legislation committee, accepted the revision,
leaving a final vote for legislation when the assembly holds
another session.  Free Permits  If the assembly passes the bill, the government will have
six months to determine the main operating details before the
law takes effect, Nam said. The specifics to be resolved include
setting up an exchange for trading pollution permits, how many
permits should be allocated without charge, and how United
Nations emission credits, also known as offsets, can be used in
the program.  Australian lawmakers agreed to let emitters use UN offsets,
awarded for spending to cut emissions in less-developed
countries, for as much as half of their reductions. Credits for
delivery in December rose 1.8 percent to 3.87 euros ($5.10)
today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . They are
down 70 percent from a year ago on concern about oversupply.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government set a target in
November 2009 to cut emissions by 30 percent from forecast
levels by the end of the decade. The country announced this
voluntary target at the United Nations climate summit in
Copenhagen in December 2009.  The ruling party,  New Frontier , has a majority of 174 seats
in the assembly, indicating it can pass climate legislation even
without the backing of opposition parties. A new assembly is
scheduled to be formed in June after April 11 elections, where
two main opposition parties formed a coalition against the
ruling party to win.  Reforestation Talks  South Korea imposed reduction goals in October 2011 on 458
polluters, calling for them to manage their emissions starting
this year. They range from factories, buildings and livestock
farms that produce at least 25,000 tons of carbon dioxide a year.  The South Korean and Indonesian governments are in talks
over a reforestation deal, potentially easing pressure on big
emitters covered by the cap-and-trade plan.  As soon as the Indonesian government selects a location,
the Korean government plans to plant trees for a demonstration
project that would earn greenhouse gas emission credits. The
project is being led by  Korea Forest Service , according to Cho
Nam Seong, deputy director of the Daejon, South Korea-based
state organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  