-- Najib Says Clear Majority in Malaysia Election ‘Challenging’
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-03-20T02:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/najib-says-clear-majority-in-malaysia-s-election-challenging-.html
Prime Minister Najib Razak said
winning a clear majority in  Malaysia ’s upcoming general election
will be “challenging” and a hung parliament could be
detrimental for the Southeast Asian nation.  “We don’t want a hung parliament or something that could
spell uncertainty for Malaysia,” Najib told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur late yesterday. “That is the worst possible outcome you
could have. What’s important is to have a stable and reasonably
strong government.”  Najib declined to say when elections might be. He hinted in
December that he would call an early election when he said
preparations had begun for a vote after unveiling a budget in
October that gave cash payments to low-income families. The
country will soon announce plans for a minimum wage, Najib said
at the Foreign Correspondents Club of Malaysia yesterday.  Malaysia’s government is discussing the possibility of an
early election in May or June, ahead of the due date by early
2013, according to four officials who spoke on condition of
anonymity last week because the talks are private. Najib’s
National Front coalition is seeking to extend its 55 years in
power and improve on its showing in 2008, when it won elections
by the narrowest margin since independence in 1957.  “All signs point to an impending general election,
probably in May or June, after this current parliamentary
sitting,” Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst at UCSI University
in  Kuala Lumpur , said in an e-mail. “There is no better time
for Najib to call the general election in order to maximize his
chances of winning back the two-thirds majority.”  Popularity Boost  Satisfaction with his leadership rose to 69 percent last
month from 59 percent in August, according to a poll by the
Merdeka Center for Opinion Research.  Malaysia’s benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (KLCI)  was 0.3
percent higher at 10:46 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur trading today,
having gained 3.1 percent this year.  In the 2008 elections, the opposition alliance, led by
former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim, secured enough seats
to deny the coalition a two-thirds majority, which the National
Front had held for more than four decades. The opposition won
five of 13 states, though it has since lost one after several
lawmakers defected to become independents.  “In the today’s modern democracy, most prime ministers
would be over the moon if he or she were to get an accountable
simple majority,” said Najib. “If I were to ask  David Cameron 
when he comes to visit Malaysia next month, I’m sure he’d say
I’d be delighted if I can get an overall majority for the
Conservatives. Realistically, in the Malaysian context it’s
becoming more and more challenging to get the two thirds. It’s
also equally challenging in the context of  Singapore .”  The opposition currently holds 76 parliamentary seats out
of the 222 seats, while nine are independent lawmakers and 137
constituencies are held by the National Front, according to the
Malaysian parliament  website .  Gross domestic product may expand 5 percent to 6 percent
this year, Najib said in the annual budget speech on Oct. 7. The
 economy  expanded by 5.1 percent last year, the government said
Feb. 15. Civil servant salaries will increase by as much as 13
percent, the prime minister said March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 