-- National Bank of Abu Dhabi Said to Sell $750 Million Bonds
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-03-19T14:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/national-bank-of-abu-dhabi-said-to-plan-benchmark-dollar-bond.html
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC ,
the United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest bank, will raise $750
million from a sale of dollar bonds, according to three people
familiar with the plan.  The five-year securities may be priced to yield 190 basis
points over the midswap rate, said the people, declining to be
identified because the information is private.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and National Bank of  Abu Dhabi  are
managing the offering, they said. NBAD sold $850 million of
five-year notes in 2009 at a similar spread over midswaps.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi  has $308 million of bonds and
interest payments due this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bank continues to monitor opportunities in global
markets as part of its strategy to diversify the funding base
and extend maturities of its liabilities, Stephen Jordan, the
state-controlled lender’s general manager of the liquidity
management & interest rates product group, said on Feb. 15.  U.A.E. banks are recovering from the credit crisis, which
slowed lending, hurt investment banking and increased loan
defaults. National Bank of Abu Dhabi said in January profit rose
about 1 percent to 3.71 billion dirhams ($1 billion) in 2011.  Several Abu Dhabi-based banks have sold bonds over the past
few months.  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , owned by Abu Dhabi’s ruling
family, raised $500 million from the sale of five-year Islamic
bonds in January.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB)  PJSC, the emirate’s
biggest Shariah-compliant lender, also sold $500 million of
five-year sukuk in November, while Union National Bank PJSC
raised $400 million from five-year bonds that month.  NBAD’s shares closed 0.8 percent higher to 12.1 dirhams in
Abu Dhabi today. They have risen 11 percent this year, compared
with an 8.4 percent increase in the benchmark index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  