-- New Jersey Is Least Corruptible State as Georgia Ranks Last
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-19T17:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/new-jersey-found-least-corruptible-state-as-georgia-ranks-last.html
New Jersey (STONJ1) , where in 2009 three
mayors, two assemblyman and five rabbis were among 44 charged in
a money-laundering scheme, is the least corruptible U.S. state,
according to a report by the  Center for Public Integrity .  The center, a Washington-based nonprofit, said it analyzed
16,000 data points during a yearlong study of public-ethics laws
in the 50 states. It hired reporters to support its findings
with “more than 100,000 words” of anecdotal journalism.  New
Jersey  merited a B-plus, the highest grade, ahead of
 Connecticut (STOCT1) , which earned a B, and  Washington (STOWA1) ,  California (STOCA1)  and
 Nebraska (STONE1) , which each received B-minus.  Georgia, one of eight states graded F, came in last. The
state last penalized a vendor in 1999, even though 658 of its
workers accepted sports tickets, meals and other gratuities
without reproach in 2007 and 2008, “clearly violating state
ethics laws,” according to the report released today. The state
also has allowed executives at government-regulated utilities
and companies to be among the most generous campaign
contributors, creating conflicts of interest, the study found.  “It may seem counterintuitive for New Jersey, with its
reputation for corruption, to be ranked number one, but we
measured not the amount of disease, but the amount of medicine
each state has to deal with the problem,” said Nathaniel
Heller, executive director of  Global Integrity , a Washington-
based nonprofit that also worked on the project, as did
Minneapolis-based  Public Radio International .  Newark Mayors  New Jersey’s history includes past Newark Mayors Hugh
Addonizio, Kenneth Gibson and Sharpe James, who each became
convicted felons over a span of 40 years. Jersey City mayor and
Democratic boss Frank Hague was never convicted of a crime,
though he declared in 1937, “I am the law.”  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who took office in
2010, won corruption cases against more than 100 public
officials, including state lawmakers, during his seven-year
tenure as U.S. attorney for New Jersey. The convictions included
James and former state Senate President  John Lynch .  “All those public corruption prosecutions, the notoriety
of them, the prison sentences and the headlines had the desired
effect,”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, wrote in
an e-mail message today. “It made taking that cash-stuffed
envelope, rigging contracts or double dealing a very risky
proposition and undoubtedly deterred many others.”  Corzine Cited  State senator Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from Teaneck,
said Christie deserves credit and that ethics and transparency
laws signed by Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine  before Christie
was elected have changed the culture in Trenton. Weinberg was
Corzine’s running mate in his unsuccessful re-election bid
against Christie.  Some of New Jersey’s protections include financial-
disclosure requirements for its governor, transparency
regulations for its pension funds and an “aggressive ethics
enforcement agency,” the center’s report said.  “The state also boasts some of the nation’s toughest anti-
pay-to-play laws for contractors,” the report says in a
supporting document by Caitlin Ginley, one of the journalists
hired to write reports explaining each state’s data.  “The risk of corruption remains high in every state
capital, but the way we look at it, a scandal that gets exposed
and prosecuted may be a sign that things are working right,”
Heller said.  Georgia Reaction  In  Georgia , former and current officials questioned the
Center for Public Integrity’s methodology and objectivity.  “I’m extremely disappointed,” said Rick Thompson, the
former executive secretary of the state Ethics Commission, which
was renamed the Georgia Government Transparency and Campaign
Finance Commission last year. Now a consultant on ethics issues
in government, Thompson said CPI had changed its approach to the
rankings since previous years, distorting the results.  “Instead of doing the due diligence, they farmed it out to
reporters,” he said in a phone interview.  Thompson and Brian Robinson, a spokesman for Republican
Governor Nathan Deal, said Georgia ranked seventh in a CPI
survey released in 2010, noting that it has tightened its
ethics standards since. Robinson said Deal’s office has a policy
on gifts that is stricter than those of his predecessors.  “It defies credibility that the Center for Public
Integrity would have Georgia ranked seventh and now we’re last,
when all we’ve done is strengthen our standards,” Robinson
said.  Ethics advocates in Georgia, including Georgia Watch and
 Common Cause , called the report accurate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  