-- News Corp.’s Board Should Oust James Murdoch, CtW Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-19T20:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/news-corp-s-board-should-oust-james-murdoch-ctw-says-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s independent directors
should oust Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch from
the media company’s board, said CtW Investment Group, an adviser
to union-sponsored pension funds with more than $200 billion in
assets.  Auction house  Sotheby’s (BID)  said March 16 that Murdoch will
leave its board, following demands he resign over his role in a
U.K. phone-hacking scandal. It was the third influential
position he gave up in as many months, resigning from the board
of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in January and as executive chairman of
News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit News International last month.
Murdoch also faces calls to step down from News Corp.’s board
and as chairman of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  “The rest of the News Corp. board and  British Sky
Broadcasting Group (BSY)  have not responded to the credibility
concerns of having James continue to serve on their boards,”
CtW Senior Analyst Michael Pryce-Jones said in a phone
interview.  CtW advises investors who together own about 8.3 million
Class A shares of News Corp., according to Pryce-Jones.  Jack Horner , a spokesman for News Corp., declined to comment.  News Corp. shareholders in October lodged a protest vote
against Rupert Murdoch and his sons, following an annual meeting
at which investors called for governance changes and an end to
voting practices that cement the family’s control of the
company. James received the highest percentage of votes against
his election to the board, at 35 percent.  In November, one-third of BSkyB’s independent shareholders
voted against  James Murdoch ’s re-election as chairman. News
Corp. owns 39 percent of BSkyB.  News Corp. rose less than 1 percent to $20.12 at the close
in New York. The shares have gained 13 percent this year.  Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP competes with News Corp.
units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  