-- News Corp.’s Klein Calls U.S. Education Very Grave Security Risk
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/news-corp-s-klein-calls-education-gravest-u-s-security-risk.html
A crisis in the U.S. public
education system poses a “very grave national security
threat,” requiring an overhaul to offer families more choices,
business, education and political leaders said in a report.  Along with undermining economic competitiveness and
increasing inequality, subpar public schools threaten recruiting
for the State Department, intelligence agencies and the armed
forces, according to a  task force  headed by  Joel Klein , the
former New York City school chief now at  News Corp. (NWSA) , and
 Condoleezza Rice , former Secretary of State.  The report, to be released today by the Council on Foreign
Relations, a nonpartisan research organization, follows
international assessments of student achievement that have
placed U.S. schoolchildren below their peers in other countries
such as Japan and  China . The policy prescriptions, which have
already sparked controversy within the task force, are timed
partly to spur discussion in the Presidential election, Klein
said.  “The failure of U.S. K-12 schools to prepare young
Americans with essential skills and knowledge puts this nation’s
economic growth and competitiveness, physical security,
information security, and national character at risk,” the task
force said in the report.  The group’s members include  Craig Barrett , former chief
executive officer of  Intel Corp. (INTC) ; Louis V. Gerstner Jr., former
CEO of  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ; Margaret Spellings, former U.S. education secretary; and  Randi Weingarten , president of the American Federation of Teachers.  Unqualified Youth  Seventy-five percent of U.S. citizens between 17 and 24
aren’t qualified to join the military because they are
physically unfit, have criminal records or have too little
education, the report said. Jobs go unfilled even amid high
unemployment in positions requiring scientific and high-
technology expertise, according to the task force.  The group’s broad recommendations -- including tougher
curriculum standards adopted across states and accountability
through testing -- resemble the agenda of President Barack Obama’s administration. The task force calls for a “National
Security Readiness Audit” that would measure whether students
were learning skills such as computer programming and foreign
language.  States and school districts should also promote “school
choice,” such as charter schools -- privately managed public
schools -- and vouchers, in which parents are given tax money to
spend where they choose, including at private schools, according
to the report.  ‘American Solution’  “It’s an American solution to an American problem,” Klein
said in a phone interview. “Competition and choice have the
greatest potential to stimulate innovation.”  Klein ran the New York City public schools under  Michael
Bloomberg , the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent of Bloomberg News. Klein is now CEO of the education unit
of  News Corp. (NWS) , Rupert Murdoch’s New York-based media and
entertainment company. The division sells technology to U.S.
public schools.  Several members of the task force, including Weingarten,
disagreed on its tone and recommendations, according to their
written dissents. Parts of the report cast “public schools in
the worst possible light, while ignoring facts to the contrary”
and demoralizing teachers, Weingarten wrote.  Vouchers and charters don’t systematically improve the
system and instead “deplete badly needed resources from the
public schools that educate 90 percent of our students,”
Weingarten said.  The message from the majority of the task force echoed a
1983 report, called “A Nation at Risk.” Commissioned by
President  Ronald Reagan , it fueled three decades of efforts to
overhaul U.S. schools.  “If an unfriendly foreign power had attempted to impose on
America the mediocre educational performance that exists today,
we might well have viewed it as an act of war,” the earlier
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  