-- Newspapers Lose $10 Dollars in Print for Every Digital $1
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/newspapers-lose-10-dollars-in-print-for-every-digital-1.html
U.S. newspapers lost $10 in print
advertising revenue last year for every $1 they gained online, a
deeper loss than in 2010, as competition from Internet companies
increases, a study by  Pew Research Center  found.  Newspaper revenues declined more sharply last year than in
2010 when publishers lost $7 in print advertising for every $1
generated from online outlets, according to Pew’s study entitled
“State of the News Media,” which is published today.  “They’re continuing to lose ground to tech
intermediaries,” such as Google Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  as well
as to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Internet retailer  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , said Tom Rosenstiel, director of Pew’s Project for Excellence in
Journalism, in a telephone interview. “The news industry has
been fundamentally disadvantaged in this area,” he said.  The industry, suffering declines in print advertising,
hasn’t been able to make up for those losses with digital
revenue. Washington-based Pew’s study follows last week’s  report 
from the  Newspaper Association of America  that revealed total
newspaper ad revenue dropped 7.3 percent to $23.9 billion in
2011 from the previous year.  While online advertising among news groups increased by
about $207 million, print advertising revenue declined by around
$2.1 billion, Pew said.  Personalized Data  Newspaper groups have failed to capitalize on the volume of
personalized data available online in the face of increased
competition from companies including  Google (GOOG)  and Facebook, which
are selling advertising targeted to consumers based on their
interests and demographics, typically at higher ad rates,
Rosenstiel said.  Newspapers have slowly shifted their businesses online, led
in part by the recent success of  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s plan to
charge readers for access to its newspapers’ websites. Pew’s
study estimates as many as 100 newspapers are expected to offer
a digital subscription model in the coming months.  Times Co. has about 406,000 paying subscribers to its
websites, including those for its namesake paper as well as the
Boston Globe and International Herald Tribune.  The Los Angeles Times, owned by Tribune Co., began charging
for access to its website last month.  Gannett Co. (GCI)  said it would
move 81 of its daily newspapers to an online paid model before
the end of the year, with the exception of its flagship
newspaper,  USA Today .  “A growing number of executives predict that in five years
many newspapers will offer a print home-delivered newspaper only
on Sunday,” Pew’s report said.  News groups may consider business models similar to those
of  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  and Bloomberg LP, Rosenstiel said. They
may also consider becoming partners with data-driven companies
such as Google and Facebook, he said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 Thomson Reuters  in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  