-- Nickel-Ore, Bauxite Exports From Indonesia to Drop on Ban
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-03-20T12:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/nickel-ore-bauxite-exports-from-indonesia-seen-dropping-on-ban.html
Nickel-ore and bauxite shipments
from  Indonesia (WBMKOPID) , the top supplier to  China , may plunge 75 percent
this year as a ban on metal-ore sales comes into force in May,
two years earlier than scheduled, said an industry group.  The ban, originally set for 2014, was brought forward as
exports surged in the past three years, Syahrir Abubakar,
executive director of the  Indonesia  Mining Association, said in
an interview. The country shipped 33 million metric tons of
nickel ore and 40 million tons of bauxite in 2011, he said.
China, the world’s biggest metals user, bought about 80 percent
of its  bauxite  and 53 percent of its  nickel-ore  from the
Southeast Asian nation last year, customs data showed.  Declining shipments may increase competition for supplies
among Chinese processors, potentially benefiting nickel-ore
mining companies in the  Philippines  and boosting prices. The
move may increase China’s demand for refined nickel as a
substitute for so-called nickel-pig iron, said Barclays Capital.
Nickel has dropped 30 percent in  London  in the past year.  “This is definitely good news for refined nickel prices in
the long term,” said Xu Aidong, a nickel analyst at metals
researcher Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. “We
could also see ore prices rising.”  While some miners may try to boost sales before the ban,
rain and port constraints will curb shipments, Abubakar said in
a March 14 interview. Nickel-ore exports soared from just 4
million tons and bauxite from 8 million tons in 2008, he said.
That surge prompted the government to advance the ban on
companies that hold so-called mining business licenses for
production operations, he said.  Mining Law  Miners with Contracts of Work, including  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , will be allowed to
export ores until 2014, according to the rules. The ban will
affect mostly small miners as the country’s major nickel
producers  PT Vale Indonesia (INCO)  and  PT Aneka Tambang (ANTM)  have already
started local processing, Abubakar said.  The decree, signed by Energy and Mineral Resources Minister
Jero Wacik on Feb. 6, seeks to oblige miners to process ores
locally, boosting state revenues and ensuring investment.
Exports will be allowed for processed metal, such as ferronickel
and nickel-in-matte, and smelter- or chemical-grade alumina,
according to the rule. Business license holders could be
exempted if they submit ore processing plans, Wacik said Feb. 20.  Indonesia, the largest tin and thermal coal exporter,
shipped 25.7 million tons of nickel ore to China last year,
according to Chinese customs data. That compares with 22.1
million tons from the  Philippines (CNOIIQPH) . Indonesia supplied China with
36.1 million tons of bauxite, while  Australia (BXCIIQAU)  sold 8.4 million
tons, ranking as the second-biggest supplier, the data showed.  ‘Critical’ Impact  “The critical trade market impact would be that Indonesia
exports more refined metal over primary ore,” Nicholas Snowdon,
an analyst at  Barclays Capital , wrote in an e-mail dated March
15. The country produces 15 percent of  global  nickel ore and
just 1 percent of refined nickel, Snowdon said. Chinese nickel-
pig iron makers will find it “difficult” to fully replace lost
Indonesian supplies as ore from the Philippines is used more for
its iron content, he said.  “The ores from Indonesia are generally laterite ores,
which means Chinese production of nickel-pig iron will be
affected due to the control,” said Xu of Antaike. Nickel
laterite ore can be processed into nickel-pig iron as a
substitute for the refined metal for use in stainless steel.  Nickel for three-month delivery fell 1.3 percent to $18,804
a ton at 8:06 p.m. in  Singapore  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  