-- Nigerian Mediator Says Leak Means End of Boko Haram Role
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2012-03-19T10:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/nigerian-mediator-says-leak-means-end-of-boko-haram-role-1-.html
Datti Ahmad, head of a Nigerian
Islamic organization, terminated his role as a mediator between
Boko Haram Islamist insurgents and the government after details
of confidential meetings were leaked.  Nigerian newspapers printed “a lot of the details” from a
meeting with a government official, Ahmad, president of the
Supreme Council for Shariah in  Nigeria , said in a statement
handed to reporters yesterday in the northern city of Kaduna.
“In view of this unfortunate and unhelpful development, we have
no option but to withdraw from these early discussions.”  Authorities in  Africa ’s top oil producer blame Boko Haram,
which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, for
a surge of violence in the north and Abuja, the capital, in
which hundreds have died since 2009. The group, whose name means
“Western education is a sin,” wants to impose Shariah, or
Islamic law, for the 160 million people of Africa’s most
populous nation. The group claimed responsibility for multiple
blasts and attacks in the city of Kano on Jan. 20 that killed at
least 256 people, according to the Civil Rights Congress.  Ahmad said the leak embarrassed mediators and “created
strong doubts” about the government’s sincerity because “the
discussion is supposed to be very confidential to achieve any
success.”  Ahmad’s group came to prominence when it led a campaign
against polio immunization from 2004 in the country’s mainly
Muslim north, alleging that the vaccines contained sterilization
agents and vaccination was part of a Western plot to reduce the
Muslim population  Nigeria is roughly split between a mainly Muslim north and
a predominantly Christian south. Boko Haram poses a more serious
threat to the country than the 1967-1970 Biafra civil war,
President  Goodluck Jonathan  said on Jan. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  