-- North Carolina’s Marshall Breaks Wrist Ahead of NCAA Final 16
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/north-carolina-s-marshall-breaks-wrist-ahead-of-ncaa-final-16.html
The University of  North Carolina ’s
title chances may suffer a blow after record-breaking point
guard Kendall Marshall fractured a bone in his right wrist.  Marshall, who set school and Atlantic Coast Conference
records with 340 assists this season, was hurt in the final
minutes of yesterday’s 87-73 win over Creighton. His status for
the rest of the National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s
basketball tournament isn’t known.  “When you go to the Sweet 16, it’s supposed to be a lot
more fun than this,” said Tar Heels coach  Roy Williams , whose
team is the No. 1 seed in the Midwest Regional.  Marshall, a sophomore, had 18 points and 11 assists
yesterday to lead North Carolina, which entered the NCAA
tournament as the second-favorite of Las Vegas oddsmakers to win
the championship behind the  University of Kentucky .  The left-hander broke the scaphoid bone in his right wrist
in the closing minutes when he fell the court after being fouled
on a lay-up attempt.  Williams said Marshall, who averaged  7.9 points and 9.7
assists  during the season, would meet with a hand specialist to
determine the next course of action.  Williams said if Marshall isn’t able to play, Stilman White
or Justin Watts would probably get time at point guard for the
Tar Heels, who next play Ohio University in the Midwest Regional
semifinals. White and Watts combined to average 1.9 points and
0.3 assists off the bench this season.  “It’s part of the game of basketball and Kendall’s an
intricate part of the team, to say the least,” said forward
John Henson, who returned to action yesterday after missing the
previous three games with a left wrist injury suffered in the
Atlantic Coast Conference tournament. “We’re just going to keep
praying for him and hoping for the best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  