-- Nuclear Risks at Bed, Bath & Beyond Show Dangers of Scrap
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-03-20T06:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/nuclear-risks-at-bed-bath-beyond-show-hidden-danger-of-scrap.html
Going shopping? Don’t forget your
wallet and credit card. Or Geiger counter.  The discovery of radioactive tissue boxes at  Bed, Bath &
Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  stores in January raised alarms among nuclear
security officials and company executives over the growing
global threat of contaminated scrap metal.  While the U.S. home-furnishing retailer recalled the
boutique boxes from 200 stores nationwide without any reports of
injury, the incident highlighted one of the topics drawing world
leaders to a nuclear security meeting in  Seoul  on March 26-27.
The bi-annual summit, convened by President  Barack Obama  for the
first time in 2010, seeks to stem the flow of atomic material
that has been lost, stolen or discarded as trash.  As U.S. and European leaders tackle the proliferation of
weapons-grade uranium or plutonium in countries like  Iran  and
 North Korea , industries are confronting the impact of loose
nuclear material in an international scrap-metal market worth at
least $140 billion, according to the Brussels-based  Bureau of
International Recycling . Radioactive items used to power
medical, military and industrial hardware are melted down and
used in goods, driving up company costs as they withdraw tainted
products and threatening the public’s health.  ‘Major Risk’  “The major risk we face in our industry is radiation,”
said Paul de Bruin, radiation-safety chief for Jewometaal
Stainless Processing BV, one of the world’s biggest stainless-
steel scrap yards. “You can talk about security all you want,
but I’ve found weapons-grade uranium in scrap. Where was the
security?”  More than 120 shipments of contaminated goods including
cutlery, buckles and work tools like hammers and screwdrivers
were denied U.S. entry between 2003 and 2008 after customs and
the Department of Homeland Security boosted radiation monitoring
at borders. The department declined to provide updated figures
or comment on how the metal tissue boxes at Bed, Bath & Beyond,
tainted with melted cobalt-60 used in medical instruments to
diagnose and treat cancer, evaded detection.  Rachael Risinger, a spokeswoman for Union, New Jersey-based
Bed, Bath & Beyond, said in an e-mail on Feb. 29 that “all
possibilities to address this issue are being explored and
implemented as appropriate.”  No Health Threat  The company said in a January press release it had been
informed by the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission , a U.S. government
agency that oversees radioactive material, that “there is no
threat to anyone’s health from these tissue holders.” It said
they had been withdrawn “out of an abundance of caution.”  Rotterdam-based Jewometaal, which found 145 nuclear items
in scrap last year and 200 in 2010, reports incidents to Dutch
authorities and the United Nations International Atomic Energy
Agency. De Bruin keeps pictures of the nuclear-fission chamber
containing bomb-grade uranium and other scrap with plutonium
that he’s uncovered using radiation monitors at his shipping
yard.  Cleaning a smelter of radioactive material erroneously
melted inside can cost a company as much as 40 million euros
($53 million) and disrupt production for a week, he said.  More Stringent Rules  The Vienna-based IAEA is working with the scrap-metal
industry to draft more stringent rules to increase radiation
monitoring, bolster reporting requirements and improve disposal.
Between 350 million tons and 550 million tons of iron scrap
traded hands in 2010 for about $400 a ton, according to the
latest figures from the Bureau of International Recycling, a
global recycling industry association.  “The general public basically isn’t aware that they’re
living in a radioactive world,” according to Ross Bartley,
technical director for the recycling bureau, who said the
contamination has led to lost sales. “Those tissue boxes are
problematic because they’re radioactive and they had to be put
in radioactive disposal.”  Abandoned medical scanners, food-processing devices and
mining equipment containing radioactive metals such as
 cesium-137  and  cobalt-60  are picked up by scrap collectors, sold
to recyclers and melted down by foundries, the IAEA says.
Dangerous scrap comes from derelict hospitals and military
bases, as well as defunct government agencies that have lost
tools with radioactive elements.  Radiation Exposure  Chronic exposure to low doses of radiation can lead to
cataracts, cancer and birth defects, according to the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency . A 2005  study  of more than 6,000
Taiwanese who lived in apartments built with radioactive
reinforcing steel from 1983 to 2005 showed a statistically
significant increase in leukemia and  breast cancer .  Industry and regulators are working to define an allowable
limit for radiation in products that isn’t hazardous to
customers’ health, according to the draft copy of the new IAEA
rules for scrap handlers. This month’s Seoul nuclear-security
summit will deal for the first time with the threats posed by
uncontrolled radioactive sources, said Elena Sokova, executive
director of the Vienna Center for Disarmament and Non-
Proliferation.  Forty-five heads of state including Obama, Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Chinese President  Hu Jintao  will
attend the nuclear summit,  South Korea ’s foreign ministry said
in a statement on its website today.  Radioactive Buttons  An October 2008 delivery of radioactive elevator buttons
assembled by  Mafelec , a Chimilin, France-based company that
makes control and signaling gear, contained radioactive metal
shipped from India. Employees who handled the buttons were
exposed to three times the safe dose of radiation for non-
nuclear workers, according to regulators at the Autorite de
Surete Nucleaire,  France ’s nuclear energy watchdog. Mafelec said
at the time it had cut ties with the Indian supplier.  India and  China  were the top sources of radioactive goods
shipped to the U.S. through 2008, according to the Department of
 Homeland Security . Bartley, a metallurgist who has tracked
radioactive contamination since the early 1990s, said there’s no
evidence the situation has improved.  Worker Dies  “There are very few gate monitors in India,” he said.
“The companies there are not up to speed in general.”  India’s radiation-detection system can’t cope with the
amount of incoming scrap, said Chandra Bhushan, deputy director
of the Centre for Science and Environment, a New Delhi-based
research and lobbying group. Two years after an Indian scrap-
metal worker died from radiation exposure, the world’s second-
most populous country hasn’t installed alarms, the Ministry of
Shipping said in December.  Rajendra Yadav, 35, who worked in one of the yards at the
Mayapuri scrap metal site in  New Delhi  was breaking up an X-ray
machine mistakenly thrown away by Delhi University when he fell
ill, according to interviews this month with his co-workers, as
they used hammers and chisels to dismantle telephones and car
parts. After putting a shiny piece of the metal from the machine
in his pocket he developed burn marks on his hips and thighs and
died 20 days later, they said. Seven other workers were
hospitalized.  The Atomic Energy Regulatory Board, the government body
responsible for the safe use of radioactive material in  India ,
said in an e-mail it has increased the number of on-site
inspections and awareness programs to tighten controls in the
wake of Yadav’s death.  “The same thing could easily happen again tomorrow,” said
Deepak Jain, 65, who owns the yard where Yadav died. “We have
no protection. The government promised a lot, but has delivered
absolutely nothing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  