-- Obama Raised $45 Million Last Month as Aide Briefs Donors
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-20T05:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/obama-re-election-organizations-raised-45-million-in-february.html
President  Barack Obama , on the day
his campaign announced it raised $45 million for his re-election
effort in February, dispatched a top aide to the Yale Club in
New York and a law firm in  Boston  to warn donors of the threat
from outside groups supporting Republican candidates.  The February haul, for Obama’s campaign and the Democratic
National Committee, marks an increase from January, when Obama
banked $12 million for his re-election, along with $17 million
for the Democratic National Committee.  The campaign said on its website yesterday that 348,000
people donated and about 98 percent of those contributed $250 or
less.  At the beginning of February, Obama had raised $140 million
for his re-election, with $76 million in the bank. By
comparison, the leading Republican fundraiser, former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, had raised more than $63
million for his campaign through Jan. 31.  Romney raised $11.5 million in February, Andrea Saul, a
spokeswoman, told reporters on March 7. It was his second-
biggest fundraising month after December 2011, she said.  Red White and Blue Fund, the super-PAC supporting former
U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , raised $2.1 million
in January and finished the month with just $626,607 to spend.  While Obama’s fundraising has outpaced the Republican
presidential candidates, the president’s political advisers have
warned that independent political committees aligned with the
Republicans may wipe out any advantage.  New York Meeting  Senior White House adviser  David Plouffe  went to  New York
City  yesterday to brief top donors, including members of the
financial services industry, according to two people familiar
with the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
meeting was private. The meeting was attended by about 20
potential donors.  Plouffe was scheduled to attend a similar event tonight at
the Boston offices of the  law firm  Greenberg Traurig LLP,
according to Cindy Brennan, a spokesman for the firm.  Priorities USA Action, a super-PAC founded by former White
House aides to help re-elect Obama, and Priorities USA, a
related group organized as a 501(c)4 non-profit group under the
Internal Revenue Service code, are trailing Republican
counterparts in fundraising.  The two groups will report $2 million in its February
financial disclosure report, which is due to the Federal
Election Commission tomorrow, according to a person familiar
with their finances. The organizations raised a combined $6.1
million in 2011, according to financial disclosure reports.  Republican Groups  American Crossroads, a super-PAC founded by Karl Rove,
raised $51 million in 2011. Restore Our Future, a super-PAC
supporting Romney, began the month of February with about $16
million in cash after raising $6.6. million the month before,
according to the FEC reports.  Bill Burton , a spokesman for Priorities USA, declined to
comment.  Obama last month reversed course and began encouraging top
donors to contribute to independent political action committees
that are supporting his campaign. Obama previously had spoken
out against the influence of so-called super-PACs, which can
accept unlimited donations from individuals, unions and
corporations’ political-action committees.  The main pro-Obama super-PAC is Priorities USA. The
campaign said at the time that White House officials, such as
Plouffe, would help with the fundraising.  ‘Political Activity’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said that “just
like in previous administrations of both political parties,
administration officials and cabinet members in their private
time can and do engage in political activity.”  “There are various rules governing these activities and
administration officials follow them,” Carney said in an e-
mailed statement.  So far this month, Obama has attended fundraisers in  New
York , Houston,  Chicago , Atlanta and  Washington . At a closed
event yesterday at a Washington hotel, Obama met with about 20
donors who contributed $35,800, split between the campaign and
the DNC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  