-- Oil Drops From Three-Week High on Signs Supplies to Rise
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-20T07:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/oil-trades-near-three-week-high-in-new-york-on-economy.html
Oil dropped from the highest price
in almost three weeks in New York on signs U.S. crude supply is
rising and speculation that  Saudi Arabia  may boost output.  Futures slipped as much as 0.7 percent, their first decline
in three days. A government report tomorrow may show that U.S.
stockpiles rose to the highest level in six months last week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Saudi Arabia’s cabinet
will work with crude consumers and producers to restore “fair”
prices, according to the state news agency. Oil has climbed this
year on concern that tension between the West and  Iran  may
disrupt Middle East exports.  U.S. stockpiles and increasing Saudi output are a “buffer
against the supply concerns from Iran,” said  David Lennox , an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney who estimates New York crude
would be below $100 a barrel without the threat to output from
the  Persian Gulf . “Supply shock concerns are still priced in.”  Oil for April delivery slid as much as 79 cents to $107.30
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $107.33 at 3:46 p.m. Singapore time. It
gained 1 percent to $108.09 a barrel yesterday, the highest
close since March 1. The April contract expires today. The more
actively traded May future fell 80 cents to $107.76 a barrel.
Front-month prices are up 8.6 percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement fell 97 cents to $124.74 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $16.98 to New
York futures for the same month.  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories probably rose 2.1 million barrels
last week as refineries idled units and imports from  Canada 
increased, according to the median of six analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey , before the Energy Department report. That
would be the fifth weekly gain.  Oil has advanced this year on concern that European Union
and U.S. sanctions against  Iran’s nuclear program  will disrupt
Mideast exports. Saudi Arabia boosted its output in January to
the second highest level since at least 1980, according to the
Joint Organization Data Initiative. Some importers are seeking
substitutes for crude they normally buy from Iran, the head of
research for Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment Co. said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, seeks
prices that are reasonable for consumers, producers and the oil
industry, the cabinet said after its weekly meeting, according
to a statement carried by the official Saudi Press Agency. It
didn’t mention any figure.  New York  crude climbed yesterday as confidence among U.S.
homebuilders in March stood at the highest level since June
2007. Bank of America Corp. raised its 2012 oil-price forecasts,
projecting an economic recovery as geopolitical events constrain
supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  