-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Holds at Highest Since 2007
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-19T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-holds-at-highest-since-2007.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
held in March at the highest level since June 2007 as sales
expectations climbed for a sixth month.  The reading of 28 in the  National Association of Home
Builders /Wells Fargo  index  of builder confidence was less than
projected and followed a February figure that was lower than
initially reported, figures from the Washington-based group
showed today. The  median  forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a rise to 30. Readings below 50 mean
more respondents said conditions were poor.  Cheaper homes and  mortgage rates  close to all-time lows are
helping drive record housing affordability, benefiting builders
such as Toll Brothers Inc. At the same time, the real estate
market remains challenged by distressed properties and the
threat of more foreclosures that could push down values further.  “While builders are still very cautious at this time,
there is a sense that many local housing markets have started to
move in the right direction and that prospects for future sales
are improving,” Barry Rutenberg, chairman of the National
Association of Home Builders and a builder from Gainesville,
 Florida , said today in a statement.  March estimates of 49 economists in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 28 to 33. The gauge, which was first published in
January 1985, averaged 54 in the five years leading to the
recession in December 2007. It reached a record low of 8 in
January 2009.  Confidence improved among builders in three of the four
U.S. regions, while is slumped in the West after a February
surge.  Sales Expectations  The builders group’s measure of the six-month  outlook  for
home sales climbed to 36 in March, also the highest since June
2007, from 34. The index of current single-family  home sales 
eased to 29 this month from 30 in the prior month, today’s
report showed. A measure of traffic of prospective buyers held
at 22.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  “All the economic signs seem to be positive in terms of
 consumer confidence ,  interest rates , unemployment levels,”
 Martin Connor , chief financial officer at  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) ,
said March 5 at a investors’ conference in  Orlando , Florida.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage reached an
all-time low of 3.87 percent in February, according to data from
 Freddie Mac .  A measure of housing affordability a month earlier climbed
to 206.1, according to the National Association of Realtors. A
value of 100 means that a family with the national median income
has enough to qualify for a median-priced property.  Housing starts also are improving. Builders broke ground on
new homes at a 700,000 annual pace in February, the most in
three months, according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of
a Commerce Department report due tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 