-- Hong Kong’s Leung Calls for End to Attacks in Leader Contest
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-20T08:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/hong-kong-s-leung-calls-for-end-to-attacks-in-leadership-contest.html
Hong Kong chief executive candidate
Leung Chun-ying called for an end to personal attacks in the
contest to be the city’s next leader, saying the race has become
mired in accusations.  “I have been continuously attacked by smear campaigns,”
Leung, 57, said late yesterday in a televised address to the
election committee picking the city’s next leader on March 25.
“These actions should come to an end and we should bring the
election back on track.”  The race to lead the city of 7.1 million people has seen
increasing personal attacks between Leung and  Henry Tang , a
former chief secretary, with the two calling each other liars
during a televised debate on March 16. Tang, beset by personal
scandals including an admission of marital affair, is trailing
Leung in opinion polls by more than 20 percentage points.  “This election has taken its toll on me, but still I
insist on speaking the truth,” Tang said yesterday in his
address, while inviting Leung to sue him. “I need to reveal the
way CY Leung handles contradictory situations and crisis.’  Tang and Leung are the front-runners in the contest, having
secured 390 and 305 nominations respectively from the election
committee. Hong Kong picks its chief executive through the
committee, which comprises of lawmakers, businessmen and
delegates from professional groups.  China Backing  Beijing’s Liaison Office members in  Hong Kong  have been
calling committee members to encourage them to vote for Leung,
RTHK reported today, citing  James Tien , the honorary chairman of
the  Liberal Party .  China ’s State Councilor Liu Yandong is
meeting Hong Kong businessmen to persuade them to vote for
Leung, the Sing Tao Daily reported today, without citing anyone.  Still, it’s not clear that China has indicated its
preference for either Leung or Tang, said James Sung, a
professor in politics at  City University  of Hong Kong.  ‘‘The Liaison Office has been helping to build a positive
image of Leung in the past six months,” Sung said by telephone
today. “While the Hong Kong and Macau affairs Office is on the
side of Tang. The central government’s decision won’t come until
Friday or Saturday.”  Riot Police  Tang said last week that Leung had suggested Hong Kong
would eventually need to use anti-riot police and tear gas on
protesters in 2003. Leung reiterated yesterday that he didn’t
make the suggestion during meetings held by Hong Kong’s
executive council.  About 500,000 people took to the streets in 2003 to protest
an anti-subversion law that critics said would curtail civil
liberties, prompting the government to shelve the bill.  Tang said yesterday he instructed his lawyers to study
whether any comments Leung had made were defamatory. Tang also
said he has made a report to the  Independent Commission Against
Corruption  without elaborating.  Tang, the son of a textile magnate, is backed by Li Ka-
shing, Hong Kong’s richest man. Leung is favored by 42.6 percent
of the 957 respondents polled by the  Chinese University of Hong
Kong  on March 16, compared with 18.3 percent for Tang.  Public Opinion  Public opinion  is starting to weigh on the contest after
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said March 14 that the city “can
elect a chief executive who is supported by the majority of the
people.”  After the early exchanges yesterday, the candidates
answered questions about their proposed education, health care,
housing and social welfare policies. Lawmaker Albert Ho is the
third candidate in the contest.  Tang’s popularity dropped after he said he knew about a
basement built without planning permission at a property owned
by his wife. In October, he confirmed having an affair. Election
committee members who previously backed Tang have been less
committal since the scandals came to light.  Thomas Kwok , co-
chairman of  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , who nominated Tang,
said Feb. 28 that his decision at election-time will depend on
Tang’s public support.  On housing, Leung reiterated he wants to increase land
supply to help residents gain home ownership. Tang said he plans
to increase construction of public housing, and that he’s
against a so-called “hegemony” of developers.  Home prices  in the former British colony have tripled in
the past decade, while the median monthly  household income  has
remained almost unchanged at HK$20,000 ($2,580) since the city
returned to China in 1997. That’s stoked public discontent and
protests against developers including Li’s Cheung Kong
(Holdings) Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  