-- Oprah Winfrey Network Cuts 30 Jobs in Restructuring
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2012-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/oprah-winfrey-network-cuts-30-jobs-in-restructuring.html
Oprah Winfrey Network, the venture
owned by the television host and  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) ,
cut 30 jobs in a restructuring and named Neal Kirsch as chief
financial and operating officer.  Discovery, the  Silver Spring , Maryland-based cable network,
and Winfrey’s Harpo Studios said yesterday in a statement that
they will absorb the eliminated positions. Kirsch, finance chief
at Discovery’s U.S. networks, will move to OWN and report to
Presidents Erik Logan and Sheri Salata.  The restructuring followed Winfrey’s review of the network,
with Logan and Salata, since becoming chief executive officer
and chief creative officer eight months ago. OWN has gone
through several leadership changes and struggled to build an
audience since its launch in January 2011.  “It is difficult to make tough business decisions that
affect people’s lives,” Winfrey said in the statement. “The
economics of a start-up cable network just don’t work with the
cost structure that was in place.”  The transition to cable has been challenging for Winfrey,
who dominated broadcast television talk shows for two decades.
OWN canceled Rosie O’Donnell’s “The Rosie Show” last week
after five months.  Winfrey’s series “Oprah’s Next Chapter” has attracted
guests including Lady Gaga and Whitney Houston’s family and had
the highest cable ranking among women in the target 25-54 age
group in the Sunday night slot at 10 p.m.  Discovery Costs  Discovery provides OWN’s funding and had supplied $312
million as of Dec. 31, according to the company’s annual 10-K
report filed in February. Results have been below initial
expectations, and the company said it’s monitoring the network’s
performance in case it needs to write down its investment.  Discovery rose less than 1 percent to $48.09 yesterday in
 New York . The shares have added 17 percent this year.  As of May 2011, OWN was projected to lose a cumulative $122
million through 2012, according to an estimate by Derek Baine,
an SNL Kagan analyst.  “As CEO, I have a responsibility to chart the course for
long-term success for the network,” Winfrey said. “To wholly
achieve that long-term success, this was a necessary next
step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  