-- Orban Judicial Overhaul Threatens Courts, Venice Commission Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-03-19T18:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/orban-judicial-overhaul-threatens-courts-venice-commission-says.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s overhaul of the judiciary endangers court independence,
the Venice Commission said, commenting on an issue that’s
blocked the eastern European nation’s bid to start talks over an
international bailout loan.  “The reform as a whole threatens the independence of the
judiciary,” the Council of  Europe ’s advisory body on
constitutional matters said in a report posted today on its
 website . “It introduces a unique system of judicial
administration, which exists in no other European country.”  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive
arm, has cited concerns over the independence of  Hungary ’s
central bank, judiciary and data-protection office in refusing
to start talks on an  International Monetary Fund -led loan. The
judicial changes were part of a new constitution Orban pushed
through Parliament to consolidate power after his party won more
than two-thirds of seats in 2010 elections.  The president of the National Judicial Office, Tunde Hando,
the wife of a ruling-party member, is responsible for naming all
new judges, including replacing scores who were forced into
retirement at the end of 2011. The head of the  Supreme Court  was
ousted last year.  The commission said the concentration of powers in the
hands of one judge was unprecedented in the EU and lacked
“sufficient democratic accountability.”  Reducing the retirement age of judges with retroactive
effect -- an issue the European Commission has highlighted --
also “raises concern” and a “less intrusive and not so hasty
solution” should be found, the Venice Commission said.  “The essential elements of the reform -- if they remained
unchanged -- not only contradict European standards for the
organization of the judiciary, especially its independence, but
are also problematic as concerns the right to a fair trial,” it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  