-- BofA Beats Morgan Stanley in Obtaining Lower Bond Rate
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-19T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/morgan-stanley-plans-first-bond-sale-since-october-as-swaps-fall.html
Bank of America Corp.,  the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, borrowed more cheaply than Morgan
Stanley as the threat of a three-level rating reduction loomed
over the owner of the world’s largest brokerage.  Bank of America’s $1.25 billion of 3.875 percent five-year
notes priced to yield 275 basis points more than similarly
priced Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with Morgan Stanley’s $2 billion of 4.75 percent notes,
also due in 2017, which pay a spread of 360 basis points.  Banks are benefiting from an extended credit rally after
the  Federal Reserve  said last week that 15 of the 19 biggest
U.S. banks could maintain adequate capital levels in a severe
recession. Investors are demanding higher  interest rates  from
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  than its competitors after Moody’s Investors
Service said in a Feb. 15 statement that the bank’s credit
ratings may be cut by as many as three levels.  “The ratings review just highlights the question of its
business model,” Marc Beulke, an analyst at Minneapolis-based
Thrivent Financial, which oversees $73.1 billion in assets
including Morgan Stanley bonds, said in a telephone interview.
“The biggest concern is Morgan Stanley still remains a broker
dealer,”  MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s filing for the eighth-largest
U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 reminded investors that there’s a
risk that any broker-dealer could fail, Beulke said.  “It isn’t a probability, but there is a possibility,” he
said.  Bank Ratings  Morgan Stanley is rated A2, five levels above speculative-
grade. Bank of America is Baa1, three levels higher than junk.
If Moody’s goes ahead with its plan to downgrade the companies,
both would be Baa2. Morgan Stanley and Bank of America declined
to comment.  Credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley soared to the worst
among major U.S. banks, diverging from Bank of America’s swap
spreads after the ratings review announcement from Moody’s. The
potential downgrade for the brokerage would be the most severe
among the biggest U.S. banks. The difference of 84.9 basis
points between Bank of America and Morgan Stanley’s swaps is the
most in five months. Bank of America’s spreads tightened by 9.1
basis points to 195 basis points today while Morgan Stanley
narrowed 2.7 basis points to 279.9 basis points, according to
CMA.  The contracts typically rise as investor confidence worsens
and fall as it improves. Default swaps pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Morningstar View  Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. analyst James Leonard is
recommending Morgan Stanley’s higher- yielding five-year notes,
citing “mortgage-related losses due to legal claims” for Bank
of America and conservative estimates around its return to
“normalized earnings.”  Morgan Stanley issued $1 billion of 5.5 percent, 10-year
debentures in October and last sold five-year debt in April,
Bloomberg data show. The $2.5 billion of 3.8 percent, five-year
notes in April 2011 priced to yield 180 basis points, or 1.8
percentage point, more than similar-maturity Treasuries. They
traded at 97.8 cents on the dollar to yield 4.401 percent at
3:21 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Today’s offering is Bank of America’s second sale of five-
year dollar-denominated bonds this month, after selling $600
million of floating-rate notes on March 2.  Bank debt has gained 5.1 percent this year, outpacing the
1.9 percent on all investment-grade debt, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  “They started from wider spreads, and there is a further
way to go,” Beulke said of relative yields on bank bonds in the
U.S., which have fallen from 384 basis points at the start of
the year to 254 basis points. “There has been less concern
about the truly negative outcome from lack of liquidity, helped
by the long-term refinancing operation in  Europe ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  