-- Mortgage Burden for Bales Familiar Story for U.S. Troops
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-19T04:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/mortgage-burden-for-bales-familiar-story-for-u-s-troops.html
The  housing finance  setbacks that
confronted Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales, the soldier accused
of killing at least 16 civilians in  Afghanistan , are one part of
his story that many U.S. troops would recognize.  Bales and his wife owned a home in Washington state she was
trying to sell for less than its mortgage and another that sits
empty with a “Do Not Occupy” sign from the city on the door.
At one point, the couple owed more than $500,000 on the homes.  For soldiers who have been deployed to the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, such financial pain may compound battlefield
trauma, said Matthew Weidner, a  Florida  lawyer whose clients
include service members facing foreclosure on their homes.  “There’s also a failure of the military leadership and
command structure to realize the damage financial stress can
cause and add to the combat stress,” Weidner, a partner in
Weidner, Bowden & Weidner P.A. in  St. Petersburg , Florida, said
yesterday in an interview.  Last month, four of the biggest mortgage servicers agreed
to a $25 billion settlement with the Justice Department to end a
probe into whether they had improperly foreclosed on the homes
of armed service personnel since 2006.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ,
Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co .
agreed to the pact. Bank of America Corp. reached a partial
settlement with the government in May 2011.  Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Ally consented to pay $116,785
plus lost equity and interest to any service member who was
identified as a victim of wrongful foreclosure.  Justice Department Review  The banks also agreed to a review to be overseen by the
 Justice Department ’s Civil Rights Division to determine whether
any service member since 2008 was charged mortgage interest in
excess of 6 percent after a valid request to reduce the rate.
Maintaining a higher rate is prohibited under the Servicemembers
Civil Relief Act.  While many soldiers have shared the burden of mortgage
payments that ballooned and home values that plummeted during
the housing crisis, Robert and Karilyn Bales were in a much
deeper financial hole than most.  “I’ve rarely seen staff sergeants who lived in $300,000
houses,” said John S. Odom Jr., a retired Air Force judge
advocate and a partner in Jones, Odom & Politz LLP in
Shreveport,  Louisiana .  “Other than the fact that his job was as an infantryman
carrying a rifle and supervising a squad of infantrymen, he
isn’t different than if he had been a lineman for the local
power company,” Odom said in an interview yesterday.  Bales, 38, is being held in a military prison in Fort
Leavenworth,  Kansas , as he’s investigated over the shootings in
two villages in southern Afghanistan on March 11.  The family’s two properties were in Washington state,
within commuting distance of Joint Base Lewis-McChord, where
Robert Bales was based.  Two Homes  The couple borrowed $506,250 on the two residential
properties in October 2006, public records show -- $178,500 on a
house in Auburn and $327,750 on a home in Lake Tapps. Today, the
two houses have a combined assessed value of $358,100, or 29
percent less than the initial loan amounts, county records in
Washington state show.  Karilyn Bales had listed the Lake Tapps home, where the
family lives, as a “short sale,” for less than the mortgage
balance, according to Phillip Rodocker, the real-estate agent
who listed the house.  Robert Bales, who was deployed to Afghanistan in December,
had departed for the third of his three deployments to  Iraq  in
August 2009 just as the house the couple rented out in Auburn
was about to be auctioned at the entrance to the King County,
Washington, administration building.  Auction Notice  The Bales owed $15,644.19 on the house plus $1,333.46 in
trustee’s fees, according to the auction notice. The auction
subsequently was canceled without explanation. A Bank of America
filing in King County, in August 2011 said the couple was
$16,978 in arrears on the rental property.  The house sits vacant and banned for occupancy by the city.  The Obama administration has said it is cracking down on
mortgage companies, banks and other financial institutions that
have broken U.S. laws aimed at protecting military personnel
from predatory lending and foreclosure proceedings while they
are deployed.  “I continue to hear stories of service members and
veterans being ripped off by businesses that see our troops as
easy targets for a quick profit,” Holly Petraeus, associate
director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s Office of
Servicemembers’ Affairs, said at a Jan. 25 press conference in
 Washington . Petraeus is the wife of retired Army General David
Petraeus, now director of the Central Intelligence Agency.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has set up a
 Repeat Offenders Against Military Database  to track companies
and individuals that repeatedly target the military community.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net 
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  