-- Osborne Should Keep Any Budget Windfall as a Buffer, E&Y Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/osborne-should-keep-any-budget-windfall-as-a-buffer-e-y-says.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  should keep any surplus money in his annual
budget as it won’t be enough to provide a meaningful stimulus to
the economy, Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club said.  The  budget deficit  for the fiscal year through March may
come in at 120 billion pounds ($190 billion), 7 billion pounds
less than the government’s fiscal watchdog forecast in November,
according to a report published in London today.  Any “giveaway would have a limited macroeconomic impact
and would risk sending the wrong signals to the  ratings agencies 
and financial markets,” said  Andrew Goodwin , senior economic
adviser to the ITEM Club. Osborne should “use his windfall as a
buffer against any potential escalation of the euro-zone
crisis.”  Osborne will present his annual budget to Parliament on
March 21.  Britain’s economy  has struggled to maintain growth as
the fiscal squeeze curbed demand and the euro area grappled with
the debt turmoil.  Fitch Ratings  last week lowered its outlook on
the U.K., which the Treasury said was a reminder that it is
“essential” to stick to deficit-reduction plans.  With Osborne pledging to stick to his fiscal program, the
ITEM Club said the budget will contain “no large giveaways and
this is a policy which we would agree with.”  The  budget  may return to surplus by 2016-2017 without any
further policy measures, according to the group, citing the
“strength” of  tax revenue . Goodwin said Osborne is “well on
track with reining in the public finances.”  It also forecast that  unemployment  will rise to close to 3
million people by the end of the year, strengthening the case
for the government to introduce measures to support the labor
market, it said. The jobless level was at 2.67 million in the
three months through January.  Gross domestic product will probably record a “modest”
increase in the first quarter, the ITEM Club said. “The outcome
of the euro-zone crisis remains uncertain, but any worsening in
the euro-zone outlook is balanced by stronger indicators from
the U.S.”  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Andrew Atkinson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  