-- House Price Tumble Sinks N.Y. Property Stocks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-03-19T20:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/house-price-tumble-sinks-n-y-property-stocks-china-overnight.html
Chinese property stocks listed in
the U.S. slipped, led by  China Real Estate Information Corp. (CRIC) , as
home prices in the world’s second-largest economy posted the
worst month in at least a year.  The  Bloomberg China-US Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. slid for a second day, falling 0.2 percent to
104.57 in New York yesterday. Property data and consulting firm
China Real Estate dropped the most in a week, while realty
website company  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  sank for the first time in
three days.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU) , the nation’s second-
biggest wireless carrier, slumped to the lowest level in almost
a year after reporting a drop in users.  New home prices fell in 27 of 70 Chinese cities last month
from a year earlier, while prices were unchanged in six others,
the worst performance since the government started releasing
individual data for 70 cities at the start of 2011. Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled last week that China won’t relax property curbs
aimed at controlling price increases, even as economic growth
slowed to the least in 10 quarters in the last three months of
2011 and the regime’s growth target has been cut for this year.  “Property stocks may react temporarily to falling property
prices data,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst in Lisle,  Illinois  at
Oberweis Asset Management Inc. which manages $700 million
including Chinese stocks, said by phone yesterday. “It may also
mean the government has partly reached its goal of controlling
surging  home prices .”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., tumbled 2 percent to $37.97,
the lowest level since March 7. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 0.4 percent to 1,409.75, the highest level since May
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Major Concern’  China’s official housing data showed a drop in total
building areas sold from last year, according to  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of New York-based Marketfield Asset Management, which
manages $1.5 billion of assets and holds short positions in
Chinese shares, meaning he is betting on their decline.  “Signs are certainly in place that China’s real estate
market is following a downward path we have seen several times
before in other countries,” he said in a client note yesterday.
“If sales in  China  continue to decline, this would be the stage
at which China’s real estate issues start to cause major concern
among global observers.”  China Real Estate’s American depositary receipts lost 4.3
percent to $5.34 in their biggest one-day decline since March
12. The stock earlier fell as much as 6.3 percent.  ‘Squeezed’ by Government  The Shanghai-based company incurred a net loss of $6.4
million in the last quarter of 2011, from net income of $10
million a year earlier, according to a March 8 statement. The
$417.8 million loss for 2011 was wider than the $411.7 million
average prediction of three analysts, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  China’s property market “has been squeezed by the
government’s tightening measures in the last few quarters, and
we don’t expect to see material changes in real estate policies
in the near future,” Xin Zhou, China Real Estate’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  E-House (EJ)  Holdings Ltd., which offers property agency
services in China, said on Dec. 28 that it agreed to acquire
outstanding shares of China Real Estate that it didn’t already
own. The deal included both cash payment and a stock swap
arrangement, according to the statement.  Shanghai-based E-House slipped 1.9 percent to a one-week
low of $6.31 in U.S. trading.  SouFun Slide  SouFun Holdings, which owns China’s biggest real-estate
website, retreated 1.8 percent to $19.06, falling for the first
time in three days. February home prices declined the most in 19
months in China, with residential prices sliding in 72 of 100
cities, SouFun, which started compiling the figures in July
2010, said in a March 1 statement.  “Property stocks may rebound in a longer run” as the data
indicates that the government’s efforts to control price gains
has been successful, according to Oberweis Asset’s Papp, adding
the Chinese government’s move on housing policy will be to
return to a “more neutral” stance.  In China, a two-year campaign to rein in property prices
has included measures such as higher down payments and mortgage
rates, as well as purchase restrictions. The government has
initiated a program to build millions of low-cost homes to
bolster an economy that grew 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter,
the slowest pace since the three months through June 2009.  China Unicom Discounted  ADRs of China Unicom, the nation’s second biggest wireless
operator, fell 3.5 percent to $17.05, the weakest close since
March 31, 2011. The company said yesterday that it added 2.83
million subscribers to its third-generation network in February,
the smallest gain since October.  China Unicom had 45.89 million 3G users at the end of
February, according to a statement to the  Hong Kong  Stock
Exchange. The company had added more than 3 million users in
each of the previous three months.  The ADRs, each representing 10 common shares in the
company, traded 0.2 percent  below  China Unicom’s Hong Kong stock
yesterday, a second day of discounting. The company’s  shares 
dropped 3.5 percent to HK$13.26 in Hong Kong, the equivalent of
$1.71 per share.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced for a second day,
adding 0.2 percent to 2,410.18 yesterday. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  for Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
declined 1.6 percent to 11,036.10, extending a four-day slump.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , a solar-panel maker based in China’s south-
central Jiangxi province, slumped 5.5 percent to $4.63, the
lowest level since Jan. 25.  The company said yesterday that sales in the fourth quarter
were between $440 million to $450 million, compared with a Nov.
22 forecast of $440 million to $520 million by the company and
revenue of $921 million in the same period a year earlier. LDK
reports audited earnings on April 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  