-- Pentagon’s Iran Buildup Call for Adding Laser Weapons
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-19T17:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/pentagon-s-iran-buildup-call-for-adding-laser-weapons.html
The U.S. Central Command plans to
bolster military capabilities against  Iran  by fielding new laser
target-trackers for machine guns, enhanced sensors for
underwater vehicles, improved protection against drone attacks
and upgrades of U-2 spy planes.  The Tampa, Florida-based command, which is responsible for
U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf region, also wants to shift $5.5
million in previously approved funds to buy Gatling guns for
Navy coastal patrol craft, according to budget documents.  Iranian officials have periodically threatened this year to
block the Strait of Hormuz, through which 20 percent of the
world’s daily oil transits, in retaliation for Western sanctions
aimed at slowing its nuclear program.  The U.S. Navy would move
to stop any Iranian attempt to lay mines in the Strait or Gulf
as an “act of war,” the services’s top Gulf commander, Vice
Admiral Mark Fox, has said.  The Central Command’s intentions are spelled out in two
“reprogramming” requests that Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale
sent Congress last month. The four congressional defense
committees have  approved  the requests to move defense funds,
which were to go to other programs, and the changes are being
implemented, according to the comptroller’s website.  “There’s no significant area where I’ve got to come in and
say, we’ve got a big problem here.” Central Command commander
General James Mattis told the House Armed Services Committee on
March 7. “They’re just areas I want to make certain we maintain
our edge.”  Faster Than Anticipated  In a “couple of cases,” Iran improved capabilities
“faster than we anticipated,” he said.  The Command requested the additional funds because “our
growing reliance on our maritime forces requires an ability to
project power against asymmetric threats, particularly in the
confined and crowded sea lanes” of the Strait of Hormuz and the
 Persian Gulf , Major David Nevers, spokesman for the Central
Command, said in an e-mailed statement.  Funds were shifted from Pentagon biological and chemical
weapons defensive programs and Navy and Air Force shipbuilding,
satellite and aircraft programs deemed to have excess funds or
experiencing delays.  Congress approved a $28 million shift to provide six U-2
spy planes with upgraded satellite links that increase their
capability to “provide real-time, high bandwidth video feeds to
ships, ground forces and command and control centers,”
according to the reprogramming documents.  Air Combat Command spokeswoman Kelly Sanders declined to
discuss the upgrade, citing its classification.  Anti-Radar Missile  Congress also backed the shift of $10 million to increase
funding for a joint Navy- National Reconnaissance Office  program
to equip the service’s new anti-radar missile -- the  Advanced
Anti-Radiation Guided Missile  made by  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  -
- with a “Special Target Engagement” capability that includes
a broadcast receiver.  The National Reconnaissance Office is the spy agency that
manages U.S. intelligence satellites.  An additional $4.8 million was approved for integrating new
sensors on a Navy underwater vehicle “for very shallow water-
mine countermeasures missions,” according to the documents.  The Central Command also won congressional approval to
shift $3.7 million to developing a defense against drone
attacks. The system will cover “vulnerable areas below typical
air-defense radar coverage areas,” according to the documents.  Iran’s Drones  Iran “has an active program and two families of
reconnaissance, target and lethal” drones, an April 2010
Pentagon report on Iran’s military capabilities found.  Congress also approved plans to accelerate installation on
coastal patrol craft of the “MK 38 Mod 2” system, which
includes the laser-tracker for precision aiming of machine guns.
Lawmakers rejected the planned source of $4 million in funds so
the Comptroller is looking to other sources, a document said.  As  described  by  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and subcontractor  Boeing
Co. (BA) , the tactical laser system “brings high precision accuracy
against surface and air targets such as small boats and unmanned
aerial systems. The system also provides the ability to deliver
different levels of laser energy, depending on the target and
mission objectives.”  Iran has increased the number of small, fast patrol
vessels, some of which have been outfitted with large warheads
for a suicide run at U.S. vessels, Fox told reporters last
month.  Iran’s Subs, Speedboats  The Pentagon’s 2010 assessment of Iran’s military power
listed four midget submarines, 80 patrol craft and 18 guided
missile patrol boats under control of the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps navy. The Corps also “controls hundreds of small
patrol boats,” it said.  The Guard navy since the 1990s has purchased Italian-made
speedboats and has been making them domestically, according a
2009 report by the U.S. Office of Naval Intelligence.  It also has Chinese-built C-14 missile boats and North
Korean-made “semi-submersible” vessels that can carry two
torpedoes.  The planned Central Command improvements are in addition to
deploying four additional mine-sweeping vessels and four more
MH-53 helicopters within three months, doubling U.S. counter-
mine capabilities, Admiral Jonathan Greenert, the chief of naval
operations, told reporters on March 16.  Greenert said he determined new capabilities were warranted
after making a trip the Gulf and a carrier transit through the
 Strait of Hormuz . He likened the improvements to giving vessels
a “hunting rifle” or a “sawed-off shotgun” if needed in the
Strait’s narrow waters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  