-- Phillies’ Chase Utley Leaves Camp to See Specialist on Knee
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-19T17:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/phillies-chase-utley-leaves-camp-to-see-specialist-on-knee-pain.html
Philadelphia Phillies second
baseman  Chase Utley  will have his chronic knee tendinitis
evaluated by a specialist.  Utley, who missed all of spring training in Clearwater,
 Florida , and 46 games last season because of right knee pain,
“is headed out of town for a few days to be evaluated by a
specialist that has helped athletes overcome his issue,” the
Major League Baseball team said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Chase’s rehab process has come to a bit of a plateau,”
the Phillies said in the statement. “He has made some strides
but not enough to take the field.”  Utley told reporters two days ago that he hoped to play
this week, according to the  Associated Press . Utley has problems
with both knees and is doubtful for opening day, AP said today,
citing Phillies General Manager Ruben Amaro Jr.  Phillies manager  Charlie Manuel  said last week that Utley’s
knee injury “is not going to go away and he has to get ready,”
AP said.  Utley, 33, has a history of mild patellar tendinitis and
chondromalacia in the knee, the Phillies’ team physician,
Michael Ciccotti, said in a March 2011 statement.  He missed the first 46 games of the season and ended up
playing in 103, posting a .259 batting average and 11 home runs,
both the lowest since his rookie year.  A nine-year veteran who’s played his entire major-league
career with the Phillies, Utley has a .290 career batting
average and 188 home runs while being named an All-Star five
times.  The Phillies also will start the season on April 5 without
first baseman  Ryan Howard , who is recuperating from a torn
Achilles tendon. Philadelphia had the best record in baseball
last season at 102-60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 