-- Platinum Australia Considers Chinese Partners for New Mine
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-03-20T07:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/platinum-australia-considers-partner-for-170-million-project.html
Platinum Australia Ltd. (PLA) , operator
of a mine in South Africa, is considering a Chinese partner to
develop a $170 million project in Western Australia that may
hold the biggest reserve of the precious metal in Asia-Pacific.  The Panton mine will be able to supply customers in Japan
and China, Managing Director John Lewins said in an interview in
 Hong Kong  yesterday. China, the largest consumer of platinum,
barely produces any of the metal used in everything from jewelry
to automobile catalytic converters, he said.  The Perth-based company is focusing on the home market as
it joins  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AAL) , the largest producer of
the metal, and  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  in facing mounting labor and power
costs as well as supply disruptions because of labor strikes in
 South Africa . The nation produces as much as 75 percent of the
world’s platinum, Lewins said.  The Panton project will generate net cash flow of as much
as $136 million, the company said in a statement to the
Australian stock exchange today. The mine would produce 83,000
ounces of platinum, palladium and gold a year, it said.  Platinum Australia’s shares rose 3.1 percent to close at
6.7 cents in Sydney.  The company’s payroll increased from 30 to 800 in January
after it hired employees directly from its South African
contractor, which failed to meet production targets, Lewins
said. The company lost production last year when employees of
JIC Mining Services Pty at its Smokey Hills mine in South Africa
went on strike.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the South African company to
which Platinum Australia sells all its current output, also
stopped production on Jan. 30 over a pay dispute.  “We’ll continue to see supply interruptions, there’s no
doubt about that,” Lewins said, referring to the South African
mining industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  