-- Princeton, Israel Put Online Einstein’s Notes, Lover’s Letter
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-03-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/princeton-israel-put-online-einstein-s-notes-lover-s-letter.html
Albert Einstein ’s postcard to his
sick mother joyfully reporting proof of the bending of light and
a letter suggesting a solution to the Jewish-Arab conflict have
been put online.  The Internet archive of what will be more than 80,000
documents also includes a former mistress’s request to Einstein,
one of the 20th century’s greatest scientists. The Hebrew
University of Jerusalem is working on the plan with  Princeton
University Press  and the Einstein Papers Project at the
 California Institute of Technology .  “The work should be, can be, human with drafts, doubts,
corrections and rewrites,” the Jerusalem university’s president
Menahem Ben-Sasson said.  The expansion, of which 2,000 documents are already
available, was funded by Leonard Polonsky, founder, chairman and
chief executive of  Hansard Global Plc (HSD) , through the Polonsky
Foundation U.K.  Polonsky, who has also funded the digitalization and online
adoption of Isaac Newton’s papers with the University of
Cambridge, said his practice is to give a six-figure amount
every year for three years for such projects. He and the
university declined to be more specific about costs.  Polonsky’s motivation to put such collections online stems
from his fear that they may disappear in the same way Japanese
archives in Nagasaki and Hiroshima disappeared in 1945 and the
great library at Alexandria was eradicated in ancient times.  Fragile Documents  “One is aware of the fragility,” Polonsky said of the
Einstein project. “All these documents have been threatened by
another country, not directly, but by the destruction of
 Jerusalem . If these original documents are destroyed they are
gone. If they are online, they aren’t.”  Iranian Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  referred to
Israel on Feb. 4 as a “cancerous tumor” that will be cut, and
added that “if any nation or any group confronts the Zionist
regime, we will help.”  Cataloged for posterity is a letter sent to Einstein in May
1938 from Betty Neumann, 15 years after their affair, asking for
help to move to the U.S. from  Austria .  Einstein stepped in and saved her from Nazi  Europe .  Also available online is a letter to the editor published
in the Falastin newspaper and written in the aftermath of the
1929 Hebron violence that left 67 Jews dead, according to the
Israeli Foreign Ministry website. Einstein, in the letter,
expressed hope that the Jewish-Arab conflict could be resolved
by a council of wise men, made up of four members from each
side.  Romantic Beauty  “It’s romantic and it’s beautiful and maybe one day if
nothing else works, this is the way to go about it,” said
Hanoch Gutfreund, a former president of the  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem  and academic head of the Einstein archive.  Peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians fell apart
in September 2010 after Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
declined to extend a 10-month construction freeze in West Bank
settlements and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
refused to continue negotiations unless all building stopped.  “This is a coherent picture,” Gutfreund said of the
project, “of a personality who is a great scientist but at the
same time a human being and a man, who more than anyone else in
the first half of the 20th century expressed his views on
everything on the agenda of mankind. Now we have a very complete
and full picture of that person.”  Other important documents that have been digitalized and
put online include Google-backed projects that created an
Internet archive for the Dead Sea Scrolls and a search function
for photos from  Israel ’s Yad Vashem Holocaust museum.  Information:  http://www.alberteinstein.info/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  