-- Rand Declines as China Housing Data Damps Outlook for Exports
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-19T14:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/rand-falls-before-current-account-gap-report-yields-unchanged.html
The rand weakened against the
dollar for the first time in three days on concern slowing
growth in  China ,  South Africa ’s biggest trading partner, will
damp prospects for the nation’s exports.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest economy depreciated as
much as 0.8 percent to 7.6165 per dollar and traded 0.1 percent
weaker at 7.5678 as of 3:35 p.m. in Johannesburg. The nation’s
77 billion rand of 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 yielded 7.96
percent, unchanged from yesterday’s close.  New home prices in China fell in 27 of 70 cities last month
from a year earlier, the worst since the government began
releasing individual data for cities at the start of 2011. China
buys 14 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data.  “As  market sentiment  remains uncertain and there are
several risk factors in the background, we keep a cautious view
on the rand for coming months, expecting the dollar-rand at 7.80
by the end of June,”  Gaelle Blanchard , a London-based analyst
at Societe Generale SA, wrote in an e-mailed mote today.  The likelihood South Africa’s currency will trade at 7.80
against the dollar by the end of the second quarter was about 75
percent, implied volatility from options trading monitored by
Bloomberg showed.  South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  slipped 0.5 percent,
led by miners including Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd.
Metals and other commodities account for 65 percent of South
Africa’s exports, according to government data.  Current Account Gap  The rand stayed weaker after South Africa’s current account
gap, the broadest measure of trade in goods and services,
unexpectedly narrowed in the fourth quarter as dividend payments
to foreigners declined and after the third-quarter shortfall was
revised upward.  The deficit shrunk to 3.6 percent of gross domestic
product, from a revised 4.1 percent in the third quarter, the
 Reserve Bank  said in its Quarterly Bulletin released in  Pretoria 
today. The median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a shortfall of 4.2 percent.  “Although the fourth-quarter deficit was narrower, the
previous quarter was revised upwards,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by
phone. “On balance, the market is probably not seeing that as
an improvement.”  The rand’s six-month implied volatility versus the dollar,
based on prices of options contracts, climbed to 16.6 percent
today, the highest since Feb. 27, indicating traders are seeing
more price swings in coming months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  