-- RBA’s Stevens Speaks in Hong Kong on Global Outlook: Full Text
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-03-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/rba-s-stevens-speaks-in-hong-kong-on-global-outlook-full-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of prepared remarks delivered today in  Hong Kong  by
 Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens .  “Thank you for the invitation to join this conference here
in Hong Kong.  ‘‘ Asia  remains one of those parts of the world where
prospects for growth are exciting, and where people expect – for
good reason – the future to be better than the past. Yet for the
past six months or more, global attention has been riveted on
the ‘old world’ – continental Europe – where many have feared
the best was in the past.  ‘‘The  Reserve Bank of Australia  has taken a very close
interest in the events in Europe. At the purely analytical
level, the sheer magnitude and complexity of the problems that
have arisen will be a fertile area of study for students of
economics and other disciplines for decades to come.  ‘‘Of course the adoption of the euro was not solely, maybe
not even primarily, an economic decision, but it nonetheless had
economic consequences. In several very important respects the
euro area’s first decade was a remarkable success. But there
were important structural stresses underneath and some of these
have suddenly become more visible in the past few years. Now the
euro’s future depends on whether the commitment of the Europeans
extends to building more of the economic sub-structure
consistent with the single currency, which will entail both
fiscal and supply side reforms. It is of course quite difficult
to lay foundations when the house has already been erected on
the site, but that is the job ahead in  Europe .  ‘‘I think the evidence is that European policymakers
understand the importance of their response and are going to
great lengths to implement it. Progress has been made. But there
is a long way to go yet. During that long journey, there will
surely be numerous episodes of heightened anxiety, any one of
which could erupt into a more extreme crisis if one or more of
the key actors makes a serious mistake.  ‘‘In terms of the practical impact of these events, at
present we can say that the euro area has been in recession for
some months. Some individual countries have been in a deep
downturn for much longer than that, but I am speaking here of
the euro area in aggregate. The recession is expected by
official forecasters in Europe, and bodies like the IMF, to be a
relatively mild one, though all would acknowledge that it is
impossible to be sure, as is usually the case with such
episodes.  ‘‘We see three potential channels of effects from these
events to  Australia .  ‘‘The first is a direct trade link. Australia’s exports of
goods and services to Europe are actually quite modest (Table
1). By far the biggest trade relationships these days are with
Asia. Hence, a bigger impact of the euro crisis on Australia
would come indirectly via trade with Asia.  ‘‘It is pretty clear that growth across much of East Asia
moderated in 2011 and that there has been some effect of the
slower euro area economy on Asian exports.  ‘‘There have been other forces at work too – the Japanese
tsunami a year ago had significant effects on production chains
around Asia. These effects had probably not completely
disappeared when the floods in  Thailand  had another significant
impact, which may still be affecting the data. So detecting the
effects of weaker European growth against the backdrop of the
supply disturbances to trade patterns following these natural
disasters might be a little like trying to pick up one
conversation in a crowded room: there’s a lot of background
noise.  ‘‘But most of the high-frequency data on trade and
production did not seem to show the slowing intensifying as we
went into 2012. It is too early yet to say that a new
strengthening is under way. But we do not seem to be seeing the
signs of a rapid fall in trade that we saw in late 2008.  ‘‘A reference to 2008 brings me to the third channel
through which we think about the effects of the European crisis.
And it is perhaps the most unpredictable and potentially most
damaging kind: the financial link. It would not be the direct
exposures of Australian institutions to the most troubled
countries of Europe that would be of concern, because those are
quite small. It would be the more general impact on global
markets of a European problem. What we saw in late 2008 was
effectively a closure of funding markets for financial
institutions for a period, after the failure of  Lehman Brothers .
These sorts of events affect virtually all countries, because
the impacts on credit conditions, trade finance, share prices,
and household and business confidence – all of which lead to
precautionary behaviour – occur almost instantaneously
everywhere.  ‘‘There was a period late in 2011 where there was a genuine
fear that this could happen again. Funding markets tightened up
and effectively closed for many European banks. Interbank
activity more or less ceased in Europe. The cocktail of
sovereign credit concerns, large bank exposures to those
sovereigns, possible bank capital shortfalls and prospective
large debt rollover needs of banks, not to mention the
unpredictable dynamics of the Greek workout, had everyone very
much on edge. The effects were felt globally. The actions of the
ECB have alleviated the immediate funding issues for banks.
Tensions eased a good deal, and this has been reflected in
reopened term markets, falls in sovereign spreads for countries
like Italy and  Spain , and a rise in equity prices. We have also
heard reports that some European participants in trade finance
in Asia that had been pulling back in the last quarter of 2011
have begun to seek some business again recently.  ‘‘Yet much more needs to be done to put sovereigns and
banks onto a sound footing longer term. Interbank activity
remains constrained and unsecured funding remains expensive for
banks. It is noteworthy that large corporates can borrow more
cheaply than can banks with higher credit ratings, such is the
odium investors attach to banks (though this is not confined to
Europe). Much also has to be done on the supply side to generate
growth in Europe, for without growth the fiscal arithmetic will
always be challenging, if not impossible. The road to
sustainability on these multiple fronts is a long one, which is
why, as I say, there will be more periods of anxiety in the
months (and years) ahead.  ‘‘While everyone has been fixated on Europe, the  United
States  economy has avoided a ‘double dip’ recession, and
continues grinding out a modest expansion. In recent times, the
pace of jobs growth in the United States has picked up and other
labour market indicators are showing signs of improvement.  ‘‘The United States has its own challenges of course, not
least that it must sooner or later have some fiscal
consolidation and that may slow growth. America’s inherent
dynamism and capacity to innovate, however, which is matched by
few other societies, has to be seen as a positive over the
longer term.  ‘‘Then there is  China . The slowdown in Chinese growth –
from 10 per cent to a mere 8 per cent! – is a major talking
point, and some see it as portending a major crash. But some
slowing was required to reduce inflation and, therefore, put
growth on a more sustainable path. One can certainly think of
ways in which China could have a ‘hard landing’ at some point.
It is very difficult for anyone to know (doubly difficult, I
think, if trying to know while sitting in a trading room in  New
York  or  London ). But if the Chinese economy does slow ‘too
much’, one could expect that the Chinese authorities will have
both the will and the capacity to respond, the more so now that
inflation has moderated.  ‘‘China will have cycles like other economies, but it seems
likely that the Chinese economy will grow pretty strongly on
average for a while yet. It will be a very large economy. Even
at the new growth target of 7½ per cent, a lower target than in
the past five years (all of which were, of course, exceeded),
Chinese GDP will equal that of the United States, in Purchasing
Power Parity terms, in about a decade. It will exceed that of
the euro area within the next few years.  ‘‘There are issues of rebalancing the sources of growth in
Asia, to which I shall return shortly. But the main point for
now is that the global economy is faced at present with a year
of sub-trend growth in 2012, according to international
forecasters. This is a subdued but not disastrous outcome. And
Asia in particular is well-placed to do fairly well, given
sensible policies. Downside risks certainly do remain, and are
easier at this point to imagine than upside ones. At this point
though they remain risks, rather than outcomes.  ‘‘What then about Australia? At the moment, the viewpoints
of those inside Australia differ somewhat from those of people
outside Australia.  ‘‘Viewed from abroad, judging by what people say, observers
see an economy that experienced only a relatively mild downturn
in 2008-2009, that made up the decline in output within a few
months, and that has continued to expand, albeit at only
moderate pace, since then. They see an economy that has not
experienced a significant recession for 20 years, that has
strong banks and little government debt – and that debt remains
AAA-rated. Some observers worry about high levels of housing
prices and  household debt . This is understandable given the
problems that have occurred in some other countries. But then
others point out that the arrears rate on mortgages, at 60 basis
points, is quite low, and that the rate of new construction of
dwellings in recent years has been low relative to population
needs.  ‘‘Foreign investors see a country that remains quite open
to them, and that, reflecting its economic circumstances, offers
rates of return that are high by international standards, even
though they are low by Australian historical standards. They
understand the potential returns on the mineral and energy
wealth stored in or around the Australian continent, and that
our terms of trade have over the past year been higher than at
any time for more than a century. There has been increased
appetite for Australian dollar denominated assets, particularly
sovereign debt, and the Australian dollar has risen strongly, to
be at its highest level in three decades.  ‘‘Those at home see this as well. As consumers, they have
responded to the higher exchange rate with record levels of
international travel. As producers, however, they also see, with
increasing clarity, that the rise in the relative price of
natural resources amounts to a global and epochal shift, which
carries important implications for economic structure in
Australia, as it does everywhere else. Some sectors of the
economy will grow in importance as they invest and employ to
take advantage of higher prices. Other sectors will get
relatively smaller, particularly in the traded sector, as they
face relatively lower prices for their products and competition
for inputs from the stronger sectors. The exchange rate response
to this shift in fundamentals is sending very clearly the signal
to shift the industry mix, though this would occur at any
exchange rate. The shift in relative prices is a shift in global
prices that is more or less invariant to the level of the
Australian dollar.  ‘‘In other words, while the global shift in relative prices
is income-enhancing for Australians overall, it is also
structural change-inducing. A former leader once quipped that
‘microeconomic reform’ was such a common topic in Australian
discussion that even the parrots in pet shops were talking about
it. I think the same is increasingly true of structural change:
it is a term that will be on everyone’s lips over the next few
years.  ‘‘Structural adaptation is hard work. Few volunteer for it.
But we have little choice but to do it, not just to make the
most of the new opportunities that have been presented, but to
respond to the changed circumstances that some industries face
as a result. In this sense, Australia, though blessed with many
natural endowments, is in the same position as most other
nations. We have to adapt to changing times. This perhaps helps
to explain the sense of concern in some parts of the Australian
community and the tendency to focus on the difficulties, rather
than the opportunities, which come with our situation.  ‘‘This difference in perceptions between foreigners and
locals is quite unusual. For most of my career, the difference
has tended to be in the opposite direction. We always seemed to
struggle to get foreign observers and investors to give us
credit for performance we thought was pretty reasonable. And it
is only little more than a decade ago that Australia was being
described as an ‘old economy’. Now perceptions have changed, at
least in a relative sense.  ‘‘The shift in global portfolio allocation that seems to be
associated with this is potentially very important. In a more
risk averse world, the supply of genuinely low-risk assets seems
smaller. Countries that have offered a reasonably stable
economic environment and relatively sound public finances – of
which Australia is one – are attracting greater flows of
official capital now than they did a decade ago. This has
recently been adding to the upward pressure on the exchange
rate, independently of the rise in the terms of trade.  ‘‘As is so often the case in economics, there are two sides
to this. On the one hand, the additional rise in the exchange
rate pushes our cost structure in the tradable sectors of the
economy up relative to other countries. This is a contractionary
force and adds further to the already considerable pressure for
structural change.  ‘‘On the other hand, it amounts to a reduction in the cost
of international capital for Australian borrowers, particularly
government borrowers. At the margin, this has to make the task
of ensuring fiscal soundness a little easier. Even for private
borrowers the unusually low level of long-term rates for the
official sector offsets a good deal of the widening in spreads
due to perceptions of higher private credit risk (that being, of
course, a global phenomenon).  ‘‘A greater flow of cheaper capital to a country is an
advantage. It is important, of course, that it is used wisely.
When risk appetite is strong, and  risk assessment  by lenders too
loose, such conditions can result in problems. For example, it
has been argued that the flow of capital to the United States
looking for low-risk assets was channelled by the US financial
system into structured products that had the illusion of high
quality, but which ultimately resulted in the sub-prime mortgage
crisis.  ‘‘At this point, however, we do not seem to have that
problem in Australia. If anything, households, businesses and
governments are looking, to varying degrees, to reduce their
debt. The financial sector is quite risk averse in its lending
practices, particularly towards some of the business sectors
that might be willing to take on additional debt. In such
circumstances, the competitiveness-dampening effect of the
higher exchange rate on the traded sector that results from the
portfolio shifts may, for some period of time, outweigh the
expansionary effect of a lower cost of capital.  ‘‘The economic background to this shift is an economy where
a range of indicators had been tending to suggest that growth
was running close to average. Key business surveys, for example,
have suggested average performance compared with the past 20
years; the rate of unemployment has been little changed at what
remains, by the standards of the past three decades at least, a
reasonably low level. On the other hand, recent national
accounts data suggest growth in the non-farm economy somewhat
below trend over 2011.  ‘‘Overall, recent economic performance in Australia is not
too bad, particularly when compared, over a run of years, to a
number of other advanced economies.  ‘‘But neither is it so good that it cannot be improved. The
full range of policies – macroeconomic and structural – need to
play their part in seeking that improvement.  ‘‘ Monetary policy  can play a role in supporting demand, to
the extent that inflation performance provides scope to do so.
But monetary policy cannot raise the economy’s trend rate of
growth. That lies in the realm of productivity-increasing
behaviour at the enterprise, governmental and inter-governmental
levels. Improving productivity growth is just about the sole
source of improving  living standards , once the terms of trade
gain has been absorbed. This is increasingly being recognised in
public discussion, but it is important we do more than just
debate it.  ‘‘Nor can monetary policy obviate the pressure for the
production side of the economy to change in response to altered
relative prices. These changes in relative prices are
essentially given to us by the world economy; they are not
driven by any policy in Australia.  ‘‘So in Australia, reorienting our economy, adapting to
structural changes and improving productivity performance are
challenges we face. But we are hardly alone in facing adjustment
challenges. More generally, reorienting economies in the Asian
region, and around the world, remains a major challenge.  ‘‘Changes in the right direction have been occurring.
Countries in this region have been prepared increasingly to
develop and follow domestic policy frameworks that guide their
behaviour in sensible ways (for example, inflation targeting).
They have been prepared to accept some more movement in exchange
rates, and to seek more domestic-led growth in demand. China in
particular has seen the ratio of domestic demand to GDP rise
over the past few years, reversing much of an earlier decline.  ‘‘More of this will be required, however, over time, for at
least three reasons.  ‘‘First, it is not a sustainable model to expect developed
world households to consume ever higher volumes of the output of
Asian factories with borrowed money. That model cannot return,
which means that the imperative to find domestic sources of
growth is not just a cyclical one.  ‘‘Second, the eventual sheer size of the Asian economy is
such that it will have to absorb more of its own output as it
continues to grow. Continental-size economies such as the United
States and the euro area have long done so. Here it is important
to note that for  East Asia  outside of China and  Japan , the
decline in domestic demand relative to GDP that understandably
occurred during the crisis of 1997-98 largely remains in place,
more than a decade later.  ‘‘Third, and most important, it will surely be the most
enriching strategy for the people of this region to turn more of
their own savings to developing their own physical and human
capital. Yet at present trillions of dollars are lent by
taxpayers in Asia to some highly indebted advanced world
governments at yields that seem extraordinarily low. It seems
very unlikely that there are not better risk-adjusted returns in
Asia than that.  ‘‘So for all of us, the challenges are those of adaptation
to changing circumstances and new opportunities. A fascinating
journey lies ahead. We in Australia will be facing our own
adjustment imperative. We will also be taking more than a casual
interest in developments in the region in this ‘Asian
century’.’’ 