-- Stevens Sees China Matching U.S. in Decade on 7.5% Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-03-19T06:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/rba-s-stevens-sees-china-matching-u-s-in-decade-on-7-5-growth.html
China ’s lower growth target will
still allow one measure of its gross domestic product to exceed
the euro area in a few years and match the  U.S. economy  in a
decade,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said.  “The slowdown in Chinese growth -- from 10 percent to a
mere 8 percent! -- is a major talking point, and some see it as
portending a major crash,” Stevens said in a speech in Hong
Kong today. “But some slowing was required to reduce inflation
and, therefore, put growth on a more sustainable path.”  Stevens’s confidence in China was underscored by the RBA’s
decision to pause interest-rate cuts in the past two months even
as Australia’s economy grew at half the pace forecast by
economists in the final three months of 2011 and unemployment
rose last month for the first time since August. The currency
has strengthened this year, propelled by a A$456 billion ($484
billion) pipeline of resource projects by companies such as  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to meet Chinese demand.  “One can certainly think of ways in which China could have
a ‘hard landing’ at some point,” Stevens told the Credit Suisse
Group AG 15th Asian Investment Conference. “But if the Chinese
economy does slow ‘too much,’ one could expect that the Chinese
authorities will have both the will and the capacity to respond,
the more so now that inflation has moderated.”  Currency Outlook  Asked by a member of the audience about the likely
trajectory of the Australian currency, particularly after China
lowered its economic growth outlook earlier this month, Stevens
declined to provide a price forecast.  “Presumably, a certain degree of expected slowing in China
and so on is already reflected in that price,” he said. “A lot
will depend on what happens to the  U.S. dollar  itself of course,
which will be a function of, among other things, how the U.S.
economy itself is traveling.”  Australia’s reliance on China, its biggest trading partner,
was underscored in a March 9 government report showing the
nation recorded its first trade deficit in 11 months in January.
Exports to China, which accounts for about a quarter of
Australia’s merchandise sales abroad, fell by 23 percent.  “China will have cycles like other economies, but it seems
likely that the Chinese economy will grow pretty strongly on
average for a while yet,” Stevens said. “Even at the new
growth target of 7.5 percent, a lower target than in the past
five years (all of which were, of course, exceeded), Chinese GDP
will equal that of the  United States , in purchasing-power parity
terms, in about a decade. It will exceed that of the euro area
within the next few years.”  Measuring Economies  Purchasing power parity is a measure of relative consumer
prices across countries.  Stevens noted a “quite unusual” divergence between
domestic and international perceptions of Australia. Foreigners
see an economy that has avoided recession for two decades, has
strong banks and little government debt -- and that debt is AAA-
rated, he said.  “This has recently been adding to the upward pressure on
the  exchange rate , independently of the rise in the terms of
trade,” Stevens said, referring to a measure of export prices
relative to import prices. The nation’s currency has advanced
about 6.5 percent in the past 12 months and traded at $1.0603 at
5:21 p.m. in Sydney.  Consumer Confidence  In contrast, Australians are concerned about job losses at
manufacturers hurt by the nation’s stronger dollar, high
 interest rates  and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis that has
weakened consumer confidence.  While Stevens noted today that the global economy is likely
to experience “sub-trend growth” in 2012, he said it was in
better shape than previously expected.  “This is a subdued but not disastrous outcome,” he said
of global growth. “Downside risks certainly do remain, and are
easier at this point to imagine than upside ones. At this point
though they remain risks, rather than outcomes.”  Stevens said the U.S. is “grinding out” a modest
expansion, even while Europe’s recovery efforts are likely to
produce more “periods of anxiety” in the months and years
ahead.  The RBA governor lowered  Australia ’s overnight cash rate
target twice late last year, to the current 4.25 percent, as
Europe’s fiscal crisis intensified. He paused last month and
again on March 6, while noting that policy makers have scope to
lower borrowing costs.  Productivity Push  “ Monetary policy  can play a role in supporting demand, to
the extent that inflation performance provides scope to do so,”
he said today. “But monetary policy cannot raise the economy’s
trend rate of growth. That lies in the realm of productivity-
increasing behavior at the enterprise, governmental and inter-
governmental levels.”  He welcomed increased public debate on
productivity in Australia.  Australia’s GDP in the final three months of 2011 grew 0.4
percent from the third quarter, half the expansion economists
predicted, a government report showed March 7. Household
consumption, which accounts for 56 percent of the economy,
advanced at the slowest pace since the first quarter of 2010.  Australian employers unexpectedly cut payrolls in February,
with the number of people employed falling by 15,400, a
government report showed March 8. The jobless rate rose to 5.2
percent from 5.1 percent.  On inflation, Stevens referred to the RBA’s February
forecasts showing consumer prices would be “broadly
consistent” with the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent
target range over the next couple of years.  “Since then we’ve had some data, some of which is a little
mixed, so we’ll be working through the implications of that and
we’ll get another update on the price outlook during April,” he
said in response to an audience question.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  