-- Rear-View Tattoo, Colorful Cocktail -- It’s Bruise Cruise
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/rear-view-tattoo-colorful-cocktail-it-s-bruise-cruise.html
Afloat on the Atlantic, 24-year-old
Amy asked bachelor No. 2 if he had “any hidden tattoos.” He
answered by gamely mooning the delighted audience gathered in
the Shangri-la lounge aboard the Imagination, a  Carnival Corp. (CCL) 
ship.  It was Sunday afternoon on the second annual three-day
ocean-going music festival known as the  Bruise Cruise . The
Dating Game, which served as hangover recovery and hair-of-the-
dog for many, rewarded victors with a date and a year’s supply
of Sir Richard’s Condoms. The mooner won.  I was one of 500 Bruisers who joined what, for the 1,500
other passengers, was a conventional cruise from Miami to
Nassau. The Bruisers were mostly cloistered in the separate
Spirit Dining Room and in Xanadu, our own  music hall .  The acts included the Togas, Kyp Malone, King Khan and the
Shrines,  Thee Oh Sees , the Dirtbombs,  Vockah Redu , and Quintron
and Miss Pussycat. We entertained ourselves further with
multicolored cocktails, but you had to request the tiny
umbrella.  For many, drinking and boating was a challenge. When drunk
on a boat, it’s very hard to differentiate what is drunk and
what is boat. New sea legs combined with innumerable Mai Tais
and choppy waters make for very wobbly dancing. No injuries were
reported, though I sustained cuts from corseting my feet too
tightly in wooden flatforms.  Our Crowd  Our crowd comprised garage punk and indie music fans, easy
to identify by the bright tattoos (largely bird-themed for
women), bushy beards, torn jeans, loud ‘80s T-shirts. I saw no
identifiable Brooks Brothers. The gift bag at check-in included
Wayfarer-esque Bruise-branded  Glamour Kills  sunglasses and
rolling papers courtesy of music-streaming website  Grooveshark .  The biggest subsets were from Brooklyn and Nashville, home
base for Bruise Cruise founders Michelle Cable, 29, of  Panache
Booking  and Jonas Stein, 24, of the band Turbo Fruits. They
spread the word via viral videos, radio ads and stands at other
music festivals. They sold out at $695 to $760 a head.  “We wanted to create both a festival and a vacation
experience that also brought people together in a unique way,”
Cable said. “I think we accomplished that community, family
vibe.”  A family on a tight schedule: We left Miami at 4 p.m.
Friday, had an overnight at sea, had most of a day and an
overnight in Nassau, and sailed at 7 a.m. Sunday for a Miami
arrival 26 hours later.  ‘Special Auditorium’  Sequestered on board, we Bruisers didn’t seem to disturb
the rest of the human cargo. We did provide motley people-
watching for calmer vacationers, and a group of 12-year-olds
joined Quintron’s DJ deck dance party on the last night.  “You guys pretty much hung out in that special auditorium
back there,” said Paul Cannell, 54, who was on vacation from
Charlottesville,  Virginia , with his 13-year-old daughter.
“Because of that, the whole ship was empty. The dining rooms
were emptier than they would have been otherwise, I think. That
made it good for us.”  I didn’t notice a lot of worry about the capsizing of
Miami-based Carnival’s Costa Concordia off the Tuscan coast four
weeks earlier or the more recent reports of cruise-loving
Norovirus.  Some Bruisers did mourn the death of Whitney Houston, which
I first heard from a friend avoiding the 12:15 a.m. Conga Line
at the Senor Frog’s bar, our hangout in Nassau.  In general, “the vibes were more positive” than on last
year’s cruise, Cable said, with less “drinking to a point of
feeling like you’ve gone overboard.”  ‘Funeral Home’  I witnessed no vomiting, public passing out, egregious
falling, or fighting. These Bruisers seemed savvy about their
tolerances. Sunbathing on the beach in Nassau, a guy hawking
drugs found demand in our crowd to be underwhelming.  “You acting like you never done this before, you acting
all Christian when I know you do this,” he yelled after we
declined his offer of weed for $20, or $15 for a rolled joint --
try to figure out that business model. When the sky clouded
over, he blamed us: “The rain came because you came to the
Bahamas, you don’t want to do nothing. You just lay down like
you’re at the funeral home.”  On the contrary: I felt a happy, comfortable vibe. Like we
were all already friends, preapproved, with our ornate tattoos
(OK, not me) and bangs and fruity drinks. Like we were living in
an Instagram filter, and for three days, my only worry was
making it back to the boat by 5:45 a.m.  The Bruise Cruise requires passengers to make their own way
to the embarkation point at Port of Miami. A cost of $760 for an
exterior cabin covers three shipboard nights and a day in Nassau
with all meals; Interior cabins are $695. Drinks are extra.
Information:  http://www.bruisecruisefestival.com/ .  (Mary Childs is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 