-- Ten-Year Yield Near October High Before U.S. Homes Data
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-03-19T21:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/treasuries-decline-on-speculation-u-s-home-purchases-inc.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for a
ninth consecutive trading day, the longest stretch since June
2006, as investors bet a strengthening economy will diminish the
refuge appeal of U.S. government securities.  Yields on the benchmark security climbed to the highest
since October six days after the  Federal Reserve  raised its
assessment of the economy, driving investors to riskier assets
such as equities and reducing speculation about additional asset
purchases known as quantitative easing, or QE. Federal Reserve
Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said the central
bank could raise rates sooner or later than 2014.  “It feels like continued liquidation,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New
York, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“We’ve seen a dramatic move in a quick period of time.”  The 10-year  yield  rose eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 2.38 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, the highest level
since Oct. 28. The 2 percent note due in February 2022 fell
23/32, or $7.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 96 21/32.  Money-market derivative traders expect the U.S. central
bank will lift its target rate for overnight loans a year
earlier than Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s pledge of late 2014.  Overnight Index Swaps  Forward markets for overnight index swaps, whose rate shows
what traders expect the federal funds effective rate to average
over the life of the contract, signal a quarter-percentage
advance in approximately the September and October 2013 period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last month, such an
increase in the effective rate wasn’t predicted until early
2014.  The 14-day  relative strength  index for 10-year note yields
was at a level indicating rates may not rise much further. The
index was at 76.5 today, exceeding 70 for a fourth consecutive
day. A reading of more than 70 suggests to some traders that
rates may be about to reverse direction.  Dudley and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  are weighing whether the stimulus that helped fuel the
best six-month streak of job growth since 2006 is sufficient.
Dudley said improving employment markets don’t negate risks to
the U.S. economic expansion.  “Dudley said he’s not sure about more bond buying,” said
 Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading
at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “That took the wind
out of the sails a bit.”  Fed Buying  The central bank bought $5.1 billion of Treasuries maturing
from May 2020 to February 2022 today as part of its plan to keep
borrowing costs low.  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.53 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg News survey, with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings.  The yield on the 10-year note is testing so-called
resistance levels at 2.33 percent to 2.42 percent and may move
to 3.10 percent if that range is broken,  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief
technical analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in a note
to clients.  A resistance level is an area on a chart where analysts
anticipate orders to sell a currency to be grouped and a support
level is an area where they anticipate buy orders to be
clustered.  Yields have been pushing higher as  Europe ’s debt crisis has
stabilized a bit and the Fed is sounding a more positive tone,
Fitzpatrick said in a telephone interview.  Case for QE3  “People are thinking that maybe the economy is gaining
strength,” said  Thomas Roth , senior trader in New York at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “It’s harder to make a case
that QE3 is in because of what we’ve seen in the economic
numbers. A lot of positions were based on the expectations that
it was coming.”  Valuation measures show government debt has become less
expensive. The term premium, a model created by economists at
the Fed, reached negative 0.25 percent today, the least since
October. It touched negative 0.79 percent on Feb. 2, the most
expensive ever. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Treasuries have handed investors a 1.8 percent loss this
year as of March 16, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks gained 13
percent including reinvested dividends, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Convexity Trade  The rise in yields today may have been intensified as
mortgage lenders pared Treasury holdings they no longer needed
to hedge against faster prepayments in so-called convexity
related trades.  Fannie Mae (MTGEFNCL) ’s current-coupon 30-year bonds yielded 3.25
percent today, the highest since October.  Convexity is a measure of the rate of change of a bond’s
duration as a result of changes in  interest rates . Duration is a
measure of a bond’s price sensitivity to changes in interest
rates. Mortgage bonds are described as negatively convex,
meaning that as interest rates rise, their duration increases as
well because fewer homeowners are likely to refinance.  Volume (ICPTVOL)  rose to $299 billion through ICAP Plc, the world’s
largest interdealer broker. It’s down from $439 billion on March
14, the highest since August. Average daily volume over the past
year is $268 billion.  Volatility (MOVE)  remained near a two-month high. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings based on
options, rose to 84.9 basis points on March 16 after climbing on
March 14 to 89.7, the highest since Jan. 3. It touched 69.9
basis points on March 12, the least since July 2007. The reading
means traders expected a yield range of 84.9 basis points on an
annualized basis in the next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  