-- French Candidates Suspend Campaign as They Mourn School Shooting
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-03-19T23:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/three-dead-in-shooting-in-front-of-french-jewish-school-afp.html
The attack at a Jewish school that
killed four people, including three children, derailed  France ’s
presidential campaign and may calm the candidates’ rhetoric five
weeks before election day.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Socialist challenger  Francois
Hollande , along with Prime Minister  Francois Fillon , appeared
together last night at a service at a Paris synagogue. The two
leading candidates canceled campaign appearances yesterday and
today to fly to Toulouse and visit the school,  Ozar Hatorah ,
where the attack took place. Sarkozy announced a minute of
silence in all French schools today.  The shooting was the worst attack on a Jewish target in
France since 1982 and followed similar assaults last week that
left three soldiers dead and a fourth soldier in a critical
condition in Toulouse and nearby Montauban. Two of the soldiers
were Muslims of North African descent, and one was black. The
same weapon was used in all attacks, and the French prosecutor’s
office said the shootings will be investigated together as
“acts of terrorism.”  “It will be hard for the candidates to insult each other
so eagerly,” said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at the Institute
of Political Studies in Paris. “Any return to the nastiness and
the wedge issues that we’ve seen so far will be much harder for
the French to accept.”  Sarkozy is suspending all campaign activities until at
least March 21, he said in a televised statement. “This is a
national tragedy,” Sarkozy said. “All possible means will be
used to put this criminal out of action.”  Jewish, Muslim Leaders  He plans to meet with Jewish and Muslim community leaders,
including Gilles Bernheim, the chief rabbi of France, and Dalil
Boubakeur, rector of the Paris mosque.  Hollande visited the school in Toulouse yesterday, saying
“the anti-Semitic character of this attack is as evident as it
is awful. I must be here to express my solidarity.” He canceled
a television appearance last night and a campaign rally today.  Anti-immigrant candidate Marine Le Pen, whose father Jean-
Marie was condemned by a French court in 1991 for denying the
Holocaust, also suspended her campaign. “In a moment like this
there is no politics, no right, no left, just a French people
that’s touched to its heart,” she said in a press conference in
Paris.  Francois Bayrou , a centrist politician who is running
fourth in the polls, also visited Toulouse.  Effect on Voting?  While the killing led to uninterrupted coverage on all
television news stations, they are unlikely to affect how people
vote in the first round of the presidential in five weeks, said
Frederic Dabi, director general of polling company Ifop.  “There will be strong emotions, anger, and a sense of
insecurity because it involves children, but it shouldn’t
fundamentally alter the primacy of economic concerns in this
election,” Dabi said in an interview. “Any increase in
interest in security will be short-lived, not long-term. It’s
hard to see how it can transform the prism of preoccupations of
the French, which are about the economy and jobs.”  While Sarkozy trails in all voter surveys ahead of the
likely May 6 run-off against Hollande, the French by a 58 to 39
percent margin rate him better than his Socialist challenger on
security issues, according an Ifop poll. The same poll showed
that security was a major issue for 15 percent of voters, behind
the economic crisis at 50 percent, unemployment at 46 percent,
and government debt at 32 percent.  The Ifop poll for Le Monde involved 4,728 people questioned
from Feb. 16 to 21.  Two Weapons  The killer, who escaped on a scooter after randomly
shooting people at the school this morning, had two weapons and
fired at “everything in sight,” Michel Valet, the state
prosecutor for Toulouse, told reporters.  A teacher and his two children, aged three and six, and the
eight-year-old daughter of the school’s director were killed. A
17-year-old youngster was seriously hurt and is in critical
condition.  The three children killed weren’t students at the school
and were shot while waiting for a ride to their own primary
school. A security film at the school shows that the killer
grabbed one of the children by the hair before shooting her,
school officials said.  ‘Little Flower’  “She was a little flower,” Yvan Levy, who dined with the
family of the school’s director yesterday, said of the eight-
year-old who was killed. “It’s clear the man doesn’t have a
conscience. He can’t distinguish good from evil.”  The soldiers were killed on March 11 in Toulouse and on
March 15 in Montauban, 30 miles away. In all three attacks, the
helmeted attacker arrived and left on the same stolen scooter.
Yesterday’s killer was a medium-sized man of European descent,
witnesses told France2 television.  Dubois said Sarkozy could be hurt if it turns out police
missed any chances to arrest the killer. “Anything
dysfunctional on the part of the police would look bad for
Sarkozy, who has always stressed his security credentials,” he
said.  The U.S. Department of  Homeland Security  is working with
European authorities to monitor developments in the shooting,
said a department official, who didn’t have authorization to
publicly talk about the effort and declined to be identified.  The department is examining potential threats in the U.S.,
including those against the Jewish community, the official said.
Currently, there are no specific threats to locations in the
U.S., the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  