-- Romney Illinois Drive Brands Santorum an Economic Rookie
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-19T15:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/romney-illinois-drive-brands-santorum-an-economic-rookie.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , pressing for a victory in tomorrow’s Illinois
primary, is branding both President Barack Obama and primary
rival  Rick Santorum  as economic lightweights.  Campaigning in Obama’s home state, where recent polls show
Romney with an edge in his party’s contest, the former
Massachusetts governor prepared to attack Obama’s economic
record in a midday speech, while dismissing Santorum as
similarly unfit to replace the current White House occupant.  “I’m not an economic lightweight -- President Obama is,”
Romney told voters feasting on over-sized pancakes and eggs at
Charlie Parker’s Diner in Springfield, Illinois.  “We’re not going to be successful in replacing an economic
lightweight with another economic lightweight,” he added,
referring to Santorum. “We’re going to have to replace him with
someone who knows how to run this economy.”  Romney, 65, is seeking an  Illinois  win to bolster his
front-runner status in the Republican contest. Recent public
polls have given him the advantage over Santorum, his closest
rival. Romney plans a speech on “economic freedom” today at
the  University of Chicago , and previewed a tough critique of the
president at the school where Obama once taught law.  ‘Big’ Government  “What we’ve found over the last three years is a president
who continues to push government deeper and deeper into our
lives, stripping us of our personal and economic freedom, and at
the same time building a government that’s so big, it’s crushing
enterprises,” Romney said.  In a statement in advance of Romney’s speech,  James Kvaal ,
the Obama campaign’s policy director, criticized Romney’s term
as Massachusetts governor from 2003 to 2007, saying he presided
over losses of 40,000  manufacturing jobs  and increases in state
government spending and the number of state employees.  “His record of losing jobs and leaving the middle class
behind is turning off the very voters he’d need in November if
he becomes the Republican nominee,” Kvaal said.  Santorum, speaking to voters this morning in Rockford,
Illinois, scoffed at Romney’s characterization of him.  “I heard Governor Romney here called me an economic
lightweight because I wasn’t a Wall Street financier like he
was,” the former  Pennsylvania  senator said. “Do you really
believe that this country wants to elect a Wall Street financier
as the president of the  United States ?” Santorum said his rival
“bailed out” banks “at the expense of America.”  ‘Weak’ Candidate  Santorum is also working to draw parallels between his
Republican opponent and Obama, calling Romney a “weak”
candidate whose policies mirror the president’s on such issues
as health-care mandates and federal bailouts.  “I feel like I am doing a training run for the general
election,” Santorum, 53, said on ABC’s “This Week” program.
“The same issues I’m out there campaigning on against Governor
Romney are the same issues I’m going to campaign against Barack
Obama on.”  In a possible sign he doesn’t expect to carry Illinois,
Santorum scheduled his primary-night party in Gettysburg,
Pennsylvania, as he looks toward the next primary March 24 in
 Louisiana  for a chance to regain momentum and collect delegates.  Latino Votes  Romney hailed his latest victory in  Puerto Rico  -- by a
margin wide enough to claim all of its 20 delegates for the
party’s nominating convention -- during a stop in Vernon Hills,
Illinois, where he suggested it shows that he can appeal to a
constituency central to defeating Obama in November.  “I intend to become the nominee, and I intend to get
Latino voters to vote for a Republican, and take back the White
House,” Romney said yesterday.  Ann Romney, also appearing at the town-hall meeting, called
for Republicans to unite behind her husband.  “We need to send a message that it’s time to coalesce,”
she said. “It’s time for us to get behind one candidate and get
the job done, so we can move on to the next challenge, bringing
us one step closer to defeating  Barack Obama .”  Santorum has portrayed Romney as a flawed candidate unable
to appeal to core Republicans. He “hasn’t been able to close
the deal and even come close to closing the deal,” Santorum
said yesterday. “We can’t nominate such a weak candidate.”  Romney, who sought the Republican presidential nomination
four years ago, brushed aside concerns that his rivals staying
in the race might deny him the chance to amass the 1,144
delegates needed to secure the nomination.  Romney’s Bet  “I can’t tell you exactly how the process is going to
work, but I bet I’m going to become the nominee,” Romney said
on “Fox News Sunday.” “I sure hope I’m going to become the
nominee, and if I am, I’m going to be a strong nominee.”  Romney has 523 delegates to Santorum’s 253, according to
the latest projection by the  Associated Press . Gingrich trails
with 136 delegates, while U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas 
has collected 50.  Romney’s “going to do well here -- I’m cautiously
optimistic,” said Dan Rutherford, the Illinois treasurer who is
chairman of Romney’s campaign in the state. “It adds to the
whole psychology, the whole momentum, and those kinds of things
-- the fundraising,” in addition to Romney’s delegate count.  Romney’s campaign cash advantage and backing by many top
Republicans in Illinois, including Rutherford and Senator  Mark Kirk , lend him an edge. Following the close margins by which
Romney defeated Santorum in Michigan and  Ohio , a victory in
Illinois would be significant for momentum in the race.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Springfield, Illinois at 
1890 or  jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  