-- Romney Bids to Regain Inevitability Aura in Illinois Primary
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-21T00:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/romney-says-obama-policies-prompted-tepid-economic-recovery.html
Mitt Romney  sought a win in today’s
Illinois primary to restore the air of inevitability that once
surrounded his quest for the Republican presidential nomination,
as his closest rival Rick Santorum tried to stay viable with a
strong showing.  As polls closed, no immediate victory projections were made
by television networks.  The stakes are high for both men. Romney, leading in public
polls in the state, aims to prove strength in politically
competitive suburbs that will be crucial in running against
President  Barack Obama  and to consolidate Republican support.
Santorum is trying to deny him that chance by demonstrating
power in conservative bastions in southern Illinois.  Illinois (BEESIL)  is “a suburban powerhouse, and if Romney does
well in the suburbs here, I think it will indicate to people
across the country that he has the potential in the fall to do
well in the key parts of the battleground states, where Obama
did well in 2008, and where Republicans have to recapture some
of the ground we lost last time,” said Dan Curry, a Chicago-
based party strategist.  ‘Strong Signal’  “If Romney is able to pull off a big suburban margin and
hold down Santorum’s margin downstate, I think it will send a
strong signal across the country that this race is inching
closer to being over,” Curry added.  Still, the outcome of today’s balloting -- which awards 54
out of the 1,144 delegates needed for the Republican nomination
-- is unlikely on its own to end the race. Santorum, who failed
to qualify for 10 of the delegates up for grabs today, can still
collect some even if he loses the popular vote, keeping his
candidacy alive as he pushes for a win in  Louisiana , next to
vote on March 24.  Romney, the former  Massachusetts (BEESMA)  governor and second-time
presidential hopeful, has 522 delegates to 253 for Santorum, the
former  Pennsylvania  senator, according to the  Associated Press .
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia trails with
135 and Texas Congressman Ron Paul has 50, according to AP’s
count.  “Romney does need to win the primary in terms of just
trying to start to put to bed some of the questions about can he
appeal to a broad enough base of the party,” said Jamie
Chandler, a political scientist at Hunter College in  New York
City . “But it’s not going to be resolved by any stretch of the
imagination.”  Google Tour  Romney raised money at a private lunch today, then held a
Google+ hangout with supporters at Google’s Chicago
headquarters, where he also toured the company’s primary color-
infused offices and greeted employees at their desks.  He said during the hangout that he had begun his day
washing a shirt in a hotel room sink and ironing it dry, after
realizing he had exhausted his supply of clean shirts suitable
for a fundraiser.  Asked by a reporter during his visit whether he expected to
win in  Illinois , Romney replied, “Sure hope so.”  Romney campaign officials are upbeat, with Dan Rutherford,
the Illinois treasurer who is heads the candidate’s Illinois
campaign, saying he is “cautiously optimistic” for a win.  Hogan Gidley , Santorum’s communications director, played
down the importance of the Illinois vote, telling reporters on a
conference call today that the former senator’s campaign is
“focused on the long haul.”  The campaign also sought to plant seeds of doubt that
Romney can win 1,144 delegates. Gidley said Romney’s campaign
hasn’t been “truthful” about the delegate race, and disputed
the estimates by AP and other news organizations.  False Assumptions  These estimates falsely assume that delegates in some of
states that have voted will fall in line with the popular vote
when county and state conventions are later held to pick
delegates for the national convention in August, Gidley said.  John Brabender , a senior strategist, said the Santorum
campaign count shows Romney has won 435 delegates so far,
compared to 311 for Santorum.  Brabender said states that vote in late May, including
Arkansas and Kentucky, promise to be especially strong for
Santorum. “We view May as a very favorable month for  Rick
Santorum ,” he said.  “It’s going to be a tight race” in Illinois, Santorum
told reporters yesterday in Dixon. “I’ve learned not to
underestimate the folks out here, how hard they are working, and
the energy and enthusiasm that’s built around a positive
message, as opposed to one that’s just out there hammering away
and being negative.”  Maryland Stop  Romney, 65, planned to campaign tomorrow in Maryland --
which holds its primary April 3 -- after an anticipated
election-night victory party in the Chicago suburb of
Schaumburg. Santorum, 53, was returning today to his home-state
of Pennsylvania before heading to campaign events in Louisiana.  Campaigning today in Louisiana is Gingrich, whose
nomination bid was dealt a blow when he lost March 13 primaries
in  Alabama (BEESAL)  and Mississippi to Santorum. Paul is in Burbank,
 California , appearing on NBC’s “The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.”  In yesterday’s campaign in Illinois, Romney branded
Santorum an “economic lightweight” unsuited to defeating Obama
and Santorum painted Romney as a doomed candidate who didn’t
represent core Republican principles.  Attacking Obama  Romney, eager to pivot to attacking Obama, visited the
University of Chicago, where the president once taught law, to
denounce the administration’s economic record. He said Obama has
engaged in an “assault on our economic freedom” that harmed
the  U.S. economy , hindered its recovery and might cause lasting
damage.  Of Santorum, Romney said: “We’re not going to be
successful in replacing an economic lightweight with another
economic lightweight.”  Santorum sought to link himself with  Ronald Reagan . He
implored voters at a rally in Dixon, the 40th U.S. president’s
boyhood home, not to make the mistake he said the party did in
1976 when Republicans pressured Reagan to exit the race against
 Gerald Ford , who went on to lose to Democrat  Jimmy Carter .  Reagan “was considered too conservative, someone who was
unelectable because we needed to appeal to moderates; we needed
to appeal to Democrats,” Santorum said.  Economy and Jobs  He also disputed Romney’s assertion that the central issues
in the election are the economy and jobs, telling voters in
Moline that, while he would restore manufacturing jobs, the race
was about the broader issue of “freedom” and didn’t “hinge”
on unemployment or growth rates.  “I don’t care what the  unemployment rate ’s going to be; it
doesn’t matter to me,” Santorum said in a comment the Romney
campaign quickly clipped and posted on its YouTube site.  “One of the people who’s running also for the Republican
nomination today said that he doesn’t care about the
unemployment rate; that doesn’t bother him,” Romney said at a
rally at Bradley University in Peoria. “I do care about the
unemployment rate. It does bother me. I want to put people back
to work.”  Santorum solidified his status as Romney’s main challenger
with his wins in  Alabama (BEESAL)  and Mississippi.  In Midwest contests, Santorum won the Iowa caucuses that
kicked off the nomination race and held Romney to a 3 percentage
point victory in  Michigan  -- the front-runner’s native state --
and a 1 percentage point win in  Ohio .  Romney and his allies have financed an onslaught of
advertising in Illinois to boost his bid, spending more than $3
million on advertisements in and around the state as of
yesterday, compared with $167,090 spent by Santorum and his
backers over the same period, according to New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks the advertising.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Chicago , Illinois at   jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Dixon at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at  jcummings21@bloomberg.net  