-- Romney Will Bore, and Win, as Mr. Establishment
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-03-19T20:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/romney-will-bore-and-win-as-mr-establishment.html
It is a question that must have
occurred to many candidates over the years: How can I be losing
to this guy?  Two versions of it have been asked of the Republican
presidential race: Why doesn’t anyone seem to be able to defeat
a front-runner as obviously flawed as  Mitt Romney ? And why
hasn’t Romney been able to score crushing victories against such
obviously flawed challengers?  To put both questions together: Why is this field so --
inevitable word -- weak?  The pasting that Republicans took in the elections of
George W. Bush’s second term, in 2006 and 2008, made it a thin
field from the start. Note that of the three candidates who have
won in the primaries -- Romney,  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich 
-- the last time any of them triumphed in an election for any
office was 10 years ago, when Romney won the governorship of
 Massachusetts .  Still, there were other Republicans who survived those
years and could have run:  Haley Barbour ,  Mitch Daniels ,  Jeb Bush ,  John Thune  and others. Why didn’t they? There were, of
course, specific considerations behind each decision. Daniels
 let us know  that his family objected to a run; Bush is said to
think that the nation isn’t yet open to another Bush presidency.  Other calculations would have been common to all of the
candidates. On the one hand, President  Barack Obama  looked
beatable during 2010 and 2011, when they would have been mulling
it over. Getting the nomination, on the other hand, may have
seemed more daunting.  Establishment versus Insurgents  Almost every Republican nomination contest sees a division
between establishment-oriented candidates and conservative
insurgents. (The great exception in recent decades was in 2000,
when the establishment candidate,  George W. Bush , faced an
insurgent from the left in  John McCain .) The balance of power is
held by those voters -- sympathetic to both the insurgents and
the party establishment -- who describe themselves to pollsters
as “somewhat conservative.”  The establishment  always wins  these fights, for several
reasons. Its candidates make the necessary accommodations to
stay acceptable to the center of the party. Voters who want a
conservative insurgent almost invariably fail to settle on one
candidate to play that role. They also sometimes favor
candidates who, for one reason or another, just aren’t plausible
nominees. These candidates may, for example, never have won a
statewide election anywhere, like  Herman Cain  and  Michele Bachmann . Temporary enthusiasm from the pro-insurgent portion of
the party can make such candidates appear to be leading for a
time, but the party’s sober center always rejects them in the
end.  So if you are a would-be contender for the nomination, you
have to assemble a winning coalition without the rightmost third
of the party, who are going to spend their votes on no-hopers.
That means, in practice, you will have to become the
establishment candidate yourself. Something like this thought
process is what moved Romney, who was one of the conservative
insurgent candidates in 2008, to position himself that way this
time.  For someone like Thune, the fight against Romney starts to
look a lot harder. He has his vulnerabilities, but he has also
run for president before. He has a national organization, a
national financial network and national name recognition. You
have none of these things.  Tim Pawlenty  tried to run the kind of candidacy that
Barbour, Thune and the others would have run: a campaign
designed to be plausible to the party establishment but also a
few steps to Romney’s right. But he wasn’t far enough to
Romney’s right to excite the anti-Romney insurgent vote, and he
couldn’t reach parity with Romney in establishment support. So
the Pawlenty campaign died early.  Competitive with Obama  If Romney hadn’t run, it is entirely possible that one of
these potential candidates would have entered the race and ended
up beating back conservative insurgents more decisively than
Romney has. Maybe Pawlenty himself would have done it. But
Romney ran, which meant that he would have the establishment
slot pretty much all to himself. Republicans were left with a
very typical establishment-versus-insurgent contest, but the
establishment candidate was weaker than usual.  The primary calendar weakened him further. Jay Cost of the
Weekly Standard  points out  that when McCain won  Florida  in 2008,
he acquired enough momentum to win the Super Tuesday primaries
days later. This time, Romney won Florida and saw his polls go
up -- and then nothing much happened for weeks. Momentum
dissipated.  So here we are. The 2006 and 2008 elections reduced the
number of people who could compete in the primary-within-the-
primary to be the establishment Republican candidate. Romney
crowded out the rest. Well before  Iowa (BEESIA)  or  New Hampshire (BEESNH)  held
their contests, he had thus become the likely nominee -- even
though he didn’t, and doesn’t, have the affections of the party
faithful. His remaining opponents can do well among the party’s
“very conservative” voters but have too little appeal to the
rest to win majorities themselves.  That’s why the field seems weak. But Romney’s flaws don’t
doom him in the general election: Even amid today’s Republican
strife, the polls show him competitive with Obama. If Romney
wins in November, the field won’t look quite so weak in
retrospect.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  