-- Ronia-Based Swaps Trading to Start Next Month as Gilt Hedge
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-19T18:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/ronia-based-derivative-trading-to-start-next-month-as-gilt-hedge.html
The Wholesale Markets Brokers’
Association said trading in derivatives based on its repurchase
overnight index average, or  Ronia (RONIA) , will start next month,
offering a hedge against pound-denominated bond investments.  ICAP Plc, Tullett Prebon Plc, Tradition U.K. Ltd. and BGC
Partners will serve as brokers for the derivatives, which are
swaps contracts with maturities as long as 12 months, Alex McDonald, chief executive officer of the WMBA in  London , said in
a telephone interview.  “A group of dealers informed us they intend to start
making markets in swaps referencing the Ronia daily fixing from
April 17,” McDonald said on March 13. There will be “about
seven market makers” that provide bids and offers for trading
the products, he said.  Ronia (RONIA)  is a weighted average of so-called repurchase
agreements based on trades struck between midday and 4:15 p.m.
in London. It’s a benchmark of secured money-market trades
designed to allow investors to protect against moves in
collateral-backed overnight lending rates.  The Ronia  rate  was 0.473 percent at 5 p.m. London time,
from 0.454 percent at the end of last week. That’s down from
0.527 percent on March 7, the highest level since Oct. 27.  Financial institutions use overnight  repurchase agreements ,
or repos, as a way of raising short-term money for financing
holdings of securities, such as bonds.  ‘Cost of Funding’  “Ronia captures the cost of funding in the repo market, so
it’s a more accurate hedging tool for banks who are trading
gilts,” said Don Smith, an economist at ICAP in London.  “It gives the sterling market another index with which to
hedge itself,” said Stuart Giles, the head of business analysis
at Tradition in London.  Changes in Ronia and Sonia, the sterling overnight
interbank average for unsecured loans, may show signs of funding
pressures in the money markets, according to Giles.  “The relationship between Ronia and Sonia is key,” Giles
said. “The correlation between the two would indicate moments
of stress in the market.”  The Sonia rate was 0.486 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A message left with the press office at BGC wasn’t
returned. A spokeswoman at Tullett said the company wasn’t able
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  