-- Rusal’s Norilsk Writedown Underlines Deripaska Board Tension
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-03-19T16:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/rusal-fourth-quarter-earnings-fall-46-beating-expectations.html
United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s
biggest aluminum producer, recognized a $1.4 billion drop in the
book value of its  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (MNOD)  holding, the subject of
a boardroom spat that led to the chairman quitting last week.  Its 25 percent shareholding in Norilsk had a market value
of $7.4 billion at the end of last year, down from $11.2
billion, the Moscow-based company said today in a statement. The
revaluation led to fourth-quarter loss of $974 million,
according to Rusal’s financial report.  The slump in value came after billionaire Chief Executive
Officer  Oleg Deripaska  had rejected Rusal shareholder and former
chairman  Victor Vekselberg ’s efforts to sell the Norilsk stake
for as much as $18 billion, saying it was a strategic long-term
investment. Rusal shares plunged 8.9 percent in  Hong Kong  after
the resignation last week, before rebounding today.  “From an analyst perspective, it’s better for Rusal to
sell Norilsk shares, but the CEO has his goal to expand the
business and become the biggest mining company in  Russia ,”
Robin Tsui, a Hong Kong-based analyst with BOC International
Holdings Ltd., said today by phone.  Barry Cheung took over as chairman on March 16, the day its
Moscow-traded depositary receipts climbed 3.8 percent. Rusal’s
Hong Kong-traded shares rose 4.4 percent today, the biggest gain
since March 7, to close at HK$5.90. They have lost 45 percent of
their value since an initial share sale in 2010.  Rusal depositary receipts fell 2.3 percent in Moscow today
to 219.97 rubles.  ‘Ghastly’ Results  Rusal’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, fell 46 percent in the fourth quarter
to $382 million from a year earlier after aluminum prices slid
11 percent. The Ebitda margin contracted to 13.6 percent of
sales in the fourth quarter from 24 percent.  The “ghastly” results show Ebitda at the worst quarterly
level since the end of 2009, analysts at Moscow-based Troika
Dialog, led by  Mikhail Stiskin , said in a note.  Rusal posted the net loss of $974 million because of non-
cash items, including the revaluation of its Norilsk stake
following a share buyback by the nickel producer. When adjusted
for such items, Rusal had net income of $111 million. Rusal’s
effective stake in Norilsk rose to 30.3 percent from 25 percent
under International Financial Reporting Standards because of a
buyback that Rusal didn’t participate in. Norilsk hasn’t
canceled the shares.  ‘Comfortable’ Servicing Debt  Net debt rose to $11.05 billion as of Dec. 31 from $10.92
billion on Sept. 30, which compares with a reduction of more
than $500 million during the third quarter. The deleveraging at
Rusal may be halted because of a higher inventory position in
combination with weak operating flows, Erik Danemar, a Moscow-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank, said March 16.  “If the company generates enough cash that we don’t need
for investments, we can continue deleveraging,” Oleg Mukhamedshin, head of  capital markets  at Rusal, said on a
conference call. The market price of aluminum “should exceed
$2,400 per ton this year, and we’re quite comfortable to service
our debt.”  Vekselberg and  Mikhail Prokhorov , another of the
billionaire shareholders in Rusal, have urged Deripaska, the
company’s biggest owner, to sell the Norilsk stake to help cut
debt and resume dividend payments. Deripaska instead has fought
for influence over Norilsk’s board and cash flows.  Output Cut Consideration  Rusal said Jan. 18 it may introduce covenant holidays on a
$4.75 billion loan during this year and pay a so-called
supplemental margin to lenders should the ratio of its net debt
to covenant Ebitda exceed 4. “By the end of last year we did
not use this opportunity,” Mukhamedshin said. The ratio was 3.5
as of Dec. 31 and Rusal paid Libor plus 235 points, he said. No
decision has been made yet to take covenant holidays, he said.  Rusal cut its average debt interest rates to 4.7 percent,
with a maturity of 4 years after refinancing last year,
Mukhamedshin said. This reduced interest expenses by 24 percent
last year, or more than $200 million, he said.  Management will present a plan to cut output by as much as
6 percent to the board for approval this a month, First Deputy
CEO Vladislav Soloviev said on the conference call. Rusal kept
fourth-quarter production steady and shifted sales of about
100,000 metric tons of aluminum produced last year to the first
quarter of 2012 after prices declined. Rusal said last month it
may cut aluminum production by 6 percent in the next 18 months
in reaction to the metal prices.  ‘Almost Balanced’  “Global aluminum capacity utilization rate may drop to 78
percent to 80 percent this year to support the aluminum price,”
Mukhamedshin said.  The aluminum market may be “almost balanced” this year if
as much as 3 percent of global supply is mothballed as expected,
Rusal said. China will be the biggest growth market with demand
expected to rise 11 percent this year, it said.  Tatiana Soina, a Rusal  executive director , also tendered
her resignation from the board as of March 16 and Maxim Sokov,
the head of strategy took her place, Rusal said today. Maksim Goldman took the place of Vekselberg on the board, representing
the 15.8 percent stake in Rusal owned by the billionaire and his
partner Len Blavatnik.  Rusal took out a full-page advertisement in the Financial
Times today, asking shareholders of  Norilsk Nickel  to support
its proposal to set up a trust that would pay the nickel
company’s independent directors. The independents on Norilsk’s
board have not been paid for last year, Rusal said in the
advertisement.  Rusal “has been a laggard against both the broader market
and aluminum peers recently, driven by the negative corporate
news flow,” VTB Capital said in a note. “The stock could find
a floor now, given that the results brought no further negative
surprises, and the appointment of an independent as chairman of
the board somewhat improves sentiment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  