-- Russia to Export 27 Million Tons of Grain This Year, Zubkov Says
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-03-19T11:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/russia-to-export-27-million-tons-of-grain-this-year-zubkov-says.html
Russia has enough grain to export
27 million metric tons this marketing year and won’t need to
limit shipments, said  Viktor Zubkov , first deputy prime
minister.  “Companies that  export grain  can calmly sign contracts for
April, May and June,” Zubkov said at a meeting with Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  today, according to a statement on the
government’s website.  Wheat for May delivery fell 1 percent to $6.65 a bushel on
the Chicago Board of Trade by 3:49 p.m. Moscow time.  Russia has exported 22 million tons of grain so far this
marketing year, Zubkov said. The country can ship about 1.5
million tons from state stockpiles in the Southern federal
district and about 1 million tons from the North-Western federal
district in April and May, he said.  Russia’s carry-over stocks will be 15 million tons by July
1, when the new season starts, which is enough to secure
domestic needs, he said.  The government’s decision to export grains without
restrictions “will support agricultural companies and will free
silos” from the cereal stocks before the new harvest,  Yelena Skrynnik , agriculture minister, said in Moscow today.  There will be enough grain in the country by the end of
this marketing year and in the next season, which is seen having
the same sized harvest as in 2011, Skrynnik said. Russia
harvested 93.9 million tons of grains and pulses last year,
according to the state statistics data.  The winter crops’ condition is normal compared with the
multi-year average, and reports about significant damage in the
Krasnodar region won’t affect the new harvest estimate, Skrynnik
said. Frosts in the area mostly affected perennial plantings,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  