-- SAC Extortion Case Conviction of Brooklyn Rabbi Is Upheld
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-19T17:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/sac-extortion-case-conviction-of-brooklyn-rabbi-is-upheld.html
A federal appeals court upheld the
conviction of Milton Balkany, a  Brooklyn , New York, rabbi found
guilty of trying to extort $4 million from  Steven Cohen ’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan  today rejected
Balkany’s claim that he was induced to commit the crime by the
firm’s lawyer, Martin Klotz, and was barred from putting on a
defense that he had been entrapped by the lawyer working on
behalf of prosecutors.  Balkany was convicted of extortion and blackmail by a jury
in November 2010 for threatening to disclose  insider trading  by
SAC unless $4 million was paid to charities he operated. There
was no evidence at the trial that he had any such evidence. He
was sentenced to four years in prison.  “The District Court did not err in refusing to give an
entrapment charge because Balkany failed to present any evidence
that the government ‘induced’ him to commit the crimes
charged,” a panel of judges on the Manhattan-based appeals said
today.  “The evidence with respect to the extortion,  wire fraud ,
and blackmail counts established that it was Balkany who first
made an unsolicited call to SAC,” the panel said.  Paul Shechtman, a lawyer for Balkany, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment
on the decision. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC,
declined to comment.  Day School Dean  Prosecutors said the rabbi, who was dean of the Bais Yaakov
day school in the Borough Park neighborhood of Brooklyn, told
the Stamford, Connecticut-based fund that a federal prisoner in
Otisville, New York, to whom he was a spiritual adviser, had
described the purported insider-trading scheme to him.  Balkany called prosecutors in the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s
Office in an attempt to put pressure on SAC to further his
scheme and cause prosecutors to interview the prisoner,
testimony showed.  Witnesses testified that Balkany told the lawyer for SAC
that the inmate would keep quiet about illegal in 2004 and 2005
if it paid his school and another $2 million each.  Klotz instead recorded his phone calls and meetings with
Balkany, who was arrested after taking two checks from SAC
totaling $3.25 million.  Balkany told an SAC official at the time that the inmate
wouldn’t talk to authorities at a meeting scheduled for the
following day. No such meeting was planned, according to the
government.  The case is U.S. v. Balkany, 10-cr-441, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  