-- San Andreas Winemakers Fight Wild Boar to Make Pinot Paradise
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/san-andreas-winemakers-fight-wild-boar-to-make-pinot-paradise.html
David Hirsch , pinot noir pioneer of
the “true” Sonoma coast, owes his success to the San Andreas
Fault. Its earthquakes pushed up the remote, high ridges that
are home to his eponymous vineyard, one of California’s pinot
“grand crus.”  Hirsch, a former  New Yorker , is among a couple of dozen
vintners and grape growers in Sonoma’s brand-new American
Viticultural Area (AVA) Fort Ross-Seaview appellation, which
became official in January.  To discover why this region is regarded as pinot paradise
and whether the wines deserve the hype, I find myself navigating
hairpin curves up narrow dirt roads to an altitude of 1,500
feet, where vineyards poke above the fog like sunny islands.  Beyond steep redwood-forested slopes, I can see the blue
Pacific three miles away. It’s taken me 50 minutes to go seven
miles, and luckily I’ve encountered no other cars.  Hirsch is working in the oldest vineyard on his 1,200-acre
property, planted in 1980. He’s wearing a battered straw hat, a
frayed flannel shirt, and dirt-stained jeans.  While the sun is warm, there’s a strong cool breeze.  “This AVA is all about elevation,” says Hirsch. “That
gives us cool temperatures during the day, and the ocean keeps
the temperature from dropping too low at night.”  Alcohol, Acidity  That lack of big diurnal variation translates into wines
with more balance, lower alcohol, more acidity, expansive aromas
and complexity.  He produces his own wines in a weathered former sheep barn.
Hirsch also sells grapes from the 68 acres planted with pinot
and four of chardonnay to a who’s who of great  California 
winemakers.  On nearby ridges are vineyards belonging to well-known
wineries and growers such as Flowers,  Marcassin , Peter Michael,
Failla, Martinelli, Fort Ross, and Pahlmeyer. All came to
isolated Fort Ross-Seaview because of the pinot.  “We did a test with 16 grape varieties,” says Lester
Schwartz, a native South African who owns Fort Ross Vineyard &
Winery with his wife Linda. “But only the pinot noir and
chardonnay were any good.”  Pinot seems to reflect the terroir -- where the grapes are
grown -- better than any other varietal.  Workers at Schwartz’s vineyard are completing work on a
public tasting room, the first in the AVA.  Sea Otters  It’s scheduled to open next month, to coincide with the
bicentenary of the founding of nearby Fort Ross by Russian
sailors hunting sea otters. In 1817, they brought cuttings from
 Peru  and planted Sonoma’s first vineyard.  When we head to inspect the vines, Schwartz explains how
difficult it is to make wine here. Wild boars destroy vines, the
weather is erratic, and annual rainfall averages 80 inches --
compared with 25 inches in Napa.  My bottom-line question is whether Fort Ross-Seaview wines
demonstrate signature tastes and aromas as do those from
Burgundy’s Volnay.  I’m leaning to “yes.”  The current releases and barrel samples of various clones
from different vineyard blocks, I sip and spit over two days
have a mineral-and-earth character, distinct from the plump,
ripe, fruit of Sonoma’s Russian River Valley. Most have muscle,
tannic structure, and striking vibrancy.  Rocks, Iron  The intense 2009 Hirsch Reserve ($85) tastes of rocks, red
plums, and warm straw; the 2009 San Andreas Fault ($60) is
bright and smoky. The stunning 2011 barrel samples reflect a
great vintage and the influence of Hirsch’s new winemaker Ross
Cobb.  “I see a common thread of savory, wild red fruit,” offers
Jason Jardine, the winemaker at Flowers Vineyard. Its 2009 Camp
Meeting Ridge Vineyard ($68) is more subtle and delicate than
most pinots in the AVA, while the tannic 2009 Sea View Ridge
($65) has an intriguing note of iron.  Fort Ross Vineyard’s tangy, berry-inflected 2009 Sea Slopes
($26) and lush, silky 2009 Reserve ($49) are fruitier than most.  Ted Lemon of Littorai, one of the first to make a pinot
from Hirsch grapes, later pours me a spicy, succulent 2009 ($65)
with a tangerine peel note.  Siduri  winery’s Hirsch bottling is
all dark forest floor.  “It’s like walking through the woods and inhaling the
smell when you kick up pine needles,” says winemaker Adam Lee.  One impetus for carving out this  AVA  was vintners’
dissatisfaction with the Sonoma Coast appellation, so huge it’s
meaningless as a guide to a wine’s character.  Sonoma Coastline  Geographer Patrick Shabram, who wrote the AVA petition
submitted to the federal Alcohol Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB),
explains, “Fort Ross-Seaview is one of the three distinct areas
in the six-mile wide coastline slice known unofficially as the
“true” Sonoma coast.  It’s unique because the vineyards must be higher than 1,000
feet, above the fog line. Intense sunlight combined with cool
coastal air allow flavors to develop more fully.  Hirsch recalls that there were 18 grape growers with “44
opinions” at the first local meeting. Bureaucratic changes in
 Washington  after 9/11, followed by infighting over boundaries
and bickering over the AVA’s name ate up another 11 years.  Surprisingly, few vintners plan to put the Fort Ross-
Seaview name on their labels, so I don’t see it having
marketplace clout anytime soon. Vineyard names like Hirsch and
Flowers’ Camp Meeting Ridge already have reputations and loyal
followers.  Ted Lemon thinks it was too soon to subdivide the west
Sonoma coast. Hirsch disagrees.  “We’re hardly out of the cradle,” he says, “But it’s not
a marketing gimmick. It means something.”  (Elin McCoy writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
 Elin McCoy  at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 