-- Serbia to Meet IMF Fiscal Target by End of March, Arsic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-03-19T15:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/serbia-to-meet-imf-fiscal-target-by-end-of-march-arsic-says-1-.html
The Serbian government will
probably meet the International Monetary Fund’s agreed fiscal
gap target of 26 billion dinars ($309.1 million) by the end of
March, while compliance with a full-year goal remains uncertain,
FREN research institute said today.  Serbia ’s fiscal gap will probably reach 5.2 percent of
gross domestic product at the end of 2012, while the public
debt-to-GDP ratio would top 50 percent, if the government that
takes office after May 6 parliamentary elections keeps policies
unchanged rejecting spending cuts, said Milojko Arsic, the chief
macro-economist of the Belgrade-based FREN research institute.  “It remains to be seen whether the government sticks with
agreed targets in the second half of the year,” he said at a
news conference in Belgrade today.  Heavily reliant on the domestic market for borrowing,
Serbia needs to maintain fiscal discipline and reduce fiscal
financing risks by complying with nominal deficit targets of 26
billion dinars at the end of March and 61 billion dinars through
June, the IMF said on Feb. 16, adding that the targets reflect
lower revenue resulting from weaker economic growth.  The IMF and Serbia agreed to freeze a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan program last month, leaving it up to the new
government to restore it or to agree a new deal. Under the
frozen deal, Serbia pledged to end 2012 with a fiscal gap of
4.25 percent of GDP. Its self-imposed fiscal rules limit the
public debt to 45 percent of GDP.  Spending Increases  It is “impossible” to make reliable forecasts for the
full-year budget and the deficit, because Serbia is heading for
elections with both the government and opposition parties
pledging tax cuts and no public spending reductions, Arsic said.  Opposition groups and the government are proposing a cut of
personal income and social and health insurance taxes to 40
percent from 62 percent, a minimum-wage increase by nearly 13
percent, along with exemption of baby food and staples from the
value-added tax, and an increase in farming subsidies.  All of these proposals can only be compensated by a 2
percentage-point value-added tax increase, Arsic said. Serbia
now applies 8 percent value-added tax on staples and 18 percent
on all other products and services.  “A revenue cut and an increase in spending contradict
reality and that could lead to a crash, to a Greek scenario,”
said Arsic, who is also a member of the central bank’s advisory
board. To make sure the country avoids a crash, the government
needs to prepare policies that would cut the fiscal gap to
between 2.5 percent and 3 percent of GDP in 2013, he said.  FREN, whose research has been backed by the United States
Agency for International Development, also said that  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis and shrinking economic growth will weigh
on demand for the Serbian exports and economic expansion.  The economy would need to show constant growth throughout
the year in order to finish 2012 with “zero growth” and the
country needs foreign direct investment equivalent to 3 percent
to 4 percent of GDP or worth between 1 billion euros ($1.31
billion) and 1.2 billion euros along with “an increase in net
exports to prevent recession,” Arsic said.  “The dinar has depreciated as a result of the widening
current account deficit, not so much because of a lack of
confidence,” Arsic said, adding the weakening dinar would back
exports.  Serbia’s current account deficit rose to 9.1 percent of GDP
at the end of 2011 compared with its desired “equilibrium”
level of around 6 percent of GDP.  The weaker dinar has been weighing on both corporate and
retail clients’ capacity to service their debts, overwhelmingly
linked to foreign currencies. The  currency risk  and the
resulting credit default risk combined with a proposed minimum
wage increase will reduce  job creation , at a time when the
unemployment has reached 24.4 percent, Arsic said.  Addressing a separate news conference, Nebojsa Atanackovic,
the chairman of the Serbian Association of Employers said the
group may withdraw from a minimum-wage increase agreement with
the government. The change, effective from April 1, will fuel
production costs by as much as 200 million euros a year,
according to the association’s estimates.  “What’s the purpose of giving workers a high hourly rate
if you then push dozens, maybe hundreds of struggling companies
over the edge” and force them to file for bankruptcy,
Atanackovic said. “This will only increase unemployment.”  Of 1.7 million people at work, the wage increase will
affect 350,000 workers who live on a minimum wage that is set to
rise to 20,010 dinars a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  