-- Sex-Abuse Suit Against Archdiocese Rejected by Top Court
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-03-19T14:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/sex-abuse-suit-against-archdiocese-rejected-by-top-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
reinstate a lawsuit claiming the Catholic Archdiocese of  St.
Louis  was negligent by employing a pedophile as a priest, a job
that put him in contact with children.  The justices today rejected an appeal challenging a
Missouri court’s ruling that the Constitution’s religious-
freedom protections shield churches from lawsuits questioning
practices for employing and supervising the clergy.  The Catholic Church has faced hundreds of lawsuits, and
paid millions of dollars in damages and settlements, in claims
from people who alleged sexual abuse by priests over a period of
decades. At least eight Catholic dioceses have declared
bankruptcy since 2004 in connection with damage claims, and  Pope
Benedict XVI  in 2010 expressed “deep sorrow” for child abuse
within the church.  While most state and federal courts to consider the issue
have permitted suits against the church in connection with
misconduct by its clergy, state courts in Missouri, Utah and
 Wisconsin  have said the First Amendment bars claims related to
the employment or supervision of priests, according to the
appeal at the high court.  The man in the St. Louis case, identified as John Doe AP,
asked the justices to overturn the Missouri Supreme Court’s 1997
decision in a different case that said courts can’t resolve
employment-related negligence lawsuits involving priests without
making judgments on church doctrine and ordination policies,
which would violate the Constitution’s limits on government
intrusions into religion.  Claims Against Employer  The St. Louis archdiocese opposed the appeal, saying the
lower courts also decided that, under state law, the suit didn’t
satisfy general requirements for negligence claims against an
employer. Missouri’s courts have final say on interpretation of
state laws unless there are conflicts with someone’s rights
under the U.S. Constitution or federal law, the church said.  The plaintiff, described as 54 years old in a court filing
earlier this year, alleged that in 1970 and 1971, a priest at
St. Mary Magdalen Catholic Church in St. Louis twice took him to
a clubhouse off the church’s property and sexually abused him.  The 2005 lawsuit claimed that church officials knew about
alleged abuse by the priest and were negligent in assigning him
to duties that provided unsupervised contact with children. The
priest had died before the case was filed. The suit said the
statute of limitations didn’t apply because the man had
repressed memories of the abuse for three decades.  Appeals Court  A Missouri trial judge ruled the church couldn’t be sued on
the man’s claims and an appeals court upheld the decision. The
Missouri Supreme Court declined to review the case.  Doe’s appeal said the lower court rulings were based on a
15-year-old Missouri high court decision that’s similar to
rulings in some other states and wrongly protects churches from
responsibility for properly supervising employees.  The archdiocese said the courts also ruled that for several
reasons, including the fact the alleged abuse happened away from
church property, Doe’s claims can’t meet the requirements under
Missouri law for a negligence suit against any employer.  The case is John Doe AP v. Roman Catholic Archdiocese of
St. Louis, 11-840.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  