-- Sharp Wants to Diversify Panel Business as TV Sales Stagnate
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-03-19T09:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/sharp-wants-to-diversify-panel-business-as-tv-sales-stagnate.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ,  Japan ’s largest maker
of liquid-crystal-display panels, wants to sell more screens to
the medical and automobile industries after forecasting that
demand for TV sets will be stagnant this year.  The company plans to speed up introduction of products
using its own technology, Takashi Okuda, who will become
president of the Osaka-based company on April 1, told reporters
in Tokyo today. Sharp is making final adjustments to its Igzo
displays, which are small- and medium-size high-performance
panels using oxide semiconductors, he said.  Sharp,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  forecast a combined
$16 billion in losses for the year ending March 31, citing
falling TV prices and a strong yen that erodes earnings from
overseas sales. Demand for TVs won’t rise in the fiscal year
starting April 1, Okuda said.  “There are many areas we haven’t cultivated, like autos,
medical, education and robotics,” Okuda said. “We want to
create new demand in those categories.”  Sharp expects a 290 billion-yen ($3.5 billion) net loss
this fiscal year, it said Feb. 1, reversing an earlier
prediction for a 6 billion-yen profit. The company wants to
unveil a business plan by the time it announces full-year
earnings, Okuda said at a press conference in  Osaka  last week.
That announcement typically comes in April.  Igzo Manufacturing  The company, founded in 1912, plans to halve output at its
largest TV panel factory in Sakai, Japan, it said Feb. 1.  The maker of Aquos TVs is trying to increase production of
Igzo panels yet “is experiencing manufacturing problems,”
according to IHS Inc. That could affect the availability and
cost of displays for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPad, which went on sale
last week, Englewood, Colorado-based IHS said March 14.  “Sharp is still on the knife’s edge, even with a new
president,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at Cosmo
Securities Co. “Competition is intensifying in the areas Sharp
wants to expand.”  Sharp (6753)  has been left behind in a rally of Asian consumer-
electronics stocks, with its shares touching a three-decade low
as reliance on the saturated market for LCD TVs sapped earnings.
Global LCD TV shipments are projected to increase 8 percent this
year to 216.5 million, according to a March 9 report from
TrendForce.  “Demand for televisions will probably be flat” in the
coming fiscal year, Okuda said. “Japan won’t be good, and sales
growth in  China  will be slowed.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Sharp has declined 25 percent in Tokyo trading this year,
while Sony, Panasonic and  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co.
and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  have each gained at least 19 percent.  Rating & Investment Information Inc.  cut  Sharp’s credit
rating by two levels to A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade,
from A+ because “it will likely take time for the company to
improve earnings capacity,” the Tokyo-based ratings company
said March 8.  Between the downgrade and March 16, five-year credit-
default swaps on Sharp rose 40 basis points to 249 basis points,
the highest level since March 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Contracts tied to Samsung have fallen 11 to 94.
The 155 basis-point gap is the widest in data going back to
2004.  Okuda, 58, now an executive officer, will replace President
Mikio Katayama effective April 1, Sharp said March 14. Katayama,
54, will become chairman and Katsuhiko Machida, who holds that
post now, will be an adviser.  Okuda heads Sharp’s overseas business and previously
oversaw the LCD-TV business, according to the company’s website.
He joined Sharp in 1978, according to a company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  