-- Shock Therapy’s Effect on Depression Discovered, Researchers Say
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-03-19T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/shock-therapy-s-effect-on-depression-discovered-researchers-say.html
After using  electroconvulsive
therapy  for more than 70 years to treat severe depression,
doctors say they now have discovered how it works.  Shock therapy, in use since 1937, appears to tamp down an
overactive connection between two parts of the brain involved in
emotional processing, thinking and concentration, according to a
study released today by the  Proceedings of the National Academy 
 of Sciences .  The procedure mimics a seizure, sending a brief electric
current to the brain. ECT has the strongest supporting data
among treatments for patients whose depression doesn’t respond
to medication, according to the American Psychiatric
Association. About 10 to 20 percent of depressed patients
receive shock therapy, said  Paul Holtzheimer , an associate
professor of psychiatry and surgery at Dartmouth Medical School.  “This gives us a much more powerful view of the brain,”
Holtzheimer, who wasn’t involved in the study, said today in a
telephone interview. “If this study holds up, it tells us this
is a network problem.”  In the study, nine patients scheduled to undergo shock
therapy had their brains scanned using functional MRI before and
after treatment. This type of imaging detects blood flow to
specific areas of the brain. Then the researchers analyzed the
brain’s connectivity using a new mathematical model.  The finding suggests that this overactive connection is
important, without saying why. A  previous study,  published in
the journal PLoS had similar results, showing that depressed
patients had more hyperactive connections compared with normal
control subjects.  Brain Connectivity  Understanding the connectivity is like understanding
shipping routes. Counting the number of trucks in and out of
 Chicago  gives a person a sense of what the shipping routes may
be. However, when data such as the number of ships coming into
 San Francisco  is known, and that is correlated with Chicago’s
trucks, it gives a better understanding of how the routes work.
This study begins to map Chicago and San Francisco for the
brain’s connections, Holtzheimer said.  The decrease in connectivity didn’t directly correlate with
a drop in depression, so it may be the case that something else
is at play, Holtzheimer said. However, the region should be
investigated, he said.  “It’s a huge opportunity in that it gives us a new tool in
what to look for,” said Christian Schwarzbauer, a study author
and neuroscientist at the University of Aberdeen in the U.K.  Side Effects  More study may lead to therapies that don’t have the side
effects of ECT, he said. Confusion,  memory loss  and physical
pain such as muscle spasms are among the side effects of shock
therapy.  Also, a better understanding of how the brain region is
affected in depression may enable doctors to better target
patients who will benefit from treatment, Schwarzbauer said.  Two closely held companies sell devices for ECT,  Somatics
LLC  of Lake Bluff,  Illinois , and  Mecta Corp.  of  Lake Oswego ,
 Oregon . A typical course of therapy involves treatments three
times a week for as many as four weeks, according to the
National Institute of Mental Health.  One of the areas where the connections were lessened by
shock therapy was the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortical
region, which was previously known to be involved in depression.
The area also plays a role in thought and decision-making. It’s
located near the front of the brain, on the left side.  It may be that the brain’s hyperactivity in that region
makes it less efficient in other areas, provoking the symptoms
of lethargy and low mood that are frequently seen in depression,
Schwarzbauer said.  “This is the start of a longer process,” he said. “This
is a very novel finding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  