-- Sky Zone Failed as a Sport, Won With Trampoline Parks
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2012-03-21T18:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/sky-zone-failed-as-a-sport-won-with-trampoline-parks.html
     (An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported
the size and the growth rate of the family entertainment
center industry in the fourth paragraph.)  Players soaring through the air, bouncing over a court
made of trampolines and competing to score points by jumping
through a spinning hoop six feet off the ground: That was Rick
Platt's vision for SkyZone, a new sport he helped found in
2004.  Though he built it, spending $2 million to recruit
athletes and construct a 17,000-square-foot arena in  Las
Vegas , the crowds never came. SkyZone, as a sport, was a flop.  But soon local skateboarders started banging on his door
to play in the arena, so Platt bought a cash box and began
charging $8 a head. Six months and 10,000 jumpers later, he
realized he might have a business after all. When his
son, Jeff, opened a second indoor trampoline park in 2006 in
 St. Louis , where he was attending college, it was  cash flow 
positive within six weeks.  On average, a typical family entertainment center in the
U.S. draws about 200,000 visitors each year, according to data
from the
International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions.
There are about 1,500 centers in the U.S., a number that's
increasing by 20 or 25 each year, says David Mandt, a
spokesman for the trade group.  Now based in  Los Angeles , Jeff Platt is chief executive
officer of Sky Zone Indoor Trampoline Park. The company had
$15.7 million in revenue from four corporate and 15 franchise
locations in 2011 and plans to add 34 franchises this year.
Sky Zone has about 50 full-time and 500 part-time employees.
Platt faces a pair of challenges: managing the company’s
growth and luring repeat customers after the novelty wears
off.  Platt spoke recently to Bloomberg contributor Karen E.
Klein about the unexpected success of Sky Zone and how he’ll
prevent trampoline arenas from becoming a short-lived fad.  Q: What was your father thinking when he started SkyZone?  A: He met some guys who had this idea for a new team
sport where a 6-foot-8 athletic individual would have no
advantage over a small guy who could jump. He’d just gotten
out of a very successful scrap-metal business and wanted to
take a leap of faith, so he bought their patent and decided to
make it happen. My mother was telling him he was crazy, and I
was thinking this was the coolest thing in the world because
we would own our own sport.  Q: What challenges do you face at Sky Zone?  A: As you grow a business and get different operators and
franchisees, everyone has a different management and training
style. It’s critically important to maintain consistency as
you grow a brand, so we want to get our training the exact
same way at every location. Your competitors can adopt what
you have created and do similar marketing, but they can’t
clone your people.  Q: What are the barriers to your continued growth?  A: Real estate is surprisingly challenging for us because
we need unique buildings with high ceilings. A lot of
landlords prefer industrial tenants. And there are also city
zoning challenges for retailers in industrial areas.  Q: How difficult was it to get insurance for a business
that involves trampolines?  A: It took a long time. I must have tracked down 30
insurance companies and nobody would touch it. Trampoline
injuries mainly happen because they are not enclosed with
nets, they’re not maintained properly or they are
unsupervised. We got an insurance company to realize that we
had figured out all the safety hazards and designed the arenas
with nets so people cannot fall off, and we spread people out
so we can manage the risk with proper supervision.  Our activity is similar to skiing. Broken bones do
happen, particularly when people try to do things beyond their
limits. But even when people are in control, there are freak
accidents. A big part of safety is educating customers and
scaring them a little, so we give a rules speech with a safety
video. So far we’ve been fortunate not to have any major
injuries.  Q: When did you start franchising?  A: In 2009. We have a lot of deals under construction, in
site development or looking for real estate right now. Our
franchise license is reasonable, $60,000, but the total
investment is $1.1 million to $1.5 million due to construction
of the 25,000- to 40,000-square-foot facilities.  Because of that high cost, most of our franchisees are
prior business owners in their mid-30s to 60s who have been
C-level executives or professionals earning a nice income.
This is not something for a startup entrepreneur.  Q: How do you advertise the locations?  A: We are doing some TV ads and trying to get local news
attention from magazines and newspapers when we open a new
franchise location. Of course we get a ton of word-of-mouth
marketing, and we’re focusing a lot of effort on social media:
Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are a tremendous pull for us.  Q: How do you prevent Sky Zone from becoming one of those
concepts that hits big and then fades?  A: One thing we’re doing is offering all kinds of fitness
classes, from yoga to Pilates and martial arts. Our
instructors put a new spin on basic exercises to incorporate
the trampolines and they have come up with some unbelievable
workouts. Some of them are the original athletes who trained
with us to play our new sport, which my dad still plans to
start someday.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at
 karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: John
Tozzi at  jtozzi2@bloomberg.net 
