-- South Africa Current Account Gap Unexpectedly Narrows
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-03-19T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/south-africa-current-account-gap-unexpectedly-narrows-to-3-6-.html
South Africa ’s current account
deficit unexpectedly narrowed in the fourth quarter as dividend
payments to foreigners declined in the continent’s biggest
economy.  The  shortfall , the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, shrunk to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product from a
revised 4.1 percent in the third quarter, the Reserve Bank said
in its Quarterly Bulletin released in  Pretoria  today. The median
estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
shortfall of 4.2 percent.  South Africa relies on foreign investment in stocks and
bonds to fund the current account gap, inflows that have
fluctuated as investors sold off riskier, emerging-market assets
last year. The narrower current account deficit may help
underpin the rand, which gained 6.8 percent against the dollar
so far this year.  Dividend payments to foreigners “declined following
exceptionally large payments in the third quarter,” the central
bank said. “This offsetting effect was large enough to result
in a modest narrowing of the deficit on the current account.”  The shortfall was financed by foreign investment inflows
last quarter. Non-resident investment in stocks and bonds
reached 12.5 billion rand ($1.7 billion) worth of investments in
stocks and bonds in the fourth quarter, after an outflow of 21.4
billion rand in the previous three months, the central bank
said.  Foreign Direct Investment  Foreign investor confidence in emerging-market economies
was “partly restored” in the final quarter of 2011 as central
banks boosted liquidity in global financial markets and European
leaders agreed a second bail-out package for debt-riddled
 Greece , the  Reserve Bank  said.  Direct investment by foreigners, including takeovers and
building of plants, jumped to 18.7 billion rand in the fourth
quarter, compared with 2.8 billion rand in the third quarter,
the bank said.  South Africa posted a trade deficit of 17.1 billion rand in
the fourth quarter compared with a surplus of 16.3 billion rand
in the previous three months. Import volumes increased 10.5
percent in the fourth quarter while exports rose 5.9 percent,
according to the report.  While the “worsening global economic outlook” caused
commodity prices to come down in the final months of 2011, the
rand value of a basket of South African-produced export
commodities excluding gold increased by about 5 percent because
of the currency’s depreciation, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  