-- Spain Torments Draghi on Deficit as Banks Tap Loans: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-19T10:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/spain-torments-draghi-on-deficit-as-banks-tap-loans-euro-credit.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  may be enjoying the  European Central Bank ’s emergency
funds too much for  Mario Draghi ’s comfort.  Rajoy’s loosening of a pledge to cut Spain’s deficit within
days of the central bank’s latest three-year loan offering to
banks has confronted the ECB president with just the behavior it
wants to avoid. ECB officials are concerned the respite they
have won for the region’s most vulnerable nations has eased
pressure on them to address the budget shortfalls that first
provoked the turmoil.  “There’s a moral hazard element to this,”  Ken Wattret ,
chief European economist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said in a
telephone interview. “The ECB is clearly worried that in some
countries the lower the  risk premium  on sovereign debt, the less
urgency there will be to make some changes.”  Spanish 10-year borrowing costs have fallen 63 basis points
to 5.19 percent since the ECB’s measures were announced in
December, providing what Rajoy described as a “great relief”
as Spanish lenders’ central-bank borrowings surged to record
levels. His defiance on the deficit presents the ECB with the
same quandary it faced last year, when former Italian premier
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s government backpedalled on austerity pledged
in return for ECB purchases of the nation’s bonds.  ‘Relative Calm’  Draghi, who instituted the three-year loan program a month
after taking over from  Jean-Claude Trichet , has stepped up calls
on governments to use easier market conditions to strengthen
economies. The Frankfurt-based central bank’s effort “needs to
be complemented by the work of national policy makers,” he said
on March 13.  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, a
Spaniard, said on March 5 that “the relative calm” achieved by
the central bank “will not be durable if it serves as a pretext
for national governments to relax their efforts now.” Governing
Council member Erkki Liikanen has also urged governments to use
the lull to fix their economies.  It’s “important that no country creates negative
surprises,” said Liikanen, who heads the central bank in
 Finland , one of six euro-region countries still rated AAA. He
spoke in a March 15 interview.  Budget Rules  Those comments follow a battle between  Spain  and its euro-
region partners over the size of  deficit  it should aim for. On
March 2, the same day European leaders signed up to a tighter
set of budget rules, Rajoy announced his government would target
a shortfall of 5.8 percent of gross domestic product this year,
instead of the 4.4 percent agreed previously. That was scaled
back to 5.3 percent after finance ministers drafted a specific
statement on Spain following a late-night meeting on March 12.  Rajoy’s move pushed Spanish borrowing costs above those of
 Italy  for the first time in six months. Spain enjoyed lower bond
yields than Italy since the ECB started buying both countries’
debt in August, when Italian lawmakers then weakened a 45
billion-euro ($59 billion) austerity program that Berlusconi’s
government said was aimed at satisfying ECB demands.  Spanish 10-year borrowing  costs  were 5.19 percent at 10:23
a.m. Lonton time today, 38 basis points more than Italian yields
and 317 basis points more than equivalent German securities. The
spread over German yields compares with a record of 503 basis
points reached on Nov. 18.  ‘Stern Challenge’  Spain’s looser deficit target does make sense in an economy
that the government expects will shrink 1.7 percent this year,
said Sebastian Paris Horvitz, chief market strategist at HSBC
Private Bank Suisse SA in Geneva.  It is “less bad news on the growth front,” and indicates
that “everybody is aware that there is a level of austerity
that goes against the final goal of bringing back fiscal
soundness,” he said. The ECB’s action has also “avoided a
meltdown in  Europe ’s financial system.”  The 3 percent deficit target that remains in place for next
year is a “stern challenge” that may “condemn Spain to
another full-year economic contraction in 2013,” said  Raj Badiani , an economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . The gap
was 8.5 percent in 2011, wider than the 6 percent target set by
the Socialist government that handed over to Rajoy in December.  Spain’s ruling People’s Party is studying scrapping some
 tax deductions  and accelerating payments in preparation for the
2012 budget to be presented on March 30, El Pais reported
yesterday, citing unnamed officials at the Budget Ministry.  Bond Purchases  The success of the ECB three-year loan program and its
focus on banks has blunted officials’ bargaining power to
prevent governments such as Rajoy’s from backtracking on
pledges, BNP Paribas economist Wattret said. The ECB’s earlier
policy of buying struggling nations’ bonds gave it “wiggle
room” to hold off purchases, he said.  The ECB previously stood by as Italy’s borrowing costs
surged to records, only intervening after Berlusconi’s
government fell. Purchases of  government securities  fell by half
in the week that Berlusconi quit as prime minister. He resigned
on Nov. 12, to be replaced by current premier  Mario Monti .  “If the banks want the money, they get the money
irrespective of whether the governments deliver or not,”
Wattret said. “The moral hazard associated with it is a bit
more problematic.”  Bank Borrowings  Spain’s banks actively sought and lapped up ECB cash.
 Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA) , the nation’s second-largest bank, urged the central bank in
November to offer loans of about three years, saying such a
measure would allow lenders to support government debt.  Spanish banks increased holdings of the nation’s bonds to
202 billion euros in  December , from 178 billion euros in
November, Treasury data show. They borrowed 152 billion euros
from the ECB in February, three times as much as they were
taking a year ago.  Rajoy’s government will remain under pressure to meet its
commitments particularly because it is a test case for the
European Union’s new budget guidelines, aimed to enhance the
credibility of the euro, said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “There’s an unwritten rule that if you play by the rules
you get support,” he said in a telephone interview. “If Spain
comes out as a less good student, the ECB is not going to be in
any easy position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  