-- Sprint Falls as Bernstein Cuts Rating on Apple IPhone Risk
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-03-19T20:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/sprint-drops-after-bernstein-cuts-rating-on-concern-about-iphone.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  declined the
most in three months after Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded the
company to underperform amid concern it won’t sell enough
iPhones to afford its “punishing” commitment with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The high costs of network upgrades, a “stupendous debt
burden” and a “hobbled 4G offering” that may be insufficient
to sell millions of iPhones this year, are some of the
challenges faced by the nation’s third-largest wireless
operator, analyst Craig Moffett wrote in a research note today.
Sprint plans to have long-term-evolution or LTE service in 6
cities by the middle of this year. Moffett had  previously  rated
the shares market perform.  The Overland, Kansas-based carrier fell 4.5 percent to
$2.76 at the close in  New York , for the steepest one-day
percentage decline since Dec. 14. The stock was the  worst 
performer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Last year, in a bid to stay competitive with iPhone-selling
rivals, Sprint Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse committed the
company to a $15.5 billion four-year agreement with Apple to
sell 25 million to 30 million iPhones. The move, said Hesse, was
to stem the loss of customers to AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Wireless .  “Looming in the not-so-distant distance is a collision
between an LTE iPhone that presumably won’t work on Sprint’s
network and a punishing take-or-pay deal with Apple,” Moffett
wrote.  Sprint sold 1.8 million iPhones last quarter, fewer than
some analysts projected and trailing larger rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
Verizon Wireless. In 2011, Sprint missed the contract subscriber
growth target set by Hesse.  Scott Sloat, a Sprint spokesman, declined to comment in an
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  