-- Stanford Investor Class Actions Restored by Appeals Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-19T20:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/stanford-investor-class-actions-restored-by-appeals-court.html
R. Allen Stanford’s aggrieved
investors can press state court class-action lawsuits they filed
seeking to recover losses in his $7 billion international fraud
scheme, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  The  New Orleans  based panel today reversed a lower-court
decision that the claims were barred by a federal law preventing
plaintiffs from pursuing state-law claims arising from the
purchase or sale of federally regulated securities.  A federal court jury in Houston on March 6 found Stanford
guilty of mail and wire fraud in the sale of certificates of
deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank
Ltd. He is to be sentenced June 14.  The purchase or sale of securities is only “tangentially
related” to Stanford’s scheme, the unanimous three-judge  panel
said , reviving four lawsuits filed against those who sold the
CDs and lawyers and an insurer for the Stanford bank.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Stanford
and two other top executives in his organization in February
2009, alleging they misled investors about the nature and
oversight of the Antiguan bank and the CDs it issued.  He and other executives were indicted on federal charges
four months later. Finance chief James Davis pleaded guilty to
fraud in August 2009 and testified against Stanford in his six-
week trial.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey in  Dallas , who has been
overseeing the SEC case and related litigation, took
jurisdiction over the investor claims removed from state to
federal court.  Lower-Court Ruling  He dismissed them because Stanford advertised the CDs as
being backed by regulated securities and some investors sold
securities to finance their CD purchases. Those facts put the
CD-related suits in the ambit of the Securities
Litigation Uniform Standards Act, the judge ruled.  The appeals court disagreed.  “We find that the fact that some of the plaintiffs sold
some ‘covered securities’ in order to put their money in the CDs
was not more than tangentially related to the fraudulent
scheme,” the New Orleans panel said.  The case is Roland v. Green, 11-10932,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 