-- Subbarao Boosts RBI Transparency as India Bond Buying Climbs
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-03-20T06:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/subbarao-boosts-rbi-transparency-as-india-bond-buying-climbs.html
The Reserve Bank of  India ’s tomes
on interest-rate policy made Subir Gokarn despair when he was a
Standard & Poor’s economist. Now a deputy governor, he’s part of
the biggest communication overhaul in the bank’s 77-year
history.  “That really wasn’t the best way to do it,” Gokarn, 52,
who joined the RBI in 2009, said in an interview in Mumbai last
month. “Keep it short, keep it straightforward, so it takes
five, 10 minutes to read and most people read it.”  Snappier, more frequent reviews of rate decisions and the
introduction of guidance on future direction are part of an
effort by Governor Duvvuri Subbarao to make monetary policy more
predictable and credible in  Asia ’s third-largest economy. The
campaign hasn’t been flawless: Gokarn wrong-footed analysts Jan.
5 by signaling that a reduction in lenders’ cash-reserve ratios
would be “premature,” only to cut them 19 days later.  At stake is reducing the RBI’s gap with practices abroad as
foreign investors have an increasing role in India’s government-
debt market, with their holdings soaring more than  sixfold  since
Subbarao, 62, took over in September 2008.  “The RBI has improved significantly in terms of clarity
and frequency of market communication,” said Jahangir Aziz,
chief India economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co., who previously
worked at the  International Monetary Fund . “There have been
rather glaring flip flops by the RBI at times while the market
for a long time -- and in some cases even now -- hasn’t fully
got used to the new rhetoric.”  Briefings Started  On Subbarao’s watch the  Reserve Bank  has doubled the number
of scheduled monetary policy meetings each year, to eight. It
now releases minutes of a key advisory committee, and started
regular media and analyst briefings.  “The changes that the RBI has enacted have helped improve
the perception of external investors,” said Dhawal Dalal,
Mumbai-based head of fixed income at DSP Blackrock Investment
Managers Pvt., a joint venture with the world’s largest money
manager. “They are trying to make the system safer.”  A relaxation of limits on purchasing Indian debt saw
international investment in government and corporate  debt  surge
to a record $31.5 billion in February, from $5.1 billion in the
month Subbarao succeeded Yaga Venugopal Reddy, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In November, authorities boosted the
ceiling on foreign buying to $60 billion.  Bond Lure  Investors also have been lured by yields on benchmark 10-
year government securities that are more than twice that of
 China  and  South Korea  and about four times the rate on similar-
maturity  U.S. Treasuries . The yield on the 8.79 percent note due
November 2021 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 8.40 percent as of 11:25 a.m. local time today.  Indian  government bonds  are Asia’s second-best performers
this year after  Indonesia , among 10 Asian local-currency debt
markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Subbarao, who pledged greater clarity after taking office,
increased the number of scheduled monetary policy reviews in
July 2010. Two months later, the central bank gave its first
guidance on future action, saying tightening to damp inflation
had “taken the monetary situation close to normal.”  In February 2011, the bank began releasing the minutes of
the 12-person technical advisory committee on monetary policy,
which includes seven outside advisers, along with Subbarao,
Gokarn, and other RBI officials. The records revealed that the
governor sometimes went against external guidance, such as on
Jan. 24, when he left borrowing costs unchanged for a second
month even after most outside advisers called for a cut.  ICICI Sees Clarity  “There is more clarity in the language of the policy
statements and forward guidance on policy actions,” said N.S. Kannan, chief financial officer and executive director of 
ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s second-largest lender. Subbarao 
“has made the RBI more transparent through an effective 
communication policy,” he said.  As  India’s economy  increased sixfold from 1993, central
bank practices struggled to keep up, retaining a preference for
the 100-page policy documents full of repetitions and
ambiguities that disheartened Gokarn. India’s gross domestic
product has risen to 10th in the world, from 15th in 1993,
reaching $1.84 trillion last year, according to  IMF data .  Pressure for overhauling the RBI’s policy making escalated
when the global financial crisis deepened in 2008, requiring
faster action than afforded by the bank’s four scheduled rate-
setting meetings. The Reserve Bank embarked upon a string of
changes to rates or lenders’ reserve requirements at 11
unscheduled meetings in a period of about three years.  ‘Surprise Element’  A total  cut  of 400 basis points off the  cash reserve ratio 
and 425 basis points off the repurchase rate after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008 “didn’t go
down well with the market because of the surprise element,”
Subbarao said in a speech in  New Delhi  in January 2011.  “Earlier the RBI was quite secretive, even the language
was very unclear and guarded,” said Tushar Pradhan, who manages
about $1 billion as chief investment officer at HSBC Asset
Management (India) Pvt. “The RBI has found that more
information helps.”  As recently as 2005, monetary-policy reviews were held on a
semiannual basis. Central banks worldwide have overhauled their
communication strategies since that time, with the U.S. Federal
Reserve accelerating publication of minutes of policy meetings
and introducing press briefings, and the Reserve Bank of
 Australia  and  Banco de Mexico  starting releases of minutes.  ‘Necessary Process’  “The changes are part of the opening up of India’s economy
and markets to the world -- a necessary process if India is to
meet its aspirations of becoming a global power,” said Bimal Jalan, who led the RBI for almost six years, until September
2003.  The effectiveness of the increased transparency is being
tested as Subbarao contends with slowing expansion amid elevated
inflation. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government last month
lowered its forecast for gross domestic product growth to 6.9
percent for the fiscal year through March, the weakest since
2009, when the world was pulling out of recession.  India’s benchmark  wholesale-price index  increased 6.95
percent in February from a year before, quickening from 6.55
percent in January. While retaining a bias toward easing policy
in future, the central bank said in a March 15 statement that
“notwithstanding the deceleration in growth, inflation risks
remain, which will influence both the timing and magnitude of
future rate actions.”  Policy Rates  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said March 18 that he
expects “policy rates to be reversed by the central bank in
coming months.” Subbarao said in 2011 it’s an established
practice for the central bank governor to meet the prime
minister and the finance minister informally close to the policy
decision.  Among the bank’s challenges is managing periodic liquidity
shortages in India’s banking system, which have prompted two
reductions in the cash-reserve ratio so far this year.  Gokarn told journalists on Jan. 5 that cutting the ratio --
the proportion of deposits lenders must hold in reserve -- would
send a “premature” signal of a change in monetary policy. The
RBI then lowered it by half a percentage point on Jan. 24,
surprising 16 of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg who
predicted no change.  While “more frequent communication is positive,” the
central bank is “talking too much, too often across many
different channels, which causes confusion,” said  Rajeev Malik ,
a senior economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  Singapore .  Interest-rate swaps, a gauge of investors’ expectations for
borrowing costs, also show the market isn’t always buying the
bank’s rhetoric, according to Aziz at JPMorgan.  Swaps Market  The swaps rose as much as 18 basis points from Jan. 24, to
8.23 percent, even after the Reserve Bank signaled it’s more
likely to cut  interest rates . In September last year, the swaps
fell to 7.6 percent while the central bank was raising rates.  “There have been long periods when the overnight swap
spreads have diverged substantially from the RBI’s policy
guidance and subsequent policy action,” said Aziz, a former
adviser at the Ministry of Finance in New Delhi. “One doesn’t
see that happening very often for example in the U.S. or
Australia.”  The new openness doesn’t stop at the doors of the central
bank’s headquarters in  Mumbai . Subbarao and his four deputies
visit villages across India to promote financial literacy in a
nation where more than two thirds of the 1.2 billion population
live on less than $2 a day. The officials also hold town-hall
events where investors can question their decisions.  Rapid Changes  For investor Mahendra Jajoo, the move toward transparency
is a reflection of the rapid changes the country has experienced
in the past few decades, since Singh as finance minister in the
early 1990s helped lead an effort to reduce regulation and
barriers to trade and investment.  “My grandfather used to wear dhoti-kurta, my father
shifted to wearing trousers and I wear jeans,” said Jajoo,
chief investment officer for fixed income at Pramerica Asset
Managers Ltd. which oversees $600 million. “I can’t say that my
grandfather’s sense of dressing was bad. He was a person of his
time. This is what the RBI has done. The current governor has
responded very fast to the changing needs of the time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 