-- Sun Hung Kai Executive Director Arrested in Bribery Probe
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-03-20T09:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/sun-hung-kai-executive-director-arrested-in-bribery-probe.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) ,  Hong
Kong ’s biggest developer by market value, said an  executive
director  was arrested by the city’s anti-corruption body as part
of an investigation into alleged bribery.  Sun Hung Kai has set up a panel of three board members to
handle the investigation into Thomas Chan Kui-Yuen, the
developer said in a statement to the city’s stock exchange
yesterday. The shares declined to the lowest in a month.  Chan was in charge of land acquisitions by the $38 billion
builder of Hong Kong’s tallest office tower. The company has
been run by co-chairmen Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  since the ouster
as chairman in 2008 of their brother Walter, who alleged they
opposed his questions over corporate governance matters.  “While the news will likely be negative for stock
sentiment, we don’t see much concern unless the allegations were
to extend to the company and other senior management,” John Chan, an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in a report
today.  Sun Hung Kai shares fell 2.4 percent to HK$113, the lowest
since Feb. 13, at the local time close. The Hang Seng Property
Index, which tracks the city’s seven-biggest builders that
include Sun Hung Kai, declined 1.2 percent.  ‘Suspected Offenses’  The  Independent Commission Against Corruption  is
investigating a suspected “offense or offenses” related to the
city’s Prevention of Bribery Act, Sun Hung Kai said in its
statement yesterday without giving further details. ICAC
spokesman Alan Tse declined to comment, as did Sun Hung Kai
spokeswoman’s Margaret Ng.  Chan, an executive director for Sun Hung Kai since 1987, is
responsible for land acquisitions and project planning,
according to the company’s latest annual report. His age is
given as 65 in the report, which was published in October. He
was paid HK$11 million ($1.4 million) in the financial year
ended June 2011, the report said.  Walter Kwok alleged in the 2008 court filing that Sun Hung
Kai had purchased land at a “much higher” price from a seller
introduced by Chan, than was previously offered.  In the 2008 filing,  Walter Kwok  said his brothers, both
vice chairmen at the time, disagreed with his attempts to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the purchase of the
land in Hong Kong’s New Territories.  The former chairman had in 2008 applied to the court to
prevent the board from removing him from office, alleging that
his brothers opposed when he questioned whether there was
impropriety in the way the company awarded construction
contracts, and other corporate governance matters.  In 2010, Walter Kwok, who took over in 1990 after the death
of his father and company co-founder Kwok Tak Seng, was ousted
as a beneficiary from the family trust through which the family
controls Sun Hung Kai.  Home Prices Surge  Lucy Chan, a spokeswoman for Walter Kwok, said her client
will wait for further developments before commenting on the
arrest.  Co-founded by Kwok Tak Seng and billionaire Lee Shau-kee in
1963, the company was listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange in
1972. It benefited from a three-decade surge in  home prices  to
become the city’s biggest developer, with a market value of $38
billion.  Sun Hung Kai built and runs the 118-floor International
Commerce Centre, which at 484 meters (1,588 feet) is Hong Kong’s
tallest building. The developer also manages luxury apartment
projects such as the Arch in West Kowloon and the Larvotto in
the Island South district. It has received awards for best
corporate governance in Hong Kong in a poll by Asiamoney
magazine, as well as recognitions from Corporate Governance  Asia ,
according to Sun Hung Kai’s website.  The family’s combined wealth of $15.4 billion is third on
Forbes magazine’s list of Hong Kong’s richest.  ICAC Convictions  Chan is also a non-executive director of  Sunevision
Holdings Ltd. (8008) , a Sun Hung Kai unit listed on Hong Kong’s Growth
Enterprise Market.  Hong Kong’s Independent Commission Against Corruption has
won convictions against corporate directors including John
Terence Hung, a former director of Wharf (Holdings) Ltd., a
voting member of the Hong Kong Jockey Club who solicited and
accepted bribes in relation to a club membership application.  Last week the former head of surgery at the University of
Hong Kong was convicted after the ICAC charged him with false
accounting and using university money to cover up a case of
embezzlement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  