-- U.S. State Tax Revenue Rises at Slowest Pace Since Mid-2010
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-03-19T14:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/u-s-state-tax-revenue-rises-at-slowest-pace-since-mid-2010-1-.html
U.S. state tax collections rose
during the last three months of 2011 at the slowest pace in a
year and a half, according to an analysis.  The  Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government  said
today that revenue rose 2.7 percent during the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, the smallest increase since the three
months ended June 2010. The figures compare with growth of 6.1
percent in the third quarter and 11 percent in the three-month
period ended June 30.  State tax collections have risen for the past two years,
easing pressure on governments struggling to erase budget
deficits left in the wake of the 18-month recession. The last
quarter’s tax data marks a retreat from a pace that couldn’t be
sustained, said  Robert Ward , who follows states for the
Rockefeller institute in Albany,  New York .  “The recent softening is probably more in line with what
we would expect given the state of the economy,” he said in a
telephone interview.  “The economy is recovering, and so are
tax revenues, but there’s still a lot of weakness out there.
It’s very much a mixed picture.”  California, Illinois  The fourth-quarter growth was restrained by  California ,
where collections slipped by 8.9 percent from a year before,
while Illinois’s revenue jumped 24 percent. Both were the result
of tax-law changes, the institute said. Without those two
states, taxes would have grown 4.4 percent.  Among the biggest gainers were  Connecticut ,  North Dakota 
and Arizona. States with declines included Massachusetts,  New
Hampshire , Louisiana and Utah.  “If the consensus forecast for the economy is correct,
states should probably not expect dramatic growth in revenues
over the next year or two,” Ward said. “We know a lot has been
done to bring budgets back into balance. Clearly there’s more in
that area to be done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  