-- U.S. Imposes Duties on LG, Samsung Refrigerator Imports
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-03-19T22:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/u-s-imposes-subsidy-duties-on-lg-samsung-refrigerator-imports.html
The U.S. may impose duties of as
much as 30.34 percent on refrigerator-freezers imported by South
Korea’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and
Sweden’s  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the Commerce Department ruled.  The case decided today goes back to the U.S. International
Trade Commission, which is scheduled to make its final ruling on
the duties by April 30.  The complaint was brought by  Benton Harbor , Michigan-based
 Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , which said the foreign rivals were selling
their products in the U.S. at an unfair discount. The models
covered by the decision have the freezer below the refrigerator
section.  “As the world’s leading home appliance maker, we are
taking a stand with these petitions to protect our 23,000 U.S.
employees who produce the innovative and high-quality products
that consumers demand,” Marc Bitzer, president of Whirlpool
 North America , said in a statement.  Samsung, of Suwon, South Korea, may pay a tariff of 15.95
percent for refrigerators produced in Mexico and 5.16 percent
for those from South Korea, the Commerce Department said in an
e-mailed statement. LG Electronics will pay 30.34 percent for
products made in Mexico and 15.41 percent on South Korea units.  Electrolux, based in Stockholm, will pay 22.94 percent on
imports from Mexico.  The Commerce Department’s calculations were “based on
flawed methodologies,” Samsung said in a statement. U.S.
consumers will be hurt by the higher prices, the company said.  ‘Aggressively Contest’  LG Electronics “will aggressively contest” the ruling,
which is based on “erroneous and inaccurate” calculations,
Chris Jung, president for home appliances at LG Electronics USA,
based in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, said in a statement. U.S.
officials compared prices on LG’s Mexico products with a line of
refrigerators sold in  South Korea  to store kimchi, a vegetable
dish.  A U.S.-based representative for Electrolux didn’t return
messages seeing comment on the agency’s determination on
dumping, .  The Commerce Department in October had suggested
preliminary duties of as much as 36.65 percent. Imports of
refrigerators of all types in 2011 were valued at $2.3 billion
from Mexico and $965.5 million from South Korea, according to
the department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  