-- Inflight Electronics Ban Under U.S. Review to Assess Risks
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-03-19T21:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/u-s-considers-easing-restrictions-on-inflight-electronics-use.html
U.S. aviation regulators said they
are exploring ways to speed reconsideration of bans on airline
passengers using electronic devices during landing and takeoff.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  said in a statement
today it won’t change rules prohibiting use of laptops, tablet
computers and smartphones at altitudes below 10,000 feet (3,048
meters) until they are shown to not affect aircraft controls.  “We recognize that this is an area of consumer interest
and our goal is to bring together these key stakeholders to help
facilitate a discussion,” the agency said. It added that no
changes will be made until the FAA is certain they won’t affect
safety.  Airlines can, under FAA regulations, allow use of
electronics at all times when they test and determine devices
won’t interfere with aircraft navigation systems. Testing rules
haven’t resulted in wider permission to use electronic devices.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski , whose agency shares responsibility for regulating
cell phones on aircraft, said today he supports changing the
rules. Genachowski, testifying at a U.S. House hearing on his
agency’s budget, said he’d “encourage the FAA to look at that
and to ensure it’s doing as little as necessary to protect
public safety.”  The FAA hasn’t specified the effects of holding talks with
airlines, electronics makers, passenger groups and other parties
on evaluating devices such as tablets, and didn’t say how or
when discussions will take place. The New York Times first
reported the agency’s interest in reconsidering the rules.  Transistor Radios  Tests by the  RTCA , a non-profit firm in Washington that
performs research on radio and navigation for the FAA, have
shown it’s theoretically possible for electronic devices to emit
signals that may interfere with airliner equipment.  RTCA tests conducted from 2003 to 2006 failed to find
evidence that FAA rules should be relaxed, according to an
agency fact sheet. Those tests were conducted before the
introduction of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad or  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle
devices.  The FAA has wrestled with the safety of electronic devices
since discovering in the 1960s that transistor radios could
interfere with aircraft navigation equipment, according to  Jay
Ely , a NASA Langley Research Center engineer.  Spurious Emissions  Interference from personal devices is unlikely, Ely said in
a telephone interview. Regulators are concerned that almost
every device can emit radio waves on unintended frequencies,
particularly when damaged or not made properly.  “From a safety point of view, you want those aircraft
systems to work all the time in all conditions -- and you can’t
guarantee that when there’s an unknown emission on board,” he
said.  Rigorous testing is the only way to ensure no interference
because so many variables exist in how electronic devices and
aircraft function, he said.  The FAA has given permission to pilots at airlines such as
 Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) ’s Alaska Airlines and  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s  United Airlines  to use iPads in the cockpit in
place of paper charts and manuals.  Those airlines had to demonstrate that the tablet computers
didn’t emit radio waves that caused interference with aircraft
electronics. The airlines are only required to test the specific
models their pilots use, not those that passengers may bring
aboard, according to FAA regulations.  Airlines will “work cooperatively” with FAA on any
efforts to evaluate electronic devices, according to an e-mailed
statement from Airlines For America, the Washington-based trade
group for the largest U.S. carriers.  Safety Foremost  The FAA must maintain a high standard in any changes, John
Cox, a former airline pilot who is now a consultant with  Safety
Operating Systems , a company in  Washington .  “What we cannot do is lower the standards for electronic
interference to the point where we create a safety hazard,” Cox
said in a phone interview.  Cox said he has seen how electronic devices can cause
unintended consequences on aircraft; a mechanic’s walkie-talkie
once opened the lock on his cockpit door.  Passengers are allowed to use most electronic devices,
except cell phones, once a flight has reached an altitude of
10,000 feet. “At a lower altitude, any potential interference
could be more of a safety hazard as the cockpit crew focuses on
critical arrival and departure duties,” the FAA said.  Cell phones are governed by FCC, which prohibit their use
on flights because of “potential interference with ground
networks,” according to the FAA.  The FCC in 2004 considered changing its rules to allow
personal phone use on aircraft. The agency later withdrew the
proposal after public comments objected to the change.  Phones that can be switched into “airplane mode,”
disabling their radio transmissions, may be permitted at
altitudes above 10,000 feet, according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  