-- UBS, Barclays Prepare CMBS for Manhattan’s Dream Hotel
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-03-19T16:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/ubs-barclays-prepare-cmbs-for-manhattan-s-dream-hotel.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are
preparing a commercial-mortgage deal linked to properties
including  Manhattan ’s Dream Downtown hotel, the site of Heidi
Klum’s  Halloween  bash, as  Wall Street  increases lending.  The largest loan in the bond offering is $120 million in
debt tied to fees associated with a parcel of land in New York
City’s Chelsea neighborhood where the 316-room boutique hotel
stands, according to a regulatory  filing .  Demand for securities tied to everything from suburban
strip malls to luxury lodgings is surging as investors wager
that with unemployment at its lowest level since February 2009
commercial-property owners will be able to cover their mortgage
payments. Bank forecasts for commercial-mortgage bond sales in
2012 range from  Wells Fargo & Co .’s $25 billion to Credit Suisse
Group AG’s projection of as much as $45 billion. About $4
billion has been issued this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Dream Downtown hotel, a 1960s-vintage building that
reopened in 2011, secured bookings for the designer Marc
Jacobs’s fashion-week event, the New York City Wine & Food
Festival and the Victoria’s Secret show, as well as the party
thrown by Klum, the model and host of the television show
Project Runway, according to the filing.  The hotel is “renowned” for its Manhattan nightlife and
features an “ultra-luxury VIP lounge,” according to the
filing. A setback occurred when Chef Miguel Sanchez Romera
closed his restaurant Romera this month. A 12-course tasting
meal cost $245.  Nashville Hilton  New York City  isn’t the only beneficiary of renewed lending
on Wall Street. A $65.7 million loan on the Hilton Downtown
Nashville in  Tennessee  and $94.7 million of debt on the Civic
Opera House in  Chicago  are included in the  pool  of securities
from UBS and Barclays.  Wall Street banks arranged about $28 billion of commercial-
mortgage backed securities last year, compared with $11.5
billion in 2010. Rising sales are a boon for property owners
with loans coming due. Borrowers have $51 billion of mortgages
packaged into securities maturing this year, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data.  Relative  yields  on top-ranked commercial-mortgage bonds
have plunged to 181 basis points more than Treasuries, the
lowest since May, according to the Barclays Capital CMBS Aaa
Super Duper Index. That’s down from a high of 323 basis points
on Oct. 4, at the height of the European sovereign-debt crisis.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  