-- Universal Said to Expect In-Depth EU Probe on EMI Takeover
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-19T16:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/universal-said-to-expect-in-depth-eu-probe-on-emi-takeover-1-.html
Vivendi SA’s (VIV)  Universal Music Group
expects European Union regulators to open an in-depth probe into
its plan to buy EMI Group’s recorded-music business, according
to a person familiar with the situation.  The company opted not to propose any antitrust remedies to
allay concerns over the deal, according to the person, who
declined to be identified because the plans aren’t public.
Universal may choose to make concessions during the so-called
phase II of the merger review, said the person.  The European Commission’s deadline for submitting remedies
was March 16. The EU’s antitrust regulator has a deadline of
March 23 to either approve the deal or extend its review by
about 90 working days.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed in November to sell EMI Group’s
recorded-music and publishing businesses in separate
transactions for a combined $4.1 billion. Universal will buy
EMI’s record labels, home to Katy Perry and Coldplay, for 1.2
billion pounds ($1.9 billion). A Sony Corp.-led group that
includes billionaire  David Geffen  will pay $2.2 billion for the
publishing unit.  Vivendi in Paris declined to comment on the EU probe.  Warner Music Group, an unsuccessful bidder for EMI, will
lobby in the U.S. and  Europe  against the sale of the company to
Universal, retiring Chairman Edgar Bronfman Jr. has said.  Impala, a group of independent record labels, has said EU
regulators should block both the Vivendi deal as well as Sony’s
bid for the music publishing unit because they would increase
prices and reduce competition in the  music industry . Impala
challenged the EU’s 2004 approval for Sony and Bertelsmann AG to
create the Sony BMG record label at the EU courts, forcing a
reexamination by regulators. The deal was eventually approved in
2007.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission, declined
to immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 