-- UPS, TNT Pick 5 Banks in Largest Transport Deal Since ’05
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-03-19T17:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/ups-tnt-pick-5-banks-in-largest-transport-deal-since-05.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  turned
to one of the same  Morgan Stanley (MS)  bankers who took the delivery
company public in 1999 for advice on its largest takeover, the
$6.8 billion purchase of TNT Express NV.  Morgan Stanley’s team included James Runde, who has been at
the bank 38 years and helped it win the lead role on UPS’s $5.5
billion share sale. Mark Eichorn, head of Americas M&A, and
Peter Krowinkel, who oversees the same division for Belgium, the
Netherlands and Luxembourg, led the group.  UPS and TNT worked with five global investment banks to
seal the agreement, which will create a delivery company to
rival  Deutsche Post AG’s (DPW)  DHL, now the largest in  Europe . The
firms are poised to earn about $55 million from the transaction,
with $30 million going to the buy side and $25 million to the
sell side, according to New York-based research firm Freeman &
Co.  “If revenue growth remains anemic and cost pressure
persists, you’ll see more deals like this one,” said Philip Keevil, a partner at Compass Advisers in New York. “All the
banks are seeing the uplift.”  UPS also got advice from  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Charles Otton, a managing
director on the Swiss bank’s transport team, and James
Robertson, a managing director in its investment bank unit in
the U.K., as well as a team from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   TNT worked with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Gordon Dyal and
Richard Govers, while Wouter Han, head of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ’s Benelux
business, and Alexander Doll, who leads its global
transportation coverage, advised TNT’s supervisory board.
Deutsche Bank AG’s Nicholas Aperghis advised TNT’s largest
 shareholder , PostNL NV, which owns a 30 percent stake.  Transport Deal  The takeover is the second-largest in the transportation
services industry ever, as well as the biggest in UPS’s 105-year
history. Combining with TNT will help UPS create a challenger
for DHL while shrinking the pool of major global transport
companies.  “There were only four key players in express transport,
and now you are down to three,” Satish Jindel, a transport
consultant based in Sewickley, Pennsylvania, said in referring
to UPS,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and DHL. “This will keep UPS busy for one
or two years, and could leave FedEx with opportunities for large
acquisitions in the U.S. and smaller ones overseas.”  Only Deutsche Post’s 2005 acquisition of Exel Ltd., the
U.K.’s largest warehousing and distribution company, for 4
billion pounds including debt ($7.1 billion at the time) was
bigger in the transportation services industry. The TNT takeover
also is the fifth-biggest this year.  Slowing Deals  Morgan Stanley’s Runde has served since 2004 as special
adviser, a role that allows senior bankers to retain ties to the
firm while freeing up time for outside pursuits such as serving
on corporate boards.  UBS’s team also included Heino Teschmacher, a senior
adviser at the bank. Deutsche Bank’s Aperghis, head of
 investment banking  in the Benelux countries, was joined by Serge
Fielmich, in charge of mergers and acquisitions in the area. The
German bank has advised PostNL since its split from TNT last
year.  The UPS takeover solidifies Goldman Sachs’s position as the
lead adviser on European M&A, followed by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Globally, the deal has little impact on the ranking, with
JPMorgan leading in takeover advisory worldwide.  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP is UPS’s legal counsel,
and  Allen & Overy  is advising TNT.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  