-- Lira Falls 1st Day in Three as U.S. Treasury Beats Turkish Debt
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-19T15:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/turkish-lira-declines-first-time-in-three-days-against-dollar.html
The lira weakened for the first
time in three days as U.S. Treasury yields outpaced their
Turkish counterparts, reducing demand for assets linked to the
local currency.  The Turkish currency depreciated 0.6 percent to 1.8061 per
dollar by 5:00 p.m. in Istanbul, paring this year’s gain to 4.7
percent.  Yields (BENCH)  on the two-year benchmark debt rose nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 9.41 percent, according to
a  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  index.  Yields on the 10-year U.S. Treasury bonds climbed to 2.36
percent on March 16, the highest since October, pushing the
spread with 10-year Turkish bonds to the lowest in a month.
Growth in retail sales and jobs in the U.S. has damped
expectations for more Federal Reserve stimulus that has in the
past contributed to the dollar’s decline.  “Increased economic activity made international investors
more demanding and this changed the lira’s risk-return
balance,” Bulent Topbas, a  fund manager  at Strateji Menkul
Degerler in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “Foreign
investors may be less willing to buy lira-linked assets unless
they see improvement in the  current-account deficit  and
 inflation  in  Turkey .”  The current-account deficit was $77.8 billion in the 12
months to January, or about 9.5 percent of the government’s
forecast for 2012 gross domestic product. Last year’s deficit of
$77 billion, or 10 percent of GDP, was the second-highest
worldwide after the U.S. according to the  International Monetary
Fund , raising concern the country was too reliant on foreign
financing.  The inflation rate fell to 10.4 percent in February, which
is more than twice the central bank’s target of 5 percent for
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  