-- Luxury Disco Dining Entices at London’s Chic Novikov: Review
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-03-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/luxury-disco-dining-entices-at-london-s-chic-novikov-review.html
“The Russians are coming” used to
mean we felt in danger of being invaded. Now, it means that they
are taking over by ostentatious spending. Decades ago, the same
was said of wealthy Arabs.  As the French might say, the more things change, the more
they stay the same. We see rich foreigners as sultans of bling.  Much of this xenophobia greeted the opening of Novikov, an
expensive London establishment owned by Arkady Novikov, whose
Novikov Restaurant Group employs 7,000 people in more than 50
restaurants in Moscow and  St. Petersburg .  Novikov is divided into three areas: a fancy basement bar
where the drinks are short and the women tall; a pan-Asian
restaurant where Hakkasan meets China Tang; and an Italian whose
chef, Carmelo Carnevale, is also responsible for the kitchen in
Regent’s Park, London, of Khalid Bin Sultan Bin Abdulaziz of
 Saudi Arabia , according to a press release. (That’s Prince
Khalid to you and me.)  If you think Novikov might be expensive, you wouldn’t be
wrong. It’s easy to spend more than 100 pounds ($158) a person,
even if you remain in the foothills of the wine list. The prices
are reminiscent of the Sketch stratosphere or possibly of China
Tang, where bar manager Andrew Pengelly worked before.  Bouncers and Buzz  Is Novikov any good? Yes, it is. While I don’t like the
bouncers at the door, I do like the buzz of a venue so many
people want to enter; I like the greeters who look like models;
I like the rich customers; I even like the food.  Downstairs at the Italian, you can taste the quality of the
ingredients and appreciate a chef who resists the temptation to
mess with them. Order mozzarella with tomatoes and basil; pan-
fried mixed mushrooms topped with two fried eggs and Norcia
truffles (18.50 pounds); taglierini with pecorino (seven months
aged) and pepper; charcoal beef tagliata with rocket and
Parmesan, and you have a fine meal before you reach dessert.  You also have a food bill of 68.50 pounds, plus 12.5
percent service. No wonder a meal for two cost 236.25 pounds.
Yes, wine was involved, but not as much as you would think and
not as much as I wanted when I saw the bill.  It’s a similar story in the Asian restaurant, where I had
some of the sweetest and most willing service in a long time.
Well, I did for dinner. At lunch, a waiter refused to put the
wine close enough for us to pour it -- preferring an ice bucket
across the room -- and then stared blankly into space when our
glasses were empty. I was waving like Prince Harry playing beach
volleyball in  Rio de Janeiro . At Novikov’s prices, inattentive
service isn’t an option.  Greatest Hits  The food isn’t bad. It’s not Hakkasan quality for the
Chinese, or Dinings for the Japanese, or Sedap for the
Malaysian, but for an Asian greatest-hits menu, it’s as good as
you might expect. (The head chef is a New Zealander, Jeff Tyler,
formerly of the Mandarin Oriental Marrakesh.) The place is quiet
at lunchtime and jumping like a disco at dinner.  If you are affluent, Novikov is a lot of fun. Millions of
pounds have been lavished on the decor. It’s glamorous. It’s
rich. If it were a private club, I’d be trying to get in. It’s
the kind of place that divides opinion. Whatever you hear, the
best reaction is: Trust but verify.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? More than 50 pounds a head for food.  Sound level? Above 75 decibels in the restaurants.  Inside tip? Go as a guest, not a host.  Special feature? The bar is hopping.  Will I be back? Yes, if someone else is paying.  Date place? Yes, if I was really attracted to someone.  Rating? Italian ***. Asian **.  Novikov is at 50a Berkeley Street,  London , W1J 8HA.
Information: +44-20-7399-4330 or
 http://www.novikovrestaurant.co.uk/ .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 