-- Vale to Reopen World’s Biggest Iron Mine Railroad Tomorrow
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-03-19T20:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/vale-says-railroad-to-resume-operation-march-20.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , Brazil’s biggest exporter,
said it will reopen operations tomorrow at a railroad that
transports production from the world’s largest  iron-ore  mine
after an accident lowered shipments by 300,000 metric tons.  Traffic at the Carajas railroad in northern Brazil will
resume and the expected iron-ore shipment loss is “relatively
small,” Vale said in a regulatory filing today. The company may
be able to offset the loss by increasing shipments from other
ports such as Tubarao, Ilha de Guaiba and Itaguai, it said.  “Vale has taken all the necessary measures to restore the
railway traffic,” the company said.  Vale shut the Carajas railroad after part of a bridge it
was building next to the railroad collapsed March 16, the Rio de
Janeiro-based company said in an e-mailed statement over the
weekend. Seven workers suffered “light injuries” during the
accident, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said.  The railroad  links  the Carajas mine with the Ponta da
Madeira port in  Brazil ’s northeastern state of Maranhao, from
which Vale exports iron ore to clients as far away as  Asia . Vale
produced a record 109.8 million metric tons of iron ore in
Carajas last year, or about 34 percent of its total output,
according to a Feb. 15  filing .  Offsetting Losses  “Vale has been restocking at its own ports during the past
couple of quarters, which could offset potential losses,”
Barclays Plc analysts led by Leonardo Correa in Sao Paulo said
today in a note to clients.  Vale also ships manganese, copper, fuels and coal along the
892-kilometer (554-mile) line, which uses the world’s largest
train, made up of four locomotives and 330 cars, according to
the company’s  website . Carajas hosts the Sossego mine, Vale’s
main source of copper production.  The railroad operates a passenger train that transports
about 1,300 people daily.  Vale  rose  0.1 percent to 41.95 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo . Iron ore for immediate delivery was unchanged at $144.70
a ton today, according to a price  index  compiled by The Steel
Index Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 