-- VIX Bets at Record as Volatility Sinks to Five-Year Low
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-03-19T09:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/vix-bets-at-record-as-volatility-sinks-to-five-year-low.html
Investors are piling into
securities that protect against losses in equities at the
fastest rate ever after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
to the highest level in almost four years.  Demand to hedge gains pushed up the number of shares
available for trading to records last week in four of the five
largest exchange-traded funds and notes that track U.S. stock
volatility, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For the iPath  S&P
500  VIX Short-Term Futures ETN, the biggest of the securities,
outstanding stock reached  100.1 million  on March 16, up 51
percent since March 9 and more than fourfold since Dec. 30.  New shares of the iPath note were created to meet rising
demand in each of the four days after the  Federal Reserve  raised
its assessment of the  U.S. economy  on March 13 and the S&P 500
extended its best first-quarter rally since 1998. The securities
track indexes linked to the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, a gauge of fear known as the VIX that moves in
the opposite direction of the S&P 500 on 85 percent of days.  “There’s an enormous amount of interest,” Scott Maidel,
who helps oversee $141 billion as a senior  money manager  for
equity derivatives at Russell Investments in  Seattle , said in a
March 16 phone interview. “These products are a convenient way
to put on a short-term hedge or make a speculative bet if
volatility should spike back up.”  ETNs are unsecured bank debt backed by their issuer’s
credit, while exchange-traded funds hold assets such as stocks,
bonds or futures contracts. With both, sponsors create and
redeem shares based on the level of demand for the securities.
That demand doesn’t affect the price since the funds and notes
track the performance of an index.  Last Year’s Surge  The VIX fell 15 percent last week to 14.47, a level last
seen in June 2007. The index, which measures the cost of S&P 500
options, dropped as low as 14.62 last year before  jumping  to 48
less than four months later in August. It has declined as the
S&P 500 rose 28 percent since October, ending last week at an
almost four-year high of 1,404.17.  The VIX has fallen five straight weeks, the longest streak
since August 2008. The volatility gauge is down 38 percent this
year and is 30 percent below its 22-year average of 20.55, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Europe ’s VStoxx Index, which
measures the cost of Euro Stoxx 50 Index options, slumped 19
percent to 18.52 last week, its lowest level since April 29. It
increased 7.4 percent to 19.89 as of 10:17 a.m. in  Frankfurt 
today.  Smaller Swings  Equities gained last week as the Fed upgraded its economic
outlook and let banks such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. boost
dividends after reviewing their financial strength. This year’s
rally has been accompanied by smaller daily swings. The
benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks has gained or lost an average
0.46 percent a day this year, compared with 1.04 percent in
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Risk is back on and investors need to make sure they are
fully allocated” to stocks, Tim Edwards, a vice president at
Barclays Plc in  New York , where he’s responsible for ETN product
development, said on March 15 in a phone interview. “However,
it’s risk plus a hedge. Investors are purchasing equities, but
they are also buying some kind of protection because they
believe volatility will return to the markets at some point.”  Credit Suisse Group AG on Feb. 21 suspended issuance in new
shares of the  VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short Term ETN (TVIX) , or
TVIX, another security that rises when equity swings widen. The
Zurich-based bank took action after the note’s market value more
than quadrupled this year to almost $700 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares outstanding in TVIX, which
aims to generate twice the daily return of an index tracking the
VIX, had surged eightfold since Dec. 30.  Premium to Assets  The market capitalization for the note was $603.1 million
on March 16, after it reached a record $695.6 million on March
6. The ETN is now trading at $14.81, a 36 percent  premium  over
its net asset value.  For Barclays’s VXX, the increase in outstanding notes has
brought the market value of the ETN to $2.16 billion, the
highest level since October 2010.  Shares  outstanding  of the ProShares Ultra VIX Short-Term
Futures ETF, which like TVIX seeks to offer double the daily
return of an index tracking the volatility gauge, rose more than
13-fold since Feb. 21 to a record 8.34 million on March 16. The
market capitalization of the so-called UVXY has risen to $206.6
million, the highest ever and 60 times more than when the fund
started in October.  “With no new TVIX shares being created, UVXY is the only
other exchange-traded product for investors who want levered
exposure to a sudden spike in short-term volatility,” Boris Lerner, a New York-based equity derivatives strategist at Morgan
Stanley, wrote in an e-mail on March 15.  Dynamic VIX  Shares outstanding for the iPath S&P 500 Dynamic VIX ETN
rose to a record 3.5 million on March 16, bringing its market
value to $204.3 million. There were 2.7 million shares of the
ProShares VIX Short-Term Futures ETF, the most ever, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That fund had a market
capitalization of $123.6 million as of March 16.  Six-month futures on the VIX closed at 27.40 on March 16, a
record high versus the volatility gauge, while all VIX futures
expiring in April or later closed at or above 21.60. The index
hasn’t closed above that level since January.  Some options traders are taking advantage of the spread
between the VIX and its futures contracts as they  prepare  for an
extended period of low equity market volatility. Ownership of
VIX puts  increased  62 percent to a record 2.87 million on March
15 from the last options expiration on Feb. 17, while call open
interest gained 47 percent 3.88 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Dramatically Changed’  Investors are buying out-of-the money puts that will pay if
the VIX remains where it is or declines, according to Bouhari Arouna of BNP Paribas SA. That’s a sign they are becoming more
confident about the economy, he said.  “The VIX option flow has dramatically changed recently,”
Arouna, an equity derivatives strategist at BNP Paribas in New
York, said in a telephone interview on March 14. “Investors are
betting on the VIX futures curve to either shift down based on
the improved economic outlook or for the term structure to stay
where it is.”  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly dropped in
March to the lowest level this year, the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of  sentiment 
showed on March 16.  When the VIX surged 50 percent on Aug. 8 after S&P stripped
the U.S. of its AAA credit rating, the  VXX (VXX)   gained  15 percent in
a single day. Now, investors want to ensure they’re protected
from another increase in volatility, MKM Partners LLC’s Jim Strugger said.  “After the volatility spike last August, investors who did
not have long volatility exposure in place were saying, ‘I knew
this was going to happen,’” Strugger, an MKM Partners
derivatives strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview last week. “The common refrain now seems to
be, ‘I’m not going to miss this one.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  