-- Warhol Group Seeks Dismissal of Velvet Undergrounds Suit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-03-19T20:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/warhol-group-seeks-dismissal-of-velvet-undergrounds-suit.html
The Andy Warhol Foundation for the
Visual Arts called for the dismissal of a lawsuit by the Velvet
Underground that claimed the foundation violated the band’s
trademark for the banana design Warhol created for an album
cover.  The foundation, which licenses merchandise based on the
late artist’s designs, asked U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan
to throw out the trademark infringement suit, in a filing today
in  New York  federal court that answered the complaint by the
band and its founders Lou Reed and John Cale.  Warhol’s foundation said that the band can’t claim
trademark infringement because it hasn’t identified any uses for
the design. The foundation also said it had an agreement with
the band to not bring legal action against it over the copyright
for the design.  “Because plaintiff no longer faces an imminent live threat
of suit for copyright infringement, the declaratory relief
sought by plaintiff no longer presents the court with a
justiciable controversy,” the New York-based foundation said in
court papers.  ‘An Icon’  The Velvet Underground sued the  Warhol Foundation  in
January claiming that it has trademark rights to the banana
design, which has become a “symbol, truly an icon” of the
group. The band also said the foundation can’t claim a copyright
for the design because the album appeared without a copyright
notice and no one registered it.  “Velvet Underground’s use and application of the design to
symbolize the group and its whole body of work has been
exclusive, continuous and uninterrupted for more than 25
years,” the band said in the complaint.  Christopher Whent, a lawyer for the Velvet Underground,
said he had no immediate comment about the motion to dismiss.  The band, which began around 1965 and remained active until
about 1972, formed an artistic collaboration with Warhol. He
designed the cover of their first commercial album, “The Velvet
Underground and Nico,” released in 1967, using an illustration
of a banana taken from an advertisement, according to court
papers. Warhol died in 1987.  The Velvet Underground also claimed that the ad with the
banana was in the public domain and thus not eligible for
copyright protection.  Market Value  Warhol’s copyrighted works have a market value estimated at
more than $120 million and the foundation has earned more than
$2.5 million a year from licensing the designs, according to
court papers.  The Velvet Underground seeks a judicial declaration that
the foundation has no copyright to the design, an injunction
barring the foundation from licensing the artwork and monetary
damages. It requests a  jury trial .  The album, which was a commercial failure at the time of
its release, has been lauded by critics as one of the most
influential rock recordings. It was released by MGM’s Verve
Records, the catalog of which was acquired by  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s
 Universal Music Group .  Reed sang and played guitar and wrote most of the songs,
some of them in the persona of a  drug addict . Cale, who was
influenced by avant-garde composers, played an amplified viola.  The case is Velvet Underground v. The Andy Warhol
Foundation for the Visual Arts, 1:12-cv-00201, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at ‘   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 