-- Web Economy to Hit $4.2 Trillion as Users Pick Surfing Over Sex
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/web-economy-to-hit-4-2-trillion-as-users-pick-surfing-over-sex.html
The Internet economy of the G-20
nations will reach $4.2 trillion by 2016 almost 1.7 times last
year’s estimated level, as more than two-thirds of Americans
would forgo coffee and 21 percent give up sex for a year to stay
online,  Boston Consulting Group  said.  U.S. consumers said they would need to receive about $2,500
to stay offline for that period, according to a BCG  survey 
released today. Consumers in most countries would require three
percent to six percent of their average annual income to follow
suit, the study found. All said they valued search, e-mail,
online banking and investing functions. BCG interviewed about
1,000 users in each country.  The study shows the importance of the Web to consumers and
to businesses trying to reach them through sites, including
social-networking company  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and online-search
provider  Google Inc. (GOOG)  There’s an “explosion” of people buying
online, said David Dean, a senior partner at the Boston-based
management consulting firm.  “The Internet has become like electricity or water,” said
 Dominic Field , a partner at BCG in  Los Angeles , who along with
Dean was one of the authors of the study.  By 2016, the number of global Web users will reach 3
billion from an estimated 1.9 billion in 2010, BCG said. Across
the G-20 nations, the Internet economy accounted for an
estimated $2.5 trillion in 2011, BCG said.  Were it a country, the Internet economy would be in the top
five, behind the U.S.,  China ,  Japan  and India and ahead of
Germany, the study found. In the U.S., the Web’s contribution to
2010 gross domestic product exceeded the federal government’s,
according to BCG.  Smartphones, Tablets  Mobile access will become more important with smartphones
and tablets accounting for four out of five broadband
connections by 2016, the study showed.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
dominated the U.S. smartphone sector in the three months ended
January with 78.1 percent of devices carrying their software,
 ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  said March 6. Apple software was found on 29.5
percent of smartphones, while Google had 48.6 percent share.  While the U.S. will still make the largest contribution to
Internet-related spending, its leadership is slipping, Field
said. The country will account for 25 percent of the total
Internet economy in 2016, down from about a third today, he
said. The U.S.’s Internet economy is growing slower than that of
the U.K., for example.  “One big driver is infrastructure, and the U.S. has
historically lagged in smartphone use and broadband speeds in
rural areas,” Field said. Some developing countries, such as
 India , are seeing their Internet economies growing at double the
rate of the U.S., he said.  Younger and older users value the Internet the most, the
study found.  “For the older generation, the Internet is still
relatively new,” Dean said. “As the older consumers understand
what is possible, they see high value in the Internet. For
younger consumers, the Web has become like air, they take it for
granted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  