-- Wells Fargo Matches JPMorgan to Set Earnings Season Tone
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-03-19T20:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/wells-fargo-matches-jpmorgan-to-set-earnings-season-tone.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  moved up the
release of first-quarter results, matching  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and positioning the two most profitable U.S. lenders to set the
tone for the industry’s earnings season.  Wells Fargo will report on Friday, April 13 at 8 a.m.  New
York  time, about an hour later than JPMorgan, according to a
March 13 statement. JPMorgan, which has been the first of the
largest U.S. banks to report results since January 2009,
announced its timing on March 16. Wells Fargo had been last to
report among the four biggest lenders, including Bank of America
Corp. and Citigroup Inc., as recently as last April.  As the two strongest U.S. banks, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo
will set the standard used by investors and analysts to evaluate
results that come later from rivals, said  Marty Mosby , an
analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC. The change also may show
that Wells Fargo executives are confident about first-quarter
results and that Chief Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan, who
was named to the post in February 2011, is more comfortable in
his role at the San Francisco-based company, Mosby said.  “Being in the front allows you to set the stage for your
earnings and how you want them interpreted,” Mosby said in an
interview. “Everyone else then has to react.” Units at the two
banks represent most of the industry’s business lines, he said.  Wells Fargo had reported earlier in the earnings cycle,
then fell back after the purchase of Wachovia Corp.,  Mary Eshet ,
a company spokeswoman, said in phone interview. The bank moved
the date earlier in recent quarters, she said. JPMorgan’s
earnings schedule depends on the timing of its board meeting,
 Joseph Evangelisti , a bank spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Wells Fargo is the biggest home lender and ranks fourth by
assets among U.S. banks. JPMorgan, based in New York, leads by
assets and deposits. New York-based Citigroup, ranked third by
assets, plans to post results April 16, while Bank of America,
ranked second and based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , expects to
report on April 19, according to company statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  