-- Wen Says China Needs Steady Economy for Convertible Yuan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-19T11:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/wen-says-china-needs-steady-economy-for-convertible-yuan.html
China  needs steady economic
development, a stable financial system and strong regulation to
achieve full convertibility of the yuan, Premier  Wen Jiabao  told
company executives in Beijing today.  The yuan should also win enough credibility internationally
for convertibility, Wen told executives of foreign companies at
a meeting at the Great Hall of the People. He was responding to
a question about the currency from Standard Chartered Plc Chief
Executive  Peter Sands .  The comment builds on remarks from Wen’s March 5 state-of-
the-nation address that the government will “work steadily” to
make the currency convertible under capital accounts and expand
the use of the yuan in cross-border trade and investment.  Wen also said heavily indebted European countries should
push ahead with fiscal consolidation, step up regulation and
make institutional adjustments to safeguard foreign debt.  Europe 
will be able to overcome its current difficulties, Wen said.  China, sitting on the world’s largest  foreign-exchange
reserves  at more than $3 trillion, is considering more
involvement in aid to Europe, whose debt crisis has slowed the
flow of exports from the nation. Euro-area member states last
week gave formal approval to a second Greek bailout program,
freeing a first installment of 39.4 billion euros ($51.5
billion) of aid.  ‘Express Its Confidence’  “It is important that China expresses its confidence in
the European countries’ ability to tide over the current
difficulties,” Wen said. “We believe it is important for
Europe to make institutional adjustments so that there will be
institutional safeguards for the debt in European countries.”  Spain  has come under pressure from the European Union to
bring its deficit in line with the 27-nation bloc’s rules next
year.  Wen also said he’s confident the day will come when the
U.S. and China will sign a free-trade agreement. He was
responding to Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  chief executive, who said trade
relations between the U.S. and China were a “constant
irritant,” and the time had come to discuss a free-trade
agreement.  Trade Deficit  China posted its largest trade deficit since at least 1989
last month as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis damped export
growth and imports surged. Imports in February rose 39.6 percent
from a year earlier while exports increased 18.4 percent,
leaving a monthly deficit of $31.5 billion.  Even so, the trend of surpluses with the U.S. has become a
campaign issue ahead of America’s November presidential
election. President  Barack Obama  last month created a U.S. trade
panel to investigate unfair trade practices by nations including
China. Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  has said that if
elected president, he’ll direct the U.S. Treasury Department to
list China as a currency manipulator.  Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP, was a participant in the event with Wen, which followed the
China Development Forum that began March 17 and ended today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Kevin Hamlin in
Beijing at   khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  