-- Williams Buys Marcellus Gas Pipeline System for $2.5 Billion
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-03-19T22:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/williams-buys-marcellus-gas-pipeline-system-for-2-5-billion-1-.html
Williams Partners LP (WPZ) , the third-
biggest U.S. pipeline partnership, agreed to buy a natural-gas
pipeline system in the Marcellus Shale from closely held Caiman
Energy LLC for $2.5 billion in cash and equity.  Williams will acquire the pipeline unit Caiman Eastern
Midstream LLC, which built pipelines, two processing plants and
a gas-liquids fractionator with backing from private-equity firm
EnCap Flatrock Midstream, according to a statement from
Williams. Caiman has agreements with 10 producers to gather and
process gas and petroleum liquids from wells drilled across
236,000 acres in  West Virginia (WMKMX) ,  Ohio  and  Pennsylvania .  The companies estimate the Caiman system will gather more
than 2 billion cubic feet of gas a day by 2020 and process about
300,000 barrels a day of gas liquids and condensate, according
to the statement.  “These new assets, anchored by long-term agreements with a
diverse set of customers, give us a major presence in the
liquids-rich portion of the Marcellus Shale,”  Williams Cos. (WMB) 
Chief Executive Officer Alan Armstrong said in the statement.
Williams Cos. owns 72 percent of Williams Partners.  The partnership will fund the transaction with $1.78
billion in cash and will issue Caiman about 11.8 million
Williams Partners units, valued at about $720 million, according
to the statement. Williams Cos. will make an additional
investment in Williams Partners of $1 billion to help fund the
acquisition.  Laser Acquisition  Williams Partners said in December it would pay Delphi
Midstream Partners LLC $750 million for its Laser gas-gathering
system in the Marcellus.  The purchase of Caiman’s assets helps Williams expand into
the liquids-producing areas of southwest Pennsylvania, where it
also is planning an extension of its Texas-to-New York Transco
pipeline, said  Bradley Olsen , an analyst with Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co. in Houston.  “Williams, even before this deal, had kind of a chokehold
on the dry-gas area of the Marcellus, but they didn’t really
have any liquids-rich areas,” Olsen said in a telephone
interview. He rates Williams Partners a “hold” and owns none
of its units.  Williams is paying about 10 times the Caiman unit’s
earnings before interest, taxes, deductions and amortization,
Olsen said.  2009 Construction  Caiman began building the system in 2009, said William
Lemmons, a managing partner at EnCap Flatrock. The transaction
allows EnCap Flatrock to gain a quick profit for its investors,
Lemmons said in an interview. Now Williams, with its deeper
pockets, can continue to grow the system, he said.  “They’ve got a very long runway for investments,” Lemmons
said. “There are literally thousands of well sites to be
drilled.”  Williams Partners, based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, said it will
form a joint venture with Dallas-based Caiman Energy to build
more pipelines and processing plants in the Utica Shale, which
lies beneath the Marcellus Shale.  The Marcellus Shale may hold as much as 141 trillion cubic
feet of natural gas, according to Bloomberg Industries. The
Utica Shale may hold as much as 5.5 billion barrels of oil and
15.7 trillion cubic feet of gas, according to the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources. Both fields rely on horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing to produce oil and gas.  Financial Advisers  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  and  UBS AG (UBS)  acted as financial advisers
to Williams Partners on the latest transaction and  Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP (1128L)  provided legal counsel. UBS also arranged a loan
for Williams Partners to help finance the acquisition.  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  provided financial advice to Caiman
Energy, while  Vinson & Elkins LLP (1133L)  acted as legal counsel.  The announcement came after the close of regular trading in
U.S. Markets. Williams Cos. fell 0.1 percent to close at $30.42;
Williams Partners rose 0.9 percent to $61.06.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners LP (KMP)  are the biggest U.S. pipeline partnerships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  