-- World Bank Says Philippines Must Boost Revenue, Competitiveness
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-03-19T07:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/world-bank-says-philippines-must-boost-revenue-competitiveness.html
The  Philippines  needs to increase
 tax revenue  and reduce the cost of doing business to encourage
investment that will allow the country to expand more than 5
percent annually, the World Bank said.  The economy is forecast to grow 4.2 percent this year and 5
percent in 2013 from  3.7 percent  last year, the Washington-based
lender said in its quarterly  report  released today in Manila. It
is well positioned to weather adverse shocks, and  government
spending  will boost expansion, World Bank economists Rogier van den Brink and Karl Kendrick Chua told reporters in the capital.  “The country is benefiting from strong macroeconomic
fundamentals, political stability, and a popular government that
is seen by many as committed to improving governance and
reducing poverty,” the  World Bank  said. “Now is the time to
implement the reforms needed to accelerate growth, create jobs,
and reduce poverty.”  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending to a record
this year while seeking $16 billion of investment in rail and
airport projects to lift incomes in a nation where the World
Bank estimates about one out of four people live on less than
$1.25 a day. Prospects of faster growth has helped the
Philippine  benchmark stock index  climb to a record this month.  The World Bank supports government measures to boost
revenue including reviewing taxes on liquor and cigarettes and
changing the way it provides fiscal incentives to companies,
Chua said. The government must implement stable policies, cut
power costs and improve skills and education to boost investment
among large companies, and help small and medium-sized ones get
better access to financing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  