-- Worst Rout Since 2010 Sparks Inflection Anxiety: Credit Markets
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-03-19T15:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/worst-rout-since-2010-sparks-inflection-anxiety-credit-markets.html
Bonds of all types worldwide are
generating their biggest losses since 2010 this month, raising
concern that the four-year  bull market  that pushed interest
rates to record lows may be ending as the flood of easy money
from the U.S. Federal Reserve subsides.  “For a very long time, the market dynamics in interest
rates have been overwhelmed by Fed monetary policy,” said
 Jeffrey Rosenberg , chief investment strategist for fixed-income
at New York-based BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money
manager which oversees $3.5 trillion. “Has the big inflection
point been reached?”  From the U.S. government to Latin American phone companies,
from Japanese prefectures to Shariah-compliant borrowers, fixed-
income securities have lost 0.65 percent on average in March,
their worst performance since tumbling 1.09 percent in November
2010, according to the Bank of America Global Broad Market Index
that tracks about $40 trillion of bonds. The drop has been led
by U.S. Treasuries, which are down 1.5 percent, including a 5.9
percent plunge in the benchmark 30-year bond.  Global debt markets have trounced stocks since mid-2007,
returning 29 percent versus a 4.44 percent  loss  after dividends
for the MSCI ACWI index, as the Fed led central banks in cutting
benchmark  interest rates  to record lows and provided
extraordinary cash to pull the global economy out of the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Earlier Rate Hike  Now, with signs the recovery in the  U.S. economy  -- the
world’s largest -- may be self-sustaining, money markets show
traders expect the Fed may raise borrowing costs a year sooner
than its target of late 2014. In Europe, futures show
expectations of further easing by the  European Central Bank  have
been priced out of the market.  “Global bond markets have enjoyed a three decade long bull
rally,” UBS AG currency strategists led by Mansoor Mohi-Uddin
in  Singapore  said in a report to clients on March 16. “But this
era is now set to end.”  The firm noted that it’s unlikely that the Fed conducts a
third round of bond purchases as the U.S. recovery gathers pace,
private sector credit expands,  China  and other emerging
economies rebound in the second half of 2012 and the euro zone’s
recession fails to shock the global economy.  Next Step  While Credit Suisse Group AG agrees that the global economy
is firming, it says another round of quantitative easing by the
Fed is still on the table.  “We still believe that the next Fed move will ultimately
be toward the more accommodative policy, although the timing
will depend on the contemporaneous data,” the firm’s economists
led by Neal Soss in New York said in a March 16 research report.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined for a ninth
day, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of
87.4 basis points as of 10:56 a.m. in  New York , according to
Markit Group Ltd. That’s the lowest level on an intra-day basis
since May 2.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bank of America  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.64 basis point to 24.74 basis points
as of 11:02 a.m. in New York. The gauge, which reached a six-
month low of 24.69 on March 2, narrows when investors favor
assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek the
perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp.  are the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers today, with 46 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:02
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Average yields on bonds worldwide have climbed to 2.166
percent after reaching a record low 2 percent on March 6,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad
Market Index. That’s down from almost 5 percent in mid-2007.  This month’s losses in the global bond market have trimmed
gains for the year to 0.64 percent, including reinvested
interest, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.
The last full year that the index declined was 1999, falling
0.26 percent.  Investors are questioning how much momentum is left in the
bond market rally after the Federal Open Market Committee
improved its outlook for growth on March 13, reducing
speculation the central bank will begin a third round of asset
purchases known as quantitative easing, or QE3. The central bank
bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of bond buying
from December 2008 to June 2011.  Fed Rate  At the same time, the FOMC reiterated in a post-meeting
statement that the joblessness rate is “elevated” and
“significant downside risks” remain.  Unemployment persists at 8.3 percent, even after the most
robust six-month period of  job  growth since 2006, and Bernanke
is holding to his plan to keep the Fed’s benchmark interest rate
low through at least late 2014. The target  federal funds rate 
has stayed at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Forward markets for overnight index swaps, showing what
traders expect the federal funds  effective rate  to average over
the life of the contract, signal a quarter-percentage point
increase in approximately September or October 2013, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Last month, no increase in the
effective rate was predicted until early 2014.  Rationale Questioned  “It’s apparently started,”  Leon Cooperman , the chairman,
chief executive officer and founder of hedge fund Omega Advisors
Inc. in New York and a long-time bond bear said in reference to
an anticipated rejection of debt securities. “It could be a
false start,” he said in a telephone interview last week.  Yields are leaving some investors questioning the rationale
for buying securities that pay less interest than the inflation
rate. Treasuries are “the most overpriced investment in the
world,” Omega’s Cooperman said.  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist of Boston-
based Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co., called avoiding long-
term debt the “one great opportunity” in asset allocation in a
 letter  to investors last month.  Not all investors are convinced the Fed will change course
on rates, according to Laird Landmann, a portfolio manager at
TCW Group Inc., which oversees $70 billion in fixed income.  “This could be the beginning of a turning point but it
definitely won’t be a one-way trip to higher rates,” Landmann
said. “Any bad news out of  Europe , any slowdown in what have
been very positive economic signals over the last three months,
could cause this market to rally back.”  Greece Auction  An auction to settle credit-default swaps tied to  Greece  is
being held today after the nation took steps to force investors
to participate in the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in
history.  While Greece’s debt situation may be coming under control,
10-year government notes yield more than 13 percent in Portugal.
Those rates suggest Portugal, with about $227 billion of
government debt, risks becoming the next nation to need to
restructure its obligations, according to Matteo Regesta, a
senior fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  London .  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  urged policy makers to be vigilant as  oil prices , debt
levels, and the risk of slowing growth in  emerging markets 
threaten global economic stability.  ‘Little Healthier Place’  “Optimism should not give us a sense of comfort or lull us
into a false sense of security,” Lagarde said yesterday at a
speech in Beijing at the China Development Forum. “We cannot go
back to business as usual.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index increased to 20.2 this month, the highest since June 2010,
while a similar index from the Philadelphia Fed showed
manufacturing in eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and
 Delaware  expanded at the fastest pace in 11 months.  “The world looks like a little healthier place,” Rob Robis, head of fixed-income macro strategies in Atlanta at ING
Investment Management, which manages about $160 billion, said in
a telephone interview. “It’s too early to say we’re at the
beginning of a sustained trend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  