-- Wrecking Ball, $67 Million Bill Hang Over Leaky Landmark
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/wrecking-ball-67-million-bill-hang-over-leaky-landmark.html
I drove into the picture-book
village of Goshen,  New York , past the Gothic-style church that
dominates Main Street. A bit farther on I came to the pile of
concrete boxes that some deem a masterpiece.  The  Orange County  Government Center, by the once-famed
architect  Paul Rudolph , may soon have a date with the wrecking
ball.  No one would confuse the 1971 building with the usual
anonymous blob of soulless government bureaucracy. Beefy piers
hold up three stories of long boxcar shapes that look as if they
had been frozen in the process of chugging past one another.
Massive plate-glass windows fill the staggered, sliced-off ends.  It’s a magnetic composition of offices and law courts that
has been closed since storms last fall flooded the basement and
opened leaks in some of the 80 separate roof levels.  The storms were the last straw for County Executive Edward A. Diana, who says the building is one big maintenance headache.
He would like to see it torn down in favor of a new, larger
structure. “It’s about efficiency and effectiveness,” he said in
an interview.  Rudolph was an unsentimentally Modernist showman, whose
most celebrated work was created in the 1960s and 1970s when
buildings in brawny concrete were thought to ennoble. That so-
called Brutalist era hasn’t worn well, and several of Rudolph’s
buildings are either threatened or have been torn down.  Yale Building  He is best known for the Yale Art and Architecture
Building, which suffered many rough years before blossoming
again after a painstaking 2008 renovation.  Diana is the primary advocate of bulldozing the Orange
County building. Democratic county legislators and a group
called Taxpayers for Orange County are resisting the Republican
county executive largely on fiscal grounds.
 The World Monuments Fund  has listed it as a threatened
landmark, which it hopes will spur recognition of its
architectural quality.  I drove to Goshen, about an hour northwest of  New York
City , to see for myself if this Rudolph deserved a reprieve.
It’s not an easy call.  Insistently attention-grabbing in photos, the building
reveals a surprising delicacy in person. Rudolph’s complicated
shape-making domesticates the building’s institutional scale. He
then undercuts that savvy choice by setting it well back from
the street, so that it presides like a manor house on its
oversized 24-acre site. Officials over the years have brutalized
what was supposed to be a tree-veiled setting by paving much of
the property.  Crumbling Stairs  From the parking lot, I ascended a gentle flight of
crumbling stairs, where a densely planted hidden courtyard opens
as a surprise. Rudolph set the main entrances for the three
wings around this garden. It isn’t readily accessible to the
disabled, so in recent years a service door at parking-lot level
has served as a cramped, uninviting entry.  That’s too bad, because Rudolph didn’t intend to send
citizens down long, coldly lit hallways. He choreographed an
unveiling of the building. Inside, huge plate-glass windows
light a dramatic ascent up sets of stairs, with balconies
zooming overhead, a stairway posed contrapuntally, and shafts of
concrete rising to mysterious heights, set aglow by clerestory
windows.  The intricacy of Rudolph’s spatial gymnastics entices
without overwhelming. He dignifies the mundane tasks of paying
taxes, filing permits, and appearing in court.  High Maintenance  Even with poor lighting and the litter of moving boxes, I
could see that the building demands a great deal of its citizen
owners. Rudolph conceived every inch in three dimensions, so
floors and ceilings terrace up and down in a dizzying number of
levels. This topography is neither space efficient nor friendly
to those with limited mobility.  It isn’t easy to keep so many roof planes free of leaks.
Replacing the huge rusting, energy-wasting windows would be
costly.  The building is also challenging to restore because Diana
and his predecessors have neglected it. Roof water puddles
because protective tiles have crumbled, impeding the flow to
drains. No one seems to have fixed areas that persistently leak.
A report commissioned by the county executive shows a litany of
deferred maintenance.  Key Numbers  The report estimates that $67 million is needed to renovate
the building, while a much larger strip-mall Georgian
replacement could cost $136 million.  These numbers depend on too many unknowns, which doesn’t
make the decision to raze or renovate any easier.  A renovation sensitive both to technical challenges and
civic possibilities could reveal a building of great character
if not traditional beauty. I am reminded of the lurid exoticism
of the Victorian Philadelphia architect Frank Furness, which
fell out of fashion. Now we love what’s left and mourn the lost
landmarks.  I cannot guarantee that time will similarly resuscitate
Rudolph’s reputation. The Orange County Government Center makes
a powerful case for itself.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 