-- Yale’s Shiller Defends Goldman Sachs, Praises Finance: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-03-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/yale-s-shiller-defends-goldman-sachs-praises-finance-books.html
If he hasn’t already done so,  Lloyd Blankfein  should dash off a thank-you note to  Robert Shiller .  What other Ivy League economist would have dared, amid the
sound and fury over  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in recent years, to
stick his neck out by publishing a book that says finance is
good and Goldman has no incentive to be deliberately evil?  Yet that is what the influential Yale University professor
does in “ Finance and the Good Society ,” a provocative primer on
how financial capitalism promotes prosperity.  “People think that the wealthy in our society -- among them
the financiers -- have a real and genuine incentive to use
devious means to attack and subjugate, economically, the
majority of the population,” he writes. This is “an illusion,”
he says.  It’s wrong to assume, he says, that Goldman executives --
whatever their misbehavior may have been -- were deliberately
double-dealing when they created the Abacus 2007-AC1 synthetic
collateralized debt obligation for  John Paulson ’s hedge fund.  Shiller is no apologist for the sins of  Wall Street . He
wrote the book before  Greg Smith , a departing Goldman employee,
publicly criticized the bank’s “toxic” culture and callous talk
of ripping off its clients, a.k.a. the “Muppets.” Yet even now
Shiller is right to remind us that society may suffer from the
notion that every banker is a “bankster.”  ‘Aggressive and Evil’?  “The assumption today,” he says, “often seems to be that
businesses have a real incentive to behave in an aggressive and
evil manner.” This belief, left to fester, will breed resentment
and slow the spread of prosperity, he writes.  Finance, however flawed, has long been a force for good --
a powerful tool for building a richer, more equitable society,
Shiller argues: Though financial innovation has gotten a bad rap
from toxic CDOs, it has also brought us fire insurance,
amortizing mortgages and equities we can purchase without fear
of being sued for the companies’ transgressions.  Shiller isn’t excusing the excesses that tainted finance
during the U.S. housing boom and bust -- the great bonus bubble,
the explosion of  household debt  to  $14 trillion  in 2007, the
government bailouts of wealthy bankers, and the wave of
foreclosures.  Financial capitalism is like nature, he argues: “For all
its beauty, it produces ugly things as well.”  He ought to know. Shiller has previously written about
speculative bubbles, in “ Irrational Exuberance ,” and the housing
meltdown, in “The Subprime Solution,” playing to his strength as
the co-creator of the  Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller Home Price
Indices (SPCS20Y%) . The worst of the crisis, he says, may not be over.  ‘Democratizing’ Finance  However ugly things get, Shiller remains convinced that the
cure for what ails society lies in more financial innovation,
not less. We need to harness finance for the greater good -- to
“democratize” it by extending its blessings to more people.  Financial engineers should create safer products that
promote the public good, Shiller says. He has proposed, for
example, “continuous-workout mortgages,” which would
automatically adjust a homeowner’s payments should housing
prices fall or the economy contract.  Government pensions, meanwhile, could be indexed to the
nation’s gross domestic product, an indicator of what taxpayers
can actually afford to pay.  Shiller says he began writing this book for students in his
finance class. Though the project took on a larger purpose, the
final text is a curious hybrid.  Peacekeeping Bankers  In Part One, he summarizes the roles and responsibilities
of financial professionals, job by job -- from chief executives
to central bankers.  Bending over backward to show that all play vital parts in
a healthy economy, he risks falling into naivete. Investment
bankers resemble “diplomats negotiating an understanding between
contentious powers,” he says; they are “keepers of the peace and
promoters of progress.”  The book becomes far more engaging in Part Two, which
explores the dysfunctions of financial capitalism and how we
might cure them. Here, we get a smorgasbord of facts, trends and
ideas.  Shiller reminds us of how the artist  Jeff Koons  started out
as a commodities broker. He explores the design of casinos. He
even explains why the evolution of the human brain makes us
prone to asset bubbles. (We’re vulnerable to “thought viruses”
that spread, like swine flu, across the globe.)  Pragmatic Visionary  In this section of the book, Shiller comes across as
pragmatic as well as visionary, explaining how much financial
capitalism has done for society and how much more it could do if
harnessed for the common good.  “We are easily dazzled today by advances in  information
technology ,” he writes. “But the advances in our economic
institutions may ultimately be more important than those in our
hardware and software.”  That’s a comforting thought for us Muppets, even if we’re
feeling like Oscar the Grouch.  “Finance and the Good Society” is from  Princeton University
Press  (288 pages, $24.95, 16.95 pounds). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 