-- Yen Reverses Losses on Speculation Declines Overdone
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-03-19T14:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/yen-reverses-losses-on-speculation-declines-overdone.html
The euro fell against most of its
16 major peers before a report forecast to show a contraction in
industrial output, stoking concern the region’s growth is
stalling.  The 17-nation currency weakened after International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  urged policy
makers to be vigilant about global economic stability. Data
later this week is forecast to show euro-area services and
manufacturing remained below a growth threshold for a second
month in March, while a report today showed Italian industrial
orders slumped 7.4 percent in January. The yen climbed for a
third day against the dollar.  “There’s still interest in selling the euro,” said
 Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in New York. “Now that we’re back to looking at some of the
growth fundamentals and looking at the fairly narrow Group of
Four: the U.S., the U.K., the euro zone and  Japan , it appears
that the European periphery is going to underperform.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to 109.86 yen at 9:59 a.m.  New
York  time, after earlier climbing to 110.15 yen, the strongest
since Oct. 31. The common currency slid 0.1 percent to $1.3156.
The yen weakened 0.1 percent to 83.49 against the dollar.  Euro Levels  The euro may strengthen 3.6 percent to 113.29 yen should it
breach a key level of so-called resistance, Commerzbank AG said,
citing trading patterns.  The 17-nation euro is poised to rise to a seven-month high
against the Japanese currency if investors buy it beyond the
111.57 yen level, according to  Karen Jones , the London-based
head of fixed income, commodity and currency technical analysis.  The yen strengthened against most of 16 major peers tracked
by Bloomberg today amid speculation its recent declines were
excessive. It advanced most against the  Brazil ’s real.  The Japanese currency has dropped for six straight weeks
against the greenback as the U.S. recovery damps expectation of
further stimulus measures by the Federal Reserve.  Bank of Japan (8301) 
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa on March 13 indicated that his
central bank will keep using monetary policy as a tool to tackle
deflation.  “It’s meandering a little at the moment, but the trend is
clear,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. in  London . “If the  U.S. economy  continues as
it has, you’ve got a very clear case for further dollar-yen
strength. We’ve gone from the position of Japan being a safe
haven to now when I think people are genuinely worried about the
yen and its stability.”  Futures Positions  Futures traders increased bets the yen will decline against
the dollar. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge
funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the yen
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
42,380 on March 13, compared with net shorts of 19,358 a week
earlier, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  The dollar’s 14-day relative strength index against the yen
was at 69.7 today, close to the 70 level some traders see as a
sign an asset may reverse direction.  Implied volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies has dropped to 10.04 percent after it reached 10.72
last week, its highest level since Feb. 16, according to the
JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index .  IMF View  Lagarde, speaking in Beijing yesterday, said  oil prices ,
debt levels, and the risk of slowing growth in  emerging markets 
threaten global economic stability.  “Optimism should not give us a sense of comfort or lull us
into a false sense of security,” she said. “We cannot go back
to business as usual.”  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 49.6 in March from 49.3 a month
earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction.  U.S. employers in February added 227,000 jobs as the
jobless rate remained at a three-year low, while retail sales in
February rose by 1.1 percent, the most since September.  “We’re still seeing divergence between U.S. data, which is
generally printing better than expected, and  euro-zone  data,
which continues to show it really is lagging behind,” said
Melinda Burgess, a foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London.  Euro Trend  The euro has declined 1.7 percent in the past three months,
the third-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar fell 3 percent and the yen declined 9.9 percent.  Futures anticipating a stronger dollar against its
developed-market peers have outnumbered those predicting a drop
for 26 consecutive weeks through the five days ended March 13,
according to CFTC data. That’s the longest streak since the
start of a three-year rally in the world’s reserve currency 13
years ago.  While much of the 2.4 percent gain in the  Dollar Index 
since 2009 has come from investors seeking safety from European
debt turmoil and the global financial crisis, analysts now say
expansion is trumping fear as a reason for buying U.S. assets.
Growth in retail sales and jobs in the world’s biggest economy
has damped expectations for more  Federal Reserve  stimulus that
might debase the currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  