-- YPF Will Consider Cutting Dividend at Board Meeting Tomorrow
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-03-20T21:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/ypf-board-to-discuss-dividend-payment-in-march-21-meeting.html
YPF SA (YPF) ,  Argentina ’s largest oil
producer, will discuss cutting dividends at a board meeting
tomorrow after three provinces revoked operating licenses and
the government said it should boost spending on production.  The  board  of Buenos Aires-based YPF will meet to weigh
options that include cutting the semi-annual dividend and
redirecting the cash toward investment, as well as continuing
payment at usual levels, a YPF company official, who declined to
be named because the meeting hasn’t been officially announced
yet, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  YPF delayed a decision on the dividend at a March 8 board
meeting after Argentina’s government representative on the
board, Roberto Baratta, said the cash should instead be invested
in exploration and production. The Buenos Aires-based company
has paid out 90 percent of net income in dividends for at least
the past four years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Baratta, also the Planning Ministry’s Coordination
undersecretary, voted against the dividend payment as the
government pressures oil companies to increase investments in an
effort to curb declining production and fuel imports.  Last year YPF distributed 5.56 billion pesos ($1.27
billion) in dividends in two payments, up from 4.44 billion
pesos in 2010, according to a March 9 regulatory filing.  License Withdrawals  The province of Neuquen yesterday became the third province
in a week to revoke operating licenses from YPF when it withdrew
permits to operate Chihuido de la Salina and Portezuelo Minas
onshore fields, according to an e-mailed statement sent late
last night. The province is considering whether to revoke
licenses on the Rincon del Mangrullo and Don Ruiz fields after
YPF yesterday handed in proposals for developing them.  Last week the provinces of Chubut and  Santa Cruz  also
withdrew two licenses each from YPF. Baratta and national Energy
Secretary Daniel Cameron took part in the official announcements
at the time with representatives from the two provinces.
Mendoza’s Provincial Governor met with Argentine government
officials today in  Buenos Aires  to discuss possible action
regarding YPF. The province didn’t disclose what was decided in
the meeting, according to a statement on its website.  The government is consulting with legal and energy experts
about purchasing a stake in YPF, newspaper El Cronista reported
today, citing sources it didn’t identify.  YPF rose 1 percent to close at 137.50 pesos in Buenos
Aires. The stock has dropped 18 percent this year.  Grupo Petersen  YPF is  controlled  by  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s largest energy
company, which owns a 57.4 percent stake. Argentina’s Grupo
Petersen owns another 25.6 percent and operates the unit. Under
the terms of the sale through which Petersen bought its stake in
2008 from Repsol, YPF distributes 90 percent of annual net
income in dividends in semi-annual payments.  Argentina’s government holds a 0.2 percent stake in YPF and
also has a so-called golden share, which entitles it to block
certain decisions such as takeovers.  The government crackdown on YPF could “force Spain’s
Repsol to pay a heavy price,” and put the Madrid-based
company’s BBB+ credit rating under pressure if YPF is made to
cut its dividend,  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement today. “An
extension of government control over YPF’s operations in other
energy-rich areas could seriously erode the company’s cash flow
generation power and limit its ability to return cash to
Repsol.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  