-- YRC Back at Brink 2 Years After Goldman Spat: Corporate Finance
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-03-19T15:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/yrc-back-at-brink-2-years-after-goldman-spat-corporate-finance.html
Two years after the Teamsters union
faced off against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to keep  YRC Worldwide
Inc. (YRCW)  out of bankruptcy, the second-biggest U.S. trucker is back
on the brink.  Credit-default swaps tied to the company, whose units
include New Penn, Holland and Reddaway, imply an 87 percent
chance of default, according to data provider CMA. Bonds from
 Overland Park , Kansas-based YRC, which employed 32,000 on Dec.
31, have lost 50 percent of their value in six months.  Even as a strengthening  U.S. economy  boosts profits at
FedEx Corp. and Con-Way Inc., YRC is set to lose $68.6 million
this quarter, according to the average estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, which would be its eighth loss in nine
periods. Its competitors grabbed market share by lowering prices
and attracting customers after YRC averted bankruptcy in 2009
through a debt exchange with a face value of $470 million. YRC’s
revenue fell to $4.9 billion last year from $9.9 in 2006 while
long-term borrowings rose.  “We don’t have a whole lot of faith that this will work
itself out over the near term,” said David Berge, an analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service in  New York . “There’s still a fairly
high likelihood of them being in a default or distressed
situation over the next year, year and a half. They’re still
burning cash.”  YRC projects it won’t earn enough money to satisfy lender
requirements starting in the second quarter, meaning it will
have to either negotiate a new arrangement or accelerate debt
payments, according to a Feb. 28 filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  ‘In Compliance’  If lenders demand repayment, YRC “will not have sufficient
cash and cash flows from operations to repay such
indebtedness,” it said in the filing.  “The current covenant package and corresponding forecast
were set by the previous management team,” Jamie Pierson, YRC’s
chief financial officer, wrote in an e-mailed statement. “We
fully anticipate resetting the covenants so that we will be in
compliance the second quarter and beyond.”  Credit-default swaps on YRC jumped to 44.5 percent upfront
on March 7, the highest level since 2009, before falling to 43.3
percent on March 15, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That means the upfront cost to
protect $10 million of YRC bonds from default for five years
increased to $4.45 million in addition to $500,000 annually.  Bonds Drop  Derivatives traders were demanding 35.2 percent upfront at
the end of last year. YRC’s swaps were the fourth-worst
performers in the past three months compared with other
companies worldwide, according to the data.  Its 10 percent bonds due in March 2015 dropped to 36 cents
on the dollar as of March 14 from 72 cents in September,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Shares of the company
have dropped 11 percent this year to $8.91 as of 11:19 a.m.
today in New York.  In December 2009, YRC extended a tender-offer deadline six
times before bondholders agreed to swap equity for debt,
allowing the trucker to delay a $19 million interest payment
that would have left it in an “unsustainable” position,
according to a regulatory filing at the time.  The bondholder pushback prompted International Brotherhood
of Teamsters President James Hoffa to ask federal and state
authorities to review “questionable promotion” of credit-
default swaps tied to YRC debt. He named Goldman Sachs, Deutsche
Bank AG, Toronto Dominion Bank,  Barclays Capital , and UBS AG as
firms with a “history of making markets” in derivatives trades
that would profit from YRC’s bankruptcy.  ‘Goal Line’  Goldman Sachs said at the time that the New York-based bank
“neither has a position in, nor makes markets in, YRC corporate
bonds or credit-default swaps.”  After YRC received bondholder approval, Bill Zollars, its
chief executive officer at the time, said Goldman Sachs,
Deutsche Bank, Aristeia Capital LLC, Silverback Asset Management
and a Smith Management LLC unit “got us over the goal line by
going into the market, buying bonds and tendering them.”  Zollars previously said that “the most difficult
bondholders to deal with were investors with credit-default
swaps that paid off if the company went bankrupt.”  Two years later, YRC’s auditor, KPMG LLP, said the
company’s financial condition raises “substantial doubt about
the company’s ability to continue,” according to the Feb. 28
filing. The trucker has $175 million of pension payments and
$48.3 million of lease obligations due this year, according to
the filing.  Top Providers  “The company’s market share substantially declined over
the past few years,”  Standard & Poor’s  analysts led by Anita Ogbara wrote in a Feb. 29 report. As a result of YRC’s “well-
publicized financial distress, its competitors sought to gain
market share by pricing aggressively.” they wrote.  A ratio of YRC’s costs compared with revenue increased in
the past two quarters, while Con-Way’s decreased, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The less-than-truckload business,
which relies on a healthy U.S. economy for its success, is
concentrated among the top providers, with the 10 biggest
carriers accounting for about 67 percent of the $33 billion U.S.
and Canadian market, the data show.  YRC has about $1.3 billion of  indebtedness , an amount that
will increase because YRC is incurring new debt to pay some of
its interest, the filing showed. Most of the company’s debt
matures in 2014 and 2015. Its  enterprise value , the sum of its
stock-market capitalization and net debt was $1.22 billion on
March 16, down from $4.09 billion at the end of 2005. Its
aggregate equity price has declined to $65.7 million from $2.56
billion.  ‘Operational Story’  “Since the company’s finalization of its last
restructuring of July 2011, there’s been significant management
changes to focus on the company’s operations,” Iain Gold, the
Teamsters union’s director of strategic research and campaigns,
said. “This is an operational story that, given time, markets
will reflect more accurately the value of the company.”  The company is divesting assets and resources not related
to its core less-than-truckload business -- in which it hauls
goods for more than one customer in the same trailer -- in  North
America , according to Pierson’s statement. It sold some of the
assets from its Glen Moore truckload operating subsidiary to
Celadon Trucking Services Inc., in said on Dec. 15.  New Management  In July, James Welch took over as CEO and a new board of
directors was installed, with James Hoffman, former president of
Alliant Energy Resources, acting as chairman. Michelle Russell
was appointed general counsel and secretary this year.  YRC said it appointed Pierson as CFO in November. He
previously was a managing director at Alvarez & Marsal North
America LLC, where he focused on out-of-court restructurings and
senior management advisory.  “The restructuring gave them time, but they certainly
weren’t out of the woods,” said Berge of Moody’s, which has
assigned YRC a corporate family rating of Caa3, the lowest rung
of a category considered to be of poor standing and high credit
risk. “Last time around they were reliant on a couple of
transactions being successfully completed. Now they’re reliant
on the market cooperating with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  