-- AboveNet Agrees to Be Bought by Zayo Group for $2.2 Billion
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n
-- 2012-03-19T21:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-19/zayo-group-agrees-to-acquire-abovenet-for-2-2-billion-in-cash.html
AboveNet Inc. (ABVT) , the  White Plains ,
New York-based operator of fiber-optic networks, agreed to be
bought by Zayo Group LLC for $2.2 billion after failing to find
a buyer last year.  Zayo Group, a closely held company based in Louisville,
 Colorado , is expanding its fiber network in  North America  and
 Europe  with the acquisition. AboveNet had halted a search for a
buyer last year after failing to attract a bid of at least $80 a
share, two people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  “The combination of AboveNet’s and Zayo’s assets creates a
dense fiber footprint throughout North America and Europe for a
bandwidth hungry world,” William LaPerch, AboveNet’s chief
executive officer, said today in a statement.  The cash offer of $84 a share is 13 percent more than
AboveNet’s closing price on March 16, the companies said in the
statement. AboveNet  rose  12.8 percent to close at $83.74 in New
York trading. Before today the shares had gained 17 percent
since May 23, the day before DealReporter said the company was
considering a sale.  Zayo received equity commitments from GTCR LLC, a Chicago-
based private-equity firm, and Boston-based Charlesbank Capital
Partners LLC, according to the statement. Private-equity funds
that were exploring offers for the company last year backed off
as financing markets tightened, people familiar with the process
said at the time.  Largest Deal  “We’ve been looking for ways to make a bet on increased
bandwidth consumption,” Philip Canfield, a principal at GTCR,
said in a telephone interview. “These companies provide the
underlying infrastructure necessary for that to happen.”  The deal would be the largest U.S. acquisition in the
Internet connection services industry in history, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Zayo is paying about 11 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
That compares with a median of about 16 in five deals since at
least 1997.  AboveNet counts brokerage houses, investment banks, Web
companies and health-care providers among its customers,
according to regulatory filings. The company will have 30 days
to consider other offers, known as a “go shop” provision,
according to the statement. Otherwise the deal is expected to be
completed by mid-2012.  The go-shop provision may be extended to May 2 under
certain circumstances, the companies said in the statement. Zayo
has certain rights to match any superior bid.  Possible Bid  The most probable bidder during the go-shop period would be
 CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) , the Monroe, Louisiana-based phone company,
according to  Donna Jaegers , a D.A. Davidson & Co. analyst.
CenturyLink has been expanding through acquisitions, spending
$38 billion in less than three years to buy regional phone
company Qwest Communications International Inc., data-hosting
provider Savvis Inc. and Embarq Corp., a provider of
telecommunications services.  “AboveNet’s got a clean balance sheet and Century has been
trying to deleverage, so if it could do a deal for stock that
would be a nice deleveraging for it,” Jaegers said in a
telephone interview from Denver. “So Century would not only get
growth assets that it needs, but it can also do a deal as a way
to deleverage its balance sheet.”  Debra Peterson, a spokeswoman for CenturyLink, said the
company doesn’t comment on “rumors or speculation.” AboveNet
said in the statement it won’t discuss future bids unless the
board of directors decides to consider them.  Debt Financing  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Barclays Plc are providing Zayo with
debt financing, the companies said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  served
as lead adviser to AboveNet, with Moelis & Co. acting as co-
adviser.  Wiggin and Dana LLP provided legal advice to AboveNet, and
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP was legal counsel to the company’s
board. Latham & Watkins LLP and Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP
worked as GTCR’s and Zayo’s legal advisers, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  