-- Biggest Cinemas Delay ‘Iron Man’ Ticket Sales in Dispute
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/-iron-man-ticket-sales-delayed-by-cinemas-in-disney-disp.html
Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  and AMC
Entertainment, the largest U.S. theater chains, stopped advance
sales for Walt Disney Co.’s “ Iron Man  3” in a revenue-sharing
dispute that threatens the start of the summer movie season.  Regal, the biggest cinema operator, stopped selling tickets
this week to the superhero sequel from Disney’s Marvel unit, a
person with knowledge of the situation said yesterday. AMC,
based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , said this week it wasn’t
offering advance sales for the May 3 opening because it hadn’t
reached terms with Disney. Studios and exhibitors in the U.S.
split the revenue from theatrical ticket sales.  The biggest chains’ united front makes it tougher for
Disney, owner of Marvel, Pixar and Lucasfilm, to obtain better
terms for “Iron Man,” the summer’s first likely blockbuster,
and future films. Regal and AMC account for about 30 percent of
U.S. screens, according to the  National Association of Theatre
Owners . Negotiations this close to a big opening are rare, said
Dale “Bud” Mayo, chairman of exhibitor  Digital Cinema
Destinations Corp. (DCIN)   “I’ve never heard of it,” Mayo, whose Westfield, New
Jersey-based company isn’t involved in the dispute, said in an
interview.  “Iron Man 3,” which stars Robert Downey Jr. and  Gwyneth Paltrow , is projected to gross $151 million domestically in its
first weekend, the estimate of researcher Boxoffice.com. That
would be the biggest opening weekend so far in 2013. The first
two “Iron Man” movies, made for a combined $340 million,
generated $630.8 million in the U.S. and Canada, according to
Box Office Mojo, which tracks ticket sales.  Theatrical Slump  “We hope to reach agreement and get tickets on sale as
soon as possible so it doesn’t affect opening weekend,” Ryan
Noonan, an AMC spokesman, said in an April 16 e-mail.  Burbank, California-based Disney, the world’s largest
entertainment company, didn’t respond to requests for comment.
The company is using “Iron Man” to gain better terms with
theater owners on its future releases, Deadline.com reported
this week.  Domestic box office receipts are down 11 percent this year
to $2.62 billion, according to Hollywood.com. Marvel had the
top-grossing film last year with “The Avengers,” based on
comic-book characters including Iron Man.  Revenue Split  Typically, studios and theater owners agree on a general
ticket-revenue split well in advance and then refine after the
theatrical run based on outperformance or underperformance, said
Mayo, 71, who is founder and chief executive officer of Digital
Cinema.  The U.S. flap follows a decision by  Disney (DIS)  to release a
separate version of “Iron Man 3” in China. The company said on
March 30 that it won’t seek official Chinese co-production
status. Co-productions aren’t counted against foreign-movie
quotas and can provide studios with a larger share of revenue.  “Iron Man 3” was partly made in China with Disney’s
Beijing-based partner,  DMG Entertainment . A release date for the
Chinese version wasn’t announced.  Disney slipped 0.1 percent to $60.68 yesterday in  New York .
The shares have advanced 22 percent this year, closing at an
 all-time  high earlier this week, compared with an 8.8 percent
gain for the S&P 500 Stock Index.  Regal, based in Knoxville,  Tennessee , has 6,777 screens,
while AMC, which was acquired by China’s Dalian Wanda Group in
September 2012, has 5,336, according to the theater association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  