-- Falling Unemployment Shouldn’t Be a Bummer
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-04-17T22:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/a-falling-unemployment-rate-is-always-good.html
If you were to step back and look
at the  U.S. unemployment rate , you would see that it moves in
big, sweeping arcs, up and down. Yes, there can be small month-
to-month reversals, but it has a clearly defined trend for an
obvious reason: It tracks the business cycle.  Is this time different? Is the decline in the jobless rate
from a high of 10 percent in October 2009 to 7.6 percent last
month a case of right direction, wrong reason, and therefore
misleading?  That was the assertion two weeks ago when the Labor
Department reported jobs data for March. Employment, as measured
by the household survey, fell 206,000. The only reason the
unemployment rate declined 0.1 percentage point was that 496,000
people dropped out of the  labor force : They stopped looking for
work. As a rule, an expanding economy draws more people into the
labor force in the hope of finding a job. So what seemed like
good news on the surface was really bad news, we were told.  That assessment may be true in the short term, but in the
long run it matters very little why the  unemployment rate  rises
or falls. The “what” trumps the “why.” The wrong reason
eventually becomes the right reason. The trend is what matters.  It’s hardly the first time that a decline in the household
survey’s measure of employment, which is more volatile than the
monthly tally of businesses, caused the unemployment rate to
fall for the wrong reason. There have been 22 such instances in
the past 30 years, according to a study by the International
Strategy & Investment Group Inc. Seven of those occurred during
the current expansion.  Missing Income  Similarly, there have been 47 cases in the last three
decades where the unemployment rate rose for the wrong reason,
ISI found. Employment increased but was swamped by the number of
labor-force entrants. It turns out that regardless of the
internals, the unemployment rate contains more information than
any of the other components in the jobs report, the ISI study
found.  The weakness of other parts of the March jobs data only
accentuated the unemployment-rate debate. There is reason to
believe that the 88,000 increase in non-farm payrolls (derived
from a separate survey of businesses) is understating the labor
market’s recovery, according to  Joe Carson , director of economic
research at AllianceBernstein LP in  New York . That’s because
hard data from the  U.S. Treasury  on withholding taxes suggest
more income than what’s implied by recent employment reports.  For the first six months of fiscal 2013, withheld income
taxes are 9.2 percent higher than the same period last year
compared with an increase of 2 percent to 4 percent, smoothed
for tax changes, in  personal income , Carson said.  Withheld taxes  tend to run above the Commerce Department’s
measure of personal income, but this year’s gap, even adjusted
for the Jan. 1 tax increase on top earners, is “unusually
wide,” he said.  Although the Treasury does accept donations, the government
doesn’t withhold taxes on income that people don’t earn, at
least not yet. The additional income implied by withholding tax
data has to come from one of three main sources: more employees,
longer hours or higher wages. When the payroll data are
reconciled with the Labor Department’s  Quarterly Census of
Employment and Wages , released with a six-month lag, we will
have a better idea of the source of that income.  The demographic component of the  labor-force  participation
rate may be more pronounced as the  baby boomers  retire, but the
cyclical component should continue to drive the direction of the
unemployment rate.  Lagging Confirmation  What if the softer economic data at the end of the first
quarter are a sign that the business cycle is turning? The last
place you would look for clues is the jobless rate, which holds
the distinction of being a member of the Index of Lagging
Indicators.  It’s hardly the only indicator to find itself challenged
for being right for the wrong reason. My favorite indicator, the
yield curve, is another example of the what mattering more than
the why.  In the middle of 2006, the yield curve inverted: The
federal funds rate was higher than the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note. Unlike unemployment, the spread between the two
rates is a leading economic indicator. In fact, it’s the leader
of the leaders.  Most folks pooh-poohed the inverted yield curve as a
harbinger of recession, which it is. Heck, just because it has
been right every other time, why put your faith in something if
you can concoct a good reason to discount it? Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and his predecessor,  Alan Greenspan , both
touted the “savings glut” as a reason for low long-term rates
even as the funds rate ratcheted higher.  In the end, the what (shape of the yield curve) trumped the
why (savings glut). The lead time was unusually long, but the
spread gave us an early warning sign of recession. I suspect
the unemployment rate, although lagging, is giving us a
correct signal now.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  