-- Abbott’s Profit Rose on Nutritional Product Sales
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-04-17T20:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/abbott-s-first-quarter-profit-rose-on-nutritional-product-sales.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , the medical
device and nutritional products maker that split off its drug
unit on Jan. 1, said first-quarter profit rose 55 percent on
higher sales of its baby formula and lower taxes.  Profit from continuing operations  increased  to $544
million, or 34 cents a share, from $351 million, or 22 cents, a
year earlier, the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based company said in a
statement. Earnings excluding one-time items of 42 cents a share
beat by 1 cent the average of 16 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Growth in Abbott’s core markets, drug-eluting stents and
vascular technologies, remains a “work in progress,” said
Danielle Antalffy, an analyst at Leerink Swann Research in  New
York , in a note to investors. Only sales of nutritional products
significantly outperformed expectations, she said. Extension of
the 2012 research and development tax credit provided the
company with a $103 million favorable tax adjustment.  “They did a better job controlling costs,” said Jason McGorman, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “Almost every
medical device company will also benefit” from the extension of
the R&D tax credit, which came in 2013 and covers all of last
year, he said.  Abbott rose 2.4 percent to $37.28 at the close in New York.
 AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , the new North  Chicago , Illinois-based  drug company 
spun off from Abbott, declined less than 1 percent to $42.24.  The company confirmed its 2013 forecast excluding one-time
items of $1.98 to $2.04 a share estimated in January.  Stent Market  Abbott may have lost some market share for the stents used
to prop open closed heart arteries, Antalffy said. The company
won U.S. regulatory approval for its novel Xience Xpedition
drug-coated stent in January, setting the stage for future
growth even as device markets decline worldwide.  Sales increased 1.8 percent to $5.38 billion. The company
introduced 19 new nutritional products during the quarter,
driving global sales of that business up 9 percent.  Abbott retained the original company’s medical devices,
nutritional products, diagnostic tests and generic drugs.
AbbVie, which will report earnings on April 26, retained the
brand name drugs, including the best-selling Humira for
rheumatoid arthritis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  