-- Abu Dhabi Home, Office Rents to Fall on Supply, CBRE Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-04-17T09:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/abu-dhabi-home-office-rents-to-fall-on-supply-cbre-says.html
Residential and commercial rents in
Abu Dhabi are expected to drop further as homes and offices are
built four years after the credit crisis roiled the United Arab
Emirates’ real estate market, according to  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   “The impact of sustained growth in overall housing stock
is reflected in the continued decline of lease rates and reduced
tenant loyalty amidst abundant and more affordable options,”
Matthew Green, the Los Angeles-based broker’s head of U.A.E.
research, wrote in a report today.  Home rents fell about 3 percent on average in the first-
quarter compared with the previous three months and 17,000 new
homes are expected to be completed this year, according to the
report. Office vacancies are set to climb from a record high of
nearly 35 percent as concern about slower economic growth
prompts companies to cut costs and halt expansion.  Abu Dhabi’s government is trying to revive a market where
properties lost half their values after the global credit crisis
ended a speculator-driven boom. The government required all its
employees to live in Abu Dhabi to qualify for a housing
allowance that often comprises a large portion of workers’ pay.
Thousands of workers live in Dubai to take advantage of lower
rents.  Home sales are mostly being driven by occupiers and there
are “very low levels of investment activity,” Green wrote.
Average prices have stagnated at 9,150 dirhams ($2,500) to
13,500 dirhams a square-meter and many owners are “simply
unwilling to drop any lower, even if it means holding units
indefinitely,” Green wrote.  Prime Rents  Prime office rents within Abu Dhabi’s premium developments
have remained flat at 1,600 dirhams to 1,900 dirhams a square
meter per year. Rates are often coupled with incentives that can
include two months of free rent a year on five-year leases, the
report said.  Offices in secondary locations, meanwhile, are seeing
“significant rental deflation” with a drop of around 3 percent
over the previous quarter. Rents range from 675 dirhams to 1,250
dirhams a square meter per year, the report said.  “We are beginning to see the first signs of renewed
interest in office space” from companies based in the U.S. and
 Europe  and transactions may pick up over the longer term, Green
wrote.  Yesterday,  Arabtec Holding PJSC (ARTC) , the U.A.E’s biggest
construction company in which Abu Dhabi’s state-controlled Aabar
Investments bought a 21.6 percent stake, signed a 10-year lease
in the 59-floor office tower in Abu Dhabi’s World Trade Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  