-- Accuray Falls on Recall of CyberKnife Radiosurgery System
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-17T21:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/accuray-falls-on-recall-of-cyberknife-radiosurgey-system.html
Accuray Inc. (ARAY)  shares fell the most
in seven weeks as U.S. regulators said the company’s CyberKnife
robotic radiosurgery system is being recalled for a defect.  Accuray fell 3.5 percent to $4.44 at the close of  New York 
trading, its biggest drop since Feb. 27. The stock has tumbled
31 percent this year, in part because the Sunnyvale, California-
based company in January lowered sales projections.  An urgent correction letter was sent March 19 to doctors
about the system, affecting 176 units on the market, the  Food
and Drug Administration  said in a  notice  posted yesterday on its
website. The company said the voluntary recall involved two
separate components from the Iris Variable Aperature Collimator
and the Robocouch patient positioning system.  “The affected parts were manufactured by third-party
suppliers and are being removed from the system because they
failed to meet our specifications and standards for quality,”
Joy Sacmar, vice president of regulatory affairs and quality
assurance at Accuray, said in an e-mail. “We have notified
impacted customers, and field service personnel have been
deployed to apply the corrections.”  CyberKnife provides radiation treatment to cancer patients
and accounted for 43 percent of Accuray’s $78 million in  sales 
for the quarter ended in December.  No Injuries  The defect could affect the device’s collimator, which can
define the radiation dose delivered during treatment. Iris’s
 collimator  is able to change the size of its opening during
treatment to let varying radiation beams through, according to
Accuray.  “No known injuries have been reported to date as a result
of these issues, and we took the voluntary action to ensure that
our product quality and outstanding safety record are
maintained,” Sacmar said. “Events such as these are not
uncommon in our industry.”  Robotic surgery has been thrust into the spotlight this
year as U.S. regulators began probing the safety of machines
made by  Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG)  The outcome of that
investigation may sway debate on whether robotic surgeries that
are typically promoted as being less invasive are worth the
extra cost and potential risk.  Intuitive Data  Data published in February found that use of Sunnyvale,
California-based Intuitive’s robots, priced at $1.5 million
each, drives up surgical costs by as much as $2,189 per
procedure without reducing complications compared with standard
less-invasive procedures. The FDA is surveying surgeons about
the safety of the machines, their training and how the robots
are used,  Bloomberg News  reported in March.  Intuitive shares declined less than 1 percent to $507.64.  Accuray said in January it would fire about 13 percent of
its workforce after reporting fiscal second-quarter revenue that
missed analysts’ estimates and lowering its annual sales
projections. The company cited “transitional issues” with its
sales force and manufacturing problems that delayed product
introductions.  The company in October replaced Chief Executive Officer
Euan Thomson with Joshua Levine, who once oversaw the sales of
Mentor Corp. and Immucor Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  