-- Macy’s Wins Temporary Bar on Some Penney Stewart Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/macy-s-wins-temporary-bar-on-some-penney-stewart-sales.html
Macy’s Inc., the second-biggest
U.S. department-store chain, said it won a ruling that
temporarily bars  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  from selling some items
designed by  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc.  A New York judge banned J.C. Penney from selling Martha
Stewart Living-designed goods under the label “JCP Everyday”
in certain categories exclusive to Macy’s until he rules on the
retailer’s request for a temporary restraining order blocking
the sales, said  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Cincinnati-based
Macy’s, in an e-mail.  Richard T. Andrias, an associate justice with the New York
State Supreme Court’s Appellate Division in  Manhattan , made the
ruling during a closed hearing in Manhattan yesterday, Sluzewski
said. The decision couldn’t be immediately confirmed with the
court. Andrias plans to rule on the request for the temporary
restraining order at midday tomorrow, Sluzewski said.  Macy’s is suing both New York-based Martha Stewart Living
and Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney, alleging that sales of
products designed by Stewart’s company in J.C. Penney stores
violate an exclusivity deal between Martha Stewart and Macy’s
signed in 2006.  ‘JCP Everyday’  Macy’s on April 15 filed an appeal of the refusal of
Justice Jeffrey K. Oing of  New York  State Supreme Court to order
J.C. Penney not to sell goods designed by Martha Stewart Living
under the “JCP Everyday” label.  Oing said Macy’s hadn’t shown that it would suffer
irreparable harm if J.C. Penney was allowed to sell the
unbranded goods. The judge said an earlier injunction he issued
in July against Martha Stewart Living applied only to goods sold
at J.C. Penney branded with Martha Stewart’s name in categories
exclusive to Macy’s, such as cookware and bedding.  Joey Thomas, a spokesman for J.C. Penney, declined to
comment on yesterday’s ruling in an e-mail. Katherine Nash, a
spokeswoman for Martha Stewart Living, also declined to comment
in an e-mail.  The parties returned to court last week to resume a nonjury
trial of Macy’s lawsuits following a monthlong break, during
which mediation efforts ordered by Oing were unsuccessful. The
trial, which began Feb. 20, has featured testimony from Martha
Stewart, Macy’s Chairman Terry Lundgren and former J.C. Penney
Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson, who was ousted the same day
the trial resumed. Macy’s rested its case on April 10.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million. Macy’s, which has sold
Martha Stewart-branded home goods since 2007, sued her company
the following month, saying it had the exclusive right to sell
items in certain categories including bedding and cookware.
Macy’s sued J.C. Penney about three months later.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 