-- Magnum Hunter Drops After Dismissing Auditing Firm: Dallas Mover
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-04-17T19:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/magnum-hunter-drops-after-dismissing-auditing-firm-dallas-mover.html
Magnum Hunter Resources Corp. (MHR) , an
oil and natural gas producer with operations in  West Virginia ,
 North Dakota  and Saskatchewan, slumped the most in more than two
years after firing its auditor.  The company  fell  16 percent to $2.79 at 2:52 p.m. in  New
York . Earlier it plunged 27 percent, the most intraday since May
6, 2010.  Magnum Hunter dismissed its auditing company,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, after the accountants discovered
information that “may have a material impact on the fairness or
reliability of the company’s consolidated financial
statements,” according to a  filing  yesterday with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  PwC asked for more information about the value of Houston-
based Magnum Hunter’s oil and gas properties and its reserves.
It also asked the energy company to review its tax liabilities
and its ability to meet debt covenants, according to the filing.  Magnum Hunter hasn’t filed its annual report for 2012, and
the accounting firm said inadequate staffing and processes may
have affected its financial controls.  Magnum Hunter yesterday hired BDO USA LLP as auditor. The
energy company said it has adequate funding to meet its debt
covenants and its reserves and other estimates are accurate,
according to filing.  Asset Sale  Magnum Hunter shares had fallen 17 percent this year before
disclosing the accounting problems, and announced April 3 plans
to sell 19,000 net acres in the Eagle Ford Shale field for $401
million.  The accounting problems add to doubts about Magnum Hunter’s
operations, Amir Arif, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
 Washington , wrote in a note to clients.  “We are not sure why a new auditing firm would not have
similar concerns,” Arif wrote.  Chris Benton, a spokesman for Magnum Hunter, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  