-- Alkermes Gains as Depression Drug Meets Study Goals
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-04-17T20:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/alkermes-gains-as-depression-drug-meets-study-goals.html
Alkermes Plc (ALKS) , the maker of the
alcohol-dependence treatment Vivitrol, rose to an 11-year high
in U.S. trading after the company said its experimental drug for
major depressive disorder met goals of a mid-stage trial.  Alkermes  gained  16 percent to $29.72 at 4 p.m. New York
time, its highest closing price since March 2002. The shares of
the Dublin-based company have increased 60 percent this year.  The drug, ALKS 5461, “significantly reduced” symptoms of
depression in the 142-patient study, from the second of three
phases of clinical trials generally required for regulatory
approval, Alkermes said today in a statement. Based on the
results, the company plans to request a meeting with the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration and start later-stage studies.  “We had been deliberately modest with folks over the last
year because it’s so potentially important we thought we should
be skeptical until we see a confirmatory study,” Alkermes Chief
Executive Officer Richard Pops said in a telephone interview
today. “The result was so clear when we un-blinded that it was
self-evident that we needed to keep going.”  Patients Tested  Alkermes’s drug was tested in patients for whom other
medicines, called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and
serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, haven’t worked as
well as hoped. Treatments in those classes include  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) ’s Prozac and Cymbalta. ALKS 5461 was tested on top of drugs
patients were already taking as that may be the way the medicine
would be used if approved, Pops said.  “This is a potentially very important positive development
for Alkermes as ALKS 5461 is an oral, once-a-day drug which has
a novel mechanism of action for treating MDD, which represents a
very large market opportunity,” Cory Kasimov, an analyst with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , wrote in a research note today.  About 16.1 million people in the U.S. experience major
depressive disorder, or MDD, each year and many don’t get enough
of a benefit from the first antidepressants they try, according
to Alkermes. Of about 10 million patients who receive treatment
for MDD, two-thirds aren’t adequately helped and try a second
therapy, Pops said.  ALKS 5461 is a combination of another compound, ALKS 33,
and buprenorphine, a therapy that stimulates the opioid system
and is approved for treatment of addiction to opioids such as
heroin.  The company decided to test the combination based on the
premise that opioids have been shown to help in treatment of
depression. The problem was their addictive properties, Pops
said. ALKS 33 is an opioid receptor blocker, and its use is
designed to combat addictive effects.  “We wanted to know if you can decouple the addictive
properties of an opioid from antidepressive properties,” Pops
said. With ALKS 5461, “we’re pushing the gas and the brake at
the same time.”  Alkermes is equipped to start a bigger trial on its own,
and may talk with pharmaceutical companies about partnerships to
sell the drug outside the U.S. if it’s approved, Pops said,
noting “it’s too early” to discuss commercial plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  