-- AMC Delays ‘Iron Man 3’ Ticket Sales in Disney Dispute
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-17T21:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/amc-delays-iron-man-3-ticket-sales-in-disney-dispute.html
AMC Entertainment Inc., the second-
largest U.S. cinema chain, said it isn’t selling advance tickets
to the Marvel film “Iron Man 3” because it hasn’t worked out
terms with distributor  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   “We hope to reach agreement and get tickets on sale as
soon as possible so it doesn’t affect opening weekend,” Ryan
Noonan, an AMC spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, is set
to release “Iron Man 3” on May 3 in the U.S. to kick off the
summer movie season. The film, which stars Robert Downey Jr. and
 Gwyneth Paltrow , is projected to gross $151 million in its first
weekend, the estimate of researcher Boxoffice.com.  That would be the biggest opening weekend so far in 2013.
Disney is using the blockbuster sequel to seek better terms on
future films with theater owners, Deadline.com reported
yesterday.  Disney, based in  Burbank , California, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Domestic box office receipts are down 11 percent this year
to $2.62 billion, according to Hollywood.com. Disney’s Marvel
had the top-grossing film last year with “The Avengers.”
Disney also owns Pixar and Lucasfilm, the maker of the “Star
Wars” movies.  Chinese Version  Disney said on March 30 it will release a separate version
of “Iron Man 3” in  China , and won’t seek official Chinese co-
production status for the comic-book based film. The picture was
partly made in China with Beijing-based partner DMG
Entertainment. A release date for the Chinese version wasn’t
announced.  Disney slipped 0.1 percent to $60.68 at the close in New
York, down from yesterday’s  all-time  high. The shares have
advanced 22 percent this year, compared with an 8.8 percent gain
for the S&P 500 Stock Index.  AMC, second to  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  in the U.S., was
acquired by China’s Dalian Wanda Group in September 2012. The
chain is based in  Kansas City , Missouri.  Russ Nunley, a spokesman for Knoxville, Tennessee-based
Regal, declined to comment on any discussions with Disney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  