-- Manchester United Inches Closer to 20th English Title With Draw
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-17T23:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/manchester-united-moves-closer-to-premier-league-title-with-draw.html
Manchester United moved another
point closer to its record-extending 20th English league soccer
title by rallying for a 2-2 draw at West Ham.  United twice came from behind last night at Upton Park in
east  London  with Robin van Persie’s disputed goal in the 77th
minute earning the point. United leads Manchester City, which
beat Wigan 1-0, by 13 points at the top of the Premier League
standings.  “We had to stand up to a lot, we went down twice but we
kept going,” United manager Alex Ferguson told Sky Sports. “We
played like champions tonight. We’re determined to win, we don’t
like losing and they showed that tonight again.”  United will claim the title if City loses its next game at
Tottenham on April 21 and the Red Devils defeat Aston Villa the
following night. Six points from its last five games will
guarantee United the title.  In last night’s other match, John Terry scored twice as
Chelsea beat Fulham 3-0 to move above Arsenal into third place.  West Ham took the lead in the 16th minute as Andy Carroll
headed Matt Jarvis’s cross to the back post, where Ricardo Vaz Te nodded it in. United drew even 15 minutes later as Antonio Valencia tapped in Shinji Kagawa’s cut back.  West Ham went back in front in the 55th minute when Mohamed
Diame curled a shot from outside the area past goalkeeper David De Gea. Gary O’Neil kept the Hammers in front in the 63rd minute
by clearing Wayne Rooney’s shot off the line after it got past
goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen.  Offside Goal?  United then tied the game with 13 minutes left as Van
Persie scored with a rebound after Kagawa hit the post, although
he was offside when the original shot was taken. The goal
angered West Ham manager Sam Allardyce.  “It’s a bit difficult to take, that’s their job, it’s
their job to give the offside decisions that appear in front of
them,” he said of the officials to Sky Sports. “This is a
blatant one. This is not a position he should or shouldn’t be in.
He can see Van Persie is two yards offside. He should put his
flag up, he doesn’t.”  Manchester City kept its faint title hopes alive by beating
Wigan. Carlos Tevez’s goal in the 83rd minute at Etihad Stadium
in Manchester gave City its sixth straight win over the Latics.  The two teams will meet again May 11 in the F.A. Cup final
at Wembley Stadium in London.  Chelsea’s win over west London rival Fulham at Craven
Cottage moved it one point ahead of Arsenal, which has played
one more game. The top three teams in the standings qualify for
the group stage of the elite Champions League, while the fourth-
place team enters a playoff.  David Luiz  put the Blues in front after 30 minutes with a
shot from 35 yards out and Terry scored with a header just
before halftime. The Chelsea captain added his second goal in
the 71st minute when he nodded in Fernando Torres’s header off
Juan Mata’s corner kick.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 