-- Mando Buys Halla Engineering Stake Amid Investor Objection
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-04-17T10:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/mando-buys-halla-engineering-stake-against-investor-opposition.html
Mando Corp. (060980) , South Korea’s third-
largest maker of car parts, bought new shares of an affiliate,
defying investor opposition and government calls for limiting
cross shareholdings in family-controlled groups.  Mando bought 378.5 billion won ($338 million) of new shares
in wholly owned affiliate Meister Inc., which in turn invested
338.5 billion won in  Halla Engineering & Construction Corp. (014790) ,
according to regulatory filings yesterday. Halla surged the most
in three months in  Seoul  trading today, while Mando fell to a
record low.  The completed transaction invalidates an injunction filed
yesterday by Truston Asset Management Co., Mando’s second-
biggest holder, to prevent the deal. South Korean President Park Geun Hye has pledged to limit cross shareholdings to prevent
family-controlled industrial empires, known as chaebol, from
practices that the  International Monetary Fund  has said
contributed to the nation’s 1997-1999 financial crisis.  “Mando’s decision goes directly against the recent trend
in South Korea to improve corporate structure, as this
reinforces the cross-shareholding structure,” Heo Pil Seok,
chief executive officer at Midas International Asset Management
Ltd., said by phone today.  Midas yesterday said it sold its Mando shares. Halla is
Mando’s biggest shareholder.  ‘Truly Sorry’  Both Halla and Mando have Chung Mong Won as chairman. Mando
is 20 percent owned by Halla, whose biggest shareholder is
Chung. Mando owns 5.4 percent of Halla through a wholly owned
unit. Chung is a cousin of Hyundai Motor Co. Chairman  Chung Mong Koo .  Chung Mong Won bought 1,200 Mando shares on the open market
today after purchasing 1,300 shares yesterday, according to
regulatory filings.  “We are truly sorry for the stockholders’ loss and will
try our best to recover as soon as possible,” Kim Man Young, an
 executive director  for corporate finance at Mando, said at a
meeting with investors in Seoul today. “This was an unavoidable
action to take in order to save both Mando and Halla.”  Investors Concern  Halla rose 6 percent to close at 5,620 won in Seoul, the
stock’s biggest increase since Jan. 16. Mando declined 3 percent
to 76,600 won, its lowest closing price since May 2010, when it
listed.  “The biggest concern for the investors is that this may
not be the last time Mando helps Halla,” Lee Sang Hyun, an
analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co., said today. “All
they have are vague promises from the company that Halla
Engineering will improve its financial status, but we don’t know
if and when that will happen.”  Truston, Mando’s  second-biggest shareholder , filed an
injunction with the Seoul Eastern District Court to prevent the
transaction.  Mando said it “regrets some investors’ decision” to file
the injunction.  Brokerages including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Standard
Chartered Plc and Macquarie Group Ltd. lowered their  ratings  on
Mando after the deal was announced. Less than half of the 37
analysts tracked by Bloomberg recommend buying the stock.  “This issue is very big problem for the shareholders,”
said Heo of Midas, which oversees about $5.4 billion and had
owned more than 20,000 Mando shares. “I expect shareholders to
take action such as file a lawsuit to try to hold the management
responsible.”  South Korea ’s National Pension Service is concerned Mando’s
plan may damage  shareholder value , and is reviewing ways to
respond, the country’s biggest investor, with about $350 billion
in assets as of January, said yesterday.  The investment will not have a “decisive impact” on a
planned initial public offering of Mando’s China unit in  Hong
Kong , said Kim, the corporate finance executive. Still, if the
valuation of Mando China Holdings’ translates to a market value
of below 1 trillion won, the company will either “delay or even
suspend” the sale, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  