-- Apple Ordered to Remove Obscene Content From China Store
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-18T02:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/apple-ordered-to-remove-obscene-content-from-china-store.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which apologized this
month in China after being criticized by state-run media for
poor customer service, was ordered by the government to remove
obscene content accessed through its online applications store.  The National Office Against Pornographic and Illegal
Publications named Apple among 198 websites ordered to remove
content, the official Xinhua News Agency  reported  yesterday,
without providing details of the material. Carolyn Wu, an Apple
spokeswoman in Beijing, declined to comment on the report.  The order to delete content in Apple’s China online store
that offers applications for use on the iPhone and iPad follows
more than a dozen stories in the state-run People’s Daily in the
past month accusing Apple of arrogance and poor customer
service. Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  apologized on April 2
for warranty and repair policies and promised to improve
training and support in its biggest market after the U.S.  “Anyone operating in China on that scale needs to realize
that government relations are a huge part of doing business,”
said Mark Tanner, founder of  China Skinny , a Shanghai-based
research and marketing agency. “These types of campaigns have a
lot of sway with Chinese consumers.”  Programmers are required to sign contracts agreeing not to
carry obscene, offensive or defamatory material when they
develop apps for Apple, according to  guidelines  on the
Cupertino, California-based company’s website.  Apple and shupeng.com were among nine websites named in the
Xinhua report. The government department shut down a total of 21
websites and ordered 175 to delete content, it said.  Content Restrictions  China , home to more than 564 million Web users, censors the
Internet by blocking access to pornography, gambling and content
critical of the Communist Party’s rule.  After Cook’s apology, Apple offered to change its customer
practice this month to offer full replacements of older iPhones
experiencing problems. It also vowed to improve service and
monitoring of stores authorized to sell its products in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  