-- Taqa Aids Abu Dhabi Push to Diversify Debt Funding: Arab Credit
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-04-18T08:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/taqa-aids-abu-dhabi-push-to-diversify-debt-funding-arab-credit.html
Abu Dhabi’s biggest utility and an
aluminum smelter are raising as much as $2 billion by selling
bonds they’ll repay with cash from projects being financed,
evidence of the emirate’s effort to broaden its funding sources.  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , known as Taqa, said it plans
to complete the sale this quarter of an $800 million project
bond for its Shuweihat S2 power plant. The Taqa unit would now
pay about 3.5 percent on 10-year project bonds, Amol Shitole, a
credit analyst with SJS in Bangalore,  India , said April 16 by e-
mail. That compares with an average corporate bond yield of 3.37
percent yesterday, a Middle East regional HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai
index shows.  Emirates Aluminium Co., or EMAL, may sell a project bond as
early as this quarter, according to Mubadala Development Co., a
partner in the venture. EMAL needs money to expand a smelter,
while Taqa is refinancing its Shuweihat power station in Abu
Dhabi, the largest sheikhdom in the United Arab Emirates. Both
state-run companies are contributing to Abu Dhabi’s effort to
diversify financing options beyond bank loans and corporate
bonds to attract a wider range of investors.  “Project bonds add to the repertoire of financial
instruments and help create deeper financial markets,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist for economic planning and development
at Bahrain’s Economic Development Board, said by phone April 15.
“They increase the flexibility in financing for governments and
issuers.”  Dolphin Pipeline  The 3.5 percent that Shitole of SJS estimates Taqa’s
Shuweihat project might pay for bonds exceeds the 2.64 percent
yield on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Utility Index
yesterday.  The U.A.E.’s only project bonds to date are $2.55 billion
in securities that Dolphin Energy Ltd. issued in 2009 and 2012
to refinance debt on a pipeline supplying natural gas from Qatar
to the U.A.E. and Oman. Dolphin Energy is 51 percent owned by
Mubadala, an Abu Dhabi state investor, with Total SA and
Occidental Petroleum Corp. holding the rest. The U.A.E. contains
6 percent of global oil reserves, most of them in Abu Dhabi.  Middle East crude producers are expanding into industries
such as petrochemicals and metals manufacturing to diversify
away from a reliance on oil exports. The construction of
factories and the power plants needed to supply them with
electricity has attracted international joint-venture partners.  Final Arrangements  EMAL, a partnership between Mubadala and Dubai Aluminium
Co., plans to raise as much as $1.25 billion in its first sale.
Shitole, the SJS analyst, said it could pay 3.5 percent to 3.75
percent for a 10-year project bond. EMAL is making final
arrangements to finance its smelter expansion, a Mubadala
official said in an April 11 e-mail, asking not to be identified
due to company policy.  “There are not many project bonds in the market,” Shitole
said. “To start a new market for lending is the reason Abu
Dhabi is seeking to sell these bonds. If you look at current
rates, it really makes sense to go.”  Bond yields for the six Arab states of the Gulf Cooperation
Council are close to their lowest level in more than eight
years, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai GCC Conventional
Corporate US Dollar Bond Index. The declining cost of funds
prompted regional borrowers to sell more debt in the last three
months than in any other quarter since 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘We’re Happy’  Taqa, which owns stakes in North Sea oil fields, sold $1.25
billion in corporate bonds in December. The 3.625 percent bonds
yielded 3.44 percent on April 14, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “We’re happy in terms of the deal we’re getting,” Taqa
Chief Financial Officer Stephen Kersley said of talks on the
pricing for the new securities. “It will be a major step
forward for Taqa to get project bonds into the market,” he said
in a March 13 conference call.  The utility and energy producer had no additional comment
on its bond sale, a Taqa official said April 16, asking not to
be identified because of company policy.  Elsewhere in the oil-exporting Gulf region, two joint
ventures of Saudi Arabia’s state oil producer have sold Islamic
bonds, or sukuk, as did the government’s aviation
administration.  Saudi Sukuk  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as Saudi Aramco, and its
partner Total sold about $1 billion in sukuk in 2011 to pay for
a refinery and chemical plant at Jubail on the kingdom’s Gulf
coast. Aramco and Dow Chemical Co. sold $2 billion in Islamic
bonds last year to finance their Sadara Chemical Co. joint
venture, also in Jubail.  State-backed sales contribute to the creation of a
sovereign debt curve, or record of bond performance, that can
help smaller borrowers by providing lenders a pricing benchmark,
said Fahad Alturki, a senior economist at Riyadh-based Jadwa
Investment Co. “This gives more opportunity for smaller
companies to enter the market,” he said by phone on April 15.  Kotilaine of the Bahrain Economic Development Board said a
wider use of project bonds will give investors better access to
the “success story” of the region’s economy.  “For institutional investors, it gives them a chance to
invest in the large infrastructure projects in this market,”
Kotilaine said. “That is a big economic theme to which many
investors want exposure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  