-- Armstrong Tested Positive for Steroids Four Times in 1999 Tour
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-04-17T17:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/armstrong-tested-positive-for-steroids-four-times-in-1999-tour.html
Lance Armstrong  tested positive for
steroids four times during his first  Tour de France  win,
although he wasn’t suspended because the levels were consistent
with his alibi of using a cream to treat saddle sores, cycling’s
governing body said.  The banned cyclist, who in a January interview admitted
using performance-enhancing drugs, has been stripped of his
seven Tour de France titles and a 2000 Summer Olympics bronze
medal.  The  Union Cycliste Internationale  said the American was
tested 15 times during the 1999 Tour, and trace amounts of
steroids were found in four urine samples. Because he didn’t
test positive on some days in between, it lent weight to his
excuse of using a cream for a skin problem, the UCI said today
in an e-mailed statement.  Armstrong admitted in the January interview with  Oprah Winfrey  that his team doctor had post-dated a prescription for
the drug, making it seem the steroids were for external use for
an allergy, the UCI said.  “It should be stressed that this case was handled knowing
only the facts which were apparent at that time,” the UCI said
in the statement.  The governing body has been criticized for its relationship
with Armstrong, which included accepting donations from the
rider, and its inability to catch him doping.  Armstrong was stripped of his Tour de France titles and
dropped by longtime sponsors including  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Oakley Inc.
and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  following the U.S. Anti-Doping
Agency’s revelation in October that he was part of “the most
sophisticated, professionalized and successful doping program
that sport has ever seen.”  The 41-year-old, now also banned for life from the
Olympics, stepped down from Livestrong, the charity he founded
in 1997 that says it has raised more than $470 million for the
fight against cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  