-- Texas Prosecutor Shooting Suspect Charged With Murder
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-04-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/arrest-made-in-killings-of-texas-prosecutor-wife-police-say.html
A woman arrested in  Texas  for the
slaying of the Kaufman County District Attorney, his wife and
another prosecutor confessed to her involvement and said it was
her husband who shot the three, police said.  Kim Williams, 46, was arrested yesterday and charged with
capital murder in connection with the killings of District
Attorney Mike McLelland, Cynthia McLelland, and Assistant
District Attorney Mark Hasse, according to a warrant affidavit
released by the Kaufman County Sheriff’s Office. She’s being
held on $10 million bond, the office said in a statement.  Williams “confessed to her involvement to the scheme and
course of conduct in the shooting deaths,” according to the
affidavit, which said she offered information about the crimes
that had not been made public. “Kim Williams described in
detail her role with that of her husband, Eric Williams, whom
she reported to have shot to death Mark Hasse on January 31,
2013, and Michael and Cynthia McLelland on March 30, 2013.”  Eric Lyle Williams, while working as a justice of the peace
in Kaufman County, was convicted last year of stealing county
computers in a case prosecuted by McLelland and Hasse, according
to the affidavit. He subsequently lost his peace officer’s
license and his law license was revoked.  Officers and county employees told investigators that Hasse
and McLelland both believed that Eric Williams blamed them for
his removal from office, according to the affidavit. The two
prosecutors regularly carried handguns after Eric Williams’ jury
trial because they believed Williams “to be a threat to their
personal safety,” according to the affidavit.  Eric Williams, 46, was arrested and jailed April 13 on a
charge of making a terroristic threat and is being held on a $1
million bond, according to Kaufman County Jail records. He isn’t
charged in connection with the three killings.  McLelland, who had promised to catch Hasse’s killer in
January, was found shot and killed along with his wife at the
couple’s home near Forney, Texas, on March 30. Hasse was shot
and killed in his car near the county courthouse.  Kaufman County has about 106,000 residents. The McLellands
lived about 26 miles east of  Dallas  near Forney in a home with a
publicly listed address.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in the Dallas federal courthouse
at   tkorosec@texaswordworks.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  