-- Harrison Ford Joins Congress in Revolt on Tower Closings
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-04-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/harrison-ford-joins-congress-in-revolt-on-tower-closings.html
A plan to close 149 air-traffic
control towers has galvanized opposition like few other moves
under U.S. automatic budget cuts, uniting lawmakers with
businesses, unions and an advocacy group with  Harrison Ford  in
its corner.  The fight, involving about $40 million of this year’s $85
billion in cuts in a process known as sequestration, reflects
how broadly the proposed closings cut across rural districts
represented by lawmakers who, regardless of party affiliation,
are elected to serve local interests. Thirty-eight of the 50
U.S. states would be affected by the closings.  “You try to shut down the towers, and you’re going to have
a fight on your hands,” said Scott Lilly, a former Democratic
staff director of the House Appropriations Committee and now a
fellow at the Center for American Progress in Washington.  Lilly and other analysts say the tenacious response offers
a glimpse of what’s to come, as the impact of sequestration
affects other programs with their own strong supporters. The
automatic cuts are the penalty agreed to by President  Barack Obama  and Congress in failed debt-reduction talks.  “It’s the most visible symbol of bad public policy kicking
in,” said Jim Dyer, a Washington lobbyist and former Republican
staff director of the appropriations panel, said of the towers.
“And as the year goes on, it’s going to get worse.”  Harrison Ford  The towers are operated by contractors to the  Federal
Aviation Administration  and are located mostly at small airports
serving private aircraft.  They have powerful outside advocates, including the
Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, based in Frederick,
 Maryland . Its 400,000 members include Ford, the star of movies
including “ Star Wars ,” “Raiders of the Lost Ark” and the
newly released “42.”  “General aviation is more than guys in corporate
aircraft,” Ford, who flies his own single-engine planes and a
twin-engine jet, said in an interview.  “It’s police and fire services. It’s EMS. It’s a guy
flying his fish to market. It’s tractor parts getting to a
rancher or a farmer. It’s a broad range of businesses that are
affected.”  Ford, 70, has spoken to general-aviation caucuses in the
House and Senate that have about 220 lawmaker members.  The actor has spoken at AOPA conventions and dinners, and
served as a spokesman for the group’s “General Aviation Serves
America” campaign. He is a member of the AOPA Foundation’s Hat
in the Ring club, whose members donate at least $1,000 a year to
support initiatives like pilot safety and preserving airports,
according to the group’s website.  Pilot Donations  AOPA is among the biggest political donors in Washington,
giving $8.4 million to candidates and parties between 1989 and
2012, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive
Politics. Its donations exceed those of many large corporations,
including  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  BP Plc. (BP/)   It contributed $811,274 in the 2011-2012 election cycle,
including $549,750 to individual candidates -- most of it in
rural states like  North Dakota ,  Mississippi  and  Alaska . Its top
recipient was Representative John Barrow, a Georgia Democrat who
chairs the House’s General Aviation Caucus. He received $10,000.  The group spent $2.9 million in 2012 on its own five-person
lobbying operation, and another $280,000 to hire 18 outside
lobbyists.  No Money  The FAA, responding to criticism in Congress and lawsuits
by airports, delayed the closings earlier this month until June
15. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood told a House panel
yesterday that the agency can’t forestall it any further.  “We don’t have the money to keep the towers open,” LaHood
said. “We simply don’t.”  In the Senate, the effort to stop the tower closings is
being led by Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican who belongs to the
Tea Party Caucus, which advocates for less  government spending ;
and Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat. The two
last week introduced legislation that would prohibit the
Department of Transportation from closing any air traffic
control towers for the next two fiscal years. It has 30 co-
sponsors.  A House proposal would restore funding for the contractor-
operated control towers by redirecting unobligated funds in the
FAA’s budget to pay for their operations. It was introduced by
Republicans Tom Cotton of  Arkansas  and Richard Hudson of  North
Carolina  and Democrat Bruce Braley of  Iowa .  ‘Rural Aspect’  Moran said in an interview he’s motivated most about
concerns about passenger safety and his belief that budget cuts
should be selective, not automatic.  “There’s a rural aspect to it that certainly catches my
attention, but it’s more a belief in government doing its job
responsibly as compared to seat of the pants,” said Moran,
whose state would lose five towers under the FAA’s plan.  Opponents have portrayed the tower closings as a safety
threat, even though most of the 5,000 U.S. airports operate
without towers. Pilots flying into uncontrolled airports can use
radio calls to communicate with each other.  “We just think it’s wrong for this administration to
politicize aviation safety,” said Spencer Dickerson, executive
director of the Control Towers Association, based in Alexandria,
Virginia.  FAA Administrator Michael Huerta told the Senate Commerce,
Science and Transportation Committee yesterday that his agency
chose to close the towers because less than 1 percent of
commercial passengers fly at those airports and the agency
wanted to limit the impact on airlines.  Safety Study  While a 1990 FAA study found towers enhanced safety, a more
recent agency review of more than 200 airports with contract
towers that examined accidents through 2011 found there was no
difference in totals before and after towers were added.  The agency has few alternatives other than closing contract
towers to reach its required budget cuts, said George Donohue, a
former agency associate administrator who is now an engineering
professor at  George Mason University  in Fairfax, Virginia.  He said the agency must provide a year’s notice to
controllers at airports in larger cities under terms of its
union contract.  The four committee leaders in the House and Senate with
jurisdiction over transportation issues -- two Democrats and two
Republicans -- have been insistent nonetheless. They sent a
letter last week to LaHood and Huerta saying they’re
“profoundly disappointed” the towers will close June 15.  Craig Fuller, president and chief executive officer of
AOPA, said his goal of the effort is to pressure the FAA to
scale down the number of towers that will close.  Despite the number of lawmakers backing the towers, their
numbers may not be enough to get legislation through Congress
anytime soon, he said.  “I’m hopeful the number that will be impacted will be
reduced,” Fuller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  