-- Arsenal Will Bid for Sunderland Goalie Mignolet: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-17T07:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/arsenal-will-bid-for-sunderland-goalie-mignolet-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Arsenal Offer  Arsenal will make an offer for Sunderland goalkeeper Simon
Mignolet in the offseason after manager Arsene Wenger had the
25-year-old Belgian watched by scouts and made checks about his
character, the  Independent reported .  Wenger wants to install Mignolet as his first-choice goalie
and may have to pay as much as 10 million pounds ($15.3 million)
for a player who has caught the attention of top teams because
of his form this season, the newspaper added.  Dede Deal  Chelsea is close to concluding a 20 million-pound deal to
sign  Brazil  national team defender Dede as John Terry’s long-
term successor, the  Daily Express reported.   The Vasco da Gama center-back, 24, also is a target for
Manchester United and Liverpool, with the latter ready to offer
15 million pounds, the newspaper added.  PSG ‘Shopping’  Manchester City’s Samir Nasri and fellow French midfielder
Yohan Cabaye of Newcastle are targets of Paris Saint-Germain,
the  Sun reported , citing PSG sports director Leonardo.  “I like the idea of seeing great French players come back
home,” Leonardo was quoted as saying by the Sun. “Not Karim Benzema, but maybe Nasri, Cabaye or Franck Ribery. We could well
do our shopping in  England .”  Spurs Talks  Tottenham Hotspur opened talks about signing Hamburg’s
South Korean striker Son Heung-Min for about 10 million pounds,
the  Daily Mail reported . The 21-year-old Son, who can play
anywhere across the forward line, also has attracted interest
from Liverpool, the Mail added.  Carroll Return  Newcastle will try to re-sign Andy Carroll, the striker it
sold to Liverpool for a British-record 35 million pounds in
January 2011, for as little as 7 million pounds, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  West Ham, which has Carroll on loan through next month and
an option to sign him for 17 million, can’t afford that fee and
Carroll’s weekly wages of 90,000 pounds, the Telegraph added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  