-- Harvard Don Tells EU Kill Grants to Save Carbon: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-04-17T13:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/harvard-don-tells-eu-kill-grants-to-save-carbon-energy-markets.html
Europe  may have to change course to
save the world’s biggest carbon market after an unprecedented
plunge in pollution-permit prices, according to a pioneer of so-
called cap-and-trade systems designed to help the environment.  The European Union should consider moving away from costly
subsidies for renewable energy and carbon-efficient projects,
which compete with the market in meeting nations’ emission-
reduction targets, said  Robert Stavins , the director of Harvard
University’s Environmental Economics Program. Carbon permits for
December fell to an all-time low after lawmakers yesterday
rejected a rescue plan to tackle a record surplus of allowances.  Prices in the EU’s 54 billion-euro ($71 billion) emissions
market have slumped 63 percent from a year ago as the euro
area’s second recession since 2008 cut industrial demand for
permits, exacerbating the glut. The cap-and-trade system,
started in 2005, is the bloc’s main tool in meeting greenhouse
gas-reduction targets, a model gaining favor from  California  to
 China  and  Australia .  “This would be a foolish time for the EU to back away from
cap-and-trade because the rest of the world is starting to
follow,” Stavins, who helped set up a market system to control
acid rain in the U.S. 30 years ago, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The climate and energy directorates in Brussels
need to work together going forward to ensure they’re
interacting benignly instead of in perverse ways.”  Carbon Plunge  Carbon fell as much as 19 percent to a record 2.50 euros a
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London ,
compared with 31 euros a ton in 2006. It traded at 2.57 euros at
2:04 p.m.  Australia will lower its expected revenue from selling
carbon allowances after the EU, its partner in a cap-and-trade
system set to start in 2015, failed to win support for its
surplus fix, Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said today.  Europe’s emissions-trading system imposes limits on about
12,000 power plants and factories. The program allocates permits
to polluters that must surrender enough allowances to cover
their discharges of carbon dioxide or pay fines. Declines in the
cost of allowances erodes the incentive for them to stop burning
cheaper fossil fuels and invest in carbon-efficient technology.  Backloading Critics  EU parliamentarians opposed a proposal to alter the bloc’s
emissions trading law yesterday, which would have enabled the
European Commission to withhold the sale of some allowances
through 2015 and reintroduce them at the end of the decade in a
strategy known as backloading.  The Parliament’s vote followed criticism from lawmakers
including the European  People’s Party , the biggest group in the
assembly, which argued that the move amounted to market
intervention and would boost energy prices at a time when the
economy is shrinking. Gross domestic product in the region
contracted 0.6 percent last year and will decline in 2013 by 0.4
percent, according to the median of 61 economist forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard , who proposed
backloading as a stopgap measure, said the vote was “not the
total end of everything” and she would continue to work on a
more permanent fix.  “Many of those who don’t support backloading believe in
the emissions-trading approach,” Dirk Forrister, president of
the International Emissions Trading Association, a Geneva lobby
group, said yesterday by e-mail. “Emissions trading continues
to be the policy of choice for addressing climate change.”  Renewables Cost  EON SE,  Germany ’s biggest utility, estimated in November
that solar technologies were costing consumers at least 10 times
more than prices suggested by the carbon market at the time,
when permits were more than 6 euros a ton.  “The emissions trading system has sadly become
marginalized, and we are concerned that it has lost its ability
to prompt low-carbon investments,” according to Oeystein Loeseth, chief executive officer of Vattenfall AB, the biggest
Nordic utility. “Against this backdrop, the EU needs to
recalibrate,” he said in a statement yesterday.  The bloc provided $50 billion of renewable-energy support
in 2011, the highest level in the world and more than double the
U.S.’s $21 billion, according to International Energy Agency
estimates from Nov. 12. The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,
said in a March 27 paper that the bloc needs better coordination
between its  energy efficiency , renewables and climate policies.  Those targets “do absolutely nothing for the environment”
in an economy with a cap-and-trade market because they merely
shift emissions to other industries, Stavins said.  U.K. Floor  EU carbon permits will fall to near zero as the bloc seeks
to repair the market, said Patrick Hummel, an analyst in Zurich
for UBS AG.  “There is no plan B in my view,” he said yesterday by e-
mail. “Instead, we might see some national governments thinking
about carbon taxation, but of course this debate is at the very
beginning.”  The U.K., the market’s second-biggest emitter, set a floor
on carbon prices this month to encourage investment in clean-
energy projects.  The EU vote shows policy makers shouldn’t start “a war”
against their emitters while most of the rest of the world isn’t
regulating  greenhouse gases , said Matteo Mazzoni, an analyst at
NE Nomisma Energia Srl in Bologna,  Italy .  The EU will probably take two years to address the
oversupply because of resistance from manufacturers and other
energy-intensive industries, which lobby lawmakers, Mazzoni
said.  “Some people may object to the fact that the EU got out in
front” in its bid to tackle  climate change , said Harvard’s
Stavins. “I’m not going to applaud and I’m not going to jeer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  