-- Asia Stocks Gain First Day in Three on U.S. Home Building
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-04-17T09:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/asia-stocks-gain-first-day-in-three-on-u-s-home-building.html
Asian  stocks  advanced for the first
time in three days as new-home construction in the U.S. jumped
more than forecast, the  International Monetary Fund  raised its
forecast for Japanese growth and the yen weakened  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, advanced
1.8 percent as a weakening yen boosted the earnings outlook for
exporters. Advantest Corp. paced increases in Tokyo among makers
of semiconductor equipment after  Intel Corp. (INTC)  forecast second-
quarter sales that would exceed some analysts’ estimates. Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd.,  Asia ’s biggest international carrier by
passenger revenue, climbed 2.9 percent in  Hong Kong  after
Deutsche Bank AG raised its rating to buy.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.6 percent to 137.21 as
of 6:08 p.m. in Tokyo. Three shares advanced for every two that
fell, with eight of the 10 industry groups on the gauge
climbing. The benchmark rose 5.5 percent this year through
yesterday amid signs the  U.S. economy  is recovering and as
Japanese stocks rallied on speculation the  Bank of Japan  will
boost stimulus.  “U.S. housing starts showed a bright spot and confirmed
the view that the economy is on the mend,” said  Hiroichi Nishi ,
an equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “The
yen will stay in a downtrend given the bold monetary easing by
the Bank of  Japan , and that leads to optimism exporters’
earnings will outperform.”  Plans for fiscal stimulus and record monetary-policy easing
by the Bank of Japan were reflected in the IMF’s increased
growth estimates for the world’s third-biggest economy, which
were raised to 1.6 percent this year from 1.2 percent and to 1.4
percent in 2014 from 0.7 percent. IMF Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said the BOJ’s action was “appropriate” and its
impact on the yen “a logical consequence.”  Exporters Rise  Japanese exporters rallied. Toyota Motor gained 1.8 percent
to 5,550 yen, Nissan Motor Co. advanced 3.3 percent to 1,024 yen
and Ricoh Co., an imaging equipment maker that gets more than
 half of sales  outside Japan, added 3.8 percent to 1,197 yen. The
yen fell to 98.34 per dollar.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 1.2 percent,
rebounding from the longest losing streak in three months. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index and  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index both
advanced 1.1 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex rose 0.1 percent and the
Philippine Stock Exchange Index climbed 0.9 percent.  China ’s Shanghai Composite declined less than 0.1 percent,
while Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , the year’s worst performing
developed-market measure, slipped 0.5 percent.  Investors are the most bullish on Japanese stocks for more
than six years, while they are selling euro-area equities amid
renewed concern about the region’s debt crisis, a Bank of
America Corp. survey of global money managers who oversee about
$578 billion showed yesterday.  U.S. Futures  This year’s gains on the  MSCI Asia Pacific index (MXAP)  left the
gauge trading yesterday at 14.3 times average estimated earnings
compared with 14.2 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 12.5
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5
percent. The measure climbed 1.4 percent yesterday, rebounding
from its biggest drop since November, as housing starts and
earnings from Coca-Cola Co. to Johnson & Johnson topped
estimates.  New-home construction jumped more than forecast in March,
according to Commerce Department figures. Another report showed
the cost of living in the U.S. declined in March for the first
time in four months as cheaper gasoline and clothing kept
inflation in check. Factory production unexpectedly dropped,
adding to recent signs that manufacturing is cooling.  South Korea  South Korea ’s Kospi index added 0.1 percent, paring a gain
of as much as 0.7 percent. South Korea’s biggest investors are
buying more equities than ever at a time of worsening relations
with  North Korea , lured by the cheapest shares since 2007.  Domestic institutions bought a net 2.2 trillion won ($1.97
billion) of stocks in the two weeks after North Korea announced
its highest combat level on March 26, the first of a series of
escalating threats from Kim Jong Un’s regime.  Advantest added 2 percent to 1,365 yen and Nikon Corp.
gained 0.9 percent to 2,170 yen in Tokyo. Santa Clara,
California-based Intel, the world’s biggest semiconductor maker,
said yesterday revenue in the current period will be as much as
$13.4 billion. Analysts on average had predicted sales of $12.8
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cathay Pacific (293)  rose 2.9 percent to HK$12.98. Deutsche Bank
raised its rating to buy from sell, saying earnings will start
recovering this year as jet fuel prices drop and the carrier
switches to more fuel-efficient aircraft.  Singapore Exchange Ltd., operator of Southeast Asis’s
biggest bourse, gained 1.2 percent to S$7.79, heading for the
highest close since Feb. 20. The company reported fiscal third-
quarter profit increased 26 percent as equities and derivatives
trading volumes jumped, beating analyst estimates.  Nomura Drops  Among the stocks that fell,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  sank 2.3
percent to 754 yen after Italian prosecutors said they aim to
seize 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of the Japanese
brokerage’s assets as part of a probe into Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA’s.  The seizures are linked to allegations of fraud and usury
related to Monte Paschi’s use of derivatives to hide losses,
prosecutors in Siena, where the Italian bank is based, said in a
statement yesterday. Monte Paschi has claimed Nomura colluded
with its former managers to devise one of two derivatives in
2008 and 2009 that hid total losses of much as 557 million
euros. Nomura reaped at least 88 million euros from the
transaction, dubbed Alexandria, according to the Italian lender.  Nomura, which isn’t under investigation itself, said
yesterday that the Tokyo-based bank will “vigorously” contest
any suggestion of wrongdoing in the case.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in  Tokyo  at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  