-- Stocks Drop With Industrial Metals, Euro; Treasuries Rise
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-04-17T20:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/asian-stocks-advance-with-oil-on-economy-optimism-gold-gains.html
U.S. stocks sank, erasing
yesterday’s rally, amid a plunge in industrial metals,
disappointing earnings and concern Apple Inc.’s iPhone sales may
miss forecasts. The euro slid as Germany’s central bank chief
reportedly said European policy makers may cut rates if needed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.4 percent to
1,552.01 at 4 p.m. in  New York . Germany’s  DAX index (DAX)  slid 2.3
percent and erased its gain for the year after European auto
sales reached a 20-year low. Treasuries rose, with 10-year
yields touching lows of the year, as concern that terrorism is
increasing in the U.S. fueled demand for the safest assets. The
euro fell against 14 of 16 major peers. Oil dropped to a four-
month low in New York, while copper sank 3 percent in London and
tin and lead slid more than 2 percent. Gold for immediate
delivery rose 0.7 percent to $1,377.43 an ounce.  Bank of America Corp. led financial shares lower after
shortfalls in mortgage banking and trading marred first-quarter
results. Industrial metals declined after the International
Monetary Fund lowered its forecast for economic growth in China
yesterday. The  Federal Reserve  said the U.S. economic expansion
remained “moderate” amid gains in manufacturing, housing and
autos that offset weakness in defense-related industries in some
regions, according to its Beige Book business survey.  “There’s been a pattern in earnings where you see a
slowing down in improvement,” Kevin Caron, a Florham Park, New
Jersey-based market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees about $130 billion, said by telephone. “Stocks need to
pause as investors recognize that forward-looking estimates are
too high and need to come down or we need to see a genuine
improvement in the economy to justify where stocks are today.”  April Peaks  U.S. equities began short-term declines in April during
each of the last three years. The  S&P 500  fell 9.9 percent
between April 2 and June 1 of last year and peaked on April 29,
2011, before a 19 percent slide ending that October. The index
tumbled 16 percent from a high in April 2010 to July 2 of that
year.  The market may be due for a similar pullback this year
because its advance since mid-November has been “out of sync”
with weak earnings and slower economic growth, UBS AG strategist
led by  Jonathan Golub  wrote in a report.  “While we’re not inclined to invest based on some simple
rule or rhyme, those investors who followed the old adage ‘Go
Away in May’ have done quite well in each of the past three
years,” UBS said in the report dated yesterday. “We believe
that another spring break is likely to materialize and that now
is a good time to begin dialing back on risk.”  The S&P 500 erased yesterday’s 1.4 percent rally and
extended its retreat from a record on April 11 to about 2.6
percent.  U.S. Movers  Bank of America lost 4.7 percent, the most since November,
to lead the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  down 2 percent to a six-week low.
Textron Inc. slumped 13 percent, the biggest drop in four years,
after lowering its forecast for business-jet sales. Caterpillar
Inc. slid 1.4 percent after Macquarie Group Ltd. cut its rating
on the shares to neutral.  Apple closed 5.5 percent lower and traded below $400 for
the first time since December 2011 after its audio-chip
supplier, Cirrus Logic Inc., predicted that sales would miss
estimates because of unsold inventory. Cirrus Logic slid 16
percent, the most since October 2011.  Some 16 members of the  S&P 500 (SPX)  are  reporting earnings 
today, including American Express Co. and EBay Inc. after the
close of trading. Analyst predict earnings decreased 1.4 percent
in the period, the first year-over-year decline since 2009,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings beat
estimates at 69 percent of the 55 companies in the S&P 500 that
reported results so far while 51 percent topped revenue
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Driving the Bus’  Stocks and Treasury yields fell to their lows of the
session after the White House said a letter addressed to
President  Barack Obama  containing a substance that the FBI said
was positive for the poison ricin in preliminary testing was
intercepted today, a day after a tainted letter targeted a U.S.
senator. The letters fueled concern about terrorism following
the April 15 bombings at the Boston Marathon.  “Are the ricin incidents worth a point or two of this
selloff? Probably, but it’s not driving the bus,”  Mike Shea , a
managing partner at New York-based brokerage firm Direct Access
Partners LLC, said in an interview.  Ten-year  Treasury yields  lost three basis points to 1.70
percent and fell as low as 1.67 percent, the least since Dec.
12.  Fed ‘Rethink’  James Bullard , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  St.
Louis , said U.S. inflation has fallen too far below the central
bank’s 2 percent goal and a further drop could prompt increased
bond buying. Consumer prices rose 1.3 percent in February from a
year earlier, according to the Fed’s preferred gauge of
inflation.  “Inflation should be closer to target than it is and we
should defend the inflation target from the low side,” Bullard
told reporters today after a speech in New York. “If it doesn’t
start to turn around here soon, I think we’ll have to rethink
where we are in our policy.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  sank 1.5 percent for a fourth
straight decline, its longest losing streak since January. The
retreat extended the drop over the past four days to 3.8
percent, its worst plunge since July, and left the regional
benchmark index at its lowest level of the year. A  gauge of
European mining shares  retreated 2.4 percent to the lowest since
2009 on a closing basis as BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group
slid more than 3 percent.  DAX Slumps  The DAX  index  erased its gain for the year. The German
benchmark tumbled more than 2 percent in 25 minutes during the
first hour of trading. Some 14,000 DAX Index futures  contracts 
expiring in June changed hands in a five minute period about
9:50 a.m. in Frankfurt today, more than 15 times the 20-day
average volume for that time of day, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bayer, Germany’s largest drugmaker, retreated 4.3 percent
after a U.S. court ruled that its patent to produce the birth-
control pill Yaz was invalid  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Volkswagen AG lost more
than 2.7 percent as a gauge of automakers posted the biggest
drop in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. .  Car Sales  European car sales slid to a 20-year low last month.
Registrations in March fell 10 percent to 1.35 million vehicles,
their 18th consecutive monthly decline, the Brussels-based
European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA, said in
a statement. First-quarter deliveries in the region dropped 9.7
percent to 3.1 million cars.  The euro extended losses versus the yen and dollar after
Dow Jones reported Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said the
 European Central Bank  may cut  interest rates  if new information
warrants the move. The shared currency weakened 1.1 percent to
$1.3034.  Italy’s borrowing costs dropped to the lowest in almost
three months, with 2-year yields losing six points to 1.38
percent. The yield on Slovenia’s 2022 dollar bonds sank 47 basis
points to 5.85 percent as of 5:03 p.m. in Ljubljana. Slovenia,
the first post-communist nation to adopt the euro, sold 1.1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) of 18-month bills, more than double
the amount planned  The G-20 finance ministers and central bankers meet for two
days from tomorrow in Washington before  International Monetary
Fund  and World Bank talks.  Commodity Watch  Copper, crude oil and lead lost more than 2 percent to lead
losses in 16 of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI.  Oil
prices  dropped 2.3 percent to $86.68 a barrel after the Energy
Information Administration said output climbed to 7.2 million
barrels a day, the most since July 1992, and gasoline and diesel
demand decreased. BNP Paribas SA cut its 2013 forecasts for
Brent and WTI.  Spot gold rebounded for a second day after falling 9.1
percent two days ago, the most in three decades. Futures
fluctuated before closing lower for the third time in four days.  Investors are dumping gold funds at the fastest pace in two
years in favor of equities, compounding a slump that has wiped
$560 billion from the value of central bank reserves.  Exchange-traded products linked to gold dropped $37.2
billion in 2013 as the metal reached a two-year low yesterday.
Gold funds suffered net outflows of $11.2 billion this year
through April 10, the most since 2011, while global and U.S.
equity funds had net inflows of $21.25 billion, according to
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  Central banks are among the biggest losers because they own
31,694.8 metric tons, or 19 percent of all the gold mined,
according to the World Gold Council in London. After rallying
for 12 straight years, the metal has tumbled 28 percent from its
September 2011 record of $1,923.70 an ounce.  Carbon Plunges  Carbon permits under the European Union’s emissions-trading
system slipped 11 percent to 2.75 euros a metric ton in London.
The December 2013 carbon contract plunged 35 percent yesterday,
the most on record, after lawmakers rejected an emergency plan
to address a surplus of allowances.  The Swedish krona weakened after policy makers pushed back
the timing of likely interest-rate increases. The krona slid to
its weakest level since February against the euro, dropping as
much as 1.3 percent. Sweden’s central bank left its benchmark
interest rate unchanged for a second meeting and delayed
tightening to the second half of 2014 after the appreciation of
the currency brought inflation to standstill.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.9 percent,
reversing earlier gains of as much as 0.4 percent. Brazil’s
Bovespa sank more than 2 percent while benchmark gauges in
 Poland , Russia,  Argentina , Mexico and  South Africa  lost more
than 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  