-- ASML Names Peter Wennink as New CEO, Announces Share Buyback
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-04-17T08:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/asml-says-ceo-eric-meurice-to-step-down-announces-share-buyback.html
  ASML Holding NV (ASML) ,  Europe ’s largest
semiconductor-equipment supplier, named finance director Peter Wennink chief executive officer as it announced a 1 billion-euro
buyback and first-quarter profit that beat estimates.  Eric Meurice, 56, whose contract as CEO was set to end next
year, will give up that job July 1 and become chairman, the
Veldhoven, Netherlands-based company said today.  ASML rose as much as 9.4 percent, the biggest gain in nine
months. During eight years under Meurice, ASML has doubled
revenue, quintupled its share price and sold stakes to customers
Samsung Electronics Co.,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co.  “Wennink will ensure continuity in terms of strategy and
steady execution,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts
including Didier Scemama said in a note to clients.  The former Deloitte & Touche partner, 55, will take over as
chipmakers are curbing orders while personal-computer sales fall
and production is shifted toward handheld devices such as mobile
phones and tablet computers, requiring more advanced technology.
ASML said today first-quarter sales dropped to 892 million euros
from 1.02 billion euros in the fourth quarter, beating the
analysts’ average estimate of 874 million euros.  “PC’s are cannibalized by tablets,” Wennink said in a
video posted on ASML’s website. “We do ship to logic customers,
but the shipment to memory customers is low. That is something
that we see throughout 2013.”  PC Shipments  ASML forecast second-quarter sales of about 1.1 billion
euros. The company repeated its projection for 2013 sales to be
at a similar level to 2012 revenue of 4.73 billion euros. ASML
also said it plans to return excess cash to shareholders as it
repurchases as much as 1 billion euros of stock.  “Repeating its outlook for 2013 shows that the bottom was
reached in the first quarter,”  Peter Olofsen , an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets said by phone.  ASML traded 7.6 percent higher at 55.16 euros as of 10:26
a.m. in Amsterdam, giving the chip-equipment maker a market
value of about 23 billion euros.  Last week, research firm Gartner Inc. said global PC
shipments dropped 11 percent in the first quarter to 79.2
million units.  New Team  The new management team will consist of Wennink, joined by
Martin van den Brink as president and chief technology officer.
Frits van Hout and Frederic Schneider-Maunoury will continue as
executive vice presidents. Wennink will continue as CFO until
the company appoints a successor.  The company sold stakes to customers Samsung, Intel and
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. to fund development of
so-called extreme ultraviolet lithography technology, known as
EUV, which shrinks the size of chips while increasing their
capacity and speed.  ASML agreed to buy  Cymer Inc. (CYMI)  for 1.95 billion euros in
October, its biggest deal ever, to expand in EUV. The San Diego-
based company makes the light source for the technology.  “We’re making steady progress with EUV,” Wennink said.
The company is preparing the shipments and installations of the
first two NXE:3300B EUV systems in the second and third quarter.
Companies are testing these systems before using them in a more
widespread manner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  