-- Tata Consultancy Sees Strong Order Pipeline Spurring Revenue
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-04-18T11:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/tata-consultancy-profit-climbs-as-clients-increase-outsourcing.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 India ’s largest software-services exporter, expects a “strong
deal pipeline” with new business from all of its key markets
helping to boost sales this year.  Orders for the year started April 1 are “looking quite
good,” especially in the financial services and manufacturing
industries, and spending by telecommunications companies will
recover, Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said
yesterday.  Tata Consultancy, which reported net income that rose 22
percent in the three months ended March, joins larger competitor
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  in signaling that demand for outsourced software
services remains buoyant, helping maintain prices. Spending on
information-technology services worldwide this year is estimated
by Gartner Inc. to climb at a faster pace than 2012.  “They’re being able to dictate terms to buyers who are in
desperate need of solutions to optimize their own efficiency,”
said Anurag Rana, an information-technology analyst with
Bloomberg Industries. “The comments were most important as they
echoed what Accenture announced and are providing stability to
the industry.”  Shares of Tata Consultancy fell 0.3 percent to 1,452.75
rupees at the close of Mumbai trading today. The stock has
advanced 32 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 9.3
percent gain for the S&P BSE Sensex and second-ranked  Infosys
Ltd. (INFO) ’s 3.2 percent drop.  Citigroup, VW  Infosys slid the most in a decade April 12 after missing
its own full-year sales guidance and setting an annual revenue
growth forecast that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Net income  at Tata Consultancy rose to 36 billion rupees
($665 million) in the three months ended March, the Mumbai-based
company said. That compares with the 36.1 billion-rupee median
of 43 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue at Tata Consultancy, which provides computer
services and back-office support to  companies  including
Citigroup Inc. and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , rose 24 percent in the fourth
quarter to 164.3 billion rupees. That compared with the 164.5
billion-rupee median estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  “We continue to see strong momentum, deal closures are
happening,” Chandrasekaran said. “We are positive about all
sectors including financial services and, particularly, we also
feel that telecom will see the recovery from the coming quarter
and year onwards.”  Banking, Telecoms  Banking, financial services and insurance was the largest
segment,  contributing  43 percent of Tata Consultancy’s revenue
in the year to March 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Telecommunications accounted for 11 percent of sales.  “TCS demonstrated that it’s possible for Indian IT
companies to produce gradual and sustainable growth in the
current economic environment,” said Harit Shah, Mumbai-based
analyst with Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. “That’s a strong and
encouraging statement for TCS and the industry.”  Top information-technology service providers are predicted
to post double-digit growth as a recovery in the U.S. and in
financial services stokes demand, Rana said.  “The global economic environment is providing us with many
new opportunities,” Chandrasekaran said. “We are going to have
a better year this year.”  Margins Shrink  The company’s margins declined 70 basis points after the
quarter ended December, due to a $30 million settlement over a
wage dispute in  California . Indian workers claimed that Tata had
forced them to sign over their federal and tax refunds to the
company and wrongfully deducted Indian salaries from their U.S.
compensation.  “The margins cut was a one-off cost associated with the
U.S. lawsuit,” said  Bhuvnesh Singh , head of research in India
for Barclays Plc.  Tata Consultancy will also consider buying rivals in  Europe 
to add customers, Chandrasekaran said. The Indian software
exporter agreed this month to acquire French information-
technology services company Alti SA for 75 million euros ($98
million) to  gain clients  in banking,  luxury goods , manufacturing
and utilities.  “We are constantly looking for acquisitions, Europe is a
focus area for organic and inorganic growth,” Chandrasekaran
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  