-- Tate & Lyle Urges EU to Guarantee Sugar Supplies as Costs Soar
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-17T08:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/tate-lyle-urges-eu-to-guarantee-sugar-supplies-as-costs-soar.html
The European Union must guarantee
sugar supplies for the bloc’s refiners after quotas end because
the cost of importing raw sweetener from preferential countries
is at a 10-month high, according to Tate & Lyle Sugars.  Quotas that cap the amount of sugar local producers can
sell in the EU will end as part of Common Agricultural Policy
reform. The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,
proposed ending the system in 2015 while Parliament and the EU
Council want them ended by 2017 or 2020. Refiners importing raw
sugar from nations with preferential access paid the most since
March 2012 in January, commission data show.  “If the quotas are going to be eliminated, then that will
free up and permit the isoglucose and beet sectors to produce
and to sell as much quantity as they wish,” Tony Bennett,
government affairs and strategy manager at Tate & Lyle, said in
a telephone interview from  London  yesterday. There needs to be
“some kind of mechanism to allow the cane refiners to compete
with fully liberalized beet and isoglucose sectors.”  Tate & Lyle Sugars is owned by American Sugar Refining
Inc., and operates London’s last sugar refinery on the Thames
River. It’s no longer related to London-based Tate & Lyle Plc,
the maker of low-calorie sweetener Splenda.  Sugar producers in the EU can only sell a limited amount of
their output in the domestic market, with the rest being put to
non-food use or exported. That leaves part of the bloc’s
consumption to be met by imports from some least developed
countries and nations in the African, Caribbean and Pacific
group of states, known as LDC and ACP countries.  Sugar Imports  Raw sugar imports from ACP nations cost an average 620
euros ($817) a metric ton in January, according to the
commission. That was the second-highest price since at least
2006 and 63 percent above the average of the white sugar futures
traded on the NYSE Liffe exchange in London that month.  Shortages of sugar in the EU emerged three years ago as
supplies from preferential nations fell below the commission’s
forecast. The EU sugar price climbed to 738 euros a ton in
January, the highest since at least 2006, data from the
commission showed. In February, it fell to 725 euros a ton.  “The ACP, LCD countries account for less than 5 percent of
the world trade,” Bennett said before the Kingsman EU Seminar
in Geneva tomorrow. “So to continue to limit us to their supply
volume wouldn’t be giving a parallel treatment.”  Sugar Demands  Sugar refiners in the EU want the bloc to guarantee that
they will have enough supplies to be able to compete after
quotas end, Bennett said. While the preference would still be
given to ACP and LDC nations, the EU must allow imports from
elsewhere in case these countries cannot fulfill refiner needs,
he said. A mechanism on how to do this has not yet been defined
and will be discussed at a meeting of the Brussels-based
European Sugar Refiners’ Association today, he said.  “The current harvest of beets more than exceeds the total
consumption of sugar in the EU,” Bennett said. “If you
liberalize completely the isoglucose and the beet sectors and
you don’t liberalize the cane refiners, the imports will reduce
dramatically.”  Producing sugar in Northwest Europe is cheaper than in some
nations that have preferential agreements with the EU, Bennett
said. The cost of making a ton of sugar in Holland,  France ,
 Belgium  and the U.K. is “significantly lower,” he said.  More Needed  The European Commission will probably need to take
additional measures to supply the local market with more sugar
again in the 2013-14 season that will start in October even as
imports from preferential countries have started to climb this
season, according to Bennett.  “Clearly the regime that we are currently in was designed
on the expectation of significantly more  imports  from the APC
and LDC countries than have actually come,” Bennett said. “I’m
sure they will be bringing some volume into the market. How
much? I’d say probably more than 500,000 tons.”  The commission said it will allow additional supplies of
1.2 million tons in the bloc this season by importing and
allowing local producers to sell more in the domestic market.
Additional supplies next season will depend on the market
situation, said Roger Waite, a spokesman for the commission.  “The commission has the role to manage the market and
that’s what we will do,” Waite said by phone from Brussels
yesterday. “We would prefer if it wasn’t someone in Brussels
that had to decide how much  sugar  is placed in the market, but
under current rules, that’s the role the commission has.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  