-- Australia to Cut Carbon-Revenue Forecast as EU Price Plunges
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-17T06:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/australia-cutting-carbon-revenue-forecast-amid-eu-price-collapse.html
Australia will lower its expected
revenue from selling carbon allowances after the European Union,
its partner in a cap-and-trade system set to start in 2015,
failed to win support for lifting record low prices.  European carbon permits fell the most on record following
a vote yesterday in Strasbourg,  France , to reject an emergency
measure to reduce surplus allowances. Carbon for December fell 35
percent to 3.09 euros ($4.07) a metric ton on the ICE Futures 
Europe exchange, the lowest-ever settlement for the contract.  “We will continue with our plans to link with the European
emissions trading scheme from 1 July, 2015,” Australia Climate
Minister Greg Combet said today in an e-mailed statement. “But
this year’s budget, as is usual practice by Treasury, will
include a revised forecast for a carbon price in 2015-16.”  Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s government, which has
scheduled the first auction of carbon permits in 2014, stands to
collect less money than originally forecast as lower prices in
Europe spill over to  Australia . The nation is set to shift to a
cap-and-trade system in 2015 that is integrated with the EU
emissions market. For now, Australia’s fixed price on carbon
is almost six times higher than the EU price.  “The European system to which the government has tied
Australia’s electricity prices is now deeply unstable,”
Australia Shadow Minister for Climate Action Greg Hunt said in
an e-mailed statement today. “The Australian tax is completely
out of line with the rest of the world.”  Fixed Price  Australia’s ruling Labor party set the price of carbon 
at A$23 ($23.85) a metric ton starting in July 2012 with the
aim of reducing Australia’s reliance on coal. Gillard’s
government amended the law in August 2012 to allow emitters to
immediately begin buying EU permits in place of Australia’s own
carbon allowances starting in 2015.   Companies will be able to use imported units from either
the EU or United Nations offset market for as much as half of 
their emissions obligation in Australia.  “Australia is now tied to a severely oversupplied market,
which is likely to take years to recover,” said Hugh Bromley,
carbon-market analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Sydney.
“The government will start auctioning carbon units in early
2014, and it’s possible that these allowances will sell for just
two to three Australian dollars. A carbon price this low will
encourage almost no reduction in domestic emissions and will
certainly not meet the scheme’s objective to encourage
investment in clean energy.”  Abbott’s Vow  The carbon price is Australia’s main tool for meeting its
target for cutting greenhouse gases by 5 percent before 2020.
The Australian Industry Group is pushing the government to
immediately jettison the fixed rate in favor of market-based
prices.  Opposition leader Tony Abbott has vowed to repeal the
carbon price if his Liberal-National coalition wins the 
election set for Sept. 14. The latest Newspoll shows him with
a 10 percentage-point lead over Gillard.  Abbott said he will introduce a so-called Direct Action Plan
that would commit as much as A$750 million a year to reward
entities that demonstrate the most cost-effective spending to
cut emissions, opposition climate spokesman Hunt said in
November 2012.  Gillard was forced in December to abandon a pledge to return
the May 14 budget to surplus this year due to falling tax revenue.  Treasury Forecast  The Australian Treasury’s latest estimate for the country’s
carbon price in the fiscal year beginning in 2015 is A$29 a ton.
Without approval for the plan to limit the EU surplus, prices
will be less than half that amount, Bromley said.  “In the budget in coming weeks, Treasury will model the
carbon price in the usual way, and there will be a revised
forecast for the financial year 2015-16 and a revised revenue
forecast as a result,” Combet said in the statement.
Expenditures tied to forecast carbon revenue are also set to
fall, he said.  The European Parliament yesterday voted 334 to 315, with 63
abstentions, in favor of an amendment to prevent the European
Commission’s proposal to alter the bloc’s emissions-trading law.
The change was meant to pave the way for a measure to delay the
sale of some permits over the next three years and reintroduce,
or “backload,” them to the market in 2019 and 2020.  “With the chances of the current backloading proposal now
shattered, Australia will likely have a very low carbon price
when we transition to a flexible price,” Bromley said. However,
the failed backloading vote will not affect Australia’s
international commitments. Our reported national emissions
should still fall by 5% below 2000 levels in 2020 because
Australian companies will purchase cheap international abatement
rather than reduce their onsite emissions.”  Financial Crisis  Europe ’s rejection of backloading vote may be interpreted
as a loss of confidence in cap-and-trade carbon markets, Bromley
said. “But this is not why the proposal failed. The message
from the European Parliament was to leave the market alone and
minimize political interference.”  Europe’s backloading proposal was one of several under
consideration to support emissions trading, Combet said. It will
now be considered further by the Parliament’s environment
committee in Europe, he said.  “The carbon market in Europe is just one of the markets
that has been affected very seriously by the global financial
crisis and by the financial crisis in Europe specifically, and
so the low prices are a response to those influences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  