-- Australian Pensions to Invest in Foreign Infrastructure Assets
-- B y   I a i n   M c D o n a l d   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-04-17T00:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/australian-pensions-to-invest-in-foreign-infrastructure-assets.html
A lack of suitable Australian
infrastructure for sale is encouraging the country’s pension
funds to invest in foreign assets, including in China and
 Europe , according to an association representing the funds.  “The returns from many pieces, from brownfield Australian
infrastructure, are poor and they are lumpy,” Association of
Superannuation Funds of  Australia  Chief Executive Pauline Vamos
said in an interview in Sydney on April 15, referring to
infrastructure already in operation. The funds are instead
looking at assets with steady returns and will continue to
invest in “China,  Poland , Europe, the U.K., everywhere.”  Australia’s retirement savings system is the fourth-largest
pool of funds under management globally. Funds totaled A$1.51
trillion ($1.5 trillion) in the fourth quarter of 2012, the
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority said in February. The
Business Council of Australia said in June that federal and
state governments should sell existing public infrastructure
assets to help fund new investment.  The New South Wales state government’s lease last week of
two ports was “the first investable thing for two years,” said
Vamos, who heads the association that represents about 90
percent of Australians with superannuation. There is no pipeline
of domestic infrastructure assets, she added.  A group including Industry Funds Management, five
Australian superannuation funds and a unit of Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority said they would pay A$5.07 billion for 99-
year leases of Port Botany and Port Kembla.  Foreign Infrastructure   The funds are keen to invest in domestic infrastructure,
including electricity transmission assets, even as “state
governments are terrified of selling these sorts of assets
because they’re worried about the public backlash,” she said.  “A lot of funds will say it is a lot easier to invest in
foreign infrastructure than Australian infrastructure,” said
Alex Dunnin, director of research at financial services
information company the Rainmaker Group.  Some of the funds are investing in Asian infrastructure or
European infrastructure because of lack of opportunities at
home, he said.  AMP Capital Investors Ltd., the Sydney-based company
managing about $130 billion in funds, said in February it had
invested $100 million in North American wind energy developer
Capistrano Wing Partners LLC and planned more power investments
in the U.S.  Infrastructure Australia, a federal government body, in
October said it had identified more than A$100 billion of
commercial infrastructure owned by Australian governments, for
which the costs of operation and maintenance outweighed the
benefits to the community of retaining ownership.  Toll Roads  Several toll-road projects initiated by state governments
had proved to be poor investments because the country doesn’t
have a large enough population to generate the necessary
traffic, Vamos said.  “Our average toll roads have a peak period of three hours
a day, but you invest in  China , you invest in Europe, they are
busy 24 hours a day; that’s where we invest, that’s where we
build roads,” she said.  BrisConnections Unit Trust, which was awarded a 45-year
concession to construct and maintain a toll road linked to
Brisbane Airport, appointed outside managers in February after
lenders failed to support a restructuring of the business due to
lower-than-expected toll road revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  