-- Automakers Spur $3 Billion Boom for Made-in-Mexico Steel
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-04-17T20:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/automakers-spur-3-billion-boom-for-made-in-mexico-steel.html
Mexico ’s auto production has almost
doubled since 2009. Now its  steel industry  is trying to catch up
by spending almost $3 billion on new and improved factories.  “Auto exports are going to be the new oil for the Mexican
economy,” Marco Oviedo, chief economist of Barclays Plc in
Mexico, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  Steelmaker Altos Hornos de Mexico SA, known as Ahmsa, has
almost completed a $2.3 billion expansion designed partly to
supply automakers.  Ternium SA (TX)  and  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal
Corp. (5401)  are teaming up on a $330 million investment to finish
rust-resistant steel, and South Korea’s  Posco (PKX)  is spending $300
million to more than double capacity for similar products.  Further growth is likely: The Mexican Automobile Industry
Association predicts output will climb almost 40 percent to 4
million vehicles in 2017 as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit build factories
that join long-standing plants for U.S. carmakers General Motors
Co. and Ford Motor Co.  Mexico has become a magnet for automakers seeking low
labor-cost output with access to North and South American
markets and other regions through the nation’s trade agreements
with more than 40 countries. In some cases, Japanese automakers
were taking advantage of the  yen’s strength  against the dollar
at the time they announced their investments.  “The automotive sector in Mexico is one of the stronger
ones around the world,”  Paul Robinson , senior economist at
researcher IHS, said in a telephone interview from  Washington .
“Because the expansion on the automotive side has come so fast
and so recently, the steel industry is a little behind.”  Galvanized Steel  While Mexico is the world’s 13th-largest maker of steel
overall, its production of automotive-grade metal that has been
galvanized, or coated in zinc to prevent rust, remains low, said
Oscar Albin, president of the National Autoparts Industry in
Mexico City. That has been largely imported from the U.S. and
other countries, Albin said.  Mexico’s steel imports climbed 36 percent to a record  9.6
million tons  last year, according to trade group National Iron
and Steel Industry Chamber.  Among the larger exporters of steel to Mexico are the U.S.
plants of  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS)  and  U.S. Steel
Corp. (X) , said Kenneth Hoffman, head of metals and mining research
at Bloomberg Industries. Local producers will be able to compete
with those imports by offering a shorter supply line and lower
transportation costs.  Nearby Suppliers  “Carmakers often demand that the suppliers be nearby with
the promise of big demand,” Hoffman said. “We saw the same
thing when a number of German and Japanese carmakers moved into
the American South and steel producers followed.”  Ford (F)  would consider buying more Mexican-made steel for its
factories in Hermosillo and Cuautitlan as long as it met the
automaker’s quality standards, said Leo Torres, supply chain
director for the company’s Mexico unit.  “If I have a ton of steel I can import to my plants in
Hermosillo or Cuautitlan and I can buy the same ton in Mexico
for the same price, my logistics costs are going to benefit and
my inventory costs are going to benefit,” he said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City yesterday.  The Mexican steel industry will invest $11 billion in the
next four years, Alonso Ancira, president of the iron and steel
chamber and chairman of Ahmsa, said last month. The industry
directly employed 53,000 workers at the end of 2011, according
to the trade group.  Aluminum Threat  There are potential challenges, too. A global glut of the
metal may undermine investment in Mexico, Ancira warned, calling
on the Mexican government to crack down on “unfair
competition.”  At the same time, demand may drop as manufacturers replace
some parts traditionally made of steel with aluminum to reduce
vehicle weight and comply with stricter fuel-economy standards.  Mexican vehicle output has jumped 91 percent since 2009,
the Mexican Automobile Industry Association said.  Japanese automakers shifted production outside their home
market to maintain competitive pricing in the U.S. as the yen
strengthened for two straight years before declining against
both the dollar and the  peso  in 2012. Their new assembly lines
will boost Mexico’s automotive production capacity even further.  Nissan is scheduled to open a $2 billion factory by the end
of the year next to an existing plant in the central state of
Aguascalientes. The Yokohama, Japan-based company is the largest
automaker in Mexico with 24 percent of 2012 vehicle output,
followed by Volkswagen,  GM (GM) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, and
Ford.  Mazda Factory  About 150 miles away in the state of Guanajuato, Tokyo-
based Honda plans to open an $800 million factory next year with
capacity for 200,000 Fit small cars.  Mazda’s new factory in the same state, slated to open in
2014, will make Mazda2 and Mazda3 small cars. Annual capacity in
the $650 million plant will be 230,000 vehicles by 2016, Mazda
said in January. That’s 21 percent more than the Hiroshima,
Japan-based company discussed as recently as November, when it
added 50,000 small cars per year for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to its
capacity of 140,000 vehicles.  Volkswagen’s Audi chose the state of Puebla, east of Mexico
City, for a $1.3 billion plant to assemble its Q5 sport-utility
vehicle starting in 2016.  Mexico accounted for 19 percent of North American car and
light truck production last year, up from 11 percent in 2000 and
6 percent in 1990, the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago said in a
 newsletter  dated May 2013. The nation surpassed  Canada  in auto
output in 2008 and the gap has widened every year since, they
said.  Labor Costs  Labor costs in the Mexican automobile industry are about 20
percent of what they are in the U.S. and Canada, according to
Luis Lozano, the lead automotive partner at
PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP in Mexico City.  “Auto exports have gone from 4 percent of the gross
domestic product to close to 6 percent,” said Oviedo of
Barclays. “With all the investments that have been announced,
they’re going to rise to 8 to 9 percent very soon. That’s almost
twice oil exports last year as a percentage of GDP.”  Steelmakers have followed. Ternium, based in Luxembourg, is
completing a $1.1 billion plant near Monterrey, Mexico, with an
annual capacity of 1.5 million tons to supply automakers, home-
appliance manufacturers and others.  The project includes the joint venture with Nippon Steel &
Sumitomo Metal, which will be able to finish 400,000 tons of
rust-resistant steel a year, starting in July.  Posco Capacity  Posco (005490) , based in Pohang, South Korea, said in 2011 that it
would more than double the capacity of its continuous
galvanizing line in Altamira, Mexico, by adding 500,000 tons.  Posco’s  American depositary receipts  slid 2.6 percent to
$69.98 in New York today, while Ternium’s dropped 2.2 percent to
$19.21. Both companies have fallen this year as steelmakers
globally struggle with excess production capacity and lower
demand. Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal declined 1.8 percent to
$25.31 today.  Posco signed a letter of intent with Ahmsa last year to
form a joint venture in which the Mexican company would send its
Korean counterpart iron ore while tapping its expertise in
producing automotive steel.  Ahmsa, an integrated steelmaker that has been in bankruptcy
proceedings since 1999, is finishing a $2.3 billion investment
this year in its so-called “Fenix” project to add 1.7 million
tons of annual capacity. The project includes steel for
automotive applications,  Christopher Plummer , managing director
of consulting firm Metal Strategies Inc., said in a telephone
interview from  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania .  Mexico is “significantly short of domestic capacity for
the high-quality steel coils that are needed,” Plummer said.
“With these lines, they’ll make major steps in becoming self-
sufficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  