-- Leumi Halts Dankner Debt Deal Pending Regulator Review
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-04-18T06:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bank-of-israel-reviewing-dankner-debt-arrangement-with-leumi.html
(Corrects size of bank in second paragraph of story first
published April 17.)  Bank Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI)  Ltd. said it
will suspend a debt arrangement with tycoon Nochi Dankner’s
Ganden Holdings Ltd. while the deal is reviewed by regulators.  Leumi,  Israel ’s second-biggest lender, announced the
decision late today after the Bank of Israel’s commercial
banking watchdog said it would examine the arrangement with
Ganden and may also look at the practices of other banks.  “In light of the statement by the Supervisor of Banks that
it is examining the matter, the bank has decided to suspend
implementation of the debt arrangement until the review is
completed, and will act according to the results,” Tel Aviv-
based Leumi said in an e-mailed statement.  The regulator acted in response to media  reports  earlier
today that Leumi would forgive 150 million shekels ($41.3
million) of Ganden’s debt and that other banks would forgive
additional amounts. The Knesset Finance Committee announced
today that it will hold a meeting on Tuesday to discuss “debt
arrangements made by banks with tycoons.”  “The matter is being examined by the Supervisor of
Banks,” the Bank of Israel said in a text message sent to
journalists. “The guiding principle behind the review is to
make sure that the bank operated properly, according to proper
procedure, when the credit was given, during its management, and
if necessary, during the making of the debt arrangement.”  Israeli holding companies are struggling to repay debt as
they face unprofitable investments and new regulations to boost
competition. Dankner’s  IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) , which is seeking funds
to meet payments on about 2.06 billion shekels of debt, in March
proposed to transfer 15 percent of its shares to bondholders, as
well as a 500 million-shekel cash injection.  Elbit Imaging Ltd. (EMIT) 
in February reached an accord with major bondholders to
restructure the company’s unsecured debt of 2.46 billion
shekels.  Similar Arrangements  Ganden is in talks to reach a debt arrangement with its
creditor banks that is “identical in principle” to hundreds of
other arrangements that have been made by the Israeli business
sector and are accepted in the developed world, a spokesman for
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  The debt figures that were reported in the media are
incorrect and the actual figures are “substantially smaller,”
according to the Ganden statement.  Leumi  shares  declined 1.9 percent to 12.37 shekels today,
and the TA-Bank Index, which measures the performance of the
stock exchange’s five largest banks, dropped 2.2 percent. The
TA-25 benchmark index fell 0.1 percent.  “What is worrying investors is not so much the issue of
the loan itself, rather the politicization of how credit is
allocated by the banks and the fact that the central bank is
intervening in bank-customer relations,” Terence Klingman, head
of research at Psagot Investment House Ltd., said today by
phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  