-- Basel Endorsed, Nomura Assets, SAC Approval: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-17T11:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/basel-endorsed-nomura-assets-sac-approval-compliance.html
European Union banks will be forced
to boost capital, disclose more information on their activities
than ever before, and face tougher scrutiny of how they measure
risks, after lawmakers formally endorsed a law to overhaul the
bloc’s financial rulebook.  The European Parliament backed the sweeping changes, which
also include a cap on banker bonuses at twice fixed pay, at a
meeting in Strasbourg, France. The EU’s biggest banks had a
combined 112.4 billion-euro ($147.3 billion) shortfall as of
June 2012 in the reserves needed to meet the tougher capital
standards, according to European Banking Authority data.  The assembly’s vote follows 18 months of talks in which
lawmakers insisted on expanding the scope of the legislation to
include tougher banker pay rules, while governments baulked at
provisions that would transfer some responsibility for setting
capital requirements to the Brussels-based European Commission.
The agreement will now be sent to ministers to be rubber-
stamped.  The new rules, which are scheduled to apply fully starting
in 2019, more than triple the core capital that  banks  must hold
compared to previous international standards. They will also
force banks to maintain stocks of easy-to-sell assets that they
could use to generate cash in a crisis, and hand powers to the
London-based EBA to police the mathematical models lenders use
to calculate their capital needs.  Other parts of the text will compel banks to publish
country-by-country figures on the taxes they pay, profits they
make and subsidies they receive.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Seeks to Force Companies to Publish Anti-Corruption Measures  The European Union may force large companies to disclose
more information on safeguards they have put in place against
bribery and corruption as part of a push by the bloc to hold
businesses to account over their social and environmental
performance.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, proposed
yesterday that companies with more than 500 employees should be
forced to “disclose relevant and material environmental and
social information” in their annual reports. Businesses would
also be expected to set out steps they have taken to boost
boardroom diversity, and whether the measures have worked.  The plans need approval from governments and the European
Parliament before they could take effect.  Compliance Action  Paschi Prosecutors Seizing $2.4 Billion of Nomura Assets  Italian prosecutors are seizing about 1.8 billion euros
($2.4 billion) of assets from  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  as part of a
probe into  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ’s use of
derivatives to hide losses.  Sadeq Sayeed, Nomura’s former European head, and Raffaele
Ricci, a managing director in fixed-income sales, are also being
probed for colluding to obstruct regulators and making false
statements, prosecutors in Siena, where the bank is based, said
in a statement yesterday. They are also sequestering 14.4
million euros of assets from three of the Italian lender’s
former managers who are already being investigated.  The seizures are linked to allegations of fraud and usury,
prosecutors said. Monte Paschi has claimed Nomura colluded with
its former managers to devise one of two derivatives in 2008 and
2009 that hid total losses of much as 557 million euros. Nomura
reaped at least 88 million euros from the transaction, dubbed
Alexandria, according to Italian lender.  Monte Paschi sought a 4.1 billion-euro bailout in February,
its second in four years, as its capital shortfall widened.  Lawyers for the three former Monte Paschi executives didn’t
immediately answer their mobile phones.   Rob Davies , a spokesman
for Nomura in London, declined to comment. The bank isn’t under
probe, according to prosecutors. Sayeed, 59, said he denied any
allegation of wrongdoing against him. Ricci didn’t return a call
and an e-mail seeking comment.  For more, click here.  Parker Drilling Settles U.S. Bribery Probes for $15.9 Million  Parker Drilling Co. (PKD) , a Houston-based oil services company,
agreed to pay $15.9 million to settle U.S. allegations it tried
to bribe a Nigerian government panel to reduce fines for
violating the country’s customs laws.  The company gave a middleman $1.25 million knowing it would
go to a foreign official to lower a legally imposed fine, the
U.S. said in a filing yesterday in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia. Parker Drilling agreed to pay $11.8 million to settle
prosecutors’ charges it violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act.  The company also agreed to pay $4.1 million in disgorgement
and interest to settle a civil complaint by the  Securities and
Exchange Commission  that alleged violations of anti-bribery and
record-keeping provisions of the FCPA, the Justice Department
said in a statement.  “After an extensive investigation, with which we fully
cooperated, we are pleased to have reached agreement with the
DOJ and SEC, and we will continue to maintain a vigorous FCPA
compliance program,” Gary Rich, Parker Drilling’s president and
chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  The SEC settlement is contingent on approval by a federal
judge, according to a company announcement accompanying Rich’s
statement.  The case is U.S. v. Parker Drilling, 13-cr-00176, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Goldman Sachs Gets U.K. Regulatory Approval to Operate Bank Unit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-largest U.S. bank by
assets, gained regulatory approval to run a branch of its
commercial bank in the U.K.  Goldman Sachs Bank USA received the license on March 21,
according to a filing with Britain’s Financial Conduct
Authority. The branch will be able to accept deposits, advise on
investments and arrange the safeguarding and administration of
assets, according to the filing.  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were the largest U.S.
securities firms before they converted to bank holding companies
after the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. Both became subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve
and won access to central bank programs such as the discount
window, which are designed to protect deposit-taking banks.
Goldman Sachs Bank USA was set up as a New York State-chartered
bank in 2008.  Financial News reported the approval for a commercial-bank
branch earlier.  Courts  Ex-MF Global Broker Sentenced to 5 Years for Illegal Trades  Former MF Global Inc. broker Evan Brent Dooley was
sentenced to 5 years in prison for making unlawful unauthorized
trades that caused the now-defunct futures firm to lose more
than $141 million in 2008.  The sentence, half of what the government sought, was
imposed yesterday by U.S. District Judge Robert M. Dow in
Chicago. Dooley, 45, pleaded guilty in December to two counts of
violating speculative position limits under the Commodities
Exchange Act. He was also sentenced to one year of supervised
release and must pay $141 million in restitution.  While Dooley was indicted in 2010, more than a year before
the bankruptcy filing of brokerage parent  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ) , the incident was cited as an example of risk management
weakness in a 124-page report released this month by trustee
 Louis Freeh  analyzing the firm’s failure.  MF Global Holdings filed for bankruptcy in October 2011
after making a $6.3 billion wrong-way trade on its own behalf of
the bonds of some of Europe’s most indebted nations. The company
won final approval April 5 of its plan to repay creditors.  Prosecutors asked Dow to impose a 10-year sentence and
require full restitution to Freeh as trustee.  Keri Ambrosio, Dooley’s lawyer, asked for a sentence of
probation and extended supervised release, pointing out family
circumstances that caused Dooley to panic and act “out of
desperation.”  “He did not scheme to steal from MF Global,” Ambrosio
said in a filing.  Dooley, of Olive Branch, Mississippi, worked in MF Global’s
Memphis, Tennessee, office. He was associated with the New York-
based firm from September 2006 to February 2008 and permitted to
trade on his own account and for clients, prosecutors said in
announcing his indictment in April 2010.  The case was brought in Chicago because the transactions
were conducted through  CME Group (CME)  Inc.’s Chicago Board of Trade.  The case is U.S. v.  Dooley, 1:10-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Porsche Criminal Probes May Boost Hedge Funds’ German Lawsuits  Hedge funds and institutional investors seeking 4 billion
euros ($5.2 billion) from Porsche SE over its failed takeover of
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  may be hoping, unlike most plaintiffs, that three
German civil court suits take a long time to resolve.  After U.S. judges largely rebuffed similar suits, investors
will focus on Germany, where a court in Braunschweig will hear
three cases today. Drawn-out criminal probes into former
executives, board members and beyond, may eventually give the
plaintiffs an advantage, said Robert Heym, a lawyer at Graf von
Westphalen.  Ever since Porsche, the maker of the 911 sports car,
disclosed on Oct. 26, 2008, it controlled 74.1 percent of
Volkswagen’s common stock and was seeking another 1 percent to
reach the threshold usually required for a takeover under German
law, the company has battled allegations it lied about its plans
and tried to manipulate the price of VW stock. The announcement,
made on a Sunday, caused the  shares  to surge to record highs as
short sellers scrambled to cover positions.  In the aftermath, the chief executive officer and the chief
financial officer were fired and Porsche agreed to be acquired
by Volkswagen after racking up more than 10 billion euros of
 debt  during the hostile bid.  The merger between the companies was scrapped in 2011
because of uncertainty from the litigation. The three suits
being heard today are the biggest in Germany over the failed VW
bid.  The Stuttgart criminal probe started in 2009 after the
Porsche takeover bid faltered.  For more, click here.  SAC’s Record $602 Million SEC Settlement Approved by Judge  SAC Capital Advisors LP’s record $602 million insider
trading settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission was approved by a federal judge, who conditioned his
ruling on a future appeals court decision in an SEC settlement
with  Citigroup Inc. (C)   U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in Manhattan approved
the settlement, while saying it remains subject to a ruling by
the U.S Court of Appeals in New York in the Citigroup case on
whether defendants in SEC cases may be permitted to neither
admit nor deny fault in such agreements. Marrero expressed
concern about such a provision in the SAC settlement in a
hearing on March 28. Marrero’s ruling, which was made public
yesterday, is dated April 15.  The court in the Citigroup case hasn’t said when it will
rule.  The settlement conditionally approved by Marrero would
resolve SEC claims that Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC and its
CR Intrinsic Investors LLC unit profited from illegal tips about
an Alzheimer’s drug received by a former portfolio manager,
Mathew Martoma.  Prosecutors claim Martoma shared the inside tips on the
drug with SAC founder  Steven A. Cohen , helping SAC make $276
million in illegal profit and in losses avoided on shares of
Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC. Cohen, who hasn’t been charged or
sued, has denied any wrongdoing. Martoma has pleaded not guilty.  Jonathan Gasthalter, an SAC spokesman at Sard Verbinnen &
Co., declined to comment on Marrero’s ruling.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. CR
Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-cv-08466, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.S. Charges French Citizen Tied to BSGR in Bribery Probe  A French citizen with ties to  BSG Resources Ltd.  was
charged with witness tampering and attempting to obstruct a
probe into whether a mining company paid bribes to win
“lucrative” rights in Guinea, according to court documents.  Frederic Cilins, 50, was arrested and charged with plotting
to destroy documents and induce a witness to give false
testimony to a grand jury investigating potential violations of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, according to a criminal
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in New York.  Guinean Justice Minister Christian Sow said in a statement
issued by the office of President  Alpha Conde  that Cilins was an
agent of  BSGR , a company controlled by Israeli billionaire Beny
Steinmetz. BSGR said last month that Guinea is preparing to
strip its joint venture with  Vale SA (VALE5)  of its mining rights in the
country.  The venture is planning a $10 billion iron ore mine in the
country at Simandou. The dispute intensified amid a government
review into the agreements signed with mining companies.  BSGR said in an e-mailed statement that Cilins isn’t one of
the company’s 6,000 employees and that allegations of fraud in
obtaining its mining rights are baseless.  The U.S. probe is seeking to determine the circumstances
surrounding the acquisition of mining licenses in Guinea by
BSGR, Conde’s office said in its statement. The criminal
complaint against Cilins doesn’t identify the company at the
center of the investigation.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale identified the entity cited in
the complaint as BSGR. The company said it was “deeply
concerned” about the allegations and intends to cooperate fully
with the governments of the U.S. and Guinea.  The case is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-mj-00975, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  King Says Central Bank Crisis Policies Carry Risks  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  spoke about the goals
and limits of monetary policy, and risks to the independence of
central banks in their “extraordinary measures” to fight the
financial crisis.  King participated in an International Monetary Fund panel
in Washington along with Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  and former European Central Bank Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi.  For the video, click here.  Gary Stern Discuss Possible Successor to Bernanke  Former Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President  Gary
Stern  talked about Federal Reserve policy and a possible
successor to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Stern spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Fed’s Duke Comments on Banking Industry and Regulations  Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke spoke about the
U.S. economy, the banking industry and financial market
regulations.  The Fed’s Carol Evans and Kevin Bertsch also spoke at the
American Bankers Association meeting in Washington.  For the audio, click here.  Armajaro Says Warehouse Queues Destroying Futures Price  If a party has to wait for delivery of a spot product for
two years because of warehouse queues, “it’s not a spot
contract anymore,” said Anthony Ward, founder of Armajaro
Holdings.  Ward made the remarks at the FT Global Commodities Summit
in Lausanne yesterday.  “If you can’t get physicals, it destroys futures price,
which is bad for price discovery,” Ward said. “Regulators
should talk to exchanges about queues,” he said.  High-frequency trading increases volatility and doesn’t
help price discovery in smaller markets, according to Ward.  Comings and Goings  OPEC Said to Consider Saudi Arabian for Research Head Role  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, has put
forward a candidate to replace Hasan Qabazard as head of
research at OPEC, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The nominee, along with any others proposed by fellow
members of the 12-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, will be discussed at an OPEC board of governors
meeting scheduled for May 6 to May 7, they said, declining to be
identified because Qabazard’s departure hasn’t been publicly
announced. Two other people with knowledge of the matter also
said that the producer group is looking for a new head of
research, speaking on condition of anonymity.  An official at OPEC’s Vienna headquarters declined to
comment. Qabazard, a Kuwaiti, couldn’t be reached for comment
when called yesterday on his office or mobile phones.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 