-- Batista Well Shutdown to Disappoint OGX Investors, Itau Says
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-04-17T12:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/batista-well-shutdown-to-disappoint-ogx-investors-itau-says-1-.html
OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA 
shares are poised to fall after billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil
company shut two of the three wells at its only producing field,
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  and Banco Santander SA said.  “These technical problems further increase our concerns on
the company’s ability to effectively produce from the Campos
carbonates,” Itau analysts Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes
wrote in a research report after the close of trading yesterday.
“We expect a negative market reaction to the news.”  Unstable power supply damaged production pumps last month
at the Tubarao Azul field, where output was already a fraction
of original estimates, OGX said in a filing yesterday. The Rio
de Janeiro-based company said it’s producing from a third well
that was only shut for two days as a precaution. Crude output
fell 26 percent in March to 8,300 barrels a day on the
mechanical malfunctions.  OGX (OGXP3)  shares have lost 90 percent over the past year after
disappointing production at Tubarao Azul. The company
encountered more compartmentalized geology than it was expecting
at the reservoir, inhibiting the flow of oil. OGX’s lower-than-
expected revenue has weighed on other companies in Batista’s
natural resources and logistics group that supply the producer
with goods and services.  The company will restart well 68HP in mid-May after
completing repairs and then fix the pump at well 1HP before
resuming output, it said yesterday. OGX didn’t provide
production estimates for April or May. Itau expects the 1HP well
to remain shut until mid-June.  Shares Rebound  In February, before the stoppages, Tubarao Azul pumped
11,300 barrels a day, compared with an installed capacity of
about 60,000 barrels a day at the production vessel it
contracted for the project. OGX plans to start producing from an
additional two fields in the Campos Basin by year-end.  Natural gas output rose to 6,800 barrels of oil equivalent
per day in March at the Gaviao Real field on land, it said.  Poor March production and news that two wells will remain
out of commission for another one to two months and will weigh
on shares, Santander analysts Felipe Reis and Alex Sciacio wrote
in a note to clients dated today.  OGX rose 3.7 percent to 1.40 reais in Sao Paulo trading
yesterday, rebounding from a 13 percent slump on April 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  