-- Bayer Claims Syngenta’s Fungicide Appear Infringes Patent
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-04-17T14:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bayer-claims-syngenta-s-fungicide-appear-infringes-patent.html
Bayer AG’s (BAYN)  CropScience unit, maker
of the Chipco Signature fungicide, filed a lawsuit claiming
 Syngenta AG’s (SYNN)  Appear product uses its patented technology and
falsely claims to be a superior product.  Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer, in a complaint filed
yesterday, asked a federal court in North Carolina to order the
infringement and marketing pitch stopped, as well as cash
compensation for any loss of sales or reputation.  The dispute is over a fungicide that includes the compound
phthalocyanine, used on citrus plants, golf courses, park lawns
and roses. Fungicides, including the Signature line, generated
1.97 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in sales last year for Bayer,
or about 5 percent of the company’s revenue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Syngenta has advertised the “falsely or misleading claim
that Appear fungicide delivers improved stress tolerance and
greater pythium and anthracnose control than your current Chipco
Signature program,” Bayer said in the complaint. Those claims
aren’t backed up by Syngenta efficacy trials on Appear, Bayer
said.  The patent, called “fungicidal compositions for the
enhancement of turf quality,” was first issued in 1997. Bayer
last week said it was beefing up its turf and ornamentals
management, including appointing a product manager for
fungicides.  Basel, Switzerland-based Syngenta is the world’s largest
maker of crop chemicals. Fungicides accounted for $3 billion in
sales last year, or 23 percent of Syngenta’s  revenue , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is scheduled to
announce first-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Syngenta doesn’t comment on pending litigation, said Paul
Minehart, a company spokesman.  The case is Bayer CropScience Inc. v. Syngenta Crop
Protection LLC, 13cv316, U.S. District Court for the Middle
District of  North Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  