-- Bayer, Syngenta Feel Heat as U.K. Grocers Review Insecticides
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-04-17T07:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bayer-syngenta-feel-heat-as-u-k-grocers-review-insecticides.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  face more
pressure over crop chemicals suspected in bee-deaths as
retailers including  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third largest
supermarket chain, said they’re looking into the matter.  “At present we have not banned the use of neonicotinoids
in plant protection products but we are monitoring the situation
very closely,” a Sainsbury’s spokesman said yesterday by e-
mail. Retailer  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  is reviewing its
position on the pesticides and will announce an update in about
a month, a spokesperson said yesterday.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s
biggest grocer, will be guided by government advice, a
spokesperson said.  Grocery chain Waitrose Ltd. said April 12 it will phase out
three Bayer and Syngenta neonicotinoid pesticides from its
supply chain by the end of 2014. The Co-Operative Group Ltd., a
U.K. retailer and one of the country’s largest farmers, banned
the use of neonicotinoids in own-brand fresh produce in 2009.  Further supermarket bans would hurt Bayer and Syngenta as
they seek to prevent a European Union-wide ban on some uses of
the insecticides, which are chemically related to nicotine. The
EU commission, the EU’s executive arm, proposed in January to
suspend use of three neonicotinoids on sunflowers, rapeseed,
corn and cotton because of risks to honey-bee health.  Varroa Destructor  Waitrose’s planned phase-out and the EU’s proposal cover
Bayer’s imidacloprid and clothianidin, and Syngenta’s
thiamethoxam. The pesticides, which work on the central nervous-
system of insects, pose a “high acute risk” to bees through
the nectar and pollen of some treated crops and through drifting
dust, the European Food Safety Authority wrote in a Jan. 16
report.  EU country experts failed to agree last month on either
approving or rejecting the suggested two-year ban. An appeal
committee is expected to meet by the end of the month, probably
April 29, to discuss the proposed ban,  Frederic Vincent , a
spokesman for the European Commission, said in an e-mailed reply
to questions.  European sales of the Cruiser seed treatment, for which
thiamethoxam is the active ingredient, are less than 1 percent
of Syngenta’s total global revenue, Paul Barrett, a company
spokesman, said in January.  Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer and Basel, Switzerland-
based Syngenta outlined a plan last month to improve bee health
in the EU and head off a ban. Syngenta has said falling bee
populations have nothing to do with chemicals, instead placing
blame on parasitic varroa destructor mites, which transmit
diseases including the deformed-wing virus.  Syngenta’s Barrett said Waitrose’s phase-out ignores “hard
evidence from the field” and “proposes nothing to address the
real causes of the decline in bee health.” Bayer was
“disappointed” by Waitrose’s decision, spokesman Julian Little
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  