-- Bayer Appeal, EU Patents, AbbVie: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-04-17T13:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bayer-appeal-eu-patents-abbvie-intellectual-property.html
Bayer AG’s (BAYN)  patent on the birth
control pill Yaz is invalid, a U.S. appeals court said in a
decision ensuring that  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz
unit can sell copies of the contraceptive.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington , in siding with Actavis, Sandoz and  Lupin Ltd. (LPC) ,
overturned a trial judge’s upholding of the patent, which
expires in June 2014. The  opinion  was posted yesterday on the
court’s website.  “We do not agree with the decision of this court and are
reviewing our legal options,” Astrid Kranz, a spokeswoman for
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer, said by telephone.  Yaz has drospirenone, a synthetic version of the hormone
progesterone. Regulators have been demanding stronger safety
warnings on birth-control pills with drospirenone. Bayer has
faced a wave of litigation in the U.S. related to allegations
linking Yaz and Yasmin to blood-clot injuries. Settlements and
legal expenses cost the German drugmaker 1.19 billion euros
($1.57 billion) last year.  The patent covers dosing regimens for oral contraceptives.
Yaz, which has been on the market since 2006, contains 24 active
pills and four placebos. The Federal Circuit said that wasn’t
very different from traditional regimens involving 21 active
pills and seven placebos.  In February, U.S. District Judge Kent Dawson in Las Vegas
ordered that the effective approval date of the generic versions
would be June 30, 2014. The Federal Circuit on March 13 put that
order on hold pending its decision.  The case is Bayer Healthcare Pharma v. Sandoz Inc.,
13-1207, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  The lower court case is Bayer Healthcare
Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc., 07cv1472,
U.S. District Court for the District of  Nevada  (Las Vegas).  For more, click here.  Patent  Spain, Italy Lose EU Court Appeal Over Patent System Adoption  Spain and  Italy  lost a challenge at the European Union’s
highest court against the EU’s decision to push ahead without
them to create the bloc’s first common patent system.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg ruled yesterday that
given it was “impossible” for all of the EU’s 27 nations “to
agree on a common system for the whole EU within a reasonable
period,” it was lawful to move ahead without the two dissenting
nations, who had objected to the plan largely over language
concerns.  The remaining 25 EU nations agreed two years ago to move
forward with a common patent system under a mechanism called
enhanced cooperation whereby member states can work together as
long as at least nine agree on the move.  The EU has 23 official languages and numerous compromises
failed to satisfy political demands or risked increasing
translation costs for companies.  The EU court yesterday said the decision didn’t damage the
EU and “does not prejudice any competence, right or
obligation” of Spain and Italy, who are free to join the agreed
system.  EU ministers in February formally approved plans to set up
the first patent court, paving the way for the common patent
system after a decades-long deadlock on the plans.  The cases are C-274/11, Spain v. Council, C-295/11, Italy
v. Council.  Mako to Acquire Stanmore Robotic Assets in Patent Settlement  Mako Surgical Corp. (MAKO)  said it will receive Stanmore Implants
Worldwide Ltd.’s robotic business assets and intellectual
property in a settlement of a patent dispute.  Stanmore has agreed to withdraw from robotics, and Mako
will drop patent-infringement litigation in federal courts in
 California  and  Massachusetts , and at the U.S. International
Trade Commission in Washington, the two companies said in a
joint statement yesterday. Financial terms weren’t disclosed  The dispute was over technology related to computerized
surgical devices and software. In January, London-based Stanmore
received U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval to market
its Sculptor Robotic Guidance Arm, used for knee surgery.  The Stanmore product competed with Mako’s RIO Robotic Arm
Interactive Orthopedic system, which accounted for $41.2 million
in sales last year, or 40 percent of the Fort Lauderdale,
Florida-based company’s revenue, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Boston case is Mako Surgical Corp. v. Stanmore Implants
Worldwide, 13-cv-10635, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  The California case is Mako Surgical Corp. v. Stanmore
Implants Worldwide, 13-cv-01221, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  AbbVie Said to Fire Heart Drug Sales Force as Patents End  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , the drugmaker split off from Abbott
Laboratories this year, will fire its sales force for heart
drugs as the medicines lose patent protection and face generic
competition, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The firings total in the mid-hundreds and are a mix of
AbbVie employees and contract workers, said the person, who,
lacking authorization to speak about the issue, asked not to be
identified.  AbbVie is shifting its focus from primary care, such as
drugs that treat a patient’s cholesterol, stroke or diabetes, to
so-called specialty medications in areas of unmet health needs,
Chief Financial Officer William Chase said in January. With the
cardiology drugs losing patent protection, the North Chicago,
Illinois-based company no longer needs a large sales force to
advertise them to doctors.  Chase in January called 2013 and 2014 “a time of
transition for AbbVie, as our lipid franchise experiences the
entry of generics.”  Adelle Infante, an AbbVie spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the firings.  “TriCor began facing generic competition in late 2012 and
several other products in our cardiovascular franchise will lose
patent exclusivity in 2013,” she said April 15 in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  Biogen Idec Loses Appeal in Arzerra Patent Case Against Glaxo  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Genentech unit lost
an appeals court ruling yesterday over a patent-infringement
case it filed against  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  regarding the cancer
drug Arzerra.  A U.S. judge was correct in his interpretation of the
Biogen Idec patent, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit in Washington yesterday said in an opinion posted on the
court’s website. Biogen Idec had conceded that, based on the
judge’s definition of the patent, Glaxo didn’t infringe it.  The case is Biogen Idec Inc. v. Glaxosmithkline LLC, 3:10-
cv-00608, U.S. District Court, Southern District of California
(San Diego).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Macy’s Wins Temporary Bar on Some Stewart Sales at J.C. Penney  Macy’s Inc., the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, said it won a ruling that temporarily bars  J.C. Penney
Co. (JCP)  from selling some items designed by  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc.  A New York judge banned J.C. Penney from selling Martha
Stewart Living-designed goods under the label “JCP Everyday”
in certain categories exclusive to Macy’s until he rules on the
retailer’s request for a temporary restraining order blocking
the sales, said  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Cincinnati-based
Macy’s, in an e-mail.  Richard T. Andrias, an associate justice with the New York
State Supreme Court’s Appellate Division in  Manhattan , made the
ruling during a closed hearing in Manhattan yesterday, Sluzewski
said. The decision couldn’t be immediately confirmed with the
court.  Macy’s is suing both New York-based Martha Stewart Living
and Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney, alleging that sales of
products designed by Stewart’s company in J.C. Penney stores
violate an exclusivity deal between Martha Stewart and Macy’s
signed in 2006.  Macy’s on April 15 filed an appeal of the refusal of
Justice Jeffrey K. Oing of New York State Supreme Court to order
J.C. Penney not to sell goods designed by Martha Stewart Living
under the “JCP Everyday” label.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Broadcast Networks Seek Appellate Court Rehearing of Aereo Case  Major U.S. television broadcasters asked the full U.S.
Court of Appeals in New York to review a decision that allows
Aereo Inc. to broadcast their programming without license or
payment.  Broadcasters, including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, on April 15 petitioned the court for what’s known
as an en banc review of the April 1 ruling.  In that ruling, a split panel of three judges held that
Aereo, the Barry Diller-backed online TV service, could air the
networks’ programming without first obtaining a license.  In the brief filed on April 15, the networks said that the
earlier ruling “overlooked the nature of Aereo’s business -- a
commercial enterprise that sells subscriptions to a broadcast
television retransmission service -- and instead focused
entirely on the means by which Aereo accomplishes that end.”  The networks claim that Aereo’s service violates the
Transmit Clause of the Copyright Act of 1976, which doesn’t
permit unauthorized retransmissions, according to the brief.  Virginia Lam, an Aero spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The appeals are American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo,
12-02807, and WNET v. Aereo, 12-02786, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For more on the initial appellate court decision, click
here.  For more copyright news, click here.  Internet  Google-EU Deal Wouldn’t Target Global Solution, Almunia Says  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s competitors, clamoring for the European Union
to press the search company to make global changes, face
disappointment after the bloc’s antitrust chief said any
settlement would focus on  Europe .  While confined to Google’s competition abuses there, any
accord to end the EU’s antitrust probe that started in 2010 must
stand the test of time and be impossible to circumvent, Joaquin Almunia said. Google this month submitted an offer to the
Brussels-based European Commission that would create more
distinction in Internet searches between its own services and
those of its competitors, according to a person familiar with
the talks.  “The U.S. and the EU have different systems and, on top of
that, Google has a very different market position in the U.S.,
where its competitors have a market share of around 30
percent,” Almunia said in response to written questions. “In
Europe, Google’s market share is more than 90 percent.”  Rivals, such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , want the EU to extract
changes after the U.S. closed a 20-month investigation into
whether Mountain View, California-based Google unfairly promoted
its own services in search results. The Federal Trade Commission
in January concluded that Google was motivated more by wanting
to improve its search results than by a desire to stifle
competition.  Although the EU commission’s jurisdiction doesn’t go beyond
the European Economic Area, it can order remedies that reach
beyond Europe if the disputed conduct has an anti-competitive
effect within the region, Thomas Vinje, a Brussels lawyer for
the FairSearch Coalition, a group of technology companies
including Microsoft,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , said in an e-
mail. The EEA encompasses the 27-nation EU plus Iceland,  Norway 
and  Liechtenstein .  Almunia said he hopes a settlement will be possible to
allow for “quick solutions to the competition problems we have
identified.”  “On the other hand, as I have always said, if such an
outcome is not possible I will decide to go back to the normal
antitrust procedure,” he said.  For more, click here.  Trade Secrets  Ex-Aeropostale CEO Says He Fired Finazzo Over Vendor Deal  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) ’s ex-chief executive officer testified in
the conspiracy trial of Christopher Finazzo that he fired the
former merchandise executive in 2006 because of a secret deal
with a vendor.  Julian Geiger, now CEO of  Crumbs Bake Shop Inc. (CRMB) , told
jurors yesterday in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York, that
Finazzo appeared to have a close relationship with South Bay
Apparel Inc., a T-shirt supplier.  Finazzo is accused by the government of conspiring to
overcharge Aeropostale, a New York-based retailer, and split the
profits, netting him as much as $25 million from about 1996 to
late 2006.  In discussions about finding lower-priced vendors for the
shirts, Finazzo reacted harshly to criticism of South Bay,
Geiger said on the stand.  Geiger’s testimony came in the second week of a trial
before U.S. District Judge Roslynn R. Mauskopf. Finazzo is
facing 16 counts, including conspiracy, mail fraud and wire
fraud charges. He could be sentenced to as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of a fraud charge.  The case is U.S. v. Finazzo, 10cr00457, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  