-- Bertelsmann Selling $2.1 Billion Stock in Broadcaster RTL
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-17T07:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bertelsmann-to-raise-up-to-1-6-billion-euros-in-rtl-share-sale.html
Bertelsmann SE, Europe’s largest
media company, is raising as much as 1.6 billion euros ($2.1
billion) from the sale of a stake in broadcasting unit  RTL Group
SA (RTL)  to gain funds for acquisitions.  Bertelsmann is selling 23.18 million RTL shares at 54 euros
to 62 euros apiece, with trading to begin April 30 in Frankfurt,
Luxembourg-based RTL said today. RTL stock rose as much as 1.1
percent to 57.92 euros in Brussels. Managers of the sale have an
option to sell an additional 2.3 million shares. Bertelsmann,
which owns about 92 percent of RTL, wants to keep at least a 75
percent stake.  Chief Executive Officer CEO Thomas Rabe plans to spend as
much as 3 billion euros on acquisitions over three years as
Bertelsmann seeks to reduce its reliance on Europe. RTL, which
already has listings in Luxembourg and Brussels, is seeking
growth from online and on-demand videos and has begun producing
 Youtube  shows through its FremantleMedia division.  Bertelsmann is the second major  Germany  company to raise
money selling shares in units this week.  Daimler AG (DAI)  sold its
remaining 7.5 percent stake in Airbus SAS parent European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. for 2.2 billion euros to focus
on its luxury car and truck operations. EADS bought 16 million
of the 61.1 million shares for 600 million euros.  German Listing  RTL, Europe’s largest broadcaster, said today first-quarter
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization rose by a mid-
to-high single-digit percentage, helped by growth in Germany.
The company didn’t provide detailed figures.  For RTL, whose revenue rose 4 percent last year to a record
6 billion euros, a listing in Germany means getting better
access to shareholders in its biggest market. The stock had
fallen 24 percent this year through yesterday in Brussels.  Bertelsmann’s Random House publishing unit agreed in
October to merge with  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin division to create
by far the largest  book publisher  in the U.K. and the U.S. This
year, the Guetersloh, Germany-based media company bought out
partner KKR & Co.’s stake in their BMG music rights venture.  Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley are joint global
coordinaters. The banks will also be bookrunners, along with
Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. BNP Paribas, Petercam SA and
Societe Generale SA are acting as co-lead managers and  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  is working as financial adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  