-- Billionaire Agarwal to Restart Mothballed Plant: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-04-17T18:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/billionaire-agarwal-to-restart-mothballed-plant-corporate-india.html
Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , controlled
by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , may soon restart a mothballed
alumina refinery after a change in mining rules helps resume
supply of raw materials to the plant.  Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. had to shut its factory in December
at Lanjigarh in the eastern state of Odisha after permits held
by bauxite miners in the neighboring states of Jharkhand and
Chhattisgarh expired. The  environment ministry  said March 13
that they don’t need fresh approvals to renew those licenses,
clarifying an earlier court order and paving the way for
replenishments of the ore.  “The move has provided an opportunity to us,” Sushil Kumar Roongta, managing director of Vedanta Aluminium, said in
an interview. “We’re working to see how soon we can get raw
material commitment needed to restart the factory.”  Vedanta Resources needs to fire up its alumina refinery to
help boost  cash flow  and cap interest expenses that have
quadrupled in the last two years after it was forced to idle its
copper smelter and  iron ore  mines by  India ’s environmental
rules. Standard & Poor’s placed the nation’s most indebted
metals producer’s credit rating on “watch with negative
implications on April 3, saying the company’s ability to
refinance will be ‘‘tested’’ in the coming quarters.  ‘‘Any move to reopen the alumina refinery will be a big
positive for the company as it would help save as much as $120-
$150 a ton on expensive alumina imports,’’ said Giriraj Daga, an
analyst with Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai. ‘‘The key to
starting the factory will be bauxite supplies.’’  Sterlite, Sesa  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) , India’s biggest copper
producer, was ordered shut last month on pollution charges,
while  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , the nation’s largest exporter of iron ore
in the year ended March 31, 2012, has halted output since
September following a probe by the provincial government into
violations of norms. In October, the  Supreme Court  banned mining
in the state. Both the companies are owned by Vedanta.  Sterlite and Sesa have plunged 24 percent this year in
Mumbai, compared with a 4 percent drop in the benchmark S&P BSE
Sensex. Sterlite surged 4.2 percent to 88.6 rupees in Mumbai
yesterday, while Sesa added 4.1 percent to 149.25 rupees.
London-listed Vedanta Resources has fallen 5 percent.  Several bauxite miners in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and
Odisha are preparing to reopen mines, which will raise
availability. Local supplies are also expected to rise following
an increase in export taxes. Overseas sales, which were duty-
free until March 31, are now taxed at 10 percent.  ‘‘There’re expectations small closed mines may be able to
restart mining that will increase domestic supplies,” Roongta
said. “We’re also in touch with the Odisha government for
ensuring long-term bauxite availability.”  Rising Debt  Vedanta’s debt increased to $17 billion after paying $8.67
billion to buy oil explorer  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  in December 2011.
Vedanta said in February 2012 it planned to merge units Sesa and
Sterlite. Sesa Sterlite, in which Vedanta Aluminium and Madras
Aluminium Co. will also be merged, will absorb $5.9 billion of
Vedanta’s debt as part of the merger agreement.  Vedanta had begun sourcing bauxite from local miners after
failing to secure the raw material from partner Orissa Mining
Corp., which was denied mining rights in the Niyamgiri hills in
2010 on concern it would damage the environment and displace the
tribes and wildlife in the area.  Restarting the refinery would help Vedanta narrow losses by
cutting high-cost alumina imports, while also ensuring a regular
raw material supply for its smelter. Vedanta deferred a plan to
expand its smelting capacity to 1.75 million tons and
subsequently to 2.6 million tons from 500,000 tons and refining
capacity fivefold to 5 million tons, pending approval to mine
bauxite.  Project Cost  Deferring the expansion may stretch the payback period and
delay returns,  Standard & Poor’s  Indian unit said in an April 15
report. The total cost of Vedanta Aluminium’s projects is $8.05
billion, of which the company has spent $6.6 billion as of Sept.
30, according to the report.  “Niyamgiri bauxite reserves were central to Vedanta’s
aggressive expansion plans in aluminum,” Abhishek Shukla,
analyst at  Societe Generale , said in a March 22 report.
“Vedanta’s management was overly confident and committed too
much capital without getting all the relevant clearances.”  While the refinery was shut, Vedanta Aluminium continued to
operate its alumina smelter in nearby Jharsuguda district to
produce the lightweight metal using imported alumina, the key
raw material. About 4 metric tons to 5 tons of bauxite ore are
needed to extract 2 tons of alumina, from which 1 ton of
aluminum can be produced, according to the European Aluminium
Association. Importing the metal ore was unviable for Vedanta
Aluminium because of the high cost of freight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in  Mumbai  at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  