-- Blackstone Said to Agreet to Buy Hyatt Waikiki Leasehold
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-04-17T16:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/blackstone-said-to-agreet-to-buy-hyatt-waikiki-leasehold.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest hotel owner, agreed to buy the leasehold on the Hyatt
Regency Waikiki Beach Resort and Spa for $450 million and plans
to remodel the Hawaiian property, which includes a shopping
mall, said a person with knowledge of the transaction.  Blackstone is acquiring the ground lease from a venture
between  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall real estate funds
unit, which owns the majority, and  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , which
will continue to operate the  Oahu  resort, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the sale hasn’t been completed.
The leasehold has a term of about 75 years, the person said.  The island of Oahu had the highest hotel occupancy of the
top 25 U.S. markets last year, according to STR, a
Hendersonville, Tennessee-based hospitality-research firm. The
purchase would give Blackstone its second hotel in Waikiki and
its fourth in  Hawaii , according to the person familiar with the
deal. The private-equity firm owns the Hilton Hawaiian Village
Waikiki Beach Resort through its Hilton Worldwide Inc. unit.  Peter Rose, a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone,
declined to comment on the agreement, which was reported
yesterday by Real Estate Alert. Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman
for Goldman Sachs in New York, and Amy Patti, a spokeswoman for
Chicago-based Hyatt, also declined to comment.  Blackstone plans to invest about $80 million to renovate
the Hyatt Waikiki property, the person said. Besides the hotel’s
1,230 rooms, the leasehold includes three levels of retail space
known as the Pualeilani Atrium Shops and restaurants. The deal
probably will be completed in July, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  