-- BMW Electric-Car Service Plan to Include Gasoline Loaners
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bmw-electric-car-service-plan-to-include-gasoline-loaners.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s biggest luxury-car maker, will offer extra services to
attract drivers to its I electric-car lineup, including
occasional use of gasoline-powered models.  BMW will install optional at-home fast-charging systems for
the i3 city car coming out at the end of 2013, Marcus Krieg, a
sales and marketing manager, said at a presentation in Leipzig,
 Germany . Onboard navigation software will be programmed to
detect the nearest public charging station during trips, and i3
owners will be able to borrow a gasoline-fueled car from their
dealer for weekend or vacation travel requiring a longer range.  The four-seat, battery-powered i3 will enter a market that
has yet to meet industry expectations. U.S. deliveries of  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201) ’s electric Leaf failed to reach even half of the
20,000 cars the Japanese manufacturer was targeting last year.
Munich-based BMW is targeting early earnings from its electric
line-up by offsetting expensive new materials with a sales setup
intended to limit distribution costs.  “The BMW group is charting new territory,” Harald Krueger, the carmaker’s head of production, said at a separate
presentation near Leipzig. “We are confident we will earn money
with every BMW i3 we sell from the launch on.”  Sports Car  The i3 will be followed by the i8 electric-gasoline hybrid
sports car in early 2014. The city car may be priced at about
40,000 euros ($52,200), according to an estimate by  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive Management at the
University of Applied Science in  Bergisch Gladbach , Germany. BMW
hasn’t announced yet how much the car will cost. The i8’s price
will exceed 100,000 euros,  Ian Robertson , the manufacturer’s
sales chief, has said.  “The i3 is more a car for the wealthy few,” said
Christian Ludwig, a Dusseldorf-based analyst with Bankhaus
Lampe. “It’s not really practical with its limited range and
limited loading space. You also need a garage or private parking
space to charge the battery, as the public infrastructure is
still very limited.”  BMW adapted the i3’s layout to the all-electric drivetrain,
with an aluminum chassis that houses the battery pack and
guarantees a low center of gravity, Krueger said. The passenger
compartment will be made of carbon-fiber reinforced plastic,
which weighs half as much as steel and is 30 percent lighter
than aluminum, to counter the battery weight.  Limiting Spending  To balance costs for the more expensive carbon fiber
material, BMW slimmed down the production process by reducing
the number of body parts by two-thirds, Krueger said. The use of
thermoplastics instead of steel for the body panels will
eliminate the need for a paint shop.  “The I brand will play a pioneering role that drives
technology to be rolled out over coming lifecycles and to the
rest of the BMW brand,” Herbert Diess, the carmaker’s head of
development, said at a supplier event earlier this month in the
company’s home city of Munich.  To prove that longer excursions are feasible with an
electric vehicle, BMW is establishing a chain of quick-charging
stations along the 590-kilometer route from Munich to Berlin
that will take only 30 minutes to power up the battery, sales
manager Krieg said.  The company outlined plans last July for a direct online
sales platform for the i3 and i8 as well as a roaming sales
force with a limited showroom network. BMW will also add the i3
to its DriveNow car-sharing fleet to enable a wider range of
customers to explore the vehicle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  