-- BNY Mellon Has Net Loss of $266 Million on Tax Expense
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-04-17T11:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bny-mellon-has-net-loss-of-266-million-on-tax-expense.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, reported a first-quarter loss
after the U.S. Tax Court disallowed certain tax credits.  BNY Mellon  had a net loss of $266 million, or 23 cents a
share, compared with a profit of $619 million, or 52 cents, a
year earlier, the New York-based bank said today in a statement.
Earnings were cut by $854 million, or 73 cents, because it
wasn’t allowed to take foreign tax credits. Excluding the item,
BNY Mellon earned $588 million, or 50 cents a share.  Analysts
had expected  BNY Mellon to report an adjusted profit of 52 cents
a share, the average of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Custody banks such as BNY Mellon have been hurt by  interest
rates  that have hovered near zero since December 2008, which
force them to waive fees on money funds, hold down revenues from
 securities lending  and cut yields on their investment
portfolios. BNY Mellon in February was prohibited by the tax
court from claiming foreign tax credits from a complex financial
dealing known as a STARS transaction, or Structured Trust
Advantaged Repackaged Securities.  “All of the custody banks are struggling in this interest
rate environment,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets  in  Portland ,  Maine , said in a telephone interview before
results were announced. “It is a real challenge to offset that
pressure.”  Revenue, Assets  Revenue for the quarter fell 1 percent to $3.6 billion from
a year earlier, driven mainly by a 6 percent decline in net
interest revenue. Fees for overseeing and managing client money
rose as assets under custody advanced 2 percent to $26.3
trillion. Assets under management climbed 9 percent to $1.4
trillion.  BNY Mellon is focused on increasing the assets it oversees,
cutting costs and raising prices to existing customers to combat
the impact of low rates. In 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Gerald
Hassell  trimmed jobs and set a target to save as much as $700
million by 2015 through operational improvements. The bank has
tried with mixed results to raise prices. Timothy Keaney, CEO of
investment services, said at an investor conference in September
that BNY Mellon had been able to negotiate higher prices with
some of its smaller customers.  ‘Pricing Power’  “The bad news is on the strategic client base,” he said.
“We do not have any pricing power today. These are huge
clients.”  Keaney was given his current title in December when the
bank named Brian Shea president of investment services. Karen
Peetz was named president of BNY Mellon, a title previously held
by Hassell.  The MSCI World Index climbed 13 percent in the 12 months
ended March 31, boosting the assets the bank oversees and
manages. About one-third of BNY Mellon’s money-management assets
were in equities at year-end, the bank said.  BNY Mellon has drawn the interest of value investors,
including billionaire  Warren Buffett . His Omaha-based  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  owned 19.6 million shares as of Dec. 31, according
to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Of 28 analysts rating the stock, 19 recommend a hold, 6 a
buy and 3 a sell.  BNY Mellon reported results before the start of regular
U.S. trading. The shares gained 8 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a gain of 17 percent for the 20-member
Standard & Poor’s Index of asset managers and custody banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  