-- Boeing Adds to Duberstein’s Duties Ahead of Investor Vote
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-04-17T01:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/boeing-adds-to-duberstein-s-duties-ahead-of-investor-vote.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is adding to the duties
of independent lead director,  Ken Duberstein , as it seeks to
head off a proposal to split the roles of chief executive
officer and chairman that investors will vote on in two weeks.  The move follows discussions with shareholders and is ahead
of its annual meeting set for April 29, the Chicago-based
company said today in a  regulatory filing .  Duberstein will now approve board meeting agendas and
schedules as well as the type of information provided for the
meetings; preside at some meetings; be a liaison between the
chairman and the directors; be available for direct
communication with shareholders; and call board meetings when
necessary.  Boeing had sought to block a vote on a plan submitted by
shareholder Ray Chevedden to strengthen oversight by splitting
the combined roles currently held by Jim McNerney. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said Jan. 29 the company
couldn’t exclude the proposal from its proxy.  The shareholder proposal calls for an independent director
to chair Boeing’s board instead of the CEO and cited McNerney’s
service as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s  lead director  and his
membership of International Business Machines Corp.’s board as
potential distractions from his work at Boeing.  Chevedden reiterated his concerns in a letter to the SEC on
Jan. 16, the day regulators worldwide began grounding Boeing’s
787 Dreamliner to investigate battery faults. Boeing has since
completed testing of a proposed redesign of the batteries and is
awaiting regulators’ approval for flights to resume.  Dreamliner Delays  The Dreamliner was plagued by seven delays during its
development and was more than three years behind schedule when
it entered service in late 2011.  The amendment to Duberstein’s duties moves the lead
director’s position from an advisory role to one that gives
express approval in certain areas, John Dern, a Boeing
spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  “The changes are meant to assure shareholders that
Boeing’s lead director role is a strong one and that our board
structure provides independence, accountability and alignment
with shareholder interests,” Dern said.  McNerney, 63, joined Boeing’s board in 2001 and has been
chairman and CEO since 2005. Duberstein, 68, who has served on
Boeing’s board since 1997, was a chief of staff to former
President  Ronald Reagan  before founding Washington lobbying firm
Duberstein Group Inc.  Shareholders rejected a similar proposal in 2011, with 35
percent of votes cast for the proposal versus 64 percent against
and less than 1 percent abstaining, according to an  SEC filing .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 