-- BofA’s Trading ‘May Not Roar’ as Much as Rivals, Moynihan Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-04-17T15:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bofa-s-trading-may-not-roar-as-much-as-rivals-moynihan-says.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s trading
operations may underperform other firms sometimes because the
second-biggest U.S. lender takes less risk, Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said.  Income at the global markets division, overseen by co-Chief
Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag, 56, fell 20 percent to $1.39
billion in the first quarter, excluding accounting charges.
Revenue from sales and trading fell 13 percent to $4.5 billion,
compared with the $5 billion projection of  David Trone , an
analyst at JMP Securities LLC in New York.  “If you look at our VAR, and our risk-taking, we’re
keeping it balanced relative to the rest of the company,”
Moynihan, 53, said today in a conference call, referring to
value-at-risk, a measure of potential trading losses. “We may
not roar as much as some people might, because this is one of
the many businesses we have and we drive it for the benefit of
the investing customers and also the issuing customers.”  Lenders have leaned on trading and investment banking to
bolster results as the slow economy and new curbs on fees
crimped revenue from consumer divisions. Risks taken by traders
have drawn extra scrutiny from regulators after  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s $6.2 billion loss last year on derivatives in the “London
Whale” episode.  Past quarters  at Bank of America, based in  Charlotte , North
Carolina, have been buttressed by operations gained with the
takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co. during the financial crisis.  “Merrill is going to be the bright spot for Bank of
America in the future,” Chris Whalen, managing director at
Carrington Investment Services LLC, an asset manager in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in an interview. “Imagine what
these numbers would look like without Merrill.”  Bank of America’s companywide revenue, adjusted for
accounting items, dropped 8.4 percent to $23.9 billion in the
first three months of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  