-- BofA’s Countrywide Agrees to $500 Million MBS Settlement
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-17T20:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bofa-s-countrywide-agrees-to-500-million-mbs-settlement.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s Countrywide
unit agreed to pay $500 million to settle a lawsuit over
billions of dollars in residential mortgage-backed securities
that were downgraded to junk.  The accord will end a class action, or group lawsuit, led
by the Iowa Public Retirement System, lead plaintiffs’ attorney
Steven Toll of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC said today in
a statement. The settlement, which couldn’t immediately be
verified in court records, requires a judge’s approval,
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America said in a  filing 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “This settlement will bring closure to investors who were
misled about the quality of the mortgages that Countrywide
securitized,” Toll said.  The consolidated lawsuit filed in 2010 sought damages over
$351 billion in downgraded Countrywide mortgage-backed
securities after the 2007 subprime collapse. The lawsuit was the
largest in terms of securities at stake among dozens of cases
brought against lenders and underwriters.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles
narrowed the case to $2.6 billion in bonds and dropped Bank of
America as a defendant.  The case isn’t covered by the $8.5 billion settlement
between Bank of America and 22 institutional investors in
Countrywide mortgage-backed securities. Investors’ rights to
receive trust distributions upon final approval of that accord
won’t be affected by the Los Angeles settlement, the bank said.  Record Recovery  “After five years of hard-fought litigation, this record-
breaking recovery is a tremendous result for MBS investors
misled by Countrywide,” Spencer Burkholz, a partner at Robbins
Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP who represents the Maine State
Retirement System, said in an e-mail.  It may take months of negotiations for plaintiffs to decide
how to split up the money, according to a statement released by
officials of  Oregon . A state pension fund lost $29 million on
its $200 million investment in the mortgage-backed securities,
Oregon Treasurer Ted Wheeler and Attorney General  Ellen
Rosenblum  said in a joint statement.  The state hopes to get back more than 10 cents-on-the-
dollar, the typical recovery in security class-action cases,
according to the statement.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s.  Lawsuit Claims  After the market for the securities evaporated, bankers and
underwriters being sued argued that offering documents for those
bonds adequately warned of risks. They claimed the securities
performed as intended and investors were paid what they were
owed from underlying mortgages.  Investors in the  Los Angeles  case against Countrywide
alleged that offering documents for the mortgage-backed bonds
didn’t disclose that the company was disregarding its guidelines
for originating home loans. The value of the securities plunged
when they were downgraded to junk in 2008 and 2009, the
investors said in court documents.  Countrywide was once the biggest U.S. residential home
lender, originating or purchasing about $1.4 trillion in
mortgages from 2005 to 2007. The company sold the bulk of those
loans to investors as mortgage-backed securities. Bank of
America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  80% Payout  The settlement announced today is expected to resolve about
80 percent of the unpaid principal balance of Countrywide-issued
mortgage-backed securities over which claims have been filed or
threatened, Bank of America said. It will resolve about
70 percent of the unpaid principal balance of all such
securities over which claims have been filed or threatened
against all Bank of America-related entities, the company said.  As of February, the unpaid balance of these securities
excluding those that are the subject of individual claims or
threatened litigation, was $95 billion, Bank of America said.  Bank of America  fell  4.72 percent to $11.70 in  New York 
after shortfalls in mortgage banking and trading marred first-
quarter earnings, which were reported today, and slowed the
company’s turnaround.  While  net income  quadrupled to $2.62 billion, or 20 cents a
share, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted 23 cents a
share, and revenue dropped 8.4 percent on an adjusted basis to
$23.9 billion.  The Los Angeles case is Maine State Retirement System v.
Countrywide Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 