-- Boston Bombing Spurs Internet Detectives Into Action
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-04-17T23:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/boston-bombing-spurs-internet-detectives-into-action.html
As officials continue to seek
suspects in the  Boston Marathon bombings , the highest-profile
act of terror in the U.S. since the Sept. 11 attacks on  New York 
City and the Pentagon in 2001, individuals are taking to the
Internet in efforts to identify potential culprits.  A group called  4chan ThinkTank  posted a 57-picture album on
the website  imgur.com  today that featured images of people who
had black backpacks. The FBI and Homeland Security Department
yesterday circulated a picture of a damaged
black backpack that investigators believe may have held one of
the two explosive devices placed near the race’s finish line.
The page has gotten more than 1.5 million views.  On  reddit.com , a subgroup called “findbostonbombers” had
more than 100 message threads, ranging from “Electronic Bomb
Component Analysis” to “Blue Robe Guy.” The latter refers to
a bearded white male wearing a red shirt, blue jacket and
carrying a black backpack over his right arm.  Another reddit page urged caution as individuals take to
the website while state, local and federal officials track down
leads. Investigators have video of a possible suspect in the
bombings, according to federal law-enforcement officials.  “We do not condone vigilante justice. Our aim is simply to
provide tips for the FBI, not to take matters into our own
hands,” a user known as Rather_Confused said in a posting.
“While it’s admirable to help, posting information on anyone
noted in pictures could have a devastating effect on their
life.”  One such example cited by the website is Richard Jewell,
the security guard who was falsely linked to the Centennial
Olympic Park bombing during the 1996  Summer Olympics  in Atlanta.  Images from store security cameras near the April 15
bombings may lead to an arrest, according to one federal law
enforcement official who was briefed on the matter and asked not
to be identified in discussing the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  