-- Boston Hospitals Lean on 9/11 Lessons in Swift Response
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/boston-hospitals-lean-on-9-11-lessons-in-swift-response.html
Once a year,  Boston  hospitals work
together to train for the unthinkable. When it happened during
the Boston Marathon, they were ready.  With emergency teams already on hand because of the race,
the city’s emergency rooms “went into auto-mode,” said Mark
Pearlmutter, chief of emergency medicine at St. Elizabeth’s
Hospital in Boston. Within minutes after the bombs went off, the
wounded were parceled into five major trauma centers that took
those with the worst injuries. Several other community centers
handled the rest.  A key reason the triage went smoothly is the city’s program
of training drills that date to the aftermath of the 9/11
terrorism attacks, doctors said.  “We had protocols, policies and work flows in place to do
the best job possible,” Pearlmutter said.  The drills, now standard in most major U.S. cities, cover
everything from plane crashes to natural disasters and dirty
bombs, medical officials said. Each of the hospitals sends a
team of 10 to 20 doctors and staff to the yearly drills,
Pearlmutter said in a telephone interview. The teams are then
asked to respond to each scenario and the responses are
discussed in depth by the entire group, he said.  This helps create the area-wide plans that kick in when an
actual emergency occurs.  War Zone  A mass trauma like the Boston explosions, which killed
three, including an 8 year-old boy, and injured more than 175,
isn’t much different from a bomb blast scene in a war zone,
doctors said. The first step is to quickly determine which
patients are most in danger of dying, no easy task in a bombing
when hundreds of victims are covered in blood, some with life-
threatening internal injuries and others with little more than
superficial cuts.  The city’s hospitals and trauma centers regularly practice
for just this sort of event, running drills on a mass casualty
disaster, said  Boston Medical Center  trauma surgeon Tracey
Dechert.  “After 9/11, people took it up a notch,”  Dechert  said in
a telephone interview.  Stephanie Kayden, an attending physician in the department
of emergency medicine at  Brigham & Women’s Hospital  in Boston,
said the biggest problem with blast injuries “is they can look
a lot less severe than they actually are. The liver is just a
hunk of fleshy material,” she said. “Although you may not see
any damage on the outside, the liver itself can be broken into
pieces and bleeding profusely.”  Brigham & Women’s emergency department treated 31 patients
yesterday, five of whom were still critically injured as of
yesterday afternoon, Kayden said.  Head-to-Toe  John McManus, a retired colonel and Army trauma physician
who served two tours in  Iraq  and ran the military’s Baghdad
combat support hospital, said doctors first use tourniquets and
anti-bleeding drugs to stop obvious bleeds before looking for
harder-to-see effects.  “How do you deal with a person with a bunch of holes in
them? You basically scan them head to toe,” he said.  And injuries inside the body can develop slowly, the
doctors said. A patient scanned with a CT machine may show
little internal fluid at first, then over half an hour develop a
life-threatening problem as blood pressure drops and cells are
deprived of oxygen. Burns can be insidious as well -- the inside
of the mouth and throat may take time to show damage, then the
tissue swells and cuts off breathing.  Lower Extremities  Most of the wounded in Boston suffered damage to their
lower extremities,  George Velmahos , chief of trauma surgery at
 Massachusetts General Hospital , said yesterday in a news
briefing. That has led doctors to think the bomb must have been
detonated from the ground up, Velmahos said.  Medical personnel were treating three primary groups of
injuries: internal bleeding, those sustained when falling or
thrown to the ground from the bomb’s shock wave and embedded
debris from the bomb as well as flying glass, he said.  During the race, Paul Biddinger, medical director for
emergency preparedness at  Massachusetts General , was at a
medical tent on Heartbreak Hill, located about the 20th mile on
the marathon course. There he was caring for runners who were
struggling with dehydration, heatstroke and other medical issues
that typically occur during marathon races.  Biddinger was called when the bombings occurred and arrived
at the emergency room about the same time as the first patients
appeared.  ‘Minutes Mattered’  “We can clearly point to a couple of people who went to
the operating room first - truly minutes mattered,” he said in
a telephone interview. “If this hadn’t gone smoothly -- from
the marathon itself, to the transport, to the care in the
hospital -- had not every single step been perfect, they would
have died.  ‘‘Overall I would like to think we saved limbs and lives,
but there is no question that we have a couple of people that
lived because the system worked the way it did,’’ he said.  Boston’s hospitals ‘‘have been preparing intensively for
something like this since 9/11,’’ Biddinger said in a telephone
interview. ‘‘We listened to their experiences, the pitfalls and
the learnings, and that played an enormous role in how our
response unfolded.’’  In a disaster setting, hospitals will begin canceling any
unnecessary operations on other patients even before the new
patients arrive, and clearing beds to handle the wounded.  Shrapnel Wounds  The vast majority of life- and limb-threatening injuries in
this bombing came from shrapnel and debris, Biddinger said.  While a wound from flying debris and bomb material ‘‘can be
superficial, it can be very deep,’’ said  Demetrios Demetriades ,
director of trauma services at the Los Angeles County-University
of Southern California Healthcare Network, which serves as the
training center for the Navy’s trauma-care physicians.  ‘‘The closer you are to the explosion, the higher the
possibility of amputation,’’ he said ‘‘This is the most common
type of injury you see from war.’’  Doctors also have to worry about patient’s pain. McManus,
the Army trauma physician, said doctors in Iraq learned that
controlling how patients feel was a key component in whether
they developed symptoms of post-traumatic stress later.  ‘‘We want to have people adequately controlled,’’ he said.
‘‘We don’t want to just give people low doses and say, ’Do you
feel OK?’ We want them pain-free.”  Criminal Investigation  Medical personnel also have a role in collecting evidence
for the criminal investigation, Demetriades said. Every piece of
debris removed from a patient’s body will be saved, as will
burnt and torn clothes. “Everything removed from the victim
needs to be preserved,” he said. Criminal investigators can use
it to look for traces of explosive, or try to figure out how the
bomb was made.  At Boston Medical Center, Dechert, the trauma surgeon, said
they had seen 23 patients from the blast -- and amputated limbs
from five. “I still think it hasn’t hit us really,” she said.  Across Boston, the mood at hospitals is similar.  “We’re proud we were able to limit the injury and illness,
but it was a tragic event,” Biddinger said. “Everyone is going
through sorrow and loss. It was a great system response, but
it’s hard to celebrate given the reason for what went on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  