-- Bovespa Stock Index Drops as Lower Commodities Sap Suzano
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-17T21:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bovespa-stock-index-drops-as-lower-commodities-sap-vale.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index dropped the most
among major emerging-market stock benchmarks as falling
commodity prices pushed Brazilian producers lower after the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global growth.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  added to the biggest
plunge among the Bovespa’s members this year after the  oil
company  said output at offshore wells dropped 26 percent in
March. Pulp producer Suzano Papel & Celulose SA sank the most
since June. Mining company  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  followed
metals lower, while state-run oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro
SA slumped as crude fell to a four-month low.  Brazil ’s benchmark equity gauge sank 2.1 percent to
52,881.96 at the close of trading in  Sao Paulo . Sixty-one of the
69 stocks on the measure declined. The real weakened 0.7 percent
to 2.0006 per dollar. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price
Commodity Index slumped 2.8 percent. Commodities producers
account for about 41 percent of the Bovespa’s  weighting .  “Economic data around the world have been coming in weak
lately, and there’s a strong commodities sell-off, which is
spilling over to equities,” Gustavo Mendonca, who helps manage
1 billion reais as an economist at Saga Capital, said in a
telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro. “Since Brazil is a big
commodities exporter, it’s only natural that markets here
suffer.”  IMF Forecasts  The global economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, below
January’s 3.5 percent forecast, the IMF said yesterday. The
lender also cut its estimates for expansion in Brazil and China,
the South American country’s biggest trading partner. Growth in
Latin America might slow as commodities drop, the fund’s Western
Hemisphere Director Alejandro Werner said in  Lima  yesterday.  OGX dropped 11 percent to 1.25 reais, while MMX sank 9.5
percent to 1.81 reais. Suzano fell 5.5 percent to 7.25 reais,
the biggest slump since June 28. Petrobras, as Petroleo
Brasileiro is known, tumbled 3 percent to 17.17 reais, the
lowest since March 5.  Some companies linked to domestic demand, including
cosmetics maker  Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) , rallied as traders pared
bets for higher borrowing costs in Brazil amid speculation that
slower economic growth will curb inflation, allowing policy
makers to moderate any increases in the benchmark lending rate.
The central bank, which concludes a two-day monetary policy
meeting today, has held the Selic rate at a record low 7.25
percent since October.  Natura gained 0.9 percent to 48.55 reais.  The Bovespa has retreated 16 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has lost 10 percent over the same period.  Relative Value  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 10.8 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.3 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 16.4 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.5 billion reais this year
through April 15, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  