-- BP Manager Cites Rig’s Safety-System Delay as Trial Ends
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r . ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-04-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/bp-official-says-rig-captain-delayed-safety-system-start.html
A  BP Plc (BP/)  executive testified the
captain of the oil rig that exploded and sent millions of
barrels of oil pouring into the Gulf of Mexico delayed
activating the installation’s safety systems after the blast as
a trial over the disaster ended.  Patrick O’Bryan , BP’s former vice president of Gulf
drilling operations, told a judge in  New Orleans  yesterday
Transocean Ltd. employee  Curt Kuchta , captain of the Deepwater
Horizon rig, told crew members not to initiate safety systems
without permission from the installation’s top drilling manager.  That meant the safety systems weren’t activated until
minutes after the explosion ignited the rig’s drilling floor and
knocked out power, said O’Bryan, one of BP’s last witnesses in
the case. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who heard eight
weeks of testimony in the non-jury trial, said he would  decide 
fault for the disaster later.  “So after you see the fire, you recall somebody asking
Captain Kuchta about” activating the blowout preventer and
other safety systems, BP lawyer  Hariklia “Carrie” Karis  asked
O’Bryan yesterday in a liability trial over the spill.  Kuchta was “pretty emphatic” that he needed the drilling
specialist’s permission to implement the systems, O’Bryan
recalled. Several minutes passed before another crew member
acted, he added.  Safety Sacrificed?  Lawyers for the federal government and spill victims
contend in the nonjury trial that BP was over budget and behind
schedule on the Macondo well off the  Louisiana  coast, prompting
the company to cut corners and ignore safety tests showing the
well was unstable.  The April 20, 2010, blast killed 11 workers and sent waves
of oil into the Gulf, killing fish and waterfowl. The accident,
which created the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history,
sparked hundreds of lawsuits against well owner BP; Houston-
based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ; and Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, the Deepwater Horizon’s owner.  The liability trial began Feb. 25. Barbier must decide
whether one or more of the companies acted with willful or
wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal
requirement for establishing gross negligence.  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company might be liable to the U.S. for more than $17 billion in
Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive damages
to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5 billion settlement the
company reached with most private-party plaintiffs last year.  Rig Contractors  Transocean (RIG)  and Halliburton could be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs if the companies are found
to have handled their duties on the rig in a grossly negligent
manner. Both were hired as contractors by BP to work on the
Macondo well project.  The government and spill victims also allege that
Halliburton’s cement job was defective and that Transocean
employees made a series of missteps, including disabling safety
systems, failing to maintain the installation properly and not
adequately training its crew to handle crisis situations.  O’Bryan testified he decided to travel to the Deepwater
Horizon in April 2010 -- his first-ever visit to an offshore oil
rig -- because the installation “was one of the better rigs in
Transocean’s fleet” in terms of its safety record.  After touring the rig, O’Bryan was standing with Kuchta on
the rig’s bridge when the installation was rocked by two
explosions, the executive recalled.  ‘Shaking Violently’  “All of a sudden, the rig started shaking violently,”
O’Bryan said. Shortly afterward, the installation was shaken by
the explosions, the executive said. “You could actually hear a
hissing noise and then there was an explosion.”  Some injured crew members came to the bridge and said the
rig was on fire, he recalled. At that point, he donned a life
vest, O’Bryan said.  After crew members asked whether the Deepwater Horizon’s
blowout preventer and emergency disconnect system had been
activated, Kuchta said they couldn’t throw the safety switches
without a direct order from the rig’s top drilling manager.  That manager,  Jimmy Harrell , was injured in the blast and
didn’t get to bridge until several minutes after the explosion
sparked a fire and left the rig without power, according to
earlier testimony in the case.  Captain’s Inaction  “In those few minutes, however many minutes they were
before Mr. Harrell got there, did Captain Kuchta at any time
indicate that anybody should take any action to activate the
blowout preventer?” Karis, BP’s lawyer, asked O’Bryan. “Did he
in fact say the exact opposite?”  “Yes,” O’Bryan told Barbier. The executive said when
Harrell finally arrived on the bridge, Harrell’s first words
were to ask whether the safety systems had been activated.  “Jimmy asked had the emergency disconnect system been
activated, and Captain Kuchta said no,” said O’Bryan, who was
on the Deepwater Horizon bridge at the time of the disaster.
“He said, ‘we need to activate it,’ and somebody reached over
and hit the button.”  O’Bryan added that Kuchta was surprised when the rig lost
power after the explosions and seemed at a loss about how to
address the crisis. “I heard him say, this can’t be happening,
we’ve lost power,” the executive recalled. “It just appeared
to me that he wasn’t quite sure what to do.”  Not Fit  Andrew Mitchell , a veteran ship’s captain who testified for
BP as the final witness in the case, told Barbier Kuchta’s
inability to respond quickly to the blowout squandered precious
seconds that limited the crew’s options in dealing with the
fallout from the blast.  “Isn’t it true that every second wasted by the captain of
this vessel not reacting to this serious emergency made that
emergency more difficult to manage?” asked  Conrad “Duke”
Williams , a lawyer for spill victims. Mitchell agreed with
Williams’s description of Kuchta’s actions.  “In your opinion, Captain Mitchell, was Captain Kuchta fit
to be master of the Deepwater Horizon?” the attorney asked.
Mitchell replied Kuchta wasn’t fit to be the rig’s commander.  Kuchta, along with Harrell, the rig’s top drilling
supervisor, refused to testify in the case. Both men invoked
their constitutional right against self-incrimination, as did
more than a dozen other BP and Transocean employees associated
with the Macondo project.  Second Phase  Barbier said after testimony in the case ended yesterday
that he’ll study post-trial briefs submitted by both sides
before ruling on the liability issues.  In September, Barbier is scheduled to hear testimony in a
second phase of the litigation to determine how much oil gushed
into the Gulf during the spill. Coupled with the judge’s
liability findings, that spilled-oil calculation will determine
the size of any federal pollution fine BP and its contractors
may have to pay.  BP and the federal government have offered different
calculations on the size of the spill, which regulators peg at
more than 4.1 million barrels. The court has already approved
BP’s request to be credited with having collected and disposed
of about 810,000 barrels that spewed from the well. That could
reduce the maximum $17 billion fine BP may face by as much as
$3.4 billion.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans
at  allenmct@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at  laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 