-- Brazil Likely to Boost Key Rate as Inflation Trims Growth
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-04-17T14:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/brazil-likely-to-boost-key-rate-as-inflation-trims-growth.html
Brazil ’s central bank will raise
 interest rates  today for the first time in almost two years,
economists forecast, after inflation accelerated to a pace that
threatens the economy’s fragile recovery.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini will increase the benchmark Selic rate to at least 7.50
percent from 7.25 percent today, according to 37 of 58
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. It would be the first increase
since July 2011 and would reverse the 15-month, 525 basis-point
easing cycle begun in August of that year. The remainder of
those surveyed forecast the bank will hold rates steady at the
record low in place since October.  While rate cuts were intended to revive economic growth,
they may be backfiring, as rising prices are crimping a decade-
long boom in consumer demand, said  Alexandre Schwartsman , a
former central bank director who runs consulting firm
Schwartsman & Asociados. Growth fell to 0.9 percent last year,
the second-slowest in 13 years, while  inflation  in March jumped
to its fastest pace in 16 months.  “The government dug itself into a rut,” Schwartsman said
by phone from Sao Paulo. “In order to slow inflation, there
will have to be a period of monetary tightening. In order to
spur growth, the government needs to tackle productivity.”  First Time  A rate rise would make Brazil the first G-20 nation to
increase borrowing costs since Russia raised its benchmark rate
in September.  Mexico  last month unexpectedly cut its benchmark
rate for the first time since 2009, while  Colombia  reduced its
key rate by 50 basis points in March.  Traders are betting that policy makers will increase rates
by 50 basis points to 7.75 percent today before raising
borrowing costs to 8.75 percent by year-end, according to swap
rate futures. The decision will be announced sometime after 6
p.m. Brasilia time, 5 p.m.  New York .  The  Bank of Canada  today kept its key interest rate
unchanged and retained its bias toward tightening. Policy makers
held the benchmark rate on overnight loans between commercial
banks at 1 percent for the 21st consecutive meeting and lowered
their forecast for economic growth.  In the U.K. today, unemployment rose at the fastest pace in
more than a year and wage increases slowed, according to data
from the  Office for National Statistics .  Stocks in Brazil sank for the fourth time in five days as
falling commodities prices pushed Brazilian producers lower and
the  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
growth this year. The  Bovespa index  declined 1.4 percent to
53,216.37 at 11:44 a.m. in  Sao Paulo .  Annual Inflation  Annual inflation  in Brazil rose to 6.59 percent in March
from a 21-month low of 4.92 percent in June. Policy makers
estimate there is a 25 percent chance inflation will exceed 6.5
percent this year, even if they increase the Selic to 8 percent,
according to the central bank’s  quarterly inflation report 
released last month.  Retail sales  in February fell 0.4 percent, surprising
economists whose median estimate was for a 1.5 percent increase.
Supermarket sales sank 1 percent as higher prices deterred
shoppers, according to  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at
Banco WestLB do Brasil SA.  There is no tolerance of inflation in Brazil, and policy
makers are “closely” monitoring economic indicators to choose
the best course for monetary policy, Tombini told reporters in
 Rio de Janeiro  on April 12. Brazil is ready to take necessary
steps, including higher rates, to control inflation, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said earlier the same day.  Capital Costs  President  Dilma Rousseff  has repeatedly said that Brazil
needs to bring capital costs closer to those in advanced
economies in order to boost competitiveness. On March 27 she
told reporters she opposed anti-inflation measures that
compromised economic growth, sending interest-rate futures down.
Hours later, she said the market had misinterpreted her comments
as a sign of leniency with inflation.  At an event in  Belo Horizonte  yesterday, Rousseff said
Brazil “will not negotiate” with inflation. “We will not have
the slightest problem attacking inflation systematically,” she
added.  The central bank will raise the Selic to 8.50 percent by
December and hold it there for at least a year, according to the
bank’s latest weekly survey of economists. The rate will be at
that level when Brazil’s presidential election is held in
October 2014.  Falling Confidence  Not every analyst foresees an immediate rate increase. The
bank may delay on the prospects of weak global growth and the
impact on an uneven recovery in the domestic market, said
 Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Banco Espirito Santo de
Investimentos, who forecasts no rate change at this week’s
meeting.  Industrial output, which contracted 3.6 percent last year,
fell in February by 2.5 percent from the previous month, the
largest drop since December 2008, after rising by 2.6 percent in
January.  Consumer demand, fueled by rising real wages and a 29.6
percent average annual credit expansion in five years, has been
one of the drivers of growth in the world’s sixth-largest
economy. Increasing borrowing costs now could stifle  retail
sales  that declined 0.2 percent in February from a year earlier,
after posting 10 percent annual growth as of last August, said
Gustavo Bach, chief executive officer of  Santa Cruz , Brazil-
based  Hermes SA  direct-seller retail group. Hermes sales in
February were unchanged from a year ago.  ‘Dry Up’  “Increasing rates now would scare the consumer and dry up
credit,” said Bach by telephone from Rio de Janeiro. “If I
were Tombini, I’d leave rates alone.” Eighty percent of Hermes
sales are on credit, Bach said.  Part of the bank’s dilemma is that the government has
focused on stimulating demand by granting tax breaks and
pressuring banks to lower loan rates, Schwartsman said.
Productivity in Brazil fell .3 percent last year, while it rose
7.4 percent in  China , according to New York-based business
research group  Conference Board .  To heighten productivity and competitiveness, Brazil must
reduce its  tax rate , improve roads and railways, and expand
professional training to overcome shortages of skilled labor,
according to the National Industry Confederation, a Brasilia-
based association of Brazilian industrial companies.  ‘Keep Pushing’  “They keep pushing measures to stimulate demand. As the
central bank has recognized, these measures have less and less
of an impact because the supply side is not changing,” said
Paulo Vieira Da Cunha, partner at Tandem Global Management LP
and a former central bank director. “The result is inflation.”  The risk of inflationary pressure spreading and fueling a
vicious cycle of price increases raises concerns among
entrepreneurs, who recall how hyperinflation stifled sales and
eroded growth in the early 1990s.  “Nobody likes it, but if Tombini has to increase, then he
should do so,” said Nelson Hubner, head of Curitiba, Brazil-
based smelter and parts maker Hubner Group, in a telephone
interview. “The key is knowing the right amount of remedy. We
can’t control inflation at the cost of a recession.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  