-- Brazil Raises Rate From Record Low as Inflation Saps Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-04-17T23:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/brazil-raises-rate-from-record-low-as-inflation-erodes-growth.html
Brazil’s central bank raised its
benchmark rate for the first time since July 2011, as policy
makers seek to slow inflation levels jeopardizing an economic
recovery.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
6-to-2 to increase the Selic rate 25 basis points to 7.50
percent from a record low, matching the median forecast from 58
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Policy makers said that “the high level of inflation” and
“resilience of inflation” required a response, which was
tempered by the central bank’s recognition that “external
uncertainties” also required “that monetary policy be managed
with caution,” according to the board’s statement posted on
 Banco Central  do Brasil’s website.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is facing renewed
pressure to contain consumer prices after annual  inflation  in
March breached the central bank’s target range for the first
time since November 2011. Rising prices are sapping purchasing
power and eroding demand even after officials cut taxes on
 consumer goods  and lowered the Selic to 7.25 percent in October.
 Retail sales  in February fell for the second time in three
months.  “Inflation has clearly become detrimental to growth,”
 Gustavo Rangel , chief Latin America economist at ING Bank NV in
 London , said in a telephone interview before today’s decision.
“Both the retail figures and investors’ confidence levels are
signaling that inflation is a big concern.”  Inflation Tolerance  Swap rates on the contract maturing in July 2013, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, was unchanged at 7.63 percent. The
real weakened 0.7 percent to 2.0006 per dollar.  Brazil will tackle inflation systematically, Rousseff said
April 16, warning that price increases eat into income and
profits. Policy makers will not tolerate inflation, Tombini said
April 12.  Annual inflation in the world’s second-largest emerging
market accelerated to 6.59 percent  in March  from 6.31 percent a
month earlier. That compares with annualized March price
increases of 4.25 percent in  Mexico  and 1.5 percent in  Chile .  Policy makers estimate there is a 25 percent chance price
increases will exceed the upper limit of the target range this
year even with  interest rates  at 8 percent, according to the
bank’s quarterly inflation  report  published in March.  Brazil ’s
central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  Investor Confidence  “Inflation expectations have deteriorated by more than a
reasonable amount,” Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves, chief
economist at Banco Fator, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo before today’s meeting. “The bank is in a tough situation
where it’s practically mandatory to respond.”  Both consumer and investor perceptions of inflation have
worsened, and their views may be driving down consumption,
according to Carlos Kawall, chief economist at Banco Safra SA.  After falling 3.6 percent last year, partly due to
increased competition from abroad, industrial production in
February plunged the most since December 2008. Retail sales
dropped 0.4 percent in February, falling short of analysts’
forecast of a 1.5 percent gain.  The deterioration in output and sales may be spilling over
to stock prices of major retailers. The  MSCI index  of Brazilian
consumer-discretionary stocks, which include  Lojas Americanas (LAME4) ,
 Lojas Renner SA (LREN3)  and  Cia. Hering (HGTX3) , has fallen 6.8 percent in 2013
after jumping 25 percent in the last six months of 2012. The
benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  index is down 13.2 percent this year.  Stagflation Movement  “Elevated inflation affects  business confidence ,” Kawall
said in a telephone interview before today’s announcement.
“There is no trade-off whereby more tolerance of inflation
would bring more growth. This is especially true when we
consider that growth has to come from investment.”  Growth in Latin America’s largest economy will rebound from
0.9 percent in 2012 to at least 3 percent this year as
investment accelerates, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last
month. Brazil’s inflation is declining, and growth won’t
generate price increases, Mantega said April 12.  Economists following Brazil have ratcheted down their
growth forecast to 3 percent in the latest weekly central bank
survey from a high of 4.5 percent on June 1. Their inflation
forecast for 2013 has risen to 5.68 percent from 5.60 percent
during the same period, the survey said.  The central bank must work to regain credibility, as
investors are losing confidence in the government’s ability to
conduct policy, according to ING Bank’s Rangel.  “We have a stagflation movement in Brazil, whereby you
have an increase in long-term inflation expectations and a
decrease in long-term expectations for growth,” Rangel said.
“That’s a horrible situation for a country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  