-- HTC Is Best Android, at Least This Week: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-04-17T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/htc-is-best-android-at-least-this-week-rich-jaroslovsky.html
When it comes to making Android
phones,  Samsung (005930)  seems to suck up most of the profits and all the
buzz. Meanwhile, HTC quietly produces phones every bit as
capable and sometimes considerably more handsome.  The latest example is the  HTC One , about to go on sale in
the U.S. After using the device for a couple of weeks, I’m
impressed. Yet it may get lost amid the massive marketing blitz
for Samsung’s Galaxy S4, which arrives later this month.  If so, that will be a shame. The One is a standout on a
number of fronts.  In looks, it’s a beaut, with a sharp, vivid 4.7-inch screen
bracketed by excellent stereo speakers that enhance both looks
and sound.  The aluminum back is gently bowed and the phone is just a
third of an inch (4 mm) at its thickest point, making the One
feel great in the hand despite the size. At five ounces (143
grams), it’s substantial without being heavy.  The One runs “Jelly Bean,” the latest version of  Google (GOOG) ’s
Android software, though HTC overlays it with a home-screen
interface called BlinkFeed that brings in information from a
customizable list of news, social-media and other sources.  Facebook Home  The One is also among the initial handful of phones that’s
supposed to be compatible with  Facebook (FB) ’s new Home software,
giving you the option of replacing news of the world with news
of your friends.  About the display: HTC brags about its pixel density, 468
per inch, which exceeds the Retina display on  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5
(326 ppi). What it doesn’t tell you is the irrelevance of the
claim, because the human eye can’t distinguish differences
beyond about 300 ppi in a device held six to 12 inches away.  It’s worth mentioning because even as the One is
perpetuating the resolution wars, it’s trying to puncture
another common comparison: what it calls “the megapixel myth”
surrounding cameras.  Without getting too geeky about it, the number of
megapixels isn’t nearly as important to the quality of a photo
as camera- and smartphone-makers have made it out to be.  In the case of the One,  HTC (2498)  says its  advanced sensor  and
signal processing result in better-looking photos that require
 less light ; it says its four-megapixel images are the equivalent
of eight- or 13-megapixel shots on other, more conventional
cameras.  Mini-Videos  The photos I took were clear and sharp, even in a darkened
room. Less impressive, at least to me, was a feature called Zoe
that allows you to shoot shareable three-second videos. Even
after talking to HTC, I couldn’t figure out why I’d ever want to
do this.  While the One has a quad-core  Qualcomm (QCOM)  processor and is
capable of running on LTE -- by far the speediest 4G network
technology -- which carrier you choose will make a huge
difference in your perception of how fast it is.  Verizon Wireless , which has the biggest LTE network, so far
isn’t offering the One. At  AT&T (T) , with the second-widest LTE
coverage, the One will cost $200 on a two-year contract for a
model with 32 gigabytes of storage, or $300 for 64.  Sprint is, for a limited time, offering new customers the
32-gigabyte model for $100 -- a terrific deal on a phone like
this -- but the company has barely begun to deploy LTE, so
you’re likely to find yourself on its older, slower 3G network.  Trailing Sprint  T-Mobile (DTE) , which recently announced plans to junk the two-year-service requirement as well as the practice of subsidizing
the cost of its phones, hasn’t publicly announced a price. In
any event, T-Mobile is even further behind in LTE than  Sprint. (S)   Because my test model was a Sprint version, and the
carrier’s LTE service has yet to reach my area, I wasn’t able to
get a full read on battery life. Still, I was easily able to go
more than a day on 3G, leading me to believe you shouldn’t have
a problem getting through a full day on a more power-hungry LTE
connection.  The One is packed with a number of other features, some
useful, others less so. A built-in infrared blaster lets it
double as a TV remote control. It also has a Near-Field
Communications (NFC) chip, which will soon, eventually, someday
or never -- pick one -- become indispensable for stuff like
mobile payments. And it supports the latest version of Bluetooth
for low-power wireless connectivity.  For now, the One is the state of the art in Android phones
-- at least until next week’s Samsung debut. And unless the
Galaxy S4 proves to be very, very good, it may remain so after
next week, too.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .
On Twitter:  www.twitter.com/richjaro   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 