-- California Seeks to Enforce Ban on Gay Conversion Therapy
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-17T19:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/california-seeks-to-enforce-ban-on-gay-conversion-therapy.html
California  officials asked an
appeals panel to enforce the state’s first-in-the nation law
barring gay conversion therapy for minors after two judges
disagreed about whether its unconstitutional.  Lawyers for California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  say
the counseling is discredited and unsafe, and the state’s
responsibility to protect the health and safety of minors trumps
free-speech concerns. Therapists, parents, patients and
counseling groups supporting the practice say California can
cite no specific evidence that the therapy is bad for kids and
the law illegally quells doctor-patient speech.  “There is no evidence of harm among minors,” said Mat Staver, an attorney for therapists seeking to overturn the law,
told a three-judge panel today. Enforcing the law would cause
“irreparable harm for our clients. They would not be able to
get the counseling that has benefited them, helped their self-
esteem.”  Two federal judges in  Sacramento  reached opposite
conclusions in separate lawsuits about whether the 2012 law,
originally scheduled to take effect Jan. 1, should be enforced
while the cases seeking to overturn the law proceed. One agreed
that gay-conversion therapists would likely succeed on the
merits of their case and granted an injunction blocking
enforcement, while the other sided with the state and refused to
block the law.  The San Francisco-based U.S. Court of Appeals panel put the
law on hold in December and heard  arguments today on whether
that stay should remain in effect while the measure’s
constitutionality is being decided.  ‘Change Efforts’  California’s  ban on “sexual-orientation change efforts,”
or SOCE, passed by lawmakers in August and signed by Governor
 Jerry Brown  in September, notes U.S. psychology groups urge
patients and parents to avoid the counseling because it’s
harmful. The law bars doctors, psychologists, family therapists
and social workers from providing sexual-orientation conversion
therapy to patients under 18. Violators are subject to
discipline by state licensing entities.  New Jersey ,  Massachusetts  and Pennsylvania lawmakers are
considering similar rules.  Chief Judge Alex Kozinski asked California’s lawyers what
evidence exists that the therapy harms children. Deputy Attorney
General Alexandra Gordon said the American Psychological
Association has found that attempts to change sexual orientation
may cause depression and suicidal thoughts.  “We don’t really have something compelling here, I mean
compelling evidence” of harm, said Kozinski. “It doesn’t say
don’t do it.”  “It doesn’t specifically say ‘don’t do it.’ It says engage
in competent care that doesn’t look anything like SOCE,” said
Gordon.  The panel didn’t say when it would issue a ruling.  The cases are Pickup v. Brown, 13-15023, and Welch v.
Brown, 13-15023,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit
( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  