-- Carney to Leave Canada Policy Unchanged in Final Forecast
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/carney-to-leave-canada-policy-unchanged-in-final-forecast.html
Mark Carney  will offer his last
major economic forecast as Bank of  Canada  Governor today while
probably keeping  interest rates  where they’ve been since
September 2010 and signaling his replacement will also have
little need to act.  The rate on  overnight loans  between commercial banks will
remain 1 percent for the 21st consecutive meeting in a decision
at 10 a.m. in Ottawa, according to all 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The statement and quarterly economic forecast will be
followed by a press conference with Carney and the person
economists say is most likely to take over when he leaves June 1
to head the  Bank of England , Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem.  Policy makers will cut their growth forecasts today and
keep a phrase that rates will be on hold “for a period of
time,” said  Craig Alexander , chief economist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank. Domestic spending is being hobbled by job losses
and slowing home sales, while weak global demand is hurting
investment and the exports that make up a third of output in the
world’s 11th largest economy.  “The Bank of Canada is going to have to acknowledge that
the economy has been delivering a weaker-than-expected
performance,” Alexander said in a telephone interview. “There
won’t be a pressing need to change policy while the mantle is
being handed over.”  The economy will grow at just below a 2 percent annualized
pace in the second quarter according to a Bloomberg economist
forecast, less than the Bank of Canada’s January forecast of 2.7
percent. Carney, who says growth needs to be led by business
investment and exports rather than household consumption, may
push out his projection for when the economy reaches “full
capacity” to early 2015 from the second half of 2014, according
to Royal  Bank of Canada  strategists.  Business Investment  “Business investment is probably the area where they think
there is the most risk,” said Nathan Janzen, an economist at
Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the Calgary-based oil producer that’s
Canada’s largest by market value, canceled its Voyageur joint
venture with  France ’s Total SA on March 27 because costs rose
and prices for bitumen declined. Total said it would book a
$1.65 billion loss on the upgrader project that would have
converted tar-like bitumen into a light, synthetic  crude oil .  Canada’s economic growth of 1.5 percent this year will be
the slowest among Group of 20 countries outside  Europe  as it
grapples with a cooling housing market and as policy makers rein
in deficits, the  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday in
its World Economic Outlook. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s
March 21 budget outlined the slowest spending growth since the
1990s to meet an election promise to eliminate a deficit by
2015.  Stocks Lagging  Canada’s benchmark  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX) 
has risen 0.7 percent in the past year, lagging the 15 percent
increase in the  Standard & Poor’s 500  and the 13.3 percent gain
in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Canadian  government bonds  have
returned 1.1 percent this year through April 15, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index data, trailing the 1.2
percent return of global government bonds excluding Canada.  Janzen, like Alexander, said policy makers won’t dilute
their language about an eventual rate increase, something that
was done at meetings in January and March. The previous
announcement said “the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will likely remain appropriate for a period
of time, after which some modest withdrawal will likely be
required” to meet the bank’s 2 percent inflation target.  ‘Watered Down’  “We don’t think they are going to reduce that tightening
bias, though it’s pretty watered down by now,” Janzen said.
Macklem probably wouldn’t make any major policy change if he
does replace Carney because he’s been involved in crafting the
central bank’s current message, Janzen said.  The Bank of Canada should drop its bias to raise rates,
according to a panel of academic and financial-market economists
convened by the non-partisan C.D. Howe research group of
Toronto. “Most members felt that the Bank of Canada should
remove, from its next statement, an expression of its bias
toward a potential increase in the overnight rate, and instead
adopt a neutral bias in its language,” the group said in a
 report  last week.  Signs of Canadian weakness cited by the panel included a
report showing the country lost 54,500 jobs in March, new
stimulus from central banks including the  Bank of Japan , and
weaker European growth.  “The economic numbers in Canada don’t look very good and
the outlook is for more of the same,” said Ric Palombi, a
fixed-income portfolio manager at McLean & Partners Wealth
Management, in an April 11 interview in Calgary.  The central bank will probably reaffirm its open-ended bias
toward raising rates, he said. “They have telegraphed that
really well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  