-- Carnival to Spend $700 Million on Backup Power After Mishaps
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-17T20:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/carnival-plans-to-spend-300-million-to-improve-ship-safety.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the cruise operator
beset by mishaps at sea this year, will spend $600 million to
$700 million on fire protection and backup systems across its
entire 101-ship fleet.  Carnival is installing additional emergency generators and
reinforcing shipboard systems to prevent a loss of power like
that on its Triumph liner in February, the Miami-based company
said a statement today. The company, the world’s largest cruise
operator, will also invest in new fire-prevention, detection and
suppression systems.  The Triumph’s engines failed after a fire in February,
leaving 3,100 passengers adrift off the Mexican coast for
several days without working toilets and electricity. The mishap
was the first of at least three incidents this year involving
separate ships.  “Safety is our highest priority,” Howard Frank, vice
chairman and chief operating officer, said at the company’s
annual meeting today. “We’ve learned much in the past several
years and we continue to learn.”  The company’s 24-ship Carnival Cruise Lines unit is
creating a Safety & Reliability Review Board that will include
outside experts, the company said. In addition, the company will
more than double the capacity of a training facility in the
Netherlands to accommodate 7,000 employees a year in bridge and
engine-room training.  Timing Plans  The spending will probably take place over the next three
years, Steven Wieczynski, a Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. analyst,
wrote in a research note today. The company had been spending
about $650 million annually on maintenance, he said.  “Without clarity on the capex spending levels, investors
couldn’t get comfortable,” write Wieczynski, who recommends
buying the shares.  Carnival plans to earmark about $300 million of the
spending for its namesake unit, according to the statement. The
company had about $2.3 billion in  capital spending  last year.  The company said this week it will reimburse the government
for help responding to accidents aboard the Triumph and
Splendor. U.S. Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat
who heads the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and
Transportation, had asked the company in a March 14 letter
whether it would pay $4.2 million in rescue and investigation
costs incurred by the U.S. Coast Guard and Navy.  “It’s unfortunate that it has taken a series of terrible
cruise line failures, and the scrutiny that followed, for
Carnival to respond with some improvements for their passengers’
safety,” Rockefeller said in an e-mailed statement. “I will
continue to take a close look at how the cruise industry
operates and hold them accountable for the safety and quality
that their passengers expect.”  Carnival fell 0.2 percent to $33.23 at the close in  New
York . The shares have dropped 9.6 percent this year, compared
with an 8.8 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  