-- Carney Keeps Rate-Increase Bias While Chopping Forecast
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-04-17T18:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/carney-keeps-rate-increase-bias-while-chopping-forecast.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
kept unchanged both his policy interest rate and his bias to
tighten, even as he chopped his growth forecast for 2013 and
said economic slack will persist for more than two years.  Policy makers in Ottawa held the  benchmark rate  on
overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent for the
21st consecutive meeting today, as expected by all 23 economists
in a Bloomberg News  survey . The bank also cut its growth outlook
for this year to 1.5 percent from 2 percent because of lower
business investment and  government spending .  Two-year government bond yields dropped to the lowest since
July after the decision and the dollar fell to the weakest in a
month. Carney’s reduced forecast, his last before leaving for
the  Bank of England  in June, matches yesterday’s projection by
the  International Monetary Fund  that put Canada as the slowest-
growing economy among Group of 20 countries outside  Europe .  “They want the rates to be higher but they’re constrained
by the economic slack and the persistently high currency,” said
Ed Devlin, head of Canadian portfolio management team at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s largest bond
fund. “They’re talking more to the average Canadian than the
professional bond investor,” he said, referring to the bias.  Canada is the only Group of Seven economy signaling the
potential for higher borrowing costs as its peers at the  Bank of
Japan (8301) ,  European Central Bank  and U.S. Federal Reserve press
ahead with extraordinary stimulus. Today’s  Bank of Canada 
forecast relies on exports and business investment to lead the
recovery after they slumped late last year.  ‘Material’ Slack  “A material degree of slack has re-emerged in the Canadian
economy,” policy makers led by Carney, 48, said in its
quarterly Monetary Policy Report. “Considerable monetary policy
stimulus currently in place will likely remain appropriate for a
period of time, after which some modest withdrawal will likely
be required,” he told reporters later.  Two-year government bond yields fell 1 basis point to 0.93
percent at 1:41 p.m. in Toronto, while 10-year yields dropped to
1.70 percent, the lowest since December, from 1.74 percent
yesterday. The Canadian dollar fell 0.6 percent to C$1.0266 per
 U.S. dollar  after touching C$1.0294, the weakest since March 13.
One dollar buys 97.41 U.S. cents.  The Bank of Canada said the economy won’t reach “full
capacity” until mid-2015, compared with its January projection
of the second half of 2014. Growth will accelerate to 2.8
percent next year, according to the bank, faster than its 2.7
percent outlook in January. The economy will grow 2.7 percent in
2015, it said.  No Cuts  “The shine has really started to come off” the economy,
said  Derek Holt , vice-president of economics at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto. Policy makers are “signaling aggressively to
markets they aren’t entertaining a rate cut and rates aren’t
going anywhere for a long time.”  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the Calgary-based oil producer that’s
Canada’s largest by market value, canceled its Voyageur joint
venture with  France ’s Total SA on March 27 because costs rose
and prices for bitumen declined. Total said it would book a
$1.65 billion loss on the upgrader project that would have
converted tar-like bitumen into a light, synthetic  crude oil .  On a slump in  gold prices  earlier this week, Carney said
the Bank of Canada doesn’t follow that commodity closely and
said other goods are better barometers of global growth.  Slower Growth  With the slower-than-expected expansion in 2012 and 2013,
 Canada ’s economy is now about 1.25 percent below full output,
the bank said, greater than the 1 percent estimate it gave in
January.  That slack will keep inflation below the bank’s 2 percent
target until the second quarter of 2015, the bank said, longer
than the previous estimate for the third quarter of next year.  The country’s  inflation rate  was 1.2 percent in February,
keeping price increases below the central bank’s 2 percent
target for a 10th straight month.  Canada also lost 54,500 jobs in March, boosting the
 unemployment rate  to 7.2 percent from 7 percent.  “The economic numbers in Canada don’t look very good and
the outlook is for more of the same,” Ric Palombi, a fixed-
income portfolio manager at McLean & Partners Wealth Management
in Calgary, said before today’s decision.  Unchanged Rate  The policy rate will remain unchanged until the fourth
quarter of next year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 15
economists taken April 5 to April 10.  That would leave any rate increase to the new governor
after Carney departs June 1 to take over the Bank of England.
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he wants to name a
replacement this month. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg say the
top candidate is Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem, who
declined to answer a question today about his candidacy.  Higher rates could trigger further gains in Canada’s
dollar, which the central bank said is already hurting exports
because of its “persistent strength.” The currency is also
elevated because of haven flows and the impact of loose monetary
policies elsewhere, the bank’s report said.  Consumer debt burdens will probably stabilize around the
current record 165 percent of disposable income, after being
elevated in part by a rise in housing investment, the central
bank said today. There are still signs of “overbuilding” of
multiple-unit housing in some cities, it said.  Flaherty has acted four times to make mortgage lending
rules more restrictive on concern that Vancouver and Toronto
markets were overheating. His March 21 budget also outlined the
slowest spending growth since the 1990s to meet an election
promise to eliminate a deficit by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  