-- Central Banks Find Stimulus Glitter in Gold Slump
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-17T02:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/central-banks-find-stimulus-glitter-in-gold-slump.html
The slump in gold may hand activist
central bankers more reasons to pursue the easy monetary policy
that helped drive up the metal’s price in the first place.  Among many explanations for the biggest drop in more than
30 years: a fourth annual global growth scare as data disappoint
from  China  to the U.S. and investors fold long-held bets that
monetary stimulus will ultimately unleash inflation. Other
reasons for the drop range from a view that the price reached
so-called technical levels to concerns that Cyprus could start a
rush by indebted nations to sell their supplies of the metal.  The combination of growth jitters and reduced inflation
anxiety boosts the case of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and counterparts elsewhere to keep pump-priming their
economies in the hope they will finally secure traction. It also
may help them beat back critics, including some U.S. Republican
lawmakers.  “Central banks can be opportunistic and proceed with
quantitative easing now the gold market is surrendering with
regards to its hyperinflation fears,” said  Edward Yardeni ,
president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research
Inc. in New York. “They could also argue the weakness in
commodity prices suggests a growth concern and so all the more
reason to keep QE going.”  12-Year Surge  Gold has tumbled 27 percent to $1,387.40 yesterday from the
Aug. 22, 2011, close and is now in a bear market after a 12-year
surge through 2012 that was fueled partly by investors
concluding faster inflation and central-bank aid would buoy the
metal as a protection of wealth. Its dive has come days before
international finance ministers and central bankers meet in
Washington to discuss signs of slowing in the world economy.  “Investors were somewhat optimistic that the relative
strength we’d seen earlier in the year would continue,” said
Roberto Perli, a Washington-based managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group and a former Fed
economist. “When you go through a soft patch like this, you are
forced to at least think that maybe things could go in a
different way than you believed.”  U.S. payrolls grew the least in nine months in March, China
is suffering the  weakest expansion  in two decades with growth
below 8 percent, and unemployment among the 17 euro nations is a
record  12 percent . A Citigroup Inc. index shows data in major
economies  undershooting  forecasts by the most since September.  Slowing Growth  In the wake of such developments, the International
Monetary Fund yesterday trimmed its estimate for global growth
this year to 3.3 percent from 3.5 percent in January. Such
softness may help explain the selloff in gold and other
commodities, said Igor Arsenin, head of emerging Asia rates
strategy at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . Brent crude yesterday
dropped below $100 a barrel for the first time since July.  “You have a background of sluggish global growth, which
weighs on commodity prices,” Arsenin said.  That gives central banks justification for their monetary
easing, said Jonathan Wright, an economics professor at Johns
Hopkins University in Baltimore who worked at the Fed’s division
of monetary affairs from 2004 until 2008.  William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, and Charles Evans, president of the  Chicago  Fed, said
yesterday in separate remarks there’s a need to continue the
central bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The Bank
of  Japan  this month doubled its monthly bond buying to 7.5
trillion yen ($77 billion) with the aim of achieving 2 percent
inflation within two years.  ‘Escape Velocity’  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said April 4
the bank stands ready to cut interest rates if the economy
deteriorates further. At the Bank of  England , Mark Carney,
currently head of the Bank of Canada, will become governor in
July having said central banks should pursue “escape velocity”
for their economies.  “With the recent signs of weakness, I don’t see any
likelihood of monetary stimulus being even ramped down any time
soon,” Wright said. “For the fourth year in a row, the year
begins with noises about the imminent exit strategy, which then
fizzles out.”  The Fed, for example, will see cheaper commodities as
reinforcing the need to keep buying assets through this year,
said Joseph Gagnon, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in  Washington  and a former Fed
staffer.  “We haven’t recovered yet and we are not recovering
fast,” he said. “In no sense are we having an adequate
recovery.”  Employment Outlook  The Federal Open Market Committee in March reiterated its
plan to buy $85 billion in bonds every month until the U.S.
employment outlook improves “substantially.” The program is
part of a strategy to reduce long-term interest rates and
bolster growth in interest-rate sensitive parts of the economy,
including housing and auto sales.  The odds also are increasing that the ECB becomes “more
aggressive,” after previously resisting asset purchases as a
way to help the economy, said Mark Vitner, a senior economist at
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte , North Carolina. Draghi
said April 4 that policy makers “will assess all the incoming
data in the coming weeks, and we stand ready to act.”  The likelihood that monetary policy will be kept
“exceptionally loose” means Capital Economics Ltd. doubts
gold’s current weakness will be sustained, said  Julian Jessop ,
the London-based consulting company’s chief international
economist.  Aggressive Purchases  That would reinstate a trend that began accelerating in
2008 as key central banks cut interest rates and then undertook
increasingly more aggressive rounds of asset purchases to
bolster their economies from recession and subsequent slow
recovery.  Gold’s fall suggests investors now are questioning this
view as they begin to wonder whether cheap money will trigger
runaway inflation, said Neil Mackinnon, a global macro
strategist at VTB Capital Plc in  London .  With expansions still subpar, worldwide consumer-price
inflation has dropped a percentage point during the past year
and soon may slow to 2 percent from 2.5 percent in the 12 months
ending in February, say JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists led by
New York-based Bruce Kasman. The cost of living in the U.S.
declined in March for the first time in four months, according
to data released yesterday.  ‘Very Subdued’  “Prior to this, markets were concerned that QE means
inflation, but we’re having QE, not just at the Fed but at the
Bank of Japan, and yet the global economy looks more uncertain
than it did three to four months ago,” said Mackinnon, a former
U.K. Treasury official. “Now, whether it’s wages or CPI
inflation, the general picture is that inflation is still very
subdued.”  There are other theories for gold’s fall to the cheapest
since January 2011.  Eric Chaney , chief economist at Axa SA in
Paris, said the decline may be related to concern that the Fed
is starting to plot an end to its third round of quantitative
easing, which is now unlimited in size and length. Several
officials at the March policy meeting said the central bank
should begin tapering the program later this year and stop it by
year end, according to the minutes released last week.  “The big fundamental change that doesn’t favor gold is
that the Fed has started to signal that QE will eventually
end,” Chaney said. “First it will slow, then it will end.”  Less Useful  Investors may be selling gold because they believe
“recovery is coming and therefore gold is less useful as an
asset,” Marcus Grubb, managing director of investment research
at the World Gold Council, told Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” yesterday. “That’s what’s driving this down move.”  The two-day, 13 percent plunge -- the biggest since January
1980 -- became a “panic event” that didn’t reflect
fundamentals, BlackRock Inc. fund manager Catherine Raw in
London said in a separate interview yesterday on Bloomberg
Television.  Some investors were trying to raise cash to cover positions
acquired with borrowed money, said  Frank McGhee , the head dealer
at Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said April 10 the turn in the gold
cycle was quickening and investors should sell the metal. The
rout that began last week was sparked by mounting concern that
Cyprus would be forced to sell gold from its reserves,
“potentially reflecting a larger monetization of gold reserves
across other European central banks,” the bank said in a
report.  Equities Shift  The plunge also may reflect a shift into equities as the
outlook for the U.S. economy appears more clear, said  Chris
Rupkey , chief financial economist for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ in New York.  Whatever the reason, there’s a silver lining for Bernanke:
It may help him deflect political barbs in the U.S. that his
stimulus policies would trigger an inflationary surge and
collapse in the dollar.  In September 2011, House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio ,
Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  and two
other Republicans wrote the Fed chairman and asked that he
“resist further extraordinary intervention in the economy,”
saying further actions could “erode the already weakened U.S.
dollar.”  More recently, Chairman Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican,
warned Bernanke at a House Financial Services Committee session
in February of “soaring inflation, or skyrocketing interest
rates, all of which could make us look longingly and
nostalgically upon the Jimmy Carter era of stagflation” if the
Fed’s  $3.2 trillion  balance sheet isn’t unwound at the right
time.  Stronger Dollar  In fact, the U.S. dollar has strengthened against most
major currencies after first-quarter growth picked up, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The yen has weakened 11 percent this
year, the most among major currencies, while the British pound
has declined 5.4 percent. The euro is unchanged.  “There were big fears aggressive central-bank policy would
push up inflation or see currencies fall in value and it didn’t
happen,” said Kit Juckes, global strategist at Societe Generale
SA in London. “The fact we’re in the middle of 2013 and none of
that’s happened has been enough to create an outsized correction
in gold.”  The “goldbug/inflationista view of the world” in which
buyers have sought to protect themselves from a surge in
inflation “is, in fact, all wrong,” Nobel Prize-winning
economist Paul Krugman  said  in an April 15 New York Times online
posting.  “Maybe, just maybe, the gold crash will finally bring
intellectual capitulation,” he wrote. “But I wouldn’t bet on
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  