-- Cerberus’s Feinberg Said to Weigh Bid for Freedom Group
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-04-21T14:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/cerberus-s-feinberg-said-to-weigh-bid-for-freedom-group.html
(Corrects Lockyer’s title in eighth paragraph in story
originally published April 17.)  Cerberus Capital Management LP’s
founder  Stephen Feinberg  and his partners may try to acquire
gunmaker Freedom Group Inc. from the private-equity funds
managed by his firm, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  Cerberus put Freedom Group, the maker of the rifle used in
a Connecticut school shooting last year, up for sale in December
after coming under pressure from public pension fund investors.
Feinberg and other partners at New York-based Cerberus have
approached wealthy individuals about joining in a “stalking
horse” bid to spark competition for Freedom Group and ensure it
fetches a fair price, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private.  Freedom Group makes the Bushmaster rifle used in the
shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,  Connecticut 
on Dec. 14, which left 26 people dead. The shooting ignited a
national debate over gun violence and led to efforts by
Congressional Democrats and some Republicans to set new
restrictions on gun sales.  As a way to safeguard against Feinberg or another bidder
paying too little, Cerberus has explored the possibility of
asking investors in its funds to form a special committee that
would sign off on any deal, the people said.  There is no break-up fee if another bidder tops Feinberg’s
offer, the people said. If another buyer offers 10 percent or
more above the stalking horse bid, Feinberg would be compelled
to withdraw from the auction, one of the people said.  Feinberg has not yet decided if he will proceed with an
offer, they said. News of his possible bid was reported earlier
by Reuters.  John Dillard , a spokesman for Cerberus at  Weber
Shandwick , declined to comment.  CalSTRS Review  Feinberg’s father is a resident of Liberty at Newtown, a
community for people 55 and older about 6 miles from the
elementary school where the shooting took place,  Bloomberg News 
reported in December. He said in an interview at the time that
the shooting was “devastating.”  Cerberus said it would put Freedom Group up for sale four
days after the massacre. California State Teachers’ Retirement
System, or CalSTRS, one of its largest backers, disclosed it was
reviewing its investment in the firm in the aftermath of the
shooting. California Treasurer Bill Lockyer has proposed that
the state’s public pensions divest holdings in firearms
manufacturers.  The private-equity firm hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to manage the
sale after other banks it approached turned it down, Bloomberg
News reported in January.  Cerberus acquired Bushmaster Firearms Inc. in 2006 and
later merged it with a second gun maker, Remington Arms Co.
Inc., to create Freedom Group. The company generated $887.7
million in sales and $143.4 million of earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in the 12 months ended
September 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Feinberg founded Cerberus with William Richter in 1992. The
firm has more than $20 billion in managed assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  