-- Cheapest Revenue Debt Draws Buyers Fleeing Stockton: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-04-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/cheapest-revenue-debt-draws-buyers-fleeing-stockton-muni-credit.html
The worst-performing part of the
municipal market is drawing buyers as bankrupt Stockton,
 California ’s attempt to stick investors with a loss heightens
the appeal of debt backed by revenue from services such as water
and electricity.  A federal judge said this month that Stockton, the most-
populous U.S. city to enter bankruptcy, can stay under court
protection. Bondholders will probably get less than they’re
owed, and that precedent makes debt paid through sewer or
transport revenue attractive because those payments have
stronger legal protection than general obligations, said John Mousseau, a portfolio manager at Cumberland Advisors in
Vineland, New Jersey.  Water and sewer debt has earned 0.7 percent this year, the
lowest among 10 revenue-bond groups, compared with 1 percent for
the broader $3.7 trillion muni market, Barclays Plc indexes
show. Yet Cumberland, which manages about $2.2 billion in debt,
joins Morgan Stanley analysts in favoring such bonds.  The revenue “goes from the farebox to you,” said
Mousseau, who has bought securities from the Los Angeles
Department of Water & Power and  Chicago ’s O’Hare International
Airport this year. “You’re more secure that way.”  Choices Ahead  Investors have their pick of such deals this month,
including a $242 million offer from Portland Water System in
 Oregon , a deal from Richmond Public Utility in  Virginia  and an
issue from the Los Angeles water agency.  With a growing economy fueling bets that  interest rates  are
set to rise, Morgan Stanley has essential-service revenue debt
pegged as its favorite muni segment this quarter. Such
securities “tend to do better” in that context, Morgan Stanley
analysts led by Michael Zezas wrote in note this month.  Ten-year Treasury yields will climb about 0.5 percentage
point to 2.25 percent by year-end, according to the median
forecast of 66 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Morgan Stanley likes most types of revenue borrowings
because they provide “extra yield and a more stable near-term
credit trajectory,” Zezas said in an e-mail. The segment has
“the added benefit of downside protection against broader
bankruptcy stress.”  Stockton Rarity  Before filing for bankruptcy in June amid mounting retiree
health-care costs and an eroding tax base, Stockton asked
investors to take less than what they’re owed on pension and
lease-revenue bonds backed by the city’s general fund.  The demand would’ve left investors with the equivalent of
17 percent of future payments in the case of pension debt,
Moody’s Investors Service said.  The city of 296,000 east of  San Francisco  is a rare case.
From 1980 to 2013, 274 Chapter 9 filings occurred, of which 52
were by a city, village or county, according to  James Spiotto , a
partner with law firm Chapman & Cutler LLP in Chicago.  Yet Stockton was one of three California municipalities
filing for court protection last year.  Robert Miller , who helps oversee $32 billion of munis at
Wells Capital Management, said he’s avoiding similar debt from
California issuers that is paid from the general fund and
doesn’t carry an unlimited tax pledge.  Contract Comfort  “The market is recognizing there is increased risk
associated with these structures,” he said from  Menomonee
Falls ,  Wisconsin . “And as a result, they’re going to require
higher levels of yields.”  The “defined revenue stream” from essential services is
an “argument that you have a contract that can’t be set aside
necessarily by  bankruptcy court ,” he said.  He bought debt this year from the Cucamonga Valley Water
District, a system serving parts of San Bernardino County,
California. Miller said he got as much as 0.20 percentage point
of extra yield compared with general-obligation bonds of the
same rating.  He bypasses debt from the city of  Detroit  while picking up
bonds from its water and sewer system. He said the facility’s
revenue is separate from that of the city, which in March was
put under a state-appointed emergency manager as it tries to
avert bankruptcy.  Distress Distance  Some portfolio managers avoid revenue bonds from entities
associated with fiscal distress. Jamie Iselin, who helps oversee
$11 billion as head of munis at New York-based Neuberger Berman
Group LLC, says the payoff isn’t worth the volatility.  “If you’re holding Stockton water and sewer debt through
this whole process, you feel better than if you own Stockton
pension bonds,” Iselin said. “But it has not been a ride
without a lot of bumps, liquidity give-up and wider spreads.”  No city or county since at least the 1930s has used the
power of a U.S. bankruptcy court to force a reduction in
debt principal.  Creditors including Assured Guaranty Corp. and Franklin
Resources Inc. say Stockton is seeking to cut debt while still
maintaining millions of dollars in future payments to the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System .  An outcome that causes pensioners to take a hit would make
municipal bankruptcy “that much more attractive an option for
cities and local governments, and not just in California,” Matt Fabian, managing director of Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors, wrote in an April 8 research note.  Busiest Span  Amid the busiest  stretch  of issuance since June,
yields on tax-exempt debt are eclipsing those on Treasuries to
start this week.  Ten-year benchmark muni yields at  1.77 percent  compare with
 1.72 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries. The muni interest
rate has been below its federal counterpart on only day in the
past month.  Issuers are offering almost $22 billion between last week
and this week.  New Jersey  plans to sell $350 million of general-obligation
bonds as soon as next week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
would be the state’s first new-money, general-obligation deal
since 2009, according to the state’s 2012 debt report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  