-- Chinese Citizen Among Three Dead in Boston Marathon Blasts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-17T06:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/chinese-citizen-among-three-who-died-in-boston-marathon-blasts.html
A Chinese citizen was one of three
people killed in the bomb explosion at the  Boston  Marathon on
April 15, while a second underwent two surgeries to treat wounds
suffered in the blast.  The wounded citizen is Zhou Danling, according to Li
Zhimin, a spokesman for the Chinese consulate in  New York . While
the consulate won’t identify the dead person because of a family
request, Li said Chinese citizen Lu Lingzi is missing.  Official Chinese media including state television provided
detailed coverage of the two blasts at the marathon finish line.
 China Central Television  spoke to Wang Shi, the chairman of
 China Vanke Co. (200002)  who was at the scene, while Lu’s name was the
second most popular search term on Chinese  search engine 
Baidu.com today.  China “denounces and opposes any kind of bombing that is
targeted at civilians,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua
Chunying said at a briefing yesterday in Beijing.  Zhou, a graduate student at  Boston University , underwent
two surgeries at Boston Medical Center after the blast, Xinhua
reported. She is in serious condition, Boston Medical Center
spokeswoman Gina Orlando said in a phone interview.  Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV reported that Lu was among the
three dead. It said she was a Boston University student from the
Chinese city of Shenyang.  The university said yesterday that one student died and
another was seriously injured in the blasts. University
President Robert A. Brown didn’t disclose the name of either
student in an e-mail. Lu Lingzi is listed as a graduate student
on the school’s website.  Homegrown Radical  The other two people killed in the blast were identified as
Martin Richard, 8, and Krystle Campbell, 29. U.S. investigators
are examining if the two explosions were the work of a homegrown
radical as evidence suggested the bomber used weapons made from
metal pressure cookers.  “Chinese citizens are sometime victims of terrorist
attacks but rarely the target of such attacks overseas,” said
Ye Hailin, a terrorism researcher at the  Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences  in Beijing. “I don’t see implications from the
Boston bombing on China’s anti-terrorism policy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  