-- China State Grid, AMP Said to Weigh Bids for N.Z. Utility
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-04-17T08:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/china-state-grid-amp-said-to-weigh-bids-for-n-z-utility.html
China State Grid Corp. and  AMP Ltd. (AMP) 
are among companies considering buying  Brookfield Infrastructure
Partners LP (BIP) ’s stake in a  New Zealand  utility, said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Indicative offers for the 42 percent stake in Powerco Ltd.,
the country’s second-biggest electricity and gas distributor by
customers, are due this month, two people said, asking not to be
identified as the information is private. Barclays Plc is
advising Brookfield on the sale, which may fetch as much as
NZ$450 million ($381 million), the people said.  Access Capital Advisers , a Sydney-based  fund manager  with
about $2.6 billion in assets, is also considering a bid for
Powerco, the people said. QIC Ltd., an Australian investment
fund, owns the rest of Powerco.  China State Grid, the nation’s biggest electricity
distributor, in November agreed to acquire 41.1 percent of
ElectraNet Pty Ltd., the operator of the main power transmission
network in South Australia state. The company is working with
Macquarie Group Ltd. as it considers bidding for Powerco, one
person said.  Andrew Willis, a spokesman for Brookfield Infrastructure,
couldn’t be reached to comment outside of office hours in
Toronto. Spokesmen at AMP and Access Capital declined to
comment. State Grid didn’t respond to faxed questions regarding
a potential bid.  The Wall Street Journal reported State Grid’s interest
earlier, citing people it didn’t identify.  Powerco , based in New Plymouth, distributes power to about
320,000 homes on New Zealand’s North Island and gas to about
102,000 homes, according to its website. Brookfield
Infrastructure, managed by Toronto-based  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc. (BAM/A) , owns assets in utilities, transportation,
energy and timber in North and South America,  Europe  and
Australasia, its website shows.  New Zealand is seeking to raise NZ$1.6 billion from the
sale of as much as 49 percent in state-owned utility Mighty
River Power Ltd. next month in the nation’s biggest initial
public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  