-- Christie’s Party Leads N.J. Democrats in Election Funds
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-04-17T16:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/christie-s-party-leads-n-j-democrats-in-election-funds.html
New Jersey’s state Republican
campaign-finance committees outraised their Democratic
counterparts in the first quarter as Governor  Chris Christie  and
all 120 legislators seek re-election in November.  The three major Republican groups collected $810,923 to the
Democrats’ $653,110, according to a report by the state Election
Law Enforcement Commission. Republicans had $1.47 million of
cash on hand as of March 31, while Democrats had $1.09 million.  Republican fundraising has more than tripled since 2009,
when Christie defeated incumbent Democrat  Jon Corzine , a former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-chairman, multimillionaire and major
political contributor. With Corzine out of New Jersey politics,
Democratic fundraising has dropped by more than half since the
last governor’s race four years ago, the commission said.  While the parties’ combined reserve is up from the same
point last year, it is down from 2009, and is the smallest for a
year in which a governor will be elected since at least 2001.
Jeffrey Brindle, the commission’s executive director, attributed
the decline to tightened contribution limits for public
contractors and lingering effects of the recession that ended in
June 2009.  Record Cash  Donors also may be giving more to outside groups, which
don’t have to identify their income sources, rather than to
committees whose finances are publicly disclosed, Brindle said.  Christie himself, a possible 2016 presidential candidate,
is raising record cash for his New Jersey re-election attempt.
Through Dec. 31, before Democrats had rallied around a
challenger, he had amassed $2.1 million, almost as much as he
had raised in the 2009 primary. He has since been raising money
out of state, with an event in February at  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-
founder  Mark Zuckerberg ’s California home and an appearance in
March in Wisconsin with Governor  Scott Walker .  First-quarter finance reports for Christie and his
Democratic challenger, state Senator Barbara Buono from
Metuchen, will be released May 13. Through Dec. 31, Buono had
raised $215,000.  Christie, enjoying record approval ratings for his response
to  Hurricane Sandy , led Buono by 30 percentage points in an
April 12 poll by the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based Rutgers
Eagleton Institute of Politics.  Corzine hasn’t made a donation to New Jersey political
campaigns since March 2011, according to election  records .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  