-- Citigroup Said to Shake Up Europe Equities Unit as Connolly Goes
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-04-17T14:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/citigroup-said-to-shake-up-europe-equities-unit-as-connolly-goes.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  promoted Imraan Moola and Rory Hill to run equity-derivatives trading in Europe,
replacing the region’s equities boss Ronan Connolly, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Connolly exited Citigroup after his unit underperformed,
said the people, who requested anonymity because details of the
overhaul aren’t public. Moola and Hill are assuming Connolly’s
duties for equity derivatives. The New York-based bank also
hired Yonatan Gozdanker earlier this month to take on Connolly’s
responsibilities for cash equities.  The shakeup is Citigroup’s latest attempt to improve the
performance of its equities division after new Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Corbat , 52, pledged to make the bank more
efficient. The equities unit, run from London by Derek Bandeen,
is among the smallest of the top 10 global investment banks,
according to research from analytics firm Coalition Ltd.  Jeffrey French , a spokesman for Citigroup in London,
declined to comment.  Connolly, who joined Citigroup in 2008, also oversaw
equities-trading in the  Middle East  and  Africa . The bank doesn’t
disclose equities-trading revenue for the region. Global sales
in the first quarter, excluding accounting adjustments, fell 9.8
percent to  $826 million  from the year-earlier period.  Derivatives Intelligence, a newsletter published by
 Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc (ERM) , reported Connolly’s
departure earlier this week. Financial News reported Moola and
Hill’s appointments earlier today.  Citigroup’s global revenue from equities-trading  tumbled  35
percent to $2.45 billion in 2011 from the previous year, leading
Bandeen to change management and shutter a proprietary-trading
unit. Revenue was little changed in 2012.  Merrill, JPMorgan  Connolly’s term with Citigroup ended yesterday, according
to Financial Conduct Authority records in the U.K. He previously
worked for Merrill Lynch & Co., the investment bank purchased by
Bank of America Corp. in 2009, and JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
records show.  Moola joined Citigroup in 2010 after roles with Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group
AG. Hill worked with JPMorgan and Citadel LLC, the hedge-fund
firm founded by  Ken Griffin , the records show.  Hill said he didn’t immediately have a comment on the moves
when reached by phone, and Moola declined to comment. An e-mail
sent to Connolly bounced back as undeliverable and a man
answering the phone at his office said Connolly can’t be reached
there. A personal phone number couldn’t immediately be found in
two online public directories.  Equity derivatives are contracts whose values are linked to
underlying equities such as  options  and futures. Cash equities-
trading involves the buying and selling of common shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  