-- Commodities Traders Brace for Transparency While Staying Private
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-17T11:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/commodities-traders-brace-for-transparency-while-staying-private.html
Commodity traders expect the
industry to become more transparent amid the rising need for
financing and regulatory pressure, even as some merchants remain
closely held, company executives said.  Physical commodity traders raised $19.9 billion in equity
and debt last year, up from $10.6 billion in 2010 and $1 billion
in 2002, according to First Reserve Corp., a private equity
energy firm. Senior executives at Cargill Inc., the largest
closely held U.S. company, and Trafigura Beheer BV, which buys
and sells oil and other commodities, said trading companies’
characteristic secrecy will probably diminish over time as they
tap  capital markets  to grow their businesses.  “The transparency of the private firms will have to
necessarily increase,”  Greg Page , chief executive officer of
Cargill, said at the Financial Times Global Commodities Summit
in Lausanne,  Switzerland  yesterday.  Switzerland rejected calls for tougher regulation of
commodity traders last month, in favor of a voluntary industry
code. The government will study the impact of introducing
transparency requirements similar to those in the U.S. and the
European Union before deciding how to proceed, Economy Minister
Johann Schneider-Ammann said. The alpine nation started
investigating the industry in May saying the country was
“exposed to risks to its reputation” by being an oil, grain
and coffee trading hub.  Vitol Group, Trafigura and Litasco are among privately-held
trading companies that operate from offices in Switzerland.
Commodity trading, concentrated in Geneva and Zug,
boosted its share of the Swiss economy 10-fold over the past
decade, according to Zurich’s KOF research institute.  Glencore  “Commodities as a business have become more interesting,”
Pierre Lorinet, chief financial officer of Trafigura, said in an
interview in Lausanne. “There have been a few key transactions
like the initial public offering of Glencore, and all of that is
effectively making us more public.”  Trafigura’s financial statements will be made public as
part of its $500 million subordinated perpetual bond, which was
listed on the Singapore stock exchange last week, Lorinet said.  “The step of releasing information to key commercial
partners or financial partners, to releasing it on a broader
basis, is a fairly smooth transition,” Lorinet said. “It’s
also a way for us to get access to additional capital.”  First Reserve’s President Alex Krueger said he thinks a
financing trend is emerging. Physical commodity trading
companies raised $22 billion in 2011, he said.  Commodities Supplier  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, expects to close a $30 billion takeover of
Xstrata Plc by May 2. The move, which would create the world’s
third-biggest producer of mined copper, comes less than two
years after Glencore went through a $10 billion IPO that ended
more than three decades of operating as a closely held company.  In contrast to Glencore, several traders said they would
stay closely held.  “For the long-term, the interest of the firm is to remain
private,”  Ian Taylor , chief executive officer of Vitol Group,
the world’s largest independent oil trader, told the conference.
The company, which competes in the oil market with traders such
as Trafigura and Glencore as well as international companies
such as BP Plc, said its revenue increased 2 percent to $303
billion last year.  Marco Dunand, chief executive officer of Geneva-based
Mercuria Energy Trading SA, didn’t expect more large commodity
merchants to carry out IPOs.  Staying Private  “Certainly for us, it’s not going to happen,” Dunand
said. “It makes sense to remain private because you can afford
to have a much longer-term view.”  Mercuria has said it’s interested in selling a 10 percent
to 20 percent stake in the company.  Other traders who want to expand and purchase capital-
intensive assets may need to tap public markets, according to
 Alberto Weisser , chairman and chief executive officer of  Bunge
Ltd. (BG) , the world’s second-largest publicly traded sugar processor
which is listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  “The world will see more companies going public,” said
Weisser, whose company had its IPO in 2001. “It’s necessary to
be very large. Our experience of being public has been positive.
You are under scrutiny, but it has benefits. I can only
recommend it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  