-- Companies Shielded as U.S. Court Cuts Human-Rights Suits
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-04-17T21:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/companies-get-shield-as-top-u-s-court-curbs-human-rights-suits.html
The U.S. Supreme Court insulated
multinational corporations from at least some lawsuits over
atrocities overseas, scaling back a favorite legal tool of
human-rights activists.  The justices threw out a suit accusing two foreign-based
units of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  of facilitating torture and
executions in  Nigeria . The majority said the 1789 Alien Tort
Statute generally doesn’t apply to conduct beyond U.S. borders.  In the Shell case, “all the relevant conduct took place
outside the United States,” Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote
for the court. The justices were unanimous on the outcome in the
Shell case, while dividing in their reasoning.  The ruling may help a number of companies defeat similar
lawsuits.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Chiquita Brands
International Inc. (CQB) , Siemens AG, Daimler AG and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) 
are all fighting Alien Tort Statute claims.  Without specifically addressing those cases, Roberts said a
company couldn’t be sued under the Alien Tort Statute simply
because it had a “corporate presence” in the U.S.  He pointed to the “presumption against
extraterritoriality,” saying that legal principle limits the
reach of the Alien Tort Statute. The court’s four Democratic
appointees --  Stephen Breyer ,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  -- wrote separately to say they would
have reached the same result using different reasoning.  Kennedy Opinion  Three other justices --  Anthony Kennedy ,  Samuel Alito  and
 Clarence Thomas  -- said in separate opinions that the ruling was
a narrow one. Kennedy said the court “is careful to leave open
a number of significant questions.”  Human-rights advocates say Alien Tort Statute suits let
atrocity victims hold their perpetrators accountable. Alleged
victims have invoked the law more than 150 times in the past 20
years.  “A majority of our highest court has chosen to make it
easier for big corporations complicit in human-rights abuses to
evade responsibility and vastly more difficult for their victims
to get justice,” said Nan Aron, president of the Washington-
based Alliance for Justice, in an e-mailed statement.  The suit before the high court was pressed by Nigerians who
said two Shell units were complicit in torture and execution in
the country’s Ogoni region from 1992 to 1995. Shell denies the
allegations.  Shell Reaction  “Today’s decision doesn’t weaken the human rights of
people around the world,” Shell’s legal director, Peter Rees,
said in an e-mailed statement. “It makes it clear that the
Alien Tort Statute does not provide a means for claims to be
brought in the U.S. which have nothing to do with the U.S.”  Corporation lawyers said the ruling will wipe out the vast
majority of Alien Tort Statute suits against companies.  “In terms of corporate liability, unless the underlying
human-rights violation occurs in the  United States , it’s not
going to be possible to assert a claim under the standard the
court has adopted,” said Andrew Pincus, a Washington lawyer at
Mayer Brown LLP who represents Cargill Inc. in an Alien Tort
Statute case.  Human-rights lawyers say cases involving U.S. corporations
won’t necessarily be dismissed. Marco Simons, legal director of
Earth Rights International in Washington, said a case accusing
Cincinnati-based Chiquita of financing paramilitary death squads
in  Colombia , might still go forward.  Guilty Plea  Simons pointed to evidence that Chiquita’s board of
directors was involved in the alleged wrongdoing and to the
company’s 2007 guilty plea in U.S. court for paying protection
money to Colombian terrorist groups.  “We think there’s a very strong likelihood that that case
survives this decision,” Simons said.  Chiquita has said the claims are meritless and urged
dismissal of the lawsuit. The company says a subsidiary paid
money to ensure the safety of its employees.  “This decision is clearly a bad one for the plaintiffs’
lawyers suing Chiquita,” Tiffany Breaux, a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mail.  Roberts’s opinion didn’t explicitly say U.S. corporations
could be sued, and suggested that they might be insulated, just
like foreign companies.  “Even where the claims touch and concern the territory of
the United States, they must do so with sufficient force to
displace the presumption against extraterritorial application,”
the chief justice wrote. “Corporations are often present in
many countries, and it would reach too far to say that mere
corporate presence suffices.”  Two Arguments  Breyer wrote separately to say he would allow lawsuits in
several circumstances, including cases involving an American
citizen as a defendant or a wrongdoing on U.S. soil. He also
suggested that suits could go forward if the alleged perpetrator
had taken refuge in the U.S.  The justices heard arguments twice in the case, first in
their 2010-11 term on contentions that the Alien Tort Statute
doesn’t permit suits against corporations.  The court then expanded its review, ordering re-argument in
October on a potentially more sweeping question: whether the
statute applies beyond U.S. borders. The court’s decision to
focus on that question means its ruling may apply to corporate
officers as well as the companies.  French Diplomat  The 33-word statute, enacted in 1789, was in part a
reaction to an attack on a French diplomat in Philadelphia. The
Alien Tort Statute then lay largely dormant for almost two
centuries before being revived in the 1970s as a means of
pressing human-rights lawsuits.  The pending Alien Tort Statute cases against other
companies allege wrongdoing around the globe. Exxon is fighting
claims that the company was complicit in murder, torture and
sexual assault in  Indonesia ’s Aceh province.  Daimler’s Argentine Mercedes Benz unit is accused of
collaborating with state security forces to kill and torture
workers, while Siemens allegedly arranged the beating of a man
who uncovered corruption in an Argentine government contract.  A lawsuit against Cisco contends the company aided human
rights abuses in  China  by helping government officials gain
access to private Internet communications and identify anonymous
bloggers.  The Supreme Court  case  is Kiobel v. Shell Petroleum,
10-1491.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  