-- Rural America vs. Sensible Gun Control
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-17T20:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/congress-rural-bias-puts-gun-control-out-of-reach.html
Debate on gun legislation began
this week in the  U.S. Senate . Gun manufacturers, the  National
Rifle Association , a narrow band of gun-rights ideologues and,
to a lesser degree, the 16 percent of Americans who live in
rural areas were well represented. Most of the American public
was not.  Multiple  opinion polls  have shown that more than 80 percent
of Americans support expanded background checks to make it more
difficult for criminals and the mentally ill to obtain guns.
Senators  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia  and  Pat Toomey  of
Pennsylvania struck a bipartisan deal to accomplish that goal.
Their proposal contains loopholes -- what American gun
legislation doesn’t? -- but it is an honest attempt to address a
genuine threat to public safety.  The struggle to enact their plan turned uphill this week,
with nearly all Senate Republicans opposing it and even a few
red-state Democrats running for cover. The proposal’s  demise , in
a 54-46 vote, is a testament to legislators’ continuing fear of
the gun lobby. It also illuminates a political equation that
grows more unbalanced, especially in the Senate, every year. The
votes of Wyoming’s two senators, representing 580,000 citizens,
effectively cancel the votes of  California ’s two senators,
representing 38 million. The votes of  Illinois , with a
population of almost 13 million, are voided by those of  Alaska ,
with little more than 700,000.  This is a problem for sensible gun legislation. It is also
a problem for American democracy. If the nation’s laws fail to
represent the views of the overwhelming majority of its people,
representative democracy becomes a shallow and unsustainable
exercise.  Just as gun laws have failed to keep pace with the advance
of technology -- which puts ever greater firepower in the hands
of virtually anyone who wants it -- the Senate has failed to
adapt to the urbanization and suburbanization of the nation,
enabling rural representatives to veto the will of an
increasingly metropolitan majority. The Senate cannot, and
indeed does not, function if 60 votes are the threshold for
every proposal.  That, however, is increasingly the standard for passing
legislation due to the minority’s persistent resort to
filibuster. It’s why the usual remedy for Senate sclerosis --
filibuster reform -- appears increasingly necessary.  Yet that remedy also promises to be wholly inadequate. Even
a supermajority in the Senate probably wouldn’t be enough to
propel popular gun regulation through the current  House of
Representatives , which mimics the Senate’s anti-cosmopolitanism
thanks to the way urban voters are packed together in heavily
Democratic districts while Republican and conservative voters
are spread more broadly, maximizing their numbers. (In 2012,
although House Democrats  collectively won  about 1.4 million more
votes than  House Republicans , Republicans retained their
majority.)  Rural America is as integral to the national character as
the nation’s cities are. But no more so. Manchin and Toomey,
both from gun-friendly states, deserve praise for striking a
compromise between urban and rural values that would protect the
public from criminals and madmen while honoring the traditions
and rights of gun owners. The Senate’s rejection of that
compromise bodes well for no one.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 