-- Cyprus Finance Minister Sees Gold Sale Within Next Months
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-04-17T07:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/cyprus-central-bank-must-approve-gold-sale-finance-chief-says.html
The Cypriot government plans to
sell part of its  gold reserves  within the next months, a
decision that needs to be approved by the country’s central
bank, Finance Minister Haris Georgiades said.  “The exact details of it will be formulated in due course
primarily by the board of the central bank,” Georgiades, 41,
told Bloomberg TV’s  Ryan Chilcote  in an interview in Nicosia.
“Obviously it’s a big decision.”  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades is trying to unlock 10
billion euros ($13.2 billion) of loans from the euro area and
the  International Monetary Fund . To do so, he must come up with
a further 11 billion euros through measures including a tax on
bank deposits of more than 100,000 euros at the country’s two
biggest banks, the sale of assets and gold and other tax
measures.  An April 9 debt assessment by the European Commission said
Cyprus had committed to selling about 400 million euros of
“excess” gold reserves, prompting gold futures to fall the
most in five months. In response to the disclosure, the  Central
Bank of Cyprus  said it wasn’t considering a sale.  Central bank chief Panicos Demetriades said last week that
the Cypriot government didn’t have the right to sell gold
without his consent. He also signalled the administration hadn’t
involved him in the plan. The Cypriot central bank manages the
country’s gold stock, which amounts to 13.9 metric tons,
according to the World Gold Council.  Central Bank  Georgiades said the government fully respects the
independence of the central bank and insisted on effective
cooperation. The country needs to look into how it got into this
difficult situation and “obviously some decisions of the
central bank will be examined” by an independent commission, he
said.  “There is an issue and it’s actually a major issue,”
Georgiades said. The government will do whatever is needed to
ensure “smooth and effective cooperation between all decision-
making authorities,” he said.  Anastasiades set up a commission this month to investigate
the reasons that led Cyprus to the brink of a financial
collapse.  Gold futures fell to the lowest since January 2011 on April
16 on increased investor concern that European governments may
have to follow Cyprus in selling reserves, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said in a report yesterday. The price of gold advanced 0.7
percent to $1,377.21 at 8:01 a.m. in  London , gaining for a
second day.  ‘Contributing Factor’  “I’m not really sure if the series of events is exactly
matching with the recent movements in the price of gold, but I
suspect maybe it was a contributing factor,” Georgiades said.  Cyprus, which became the fifth euro-area nation to seek a
bailout in June, will do everything it can to avoid a second aid
program, Georgiades said. “We know that we are in for a  rough
ride ,” he said, adding that he couldn’t give an estimate for
how much the economy will shrink this year.  Cyprus’s rescue program includes a forecast for gross
domestic product to decline 8.7 percent of this year, compared
with a European Commission projection for a 3.5 percent
contraction before the bailout was agreed. Cyprus’s government
spokesman said on April 4 that the contraction may reach 13
percent in 2013.  Uninsured Depositors  Cyprus reached an agreement with euro-area governments on
March 25 to impose losses on uninsured depositors at  Bank of
Cyprus Plc  and  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , which has been wound
down, in return for the 10 billion euros of loans from the IMF,
the  European Central Bank  and the European Union. Georgiades
said 7.5 billion euros of the bailout funds will be used to
cover the state’s needs and 2.5 billion euros will go the
recapitalizing Cypriot banks, excluding the two biggest.  The government closed all banks for nearly two weeks to
prevent deposit flight following an initial decision on March 16
to impose a tax on all savers. Banks reopened on March 28 with
strict  capital controls  on financial transactions.  “Capital restrictions will have to remain for a further
period but we are determined to cooperate with the ECB in order
to have the necessary liquidity provisions,” Georgiades said.  There is  “no way”  Cyprus will leave the euro area and the
island nation has avoided a default, he said.  Slovenia, the first post-communist nation to adopt the
euro, will try to sell 500 million euros of 18-month Treasury
bills today as the new government attempts to convince markets
it can avoid a bailout. Georgiades said he spoke to his
Slovenian counterpart Uros Cufer and told him it’s important to
take decisions in a timely fashion, before the situation becomes
unmanageable.  “Indecision and lack of willingness to tackle our own
problems in time led Cyprus to a very difficult situation and
essentially left Cyprus and the new government which is in
office for just a month and a half without any options,”
Georgiades said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 