-- Cyprus Cash Snubbed as Latvia Seeks to Smooth Euro Bid
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-04-18T15:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/cyprus-cash-snubbed-as-latvia-seeks-to-smooth-euro-bid.html
Latvia  is turning away money that’s
fleeing Cyprus as the Baltic nation defends its banking
credentials in the run-up to next year’s planned euro adoption.  Regulators in Latvia, where mainly ex-Soviet non-residents
account for half of deposits, have told lenders not to ease
standards to win Cypriot business. The island, which has imposed
 capital controls , is home to as much as $31 billion of Russian
cash, Moody’s Investors Service estimates.  Latvia wants to quell unease that its banks pose a danger
to euro-area stability after Cyprus, whose economy is about the
same size, roiled markets with its rescue. European lawmakers,
who must sign off on Latvia’s euro bid, have raised concerns
over non-resident deposits and banking secrecy in a nation that
took a bailout in 2008 after its biggest lender collapsed and
whose banks were allegedly used in Russia’s biggest tax fraud.  “Latvia won’t enter a competition for deposits fleeing
Cyprus,” Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said last month via
Twitter Inc. “We see the non-resident business as risky,” he
said in a separate post April 11.  The cost to insure Cypriot state debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps was 1,033 basis points
today compared with 724 on March 1, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Latvian swaps have risen 10 points to 126.  Soviet Hub  Non-resident deposits in Latvia, a regional banking hub
since getting the  Soviet Union ’s first private foreign-exchange
license in 1990, surged 17 percent last year to $11.4 billion,
49 percent of the country’s total.  The nation of 2.1 million people has the highest share of
Russian speakers among the three Baltic states and offers direct
flights to Moscow, about 500 miles away, as well as Cyprus.  Some banks see the island’s woes as a chance to capitalize
on Latvia’s role in the post-communist financial world and are
willing to disregard the warnings for the opportunity to expand.  Latvia “can now start playing the leading role in the
international financial concert,” Jaroslav Zamullo, head of
Rietumu Banka AS’s legal department, said March 28 in a
 statement  on its website. “The current unstable situation in
the EU has to be seen pragmatically and selfishly.”  Opening Hours  Closely held Rietumu, Latvia’s  third-biggest  deposit bank
with offices in Kazakhstan and  Ukraine , extended opening hours
in March after an inflow of requests about Cyprus’s predicament.
It has 1.7 billion lati ($3.2 billion) of assets.  Non-resident deposits grew 1.6 percent from the previous
month in January and 0.4 percent in February, according to the
bank regulator.  “We have already been seeing Russian banks shifting money
to  Switzerland , Luxembourg and the Baltic states,” Eugene Tarzimanov, an analyst at Moody’s in Moscow, said March 18.
“That trend will likely accelerate.”  Euro adoption will grant access to ECB liquidity, making
Latvia more attractive and helping double non-resident deposits
by 2018, Ernests Bernis, ABLV Bank AS’s chief executive officer,
told the Dienas Bizness newspaper in a March 14 interview.  Cypriot banking assets surged to about 800 percent of gross
domestic product after the island adopted the euro in 2008,
triggering soured bets on Greek debt and a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) bailout. That compares with 129 percent last year for
Latvia, below the 369 percent EU average.  Euro Bid  Still, it’s the second-highest total in eastern  Europe 
behind  Slovenia , which is battling to avoid a rescue after one
of its banks failed an EU stress test.  European officials have questioned the risks posed by
Latvia’s banks before the proposed Jan. 1, 2014, euro adoption,
saying lenders shouldn’t absorb outflows from Cyprus.  “I know that the  European Central Bank  has been in touch
about non-resident deposits in the Latvian banking system and
the Latvian side has given its assurances,” Martins Gravitis, a
spokesman for the central bank, said March 26 by e-mail. An ECB
spokesman declined to comment.  European Parliament political groups had previously accused
Latvia of flouting International Monetary Fund warnings over the
scale of its non-resident deposits.  ‘Favorable Environment’  “Latvia is still maintaining a favorable environment to
non-residents and their money by offering residency permits in
exchange for capital investments,” they said before a Feb. 26
hearing in Brussels as part of written questions seen by
 Bloomberg News  and whose authenticity was confirmed by Lelde
Kaunese, a spokeswoman at the  Finance Ministry . “Latvia’s
accession to the  euro zone  will only increase the trend, as
evidenced in Cyprus.”  Latvia is familiar with non-resident deposit risks after a
2008 government rescue of Parex Banka AS, the country’s biggest
deposit holder, forced it to take a 7.5 billion-euro bailout.
This time, the banking regulator has written to lenders telling
them not to lower standards to win business from Cyprus.  Banks were instructed to focus on the quality, rather than
quantity, of clients and financial flows, Laima Auza, a
spokeswoman for the regulator, said March 26 by e-mail.  Central bank Governor Ilmars Rimsevics has written to ECB
President  Mario Draghi  and European Commissioner Olli Rehn to
assure them that Latvia, which raised liquidity requirements for
banks with non-resident deposits in March, poses no danger.  ‘No Grounds’  “Latvia cannot be directly compared with Cyprus with
regard to the size and importance of non-resident business,” he
wrote Feb. 5, according to a letter seen by Bloomberg News and
whose authenticity was confirmed by bank spokesman Martins
Gravitis. “Concerns about the sustainability of the Latvian
banking sector have no grounds.”  As well as the size of Latvia’s financial industry, the
source of some of the cash it holds has raised questions as
euro-area accession increases the allure of a country with only
a “small” number of money-laundering convictions even after
improving legislation, according to a Council of Europe Moneyval
 report  published in November.  Some of the proceeds from  Russia ’s biggest known tax fraud
were transferred through accounts in Latvia,  Lithuania , Moldova,
Switzerland, Cyprus and  Hong Kong , according to London-based
Hermitage Capital.  Sergei Magnitsky, a lawyer for the fund who uncovered and
reported the $230 million fraud, died in a Moscow prison in 2009
after being arrested on tax-evasion charges. Latvian police have
opened an investigation into the matter. In Russia, Magnitsky
faces a posthumous trial.  Bank Sues  Otkritie Financial Corp., a brokerage part-owned by Russian
state-run VTB Group, is suing several former employees including
George Urumov over an alleged $183 million fraud, some of the
proceeds of which were transferred through Latvian lenders,
according to London court documents. Urumov denies wrongdoing.  “In my experience, the vast majority of cross-border
disputes with an ex-Soviet element feature the Latvian financial
system,” Daniel Hall, a director of London-based corporate-
intelligence company Focus Ltd., said by e-mail. “It provides a
seemingly risk-free laundry service.”  Latvian money-laundering legislation “fully complies”
with international standards, according to Rimsevics.  The Baltic nation meets all criteria to become the 18th
euro-area member, according to Dombrovskis, who’s scheduled to
discuss joining the currency region with French President
 Francois Hollande  today. Latvia won’t jeopardize its bid to grab
money escaping Cyprus, said James Oates, chief executive officer
of Tallinn, Estonia-based investment adviser  Cicero Capital .  “The government wouldn’t want to risk the prospect of euro
entry in January for the rather uncertain flow of funds the end
of the Cypriot offshore banking dream seems to have thrown up,”
he said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  