-- Czech Billionaire Vitek Targets Assets in Central Europe
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-04-18T09:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/czech-billionaire-vitek-targets-assets-in-central-europe.html
Czech billionaire Radovan Vitek
plans to buy two real estate funds with assets valued at about
500 million euros ($652 million) in central and eastern  Europe 
this year as part of a push to expand outside his home market.  “It would be silly to have all my eggs in one basket, so
the expansion abroad is a logical step as there are some
interesting opportunities now,” Vitek, 42, said in an interview
yesterday at the Prague headquarters of his flagship company,
Czech Property Investments AS. “I’m the sole decision maker and
we can move fast, unlike our peers in the region.”  Vitek said this month he’ll complete the purchase of
Hungarian developer  Ablon (ABL)  Group Ltd. for 30.8 million pounds
($47 million). He declined to identify the real estate funds. He
bought a 30 percent stake in Luxembourg-registered  Orco Property
Group (ORC)  in November, becoming its largest shareholder weeks after
the developer finished a bond-for-equity swap to overhaul debt.  Vitek said he’s also monitoring five other companies for
possible purchase that have been in a distressed situation
similar to Ablon, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange.  CPI had acceptances to buy almost 93 percent of Ablon
shares on April 3, the company said in an e-mailed statement.
After the takeover is completed, Ablon will be de-listed and
merged with CPI, said Vitek, who declined to provide further
details on any transactions.  Orco Gains  Both Ablon and Orco, which has one of the largest housing
portfolios in Berlin as well as a 60-acre residential project in
 Prague , complement CPI’s business, Vitek said. Orco shares
gained 2.9 percent to trade at 51.45 koruna at 10:45 a.m in
Prague, following five days of losses.  Raising his stake in Orco currently isn’t an option he’d
consider, Vitek said. Orco’s gross asset value still needs to be
lowered by as much as 200 million euros from the current 1.3
billion euros to be “realistic,” he said. The developer needs
to streamline operations, cut costs and sell some unprofitable
assets, Vitek said.  According to Luxembourg’s regulatory rules, any shareholder
crossing the 33.3 percent threshold in a company has to make a
bid for the rest of the shares.  Vitek also plans to continue investing in the Cote d’Azur
and Courchevel in  France  as well as Switzerland’s Crans  Montana .
Vitek, who bought the  Palais Maeterlinck  in Nice to develop
luxury apartments, estimates his holdings of similar prime
projects are valued at 250 million euros.  Vitek started his first venture, importing blankets from
 Germany , as an economics student soon after the collapse of
communism in 1989. He set up a fund called Investicni
Privatizacni Fond Boleslavsko AS in 1991 and renamed it CPI in
1998, when it began to focus solely on real estate.  CPI Assets  CPI owns retail and logistic properties, office buildings,
hotels, and land valued at 64.7 billion koruna ($3.3 billion),
CPI said. The company’s 12,700 apartments make it the second-
largest provider of rental accommodation in the Czech Republic.
It generated total rental income of 2.8 billion koruna in 2012,
unaudited data show.  CPI has been the most active player on the Czech market,
where it spent at least 950 million euros in past five years,
Pavel Krchnak, a Prague-based analyst at DTZ Holdings Plc, a
real estate consultancy, wrote in reply to e-mailed questions.
It’s a “logical” step for the company to now expand abroad,
Krchnak said.  “Right now I’m sitting on 5 billion euros of assets,
rental income of 250 million euros and an enormous land bank,”
Vitek said. “All that gives us development opportunities for at
least 30 years and will also take us some time to consolidate.”  Vitek wouldn’t rule out taking his holdings to the market
in the medium term.  “After all that work is done, and if market sentiment
improves, I may consider it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  