-- Debevoise, Littler, Freshfields, Cooley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/debevoise-littler-freshfields-cooley-business-of-law.html
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP named Mary Beth Hogan co-chairwoman of the firm’s litigation department,
replacing Mary Jo White, who was confirmed by the  U.S. Senate 
last month to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission.  John S. Kiernan will share the post with Hogan.  Hogan’s practice focuses on white collar, regulatory and
employment actions as well as internal investigations and
commercial litigation. She represents companies, boards, law
firms and people in civil and regulatory proceedings. In the
past several years, her work has focused on the mortgage
industry, including servicing, fair lending and securitizations,
the firm said.  Her clients include JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS Financial
Services Inc.,  Owens Corning  and Carlyle Group LP.  “Mary Beth is a logical choice for this important role,”
Michael W. Blair, presiding partner of Debevoise, said in a
statement. “She has consistently demonstrated strong business
judgment, client service excellence and leadership in the
firm.”  Hogan, who has spent two terms on Debevoise’s management
committee, is co-founder of the firm’s Women’s Resource Group,
which promotes the advancement of female lawyers at Debevoise,
and is also co-chair of the firm’s Talent Development Group.  “Debevoise continues to set a global standard of
excellence in advising clients on their most complex litigation
matters, and I am eager to help advance the department even
further,” Hogan said in the statement.  Debevoise & Plimpton has more than 650 lawyers at eight
national and international offices.  Jackson Lewis Names Tammy Baker to Run Birmingham Office  Jackson Lewis LLP named Tammy L. Baker as managing partner
of its Birmingham, Alabama, office, succeeding Thomas A. Davis,
who held the position for six years. Davis is the office’s
liaison for client development and will become its litigation
manager.  Baker has experience in workplace law, including
multiplaintiff, collective-action and class-action litigation.
She advises employers on compliance with the Family and Medical
Leave Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act and other
workplace matters, the firm said.  “We thank Tom for his substantial contributions to our
success both in Birmingham and nationwide,” Chairman Vincent A. Cino said in a statement. “Since helping us open the Birmingham
office in 2007, Tammy has earned the respect of colleagues and
clients alike with her invaluable knowledge of workplace law.”  Jackson Lewis has 750 attorneys at 52 locations
nationwide.  Moves  Littler Hires Labor and Regulatory Lawyer in Washington  Maurice Baskin, previously a partner at Venable LLP and a
past chairman of the firm’s labor and employment practice group,
joined Littler Mendelson PC as a shareholder in  Washington .  Baskin’s practice focuses on labor relations and union
organizing, employment discrimination, and wage-and-hour law. He
also counsels small and large employers in labor and employment
law.  “Maury’s deep understanding of the complex legislative and
regulatory landscape in Washington will help in our efforts to
anticipate, evaluate and defend against government action on
behalf of our clients,” said Thomas Bender, Littler’s co-
president and co-managing director.  In 2012, Baskin led an appeals court challenge to halt
enforcement of the  National Labor Relations Board ’s threatened
Notice Poster mandate. Baskin argued the case on behalf of the
business plaintiffs at the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  Baskin also argued at the U.S. Supreme Court, winning
recognition of the rights of employers to file suit against
union corporate campaign tactics and overturning the NLRB’s
previous standard for finding that such suits were illegal, the
firm said.  Littler Mendelson has more than 950 attorneys at 57 offices
throughout the U.S. and globally.  Freshfields Adds Shearman Practice Head in London  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP added Tim Pick, a
partner and head of Shearman & Sterling LLP’s international
project development and finance group, as a new finance partner
in  London .  He will focus on advising clients in the energy and natural
resources sector in  Europe ,  Africa  and the  Middle East , the firm
said in a statement.  Pick has particular expertise in advising on projects in
the oil and gas sector, as well as on power projects. He has
experience working in the Middle East and East Africa.  “We anticipate huge activity and investment in the energy
markets over the foreseeable future as energy demand continues
to grow faster than resources can be replaced,” Freshfields’
managing partner Ted Burke said in a statement. “Tim Pick
brings a fantastic wealth of experience in advising clients in
the energy sector, along with a strong commercial focus. He will
complement our existing global credentials to help capitalize on
opportunities for growth.”  Pick joined Shearman & Sterling in 1999 and was made
partner in 2005. He worked in  Abu Dhabi  from 2003 to 2009,
Freshfields said.  Freshfields has more than 2,500 lawyers at 28 offices
worldwide.  Shearman & Sterling Expands Private-Equity Capabilities  Shearman & Sterling LLP added Jeremy Dickens as a partner
in  New York  to focus on  expanding the firm’s private-equity
practice. He also will advise the firm’s corporate and
investment banking clients, Shearman said.  Most recently, Dickens was a member of the board of private
equity-backed Opportunity Bancshares.  Dickens spent 18 years at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, where
he was a member of the private-equity practice and co-founder
and co-head of its global  capital markets  practice, Shearman
said in a statement. In 2007, he represented Riverdeep Group in
the $3.7 billion reverse acquisition of  Houghton Mifflin , after
which he left Weil to become president of the resulting company,
Education Media & Publishing Group, the firm said.  “Jeremy’s arrival significantly strengthens our private-
equity capabilities and enhances our already well-regarded
leveraged finance practice,” Shearman & Sterling’s global
managing partner, David Beveridge, said in a statement. “He has
exceptional credentials in both areas and is highly regarded by
his clients.”  Shearman has about 900 lawyers in 20 offices in 12
countries around the world.  Technology Transactions Lawyer Shaalu Mehra Joins Gibson Dunn  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP announced that Shaalu Mehra
joined the firm’s Palo Alto,  California , office as a partner.   Mehra, formerly the chairman of the technology transactions
group at Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP, will continue to
focus his law practice on intellectual property strategy and
technology transactions.  “With degrees in physics and computer science and
engineering, he combines a strong technology background with a
broad range of IP experience, from patent prosecution early in
his career to advising clients on the structuring and
negotiation of IP transactions and on the development and
acquisition of patent portfolios,” Ken Doran, chairman and
managing partner of  Gibson Dunn , said in a statement.  Mehra advises companies on IP, technology and related
corporate matters. He also has experience with cross-border
technology transactions, cloud computing, outsourcing and
information technology and telecommunications services, the firm
said.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers and 18 offices in
the Americas, Europe and Asia.  Cooley Expands Health-Care and Life Sciences Practice  Cooley LLP added Wendy C. Goldstein to the firm as a
partner in its health-care and life sciences regulatory practice
in New York.  Goldstein was previously a partner at Epstein Becker &
Green PC, where she led the health-care and life sciences
practice as well as the pharmaceutical industry health
regulatory practice group.  Goldstein counsels clients on the research, manufacture,
sale, promotion, distribution, pricing and export of
pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices, and represents
manufacturers on various regulatory matters, drafting and
negotiating agreements and conducting health regulatory due
diligence, the firm said.  “Wendy’s experience counseling pharmaceutical companies
on fraud and abuse, reimbursement, government investigations and
FDA matters will complement, support and deepen our current
offering to clients around the country,” Barbara Kosacz, head
of Cooley’s life sciences practice, said in a statement.  Cooley has 700 attorneys in 12 offices in the U.S. and
Shanghai.  Deals  Slaughter & May, Cravath Advise on EADS Transactions  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of luxury cars,
said it will sell its stake in  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  in the next step of a restructuring of the Airbus SAS
parent’s ownership.  Daimler will sell 61.1 million shares, equal to 7.5 percent
of the total, the Stuttgart, Germany-based company said in a
statement yesterday. The transaction would be worth about 2.27
billion euros ($3 billion) at yesterday’s closing price.  Investors in Europe’s biggest aerospace company last month
agreed to change the shareholder structure, clearing the way for
Daimler and Lagardere SA to exit their stakes, which the French
media company did April 9. EADS will buy 600 million euros of
stock from Daimler after its board authorized the repurchase of
shares worth 3.75 billion euros in total to smooth the revamp.  Slaughter & May, working with Bredin Prat and Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP, advised Lagardere. The Slaughter & May team
was led by head of the equity capital markets group, Nilufer von
Bismarck. The Bredin Prat team was led by partners Olivier Saba
and Emmanuel Masset. The Cravath team was led by corporate
partner George A. Stephanakis.  “We will invest the proceeds of the sale in the global
growth of our divisions and the extension of our technological
leadership,” Daimler board member Bodo Uebber said in the
statement. “We are pursuing a corporate strategy with a clear
focus on automotive products and services.”  For more, click here.  Audio  Goodwin Procter’s Klein Discusses ‘Founders Workbench’  Jeffrey Klein, a partner at Goodwin Procter LLP, discussed
the firm’s new “Founders Workbench,” a free online resource
that helps entrepreneurs navigate legal and organizational
challenges. Klein spoke with  Kathleen Hays  and Vonnie Quinn on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “The Hays Advantage.”  This is a Bloomberg podcast. Terminal Users: click here.  On The Docket  Two Porsche Hearings May Be Postponed, Lawyer Says  Two of three German court hearings scheduled for today in
lawsuits over Porsche SE’s failed 2008 bid to take over
Volkswagen AG may be postponed because a lawyer is ill.  Franz Braun, who represents companies in the two cases,
told the court that he is ill. The judges will probably
reschedule the hearings, a spokeswoman for his  law firm , CLLB in
Munich, said yesterday.  A third hearing in a related suit seeking 1.96 billion
euros ($2.57 billion) will probably take place because another
law firm represents the investors in that claim.  News  Citigroup’s Costs at Toxic-Asset Unit Soar on Legal Expenses  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, said expenses
at a unit holding some of its most toxic assets surged as legal
costs mounted.  The Special Asset Pool, or SAP, had operating expenses of
$572 million for the three months through March, compared with
$63 million in last year’s first quarter, according to data
released by the New York-based bank. SAP, which manages a
portfolio of securities that Citigroup seeks to divest, had
 total expenses  of $619 million for all of 2011 and 2012
combined, filings show.  The increase helped boost Citigroup’s total expenses by 1
percent to $12.4 billion, showing that debris left over from the
2008 credit crisis can still put a surprise drag on  profit . SAP
is one of three divisions at  Citi Holdings , which houses
distressed and unwanted assets. SAP’s $18 billion of investments
include corporate debt, equity stakes and subprime mortgage
bonds, some worth a fraction of their original value.  “It’s hard to see what’s out there that wasn’t anticipated
or wasn’t known,” said David Knutson, a credit analyst with
Legal & General Investment Management America. “There’s some
detail that we’re missing.”  “We don’t comment on specific legal accruals unless we’re
announcing a settlement of some sort,” Chief Financial Officer
 John Gerspach  said on a call with analysts in response to
questions about the SAP costs.  The increase drove up total expenses just as Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  is seeking to cut the lender’s
costs. Corbat, 53, a former CEO of Citi Holdings, is firing
workers and shutting branches to make the bank more efficient.  Assets in the unit fell 50 percent to $18 billion for the
year through March, according to the bank, as Citigroup found
buyers for some of the holdings and didn’t replace loans that
expired. SAP lost $417 million for the quarter, exceeding the
$367 million the business lost for all of 2011 and 2012
 combined .  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  