-- Delayed Weaning May Reduce HIV From Breast-Feeding Women
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/delayed-weaning-may-reduce-hiv-from-breast-feeding-women.html
HIV-infected women who breastfed
without supplementing their infants’ diets with other fluids or
foods for the first six months of life had lower levels of the
AIDS virus in their milk, a study in Zambia showed.  The findings, published today in  Science Translational
Medicine , are the first to show how variations in breast-feeding
practices affect HIV levels in an infected mother’s milk. Women
who stopped breast feeding had “dramatically higher” levels of
the virus, said Louise Kuhn, lead author of the study.  Early weaning hasn’t been successful in preventing HIV
transmission from mother to baby, and the study may help explain
why, said Kuhn, an associate professor of epidemiology at
Columbia University’s Mailman School of  Public Health  in New
York. While it’s unknown why breastfeeding lowers HIV levels,
researchers hypothesize the “hormonally regulated, demand-
supply” cycle of frequent breastfeeding may influence HIV
dynamics in breast milk.  “Weaning should be a slow and gradual process,”  Kuhn  said
in an e-mail.  HIV-positive women who choose to breastfeed should adhere
to their antiretroviral drug regimens and exclusively breastfeed
through the first six months before gradually introducing
complementary foods and continuing to breastfeed until they and
their infants are ready to wean, Kuhn said.  Researchers looked at the breast milk of 958 HIV-infected
women and their infants and followed them for two years. They
were trying to determine whether shortening the duration of
breastfeeding would reduce the risk of HIV transmission.  Study Findings  All the women were to breastfeed their babies for at least
four months, then half the women were recommended to stop while
the other half was encouraged to continue. The women had their
breast milk collected at four and a half months, and the babies
in the study were routinely tested for HIV transmission.  Findings showed that 77 percent of the women who had
stopped breastfeeding at four months had detectable levels of
HIV in their breast milk compared with 40 percent of those who
were still exclusively breastfeeding at 4 1/2 months. Women who
supplemented their breastfeeding after four months with other
fluids and foods had higher HIV concentrations in their breast
milk than those who were exclusively breastfeeding, though the
level was lower than those who had weaned, the study found.  HIV Drugs  At the time of the study, antiretroviral drugs weren’t
available for the treatment of advanced HIV in sub-Saharan
 Africa , she said. When they were available, they were only used
around the time of delivery and not recommended for use during
breastfeeding. Women could choose to breastfeed and risk passing
along the virus to their child or they could not breastfeed,
which would leave their baby at a higher risk of infectious
diseases like pneumonia and diarrhea.  “Fortunately since such time as we conducted the research,
antiretroviral drug regimens have now been shown to be highly
effective to prevent transmission through breastfeeding,” she
said. “Governments should support the roll-out of programs to
make antiretroviral drugs available for HIV-positive women who
are pregnant and who are breastfeeding.”  Antiretroviral treatments include  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Prezista,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Truvada,  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ’s Sustiva,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Ziagen and  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ’s Kaletra.  WHO Guidelines  In 2010, the  World Health Organization  updated its  breast-
feeding guidelines  for HIV-positive women to recommend that each
country decide which infant feeding practice they want to
promote, including whether antiretroviral drugs be used to
reduce the transmission of the virus during breastfeeding or
breastfeeding be avoided.  The WHO guidelines suggest that where HIV treatments are
used, mothers should breastfeed their infants to at least 12
months. And if antiretroviral drugs are unavailable, women can
still breastfeed for at least the first six months.  The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  advises 
HIV-positive women not to breastfeed their infants even if they
are taking antiretroviral drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  