-- Deutsche Bank Brings Blood-Soaked Miniatures to Berlin
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-04-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/deutsche-bank-brings-blood-soaked-artworks-to-berlin.html
Imran Qureshi  saw the carnage on TV
after a bomb ripped through a market in his Lahore neighborhood,
a place where he’d once enjoyed shopping with his wife.  What struck him, he said at yesterday’s opening of his
exhibition in Berlin, was “how a landscape can change from one
moment to the next from a place of life to a place of blood.”
That contradiction of life and destruction is the core of his
work, on view at  Deutsche Bank AG’s KunstHalle .  A heap of loosely crumpled papers stained with blood-red
paint inhabits an entire room, like a pile of discarded rags
used to mop the floor of a slaughterhouse. Dining-table-sized
oval canvases are splattered with scarlet paint and bloom with
blood-red flowers like exposed internal organs.  Qureshi,  Deutsche Bank (DBK) ’s Artist of the Year for 2013,
trained as a miniatures painter at  Pakistan ’s  National College
of Arts  in Lahore. The works on show are either enormous or
tiny. The decorative, delicate miniatures, some using
calligraphy and threaded with gold and bright colors, are also
splashed with gobs of crimson paint.  The effect is gory and opulent, like a bomb at a temple or
a shooting spree at a royal parade. The paintings are both
beautiful and terrifying, blending the brutality and fragility
of modern life with a tradition of painstaking craftsmanship
that has survived centuries. Qureshi said his exotic red flowers
represent hope for a better future in a violent present.  Paint Squeeze  Qureshi exhausted supplies of perylene maroon acrylic paint
in Berlin’s art shops during his visit, according to Friedhelm
Huette, Deutsche Bank’s global head of art. Luckily, the
Internet came to the rescue.  The bank’s space for contemporary art on Unter den Linden
was until last year operated in partnership with the  Solomon
Guggenheim Foundation . They announced an end to that cooperation
after hosting about 60 exhibitions over 15 years.  Deutsche Bank will continue to operate the space alone,
said  Stefan Krause , chief financial officer. Art is important
for the bank “because it responds as a seismograph very early to
social change,” he told the opening press conference.  Plans include a painting exhibition in cooperation with
Berlin public museums, guest appearances by museums including
the Tate Modern, and exhibitions of works from the bank’s own
60,000-piece collection, one of the biggest corporate art troves
in the world.  Deutsche Bank’s “Artist of the Year” program, now in its
fourth year, chooses an international artist who has created a
substantial oeuvre in paper and photography, yet has still to
enter the mainstream.  Previous winners are Wangechi Mutu of  Kenya , the French-
Moroccan artist Yto Barrada and Roman Ondak of Slovakia.  Qureshi may be about to enter the mainstream, with a
project for the roof garden of the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art in
 New York  scheduled for May and the Italian pavilion at this
year’s  Venice Biennale .  “Imran Qureshi: Artist of the Year 2013” is showing at
Deutsche Bank KunstHalle on Berlin’s Unter den Linden boulevard
through Aug. 4. Information:
 http://www.deutsche-bank-kunsthalle.de/kunsthalle   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on European art,
 Richard Vines  on travel, Lance Esplund on U.S. art,  Jason Harper 
on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 