-- Deutsche Bank Names Weber-Rey Chief Governance Officer
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-17T10:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/deutsche-bank-names-weber-rey-chief-governance-officer.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
Europe’s biggest bank by assets, hired Daniela Weber-Rey from
law firm  Clifford Chance  LLP to be chief governance officer and
deputy global head of compliance.  Weber-Rey, 55, who focused on financial institutions at
Clifford Chance, will join the bank in Frankfurt on June 1, the
lender said today in an e-mailed statement. She will report to
Deutsche Bank management board member Stephan Leithner in her
governance role and serve as deputy to compliance chief Andrew Procter, according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank recently lost at least three female bankers,
potentially setting back its effort to boost the representation
of women in management. The firm, which has no women on either
of its two highest executive committees, intends to increase the
number of female senior executives it employs to 25 percent by
the end of 2018 from 18 percent in 2012, company filings show.  Deputy finance chief  Charlotte  Jones is leaving this month,
Deutsche Bank said April 3.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  said April 8 that it hired
the firm’s Sydney-based head of leveraged finance, Diane Raposio. Sofia Sool, head of markets coverage and origination at
the German bank’s unit in Moscow, will join UBS AG as co-chief
of  investment banking  for Russia, two people familiar with the
matter said this month.  Deutsche Bank raised reserves last month to cover costs
linked to U.S. mortgage lawsuits and is among banks facing
regulatory probes over alleged attempts to rig interbank lending
rates. The firm has sought to avoid future pitfalls by splitting
responsbilities for compliance and risk management between two
executives and plans to hire supervisory board members with more
knowledge of finance and legal affairs this month.  Bafin, the German banking regulator, has criticized
Deutsche Bank’s general counsel,  Richard Walker , for not
speaking German and being based in New York, Der Spiegel
reported on April 14, without citing anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  