-- Donahoe Trades Blame With Congress Over Postal Finances
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-04-17T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/donahoe-trades-blame-with-congress-over-postal-finances.html
U.S. Postmaster General Patrick
Donahoe today blamed Congress for not helping to stem billions
of dollars in losses while the top House member overseeing the
service pointed back, saying management is responsible.  Donahoe, in testimony for a House oversight hearing, said
congressional gridlock on a bill to overhaul the Postal
Service’s business model is worsening the agency’s financial
situation, following a $15.9 billion loss in the 2012 fiscal
year.  He called on Congress to ease a requirement that it pre-
fund future retirees’ health-care benefits, which the service
and its unions blame for most of the losses, and to let the
service exit the health plan covering U.S. government workers in
favor of setting up its own.  Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who
had backed Donahoe’s plan to end Saturday mail delivery over
objections of much of Congress, countered by saying the Postal
Service has itself to blame for its financial predicament.  “You would think given this sobering financial reality,
senior management would be utilizing every tool available to cut
costs and increase revenue,” Issa, chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said in a statement
prepared for the hearing.  “Instead, little action has been taken,” he said. “The
Postal Service has developed this pattern of saying the right
thing, but then delaying reforms, scaling them back or just
scrapping them entirely.”  Nine Days  Issa urged the service to accelerate closings of mail-
processing plants, a change other lawmakers have protested.
Yesterday, Montana Democratic Senators Jon Tester and Max Baucus
proposed a bill that would make it harder to close post offices
in rural areas.  The service is losing about $25 million a day even after
cutting 25,000 jobs this year, Donahoe said. Last week,
management was ordered by its board to halt plans to end
Saturday mail delivery starting in August, after Congress put
language in a temporary funding bill preventing such a move.  The Postal Service has only enough cash on hand to cover
nine days of operating expenses, Donahoe said in his prepared
testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  