-- The Bipartisan Origins of the Income Tax
-- B y   A j a y   K .   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-04-17T15:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/the-bipartisan-origins-of-the-income-tax.html
When the modern U.S.  income tax 
came into being a century ago, no one could have anticipated
that it would become the labyrinth of rules and regulations that
Americans wrestled with as they filed their returns this week.  The reformers and lawmakers who supported the income tax
wanted it to be a visible and salient way to raise revenue.  A
tax that was seen and felt, they argued, could foster a sense of
fiscal citizenship. By paying  taxes  directly to the federal
government, citizens would be more attuned to the workings of
the state, and would have a more tangible stake in how public
funds were raised and used. A direct tax could help forge a
renewed sense of national civic identity.  Before the income tax, the federal government was financed
mainly by indirect consumption taxes such as  customs duties  and
excise taxes. These levies were generally tacked on to the final
costs of everyday consumption items, and were perceived by
contemporary critics as “hidden” taxes that unduly increased the
cost of living.  Income-tax supporters railed against this stealth form of
taxation. At the beginning of the 20th century, the  University of
Wisconsin  political economist Richard T. Ely showed how growing
concentrations of wealth and the reliance on indirect national
taxes disconnected many citizens from the democratic process.
He contended that because taxpayers were seemingly unaware that
they were funding the public sector through their everyday
spending, they had little interest in the role of government.  This was particularly true, Ely said, of those with
swelling fortunes who thought they had little need for public
goods.  ‘Public Duties’  As a result, citizens were too often “careless and
indifferent about their public duties, knowing that their income
is not affected by high or low taxation,” Ely wrote. “They
appear to pay nothing to government, and as it seems to cost
them nothing, they too often care little for it.” Ely and other
tax reformers believed that direct taxes on income could make
taxpayers more engaged citizens.  It wasn’t only progressive reformers who acknowledged the
virtues of an “inconvenient” direct-tax system. In the early
1920s, when Congress was considering replacing the  income tax 
with a type of national  sales tax , even Republican leaders
defended a direct tax on individual income as a way to bolster
political and civic engagement.  “As a matter of policy,” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Andrew Mellon  told Congress, “it is advisable to have every citizen
with a stake in his country.”  Mellon understood that the 1920s income tax was a “class
tax” aimed mainly at the wealthy, though he resisted further
attempts to narrow the base by raising exemption levels.
“Nothing brings home to a man the feeling that he personally has
an interest in seeing that government revenues are not
squandered, but intelligently expended, as the fact that he
contributes individually a direct tax, no matter how small, to
his government,” Mellon wrote.  Similar sentiments guided other political leaders. In the
early 1940s, President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  adamantly opposed
proposals in Congress for a national sales tax to help
underwrite the war effort. Part of the reason was that Roosevelt
was preoccupied with using “soak-the-rich” taxes to attack
“economic royalists,” as the political historian Joseph J. Thorndike demonstrated in his recent  book , “Their Fair Share:
Taxing the Rich in the Age of FDR.”  New Deal  But an equally important, if more implicit, element of late
New Deal tax policy was the attempt to solidify the national
commitment to direct and progressive taxation. By sharply
lowering exemption levels and increasing graduated rates,
lawmakers expanded the notions of shared sacrifice and fiscal
citizenship to a much broader cross-section of society.  World War II not only transformed the income tax from a
“class tax” to a “mass tax,” the widespread use of withholding
also altered how citizens engaged with the fiscal state.
Although inexact withholding and annual filing had existed
during the early years of the income tax, the full-fledged
adoption of a return-based mass income tax had important
implications for how taxpayers demonstrated their fiscal
citizenship.  Paying income taxes regularly through withholding and
filing an annual  tax return  made the mass income tax
administratively effective yet still highly visible and somewhat
painful. The federal government was able to easily generate
revenue, and taxpayers were reminded every year of their civic
obligations.  The return-based mass income tax has proved remarkably
resilient mainly because it reflects an enduring political
compromise between opponents and supporters of big government.
As the Duke University law professor Lawrence Zelenak shows in
his new  book , “Learning to Love Form 1040: Two Cheers for the
Return-Based Mass Income Tax,” a simplified version of our
current tax system can be defended as an appealing middle ground
between those who prefer making taxes more visible and painful -
- under the assumption that this will limit the size of the
state -- and those who are more concerned about the state’s
continued ability to generate sufficient revenue.  In this sense, our current tax system is a byproduct of the
longstanding American ambivalence toward centralized political
power. It is a form of statism for anti-statists.  ( Ajay K. Mehrotra  teaches law and history at the Maurer
School of Law at  Indiana University , Bloomington. He is the
author of “Making the Modern American Fiscal State: Law,
Politics, and the Rise of Progressive Taxation, 1877-1929,” to
be published by Cambridge University Press. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this post:
Ajay K. Mehrotra at  amehrotr@indiana.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  