-- Earthport May Gain on E-Commerce, Currency Service: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-04-17T14:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/earthport-may-gain-on-e-commerce-currency-service-london-mover.html
Earthport Plc (EPO) , a processor of
cross-border payments and e-commerce transactions, may be poised
for a gain after the shares fell 19 percent since it agreed to
serve  American Express Co. (AXP) , according to two analysts who track
the company.  “The true scale and potential of this business is far from
realized,” Mike Allen, an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co., said
March 28 after Earthport reported that revenue gained 32 percent
in the six months through December. He reiterated a buy
 recommendation  and predicts the shares will rise to 32 pence, a
potential gain of 68 percent. Peter McNally at Charles Stanley
Securities also rates the shares a buy.  The  shares  gained 1.3 percent to 19.25 pence as of 3:10
p.m. today in  London  after falling 5 percent over the previous
two days.  Foreign exchange payments and e-commerce are increasing as
companies and individuals do more business on the Internet. Even
so, Earthport has declined steadily since it won the AmEx
contract in early March and reported that transaction volume
rose 72 percent in the second half. The London-based company is
expanding its 55-country banking network and counts clients from
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to  BB&T Corp. (BBT)   “The company is seeing heightened interest in all forms of
cross-border activity,” Panmure’s Allen said. Changes to
banking regulations are helping Earthport win contracts to
handle transactions, he said.  Allen, whose ratings of 11 of the 27 companies he covers
have produced the best returns among analysts who share their
research with Bloomberg, named Earthport a top pick at the start
of the year. The stock has gained about 12 percent since then.  “They are a development company and we don’t know how soon
they will be going to take off,” McNally at Charles Stanley
said in a phone interview. “They are a very good investment, if
high risk, high reward.”  Earthport has been  unprofitable  for at least 10 years,
though earnings improved in the last two six-month periods
compared with a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 21 percent in the fiscal year ended in
June 2012, and growth quickened to 32 percent in the first half
of the current fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  