-- EBay Sales, Forecasts Miss Estimates as PayPal Growth Slows
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-04-18T20:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/ebay-s-sales-miss-estimates-after-consumers-cut-online-spending.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  reported first-quarter
revenue that missed some analysts’ estimates and forecast
disappointing sales and profit for the current period as
weakness in Europe weighs on growth at its PayPal unit.  First-quarter sales were $3.75 billion, the company said
yesterday in a statement. That fell short of the $3.77 billion
average of analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Second-quarter revenue will be $3.8 billion to $3.9
billion, shy of the average  prediction  for $3.95 billion.  PayPal’s sales growth decelerated to 18 percent in the
first quarter from 32 percent a year earlier. The online-payment
unit took in less money from each transaction, hurt by an
economic slowdown and weaker currencies in Europe, EBay said.
Sluggish growth abroad may continue to affect the company in the
second quarter, said  Gil Luria , an analyst at Wedbush Securities
Inc. in  Los Angeles .  “There appears to be a global slowdown, and EBay has not
been able to escape it,” Luria said in an interview.  Shares of EBay, based in  San Jose ,  California , fell 5.8
percent to $52.82 at the close in  New York , the steepest decline
since September 2011. The  stock  has gained 3.6 percent so far
this year, compared with an 8.1 percent rise in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  The company forecast second-quarter profit, excluding some
items, of 61 cents to 63 cents a share, versus a 66-cent average
analyst estimate.  European Slowdown  “We expect a weaker Europe and British pound versus the
full-year guidance we gave you in January,” Chief Financial
Officer Bob Swan said on a conference call. “ Europe  was a
little bit slower than last year, than we expected coming into
the year.”  The pound declined about 6 percent against the dollar in
the first three months of the year, while the euro fell 2.8
percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  in January cut its  forecast 
for the euro area, saying the economy there will contract by 0.2
percent in 2013. It had previously predicted a 0.2 percent
expansion.  First-quarter profit before some costs was 63 cents a
share, compared with the 62-cent average analysts’ projection.
Net income rose to $677 million, or 51 cents a share, from $570
million, or 44 cents, a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  has been working to
revive growth in EBay’s online market hub by creating mobile
applications to attract younger users, investing in emerging
markets and teaming up with retailers to get goods to consumers
faster. The company also revamped its website and has begun
personalizing users’ home pages based on buying history.  Marketplaces Revenue  For the first quarter, sales in the marketplaces division
rose 13 percent to $1.96 billion. Donahoe has driven growth in
that segment, which brought in  54 percent  of 2012 sales.
Marketplaces revenue declined 18 percent from the first quarter
of 2008 to the same period in 2009, the first year of his
tenure.  At PayPal, revenue rose to $1.55 billion in the first
quarter. The unit gained 5 million registered users, bringing
the total to 128 million. Net payment volume, or the total value
of transactions processed, rose 21 percent to $41 billion.
PayPal’s take rate, or the average amount the company takes from
each transaction, fell to 3.77 percent from 3.87 percent in the
same period a year ago.  EBay said general merchandise volume in the U.S., or the
total value of goods sold in the marketplace, rose 16 percent to
$7.36 billion, as more customers bought items on mobile devices
and the company focused on  emerging markets .  New Regions  “The core business is just doing really well,” Ron Josey,
an analyst at JMP Securities in  Washington , said in an
interview. “They are expanding overseas and taking share in
emerging markets where they haven’t really been before.”  As part of a push into new regions, the company said it
debuted a Russian-language site in the first quarter, with a
focus on fashion. A television marketing campaign is debuting in
the second quarter in the country, which posted a 75 percent
surge in EBay users last year. EBay will have to navigate a
culture that primarily uses cash for online transactions and has
a fragmented, slow-moving shipping industry.  Still, the new site is seeing growth, Donahoe said on the
call.  “The first couple weeks since our Russian site launch,
we’ve had strong acceleration of new users, and those new users
are beginning to buy,” he said.  EBay’s mobile payment volume will exceed $20 billion in
2013, as will PayPal’s, the company said in January.  2015 Forecast  Last month, EBay forecast 2015 sales that topped analysts’
estimates and said it expects the total volume of merchandise
sold in its marketplace to reach $110 billion by that year as
the online retailer adds users and mobile tools. Revenue in 2015
will be $21.5 billion to $23.5 billion, the company said.  EBay yesterday repeated its forecast for 2013 revenue of
$16 billion to $16.5 billion and earnings per share of $2.23 to
$2.29. While analysts such as Wedbush’s Luria and Daniel Kurnos
at Benchmark Co. say the slowdown in Europe may persist, Donahoe
said he doesn’t expect it to weigh on full-year earnings.  “It’s a little weaker, but we didn’t change full-year
guidance,” the CEO said in an interview. “It’s not so weak
that we think it’s a material impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  