-- MEG Falls to Lowest Ever on Oil Prices: Calgary Mover
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-17T17:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/meg-energy-falls-to-lowest-ever-on-oil-price-drop-calgary-mover.html
(Corrects nature of Warburg Pincus ownership in first
paragraph.)  MEG Energy Corp. (MEG) , the oil-sands
developer whose largest shareholder is Warburg Pincus LLC, fell
to its lowest intraday price as crude dropped and on Canada’s
outlook for slower economic growth.  MEG, based in Calgary, declined 5.8 percent to C$27.05 at
12:16 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier falling to C$26.39, the
lowest since its C$35 a share initial public offering in July
2010. Other Canadian oil stocks faced losses, including  Baytex
Energy Corp. (BTE) , which fell 4.3 percent,  Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. (COS) ,
off 3.8 percent, and  Penn West Petroleum Ltd. (PWT) , 4.8 percent
lower.  “There’s been a commodity selloff within the Canadian
space on concerns about the global economy and growth out of key
regions like  China ,” Chris Feltin, a Calgary-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a phone interview. Feltin cited
today’s decline, of as much as 2.9 percent, in U.S. crude prices
and lower demand for Canadian oil as U.S. refineries undergo
seasonal maintenance.  MEG, which extracts a heavy crude called bitumen from the
oil sands, declined more than others because of its higher debt
relative to cash flow as the company increases production,
Feltin said. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney trimmed his
2013 economic growth outlook for the nation today, citing lower
business investment and government spending.  “Obviously, we’re part of a general wave right now; it’s a
movement with the drop of the price of oil and that’s hitting
the market,” Brad Bellows, a MEG spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  