-- Egypt Seen Buying More Russian, U.S. Wheat on Financial Woes
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-04-17T15:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/egypt-seen-buying-more-russian-u-s-wheat-on-financial-woes-1-.html
Egypt , the world’s largest wheat
importer, is poised to increase buying from  Russia  and the U.S.
as it relies more on deals with governments than private trade
amid deteriorating finances, according to CHS Inc., which
markets 2 billion bushels of grains and oilseeds a year.  Egypt has cut wheat imports for its subsidized bread
program by 35 percent to 3.4 million metric tons in the 12
months ending in June as the government struggles to raise
funds, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Foreign Agricultural
Service  estimates . Total imports, including by the private
sector, will decline 33 percent to 8 million tons, the USDA
estimates.  “There will be more government-to-government type of
business that will not change global supply and demand, but can
dramatically change regional supply and demand,” Claudio Scarrozza, chief executive officer  Europe  for Inver Grove
Heights, Minnesota-based CHS, the largest U.S. grain-marketing
cooperative, said in an interview in Lausanne,  Switzerland ,
today. Russia and the U.S. are the most likely countries to help
Egypt, he said.  Egypt’s foreign  reserves  have plunged more than 60 percent
below their December 2010 levels, reaching $13.4 billion last
month, equivalent to less than three months of imports, and the
country’s currency is down 7.8 percent this year. Egypt’s talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  in Cairo ended without a
loan agreement this week.  “The currency reserves of the country are shrinking
dramatically, and they will probably keep going down because the
tourism that was the largest source of currency is going down,”
Scarrozza said. “Their ability to pay and to confirm letters of
credit is going to be key, and that’s a worry for us.”  Growing Purchases  Egypt will import 7 million to 8 million tons of wheat in
the 12 months starting July 1, Scarrozza said. The share of
purchases by the country’s  General Authority  for Supply
Commodities will grow compared with the private sector, he said.
The USDA forecasts imports will rise to 8.5 million tons for the
next season, from 8 million tons this year.  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi will travel to Moscow on
April 19 for talks to boost bilateral relations and business,
Middle East  News Agency  said April 13. Egypt has held talks with
 India , the U.S. and  Kazakhstan  this year on wheat supplies.  Food supply in Egypt will play a major role in stabilizing
the region, and U.S. and other governments understand the
threat, Scarrozza said. Twenty-five percent of Egyptians lived
below the poverty line in 2011, according to state figures.  “If you add to political instability the food instability,
that’s a major issue,” he said. “The region is already
unstable, if you add Egypt to that, it’s going to be a major
problem for the world. Maintaining a level of  food  in Egypt is
in the interest of everybody.”  Wheat demand from other North African countries, including
Algeria, Morocco and  Tunisia , also gives rise to “a lot of
question marks” because of political and financial issues,
Scarrozza said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  