-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Back Ceding 10% to Hutchison
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-04-18T08:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/telecom-italia-is-said-to-favor-ceding-up-to-10-to-hutchison.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  is in favor of
letting  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  acquire no more than 10 percent
of a combined carrier, a smaller stake than the Hong Kong
company wants, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Hutchison’s 3 Italia has a so-called fair value of 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion) and Milan-based Telecom Italia is
unlikely to accept a deal that would give billionaire Li Ka- shing’s Hutchison the 29.9 percent it sought, said the person,
asking not to be identified because the deliberations are
private. No decision has been made and Telecom Italia is open to
negotiations, the person added.  Telecom Italia’s board last week asked Chairman Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  to lead a panel to explore the feasibility of a business
combination with Hutchison. An entry by Hutchison as shareholder
could unravel a six-year pact at Telco SpA, whose investors
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) 
and  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  together hold 22.4 percent of Italy’s former
phone monopoly.  “The merger under study, if carried out at ratios which
represent the actual contribution of the two companies properly,
presents industrial synergies that involve cost savings” as
well as “benefits from having two complementary customer
bases,” Bernabe told shareholders at an annual meeting near
Milan yesterday.  Merger Panel  Telecom Italia fell 0.5 percent to 59.2 cents in Milan at
10:02 a.m., giving it a  market value  of 11 billion euros.
Hutchison dropped 1.4 percent to HK$79.65 on the Hong Kong
exchange.  In a statement, Hutchison reiterated that “contacts
between Telecom Italia SpA and 3 Italia SpA on possible business
combinations are still very preliminary and of an exploratory
nature. There is no agreement with respect to a possible
transaction.”  While Bernabe said yesterday he is in favor of continuing
discussions about a possible merger, he also said a decision is
up to the panel, which includes Telefonica’s Julio Linares, Elio Cosimo Catania from Intesa Sanpaolo, Gabriele Galateri from
Generali and independent director  Luigi Zingales .  Intesa CEO Enrico Cucchiani said April 13 that the
possibility of a Telecom Italia-3 Italia merger must be
“examined carefully,” adding that it’s positive that
international investors are interested in Italian businesses.  Debt Concern  A deal would combine Italy’s biggest wireless carrier with
the No. 4. Telecom Italia said April 11 that Hutchison wants to
become a leading shareholder in the carrier in any deal.  For Hutchison,  Asia ’s biggest investor in European wireless
networks, Telecom Italia’s high net debt -- which reached 28.3
billion euros at the end of 2012 adjusted for some items -- is a
concern, a person familiar with the matter has said.  “While a deal between Telecom Italia and H3G has a strong
industrial logic in our view, control issues look intractable
because we don’t believe  Italy  or Telefonica would want to give
up ultimate control,” said Hannes Wittig, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. “At up to 10 percent, Hutchison’s exposure
to the upside seems limited.”  It’s not the first time Bernabe held talks with Hutchison.
In 2000, Hutchison bought a 51 percent stake in Andala SpA,
which was founded and led by Bernabe, as its first step to build
a mobile phone company in Italy that later became H3G, as 3
Italia is also known.  Spinoff plans  Then in 2010, Hutchison held discussions over a sale of its
wireless business to Telecom Italia and the talks didn’t result
in a deal because of differences in valuation, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Telecom Italia plans to present to its board at a May 8
meeting a proposal to spin off the company’s fixed-line network,
which is seen as a prerequisite to carry out any deal with
Hutchison, another person said.  The plan envisages a two-step process, where Telecom
Italia’s Open Access unit will be carved out into a separate
business, followed by a spinoff of the access network and state
lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA acquiring a stake after a
new government is in place, the person said.  The network has a value of at least 13 billion euros,
according to Findim Group, Telecom Italia’s second-largest
shareholder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  