-- Herbalife Unlikely to Get Auditor Before Investor Meeting
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-04-17T23:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/herbalife-unlikely-to-get-auditor-before-investor-meeting.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  said it isn’t likely
to hire an outside auditor before it holds its annual
shareholder meeting next week, to replace  KPMG  LLP which
resigned after saying a partner leaked inside information.  A shareholder vote to approve a new  auditor  isn’t required
by the company’s charter or laws in the Cayman Islands, where
Herbalife is based, Barb Henderson, a company spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mail. In addition, the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX) ,
where Herbalife is listed, has not given the company a time
frame to hire an auditor, Henderson said.  “The  audit committee  is in the process of searching
expeditiously for a new outside auditor and the company is in
regular communication with the NYSE regarding the status of this
matter,” she said.  The maker of weight-loss shakes, meal-replacement bars and
cosmetics is fighting accusations by  Bill Ackman , founder of New
York hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management LP, that it
uses inflated pricing, misleading sales information and a
complicated incentive structure to hide a pyramid scheme. The
company has repeatedly denied the assertions, saying it is
retail-oriented and sells products with unique ingredients.  Herbalife said April 9 that KPMG notified the company that
its independence had been impaired, giving the firm no option
other than to withdraw its audit reports for 2010, 2011 and
2012. The company said KPMG’s reports for those years fairly
present its financial condition and results of operations.  Shareholder Approval  KPMG fired Scott London, the head of its Los Angeles audit
practice, who was later charged by federal prosecutors with
insider trading, related to tips passed to a friend about
Herbalife and  Skechers USA Inc. (SKX) , a footwear maker based in
Manhattan Beach, California.  While shareholder approval of an outside auditor isn’t
required, Herbalife voluntarily asks shareholders to ratify the
selection, Henderson said. The company holds its meeting on
April 25.  “It is currently anticipated the company will submit to
its shareholders at its 2014 annual meeting the ratification of
the company’s then outside auditor,” she said.  Shares of Herbalife, with a main office in  Los Angeles ,
declined 1.9 percent to $35.28 today in New York. The shares
have advanced 7.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  