-- Merkel Defends Stance on Tightening Budgets of Euro Bloc Nations
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-04-17T14:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/merkel-defends-stance-on-tightening-budgets-of-euro-bloc-nations.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
defended her government’s focus on tightening budgets in  Europe ,
saying that the benefits of reining in spending outweigh the
controversy of austerity.  Merkel, after meeting Estonian Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip 
in Berlin today, lauded his country’s debt load of 10 percent of
gross domestic product.  “We always talk about austerity -- that’s the new word
that’s often used -- but forget that we never talk about the
fact that we have to pay back debt” and instead spend more than
we take in, Merkel said after being asked to respond to
Estonians weary of deficit cuts and eager to boost spending.  “It’s become a matter of course that you can do that,
though in the long term it won’t go well, at least I can say
that for  Germany ,” Merkel said.  Merkel stood by Germany’s preference for consolidating
budgets in the face of recession and record unemployment in the
17-member euro area. Yesterday, the chancellor said that
austerity will require sacrifices in the near term, though the
measures will give way to growth.  Standing alongside Ansip, Merkel said that Europe must look
to his euro-member Baltic nation “in admiration.” Estonia,
which raised its 2014 growth forecast this month to 3.6 percent,
implemented budget cuts equal to about 10 percent of GDP to join
the euro two years ago even as output plunged by a fifth in the
wake of the 2008 collapse.  Merkel struck a similar chord yesterday, telling a
conference in Berlin that taking on debt spending “is often
made into a type of obligation” to serve growth.  “All of that is false,” the chancellor said yesterday.
“It’s not sustainable in the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  