-- Tesco to Exit U.S. After First Profit Drop in About 20 Years
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-04-17T10:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/tesco-to-exit-u-s-unit-post-review-take-1-8-billion-charge.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
retailer, said it will exit the U.S. and scale back domestic
expansion at a cost of about 2 billion pounds ($3 billion) as it
reported the first annual profit drop in almost 20 years.  Dumping the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain after about six years
cut profit by 1.2 billion pounds, the Cheshunt, England-based
supermarket company said today. Tesco also took an 804 million-
pound charge to write down the value of property held for
development as it opens fewer new stores at home, and announced
charges in both its European and financial-services units.  Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  is retreating from
international markets and downsizing domestic store expansion as
the grocer struggles to maintain its dominant share at home. The
retailer, whose U.K. market share has slipped below 30 percent
as customers have polarized toward discounters such as Aldi and
upscale chains like Waitrose Ltd., plans to focus on growing its
online and convenience-stores to meet changing shopping habits.  “All the writedowns were pretty messy, let’s hope it’s to
just get all the bad news out at once and clear the decks,”
said  Paul Mumford , a  fund manager  and Tesco shareholder who
helps manage 850 million pounds of investments for Cavendish
Asset Management in  London . “It’s going to be a long slog.”  Shares Slide  Tesco  fell  as much as 4.8 percent in London trading. The
drop was the steepest since Jan. 12, 2012, the day that the
company cut profit guidance for the first time in years. The
shares were down 3.3 percent at 372.35 pence as of 11:23 a.m.  “The market is a bit spooked but that’s not really
warranted,” said Richard Marwood, who helps manage 554 billion
euros ($730 billion) at Axa Investment Managers in London and
holds Tesco stock. “Tesco is doing a bit of a clearout and with
the aim of freeing up cash and that could be good news.”  The form of the U.S. exit has still to be determined, Tesco
said, adding that Fresh & Easy will become a discontinued unit.
Buyers have shown a “lot of interest” in the chain and Tesco
is most attracted to those who want to take over Fresh & Easy as
a going concern, Chief Financial Officer Laurie McIlwee told
reporters on a conference call. He said it will take “at least
another three months” before the withdrawal is complete.  Fresh & Easy is most likely to be split between competing
buyers rather than sold in its entirety, according to  David
Gray , an analyst at Planet Retail in London.  European Charge  Tesco has invested about 1 billion pounds in the U.S. since
creating the business in 2007, targeting the West Coast with a
series of neighborhood urban stores in a market dominated by
big-box supermarkets. Fresh & Easy distinguishes itself with a
focus on budget-priced, healthy food and a predominance of own-
brand items. Tesco said Dec. 5 it would likely exit the U.S.
after appointing investment bank Greenhill to undertake a
strategic review of the El Segundo, California-based business.  After departing the U.S. “we’re in the right international
markets for long-term growth,” Clarke said on the call.  Tesco said so-called trading profit fell 13 percent to 3.45
billion pounds in the year to Feb. 23, topping the 3.4 billion-
pound median  estimate  of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  After including one-time charges and losses related to the
U.S. withdrawal of 2.6 billion pounds, full-year net income
plunged 96 percent to 120 million pounds, the statement shows.  Tesco booked a charge of 495 million pounds against full-
year profit to reflect “differing growth prospects in today’s
environment” for businesses it acquired in  Poland , the  Czech
Republic  and  Turkey  in the last two decades.  Trailing Competitors  The retailer also charged 115 million pounds against annual
profit for compensating customers of its banking unit who were
improperly sold payment protection insurance prior to 2007.
Banks including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, (LLOY)  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and Barclays Plc have set aside more than 13 billion
pounds to compensate customers who were mis-sold the insurance.  U.K. same-store revenue rose 0.5 percent in the final
quarter, excluding gasoline and value-added tax, which Tesco
said was the strongest growth in three years.  The growth still trailed competitors.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  last
month reported a 3.6 percent gain in fourth-quarter sales on the
same basis, while  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  said last week that
U.K. food sales rose 4 percent at stores open at least a year.  Clarke is investing 1 billion pounds to smarten up the
supermarkets and hire more staff in an effort to bolster the
domestic business.  “The market is not entirely convinced by the work in
progress,” said  Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves
Lansdown Stockbrokers in London. “It will be a slow process
before the company can hope to recapture its former glory.”  Korean Restrictions  International trading profit fell 22 percent to 990 million
pounds. Same-store sales in the retailer’s European businesses
declined 4.5 percent in the fourth quarter, the weakest
performance in at least three years, hurt in particular by weak
demand for non-food items, the company said.  Tesco’s Asian business has been hurt by new restrictions on
opening hours in  South Korea , pushing down trading profit in the
region by 10 percent to 661 million pounds.  Tesco said it aims to deliver “mid-single digit” growth
in trading profit in the years ahead and to increase dividends
“broadly in line” with underlying earnings.  The retailer plans to pay an unchanged  dividend  for last
year of 14.76 pence a share, which it said reflects confidence
that measures being taken to revive the business “will set the
group on track to resume growth in 2013/14 and beyond.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  