-- MetroPCS Says Advisory Firms Now Endorse Deal With T-Mobile
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-04-18T22:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/metropcs-says-investor-advisory-firms-now-endorse-t-mobile-deal.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) ,
seeking to win support for its merger with T-Mobile USA Inc.,
said two shareholder-advisory firms are now recommending the
deal after the agreement’s terms were sweetened.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.  and  Glass, Lewis &
Co.  reversed their positions after previously recommending
against the merger, Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS said
yesterday in a statement.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the parent of T-
Mobile, revised the terms of the deal last week to impose less
debt on the combined company.  MetroPCS investors are scheduled to meet April 24 to vote
on the transaction, which was first announced in October. The
agreement would unite the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S.
wireless carriers, creating a bigger competitor to Verizon
Wireless,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   “We are pleased that both ISS and Glass Lewis recognize
the enhanced stockholder value and compelling benefits created
by the amended terms of the proposed combination,” MetroPCS
Chief Executive Officer Roger Linquist said in yesterday’s
statement.  The endorsement by the advisory firms follows a reversal by
Paulson & Co., MetroPCS’s biggest shareholder, which also
switched to favoring the deal after earlier spurning it.
Deutsche Telekom won their support with a revised bid on April
10 that it called a “best and final offer.” The German company
cut the amount of debt it’s imposing on the combined entity by
$3.8 billion. It also lowered the interest rate it plans to
charge on the loan by half a percentage point.  Lockup Period  The move assuaged concerns that the new company would be
loaded with too much debt, hindering its ability to compete.
Deutsche Telekom also extended the lockup period during which
it’s barred from publicly selling shares in the combined
company. The time frame will now be 18 months, up from six. That
may reassure investors that Deutsche Telekom doesn’t plan to cut
and run.  As part of the transaction, MetroPCS investors will get
$1.5 billion of cash and a 26 percent stake in the new entity.  “Given the reduced debt load that will be carried by the
new company and the resulting appropriate equity split granted
to PCS shareholders, and the increased commitment to the
combined company exhibited by DT’s extension of the lockup
period, support for the merger is warranted,” Rockville,
Maryland-based ISS said in its report.  The Deutsche Telekom offer beats the alternative --
MetroPCS trying to remain independent, Glass Lewis said.  “Given our opinion that MetroPCS’s long-term prospects as
a stand-alone company are ultimately capped, and that an
eventual merger with a larger strategic partner is inevitable,
we believe the merger with T-Mobile as presently constructed
represents MetroPCS’s best alternative,” the San Francisco-
based firm said in its report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  