-- Euro Zone Declares Clear Evidence Crisis Efforts Help
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-17T19:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/euro-zone-declares-clear-evidence-crisis-efforts-help.html
Euro-area efforts to fight off
banking and sovereign-debt crises are starting to work,
according to the head of the bloc’s finance ministers group and
four other senior officials.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the Eurogroup’s
president, defended the 17-nation region’s strategy in a joint
 opinion piece  with European Central Bank Executive Board Member
Joerg Asmussen,  European Economic  and Monetary Policy
Commissioner  Olli Rehn , European Stability Mechanism chief Klaus Regling and European Investment Bank President Werner Hoyer. The
op-ed was published on the website of the  New York  Times.  The article appeared as finance ministers from around the
world travel this week to  Washington  to discuss policies aimed
at sustaining a global recovery and strengthening financial
systems from more bouts of instability. The main challenge
facing the world economy is “still very much in  Europe ,”
International Monetary Fund Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard 
said earlier this week.  Measures such as the ECB’s bond-buying program, widespread
fiscal consolidation and increased EIB lending are leading
toward a “lasting correction of imbalances,” the European
officials said. The  euro zone  also has agreed to put the ECB in
charge of bank supervision and is now working on common tools to
handle failing banks, accompanied by a separate effort to make
direct bank aid possible from the bloc’s firewall fund.  Euro’s ‘Integrity’  “The evidence is clear that our response to the crisis is
supporting the rebalancing of the euro-zone economy and has
ensured the integrity of the euro,” the officials said. “This
response to the crisis has delivered results.”  Five euro-area nations have so far sought bailouts during a
financial crisis that has left 19 million workers without jobs
and required trillions of euros in financial-sector assistance.
The euro area’s response has focused on reining in national
debts, even as forecasts project that 2013 will bring a second
straight year of economic contraction.  The IMF yesterday lowered its global growth forecast and
called for the ECB to purse an“aggressive monetary” policy.
The fund projected a 0.3 percent euro-area contraction this
year, accompanied by a global growth forecast of 3.3 percent
that was down from a prior estimate of 3.5 percent.  “A key action needed is to fix the euro area, to fix it
once and for all,” Jose Vinals, the director of the IMF’s
monetary and capital markets department, said at a press
conference in Washington today.  IMF Talks  Today’s statement was the first time the five authorities
have spoken jointly and will be followed by a Brookings
Institution event in Washington tomorrow featuring the same
officials. The appearance dovetails with the April 19-21
meetings of the IMF and  World Bank , along with a meeting of the
Group of 20 industrial and developing economies.  The euro-area officials said their strategy will take more
time to see fruition and remains consistent. Already, both
Ireland and  Portugal  are on track “to sustainably regain  market
access  within the next 12 months,” they said.  “Not everything is in its right place yet, and the
necessary adjustment is bringing serious social challenges,
notably in the form of unacceptably high unemployment,” the op-
ed said. At the same time, they wrote, “with this approach, the
euro zone has shown a degree of resilience and problem-solving
capacity that many observers and policy makers would not have
predicted even a year ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  