-- Lew Urges G-20 to Avoid ‘Beggar Thy Neighbor’ Currency Plans
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-04-17T21:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/lew-urges-g-20-to-avoid-beggar-thy-neighbor-currency-policies.html
U.S. Treasury  Secretary Jacob J. Lew urged Group of 20 officials to maintain a pledge to refrain
from influencing exchange rates at the expense of other
countries, saying Japan’s recent policies align with the pact.  “We will continue to press G-20 countries to avoid a
downward spiral of ‘beggar thy neighbor’ policies,” Lew said
today in Washington ahead of this weekend’s meetings of finance
ministers starting tomorrow. “It is imperative that all G-20
countries follow through on their recent commitment not to
target exchange rates for competitive purposes.”  Answering questions after the speech, Lew said the  Bank of
Japan (8301) ’s plan for record monetary easing is in accord with G-20
agreements, adding that “we’re watching pretty closely” the
effects of the policy. The yen has fallen for six straight
months against the U.S. currency.  “ Japan  has had problems with domestic demand for some time
and to the extent that they are targeting their policies and
encouraging domestic demand with domestic tools, we think that
is very much consistent” with international pledges, Lew said.  While the G-20 made the pledge at a meeting in Moscow in
February and didn’t single Japan out for allowing the yen to
drop, the U.S. Treasury on April 12 urged Japan to refrain from
competitive devaluation. It stopped short of declaring either
Japan or  China  currency manipulators.  BOJ’s Surprise  The Bank of Japan surprised markets on April 4 by doubling
monthly bond purchases to almost match the  Federal Reserve ’s
monetary easing, and by setting a two-year horizon for achieving
its goal of 2 percent inflation.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  this week signaled they back Japan’s
stimulus as aimed at rallying its economy, indicating there
won’t be much of a fight at the G-20.  The yen weakened today as investors speculated that Japan
will escape G-20 criticism of monetary policies that have
contributed to the currency’s 11.4 percent decline this year
against the  U.S. dollar .  Speaking about China in his prepared remarks, Lew
reiterated the country needs to allow further  yuan  appreciation.  “We are concerned that in recent months, movement towards
more currency flexibility appears to have slowed,” Lew said at
Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International
Studies. “The pace of China’s intervention in the market has
picked up.”  Lew said the world needs stronger economic growth and
pointed to a need for more robust demand in Europe.  Europe must decide “how to better balance the pace of
fiscal consolidation with the need for growth, and how to ensure
that surplus countries contribute more to demand as deficit
countries undergo adjustment,” Lew said.  Lew expressed support for a “full” euro-area banking
union, with a single supervisory mechanism, resolution authority
and recapitalization capacity and said the recent Cyprus crisis
emphasized the need for such a framework.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  