-- Ex-SAC Analyst Horvath’s Insider-Trading Sentence Delayed
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-17T17:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/ex-sac-analyst-horvath-s-insider-trading-sentence-delayed.html
The sentencing of former SAC
Capital Advisors LP analyst Jon Horvath for  insider trading  was
delayed at the government’s request as he continues to cooperate
with prosecutors.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan in  Manhattan  agreed
to adjourn Horvath’s court date for six more months in a filing
dated today.  Horvath, a technology analyst who worked for portfolio
manager Michael Steinberg at the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
hedge fund company, was to be sentenced March 31. He pleaded
guilty in September to passing nonpublic information on  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  in August 2008 and about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  in May 2009 from
insiders at the two technology companies to his portfolio
manager, whom he didn’t name in court.  “In each instance I provided the information to the
portfolio manager I worked for and we executed trades in the
stocks based on that information,” he told the judge.  Steinberg was arrested March 29 and charged with insider
trading. He is charged with being part of a conspiracy with
Horvath from 2007 to 2009. The U.S. said Steinberg traded on
illegal tips on Dell and Nvidia that he obtained from the
analyst.  Horvath was one of eight analysts and portfolio managers
charged with being part of what U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
described as “a tight-knit circle of greed” whose members
trafficked in confidential information.  Guilty Pleas  Six of those charged have pleaded guilty and agreed to
cooperate with the U.S. Horvath pleaded guilty weeks before he
was set to go on trial with Anthony Chiasson, co-founder of
Level Global Investors LP, and  Todd Newman , an ex-Diamondback
Capital Management LLC portfolio manager. Both were convicted in
a trial in  New York  in December and await sentencing.  Steve Peikin, a lawyer for Horvath, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment
about the sentencing delay.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 