-- Explosion Near Bangalore Political Party Office Injures 16
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-04-17T07:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/explosion-near-bangalore-political-party-office-injures-16-2-.html
An explosion near an office of
India’s main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  in the southern
city of Bangalore injured 16 people, two seriously, police said.  The cause of the blast is still being investigated, City
Police Commissioner Raghavendra Auradkar said in comments
broadcast live on television channels. Footage showed burned out
vehicles as police cordoned off the area and collected evidence.
Auradkar said the blast may have emanated from a motorcycle,
adding that eight of the wounded were police officers.  “It is an explosion,” Auradkar said. “At this stage I
can’t tell what type of explosion.”  Bangalore, capital of BJP-ruled  Karnataka  state, is home to
technology companies  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  and  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  The province is
preparing for elections on May 5, where the BJP faces a fight to
retain control of the state after a mining scam dented the
party’s image.  India  has suffered nine terrorist attacks since November
2008 when the government pledged to improve policing and
intelligence gathering after Pakistani gunmen killed 166 people
during a three-day siege of the country’s financial capital,
Mumbai. The latest bombing, in Hyderabad in February, killed at
least 16 people.  Television footage from Bangalore showed three burned out
cars, and police officers scouring the area with sniffer dogs.
All 16 injured had been taken to nearby hospitals, police said.  Cricket Strike  Bangalore has been bombed twice in the past five years.
Three years ago to the day, bombs outside a packed cricket
stadium in the city exploded injuring 20 people. In 2008, two
people were killed and at least 15 people were injured after
seven small devices exploded in the city.  Opposition from India’s states stalled progress in setting
up a national counter-terrorism agency last year, as regional
leaders said it would usurp the powers of police under their
command. Then Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram proposed the
new unit after visiting the U.S. National Counterterrorism
Center in the wake of the attack on Mumbai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  