-- Textron Slides After Forecast Cut on Cessna Deliveries
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-04-17T20:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/textron-cuts-2013-forecasts-as-business-jet-sales-decline.html
Textron Inc. (TXT)  tumbled the most in
about four years after cutting its 2013 profit forecast as
demand for Cessna jets declined.  The maker of aircraft, auto parts and military equipment
forecast  earnings  from continuing operations of $1.90 to $2.10 a
share, down from a January prediction of $2.10 to $2.30.
Cessna’s first-quarter shipments slid to 32 from 38, and the
unit posted an $8 million loss.  “We are adjusting production schedules and implementing
other appropriate cost actions” including a voluntary
separation plan at Cessna, Chief Executive Officer Scott Donnelly said in a statement. “While we are taking these
immediate actions, we believe the global business jet market
still has significant long-term growth potential.”  Textron, which gets about a quarter of total  sales  from
Cessna aircraft, “remains committed” to introducing the M2,
Sovereign and Citation models later this year, as well as the
Latitude in 2015 and the Longitude in 2017, Donnelly said.  Business-jet deliveries will be “a couple hundred million
dollars” lower than in 2012, Donnelly said on a conference
call.  Textron fell  13 percent  to $25.41 in New York, the most
since April 20, 2009. The company was the biggest decliner today
in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Testing Faith  “Investing in Textron on the basis of a belated pickup in
business was always a bit of a leap of faith, and this weak
quarter for business jets is likely to again test investors’
confidence,” Robert Stallard, a New York-based analyst with RBC
Capital Markets, said in a note. “Textron could really do with
a recovery at Cessna.”  Companywide, quarterly  net income  rose less than 1 percent
to $119 million, or 41 cents a share, from $118 million, or 40
cents, a year earlier. Excluding discontinued operations, profit
was 40 cents, trailing the 45-cent average of 12 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue was little changed at $2.86 billion, trailing
estimates of $2.89 billion.  At the Bell helicopter division, Textron’s largest by sales
for the past three years, commercial shipments rose to 40, 10
more than a year earlier, and Donnelly said he expects that
trend to continue throughout this year.  Light Jets  The drop in  Cessna  deliveries will be led by a decline in
light jets, including the Mustang, eased somewhat by growth in
larger aircraft. Sales will be “particularly low” in the
second quarter, the CEO said.  Cessna, which halved its workforce during the recession
that began in 2008, is now seeking further reductions through a
“voluntary separation plan,” Donnelly said. The planemaker is
in its fifth year without growth, he said.  “The light market just hasn’t recovered at this point,
contrary to our expectations, and so we’re going to scale back
some of the production and reduce the number of aircraft that
are out there in that space,” Donnelly said. “The demand just
isn’t there.”  The long-term trajectory on business jet volumes, whose
recovery is a key to buying Textron shares, remains cloudy,
wrote Carter Copeland, an analyst with Barclays Plc in New York
who rates the stock overweight.  This year “appears set to be another transition year at
Cessna, and we find it tough to find a silver lining in company
commentary around what they are seeing in the market,” Copeland
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  