-- Fed’s Stein Backs Using Surcharges to Reduce Risk From Banks
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-04-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/fed-s-stein-backs-using-surcharges-to-reduce-risk-from-banks.html
Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein said regulators should make the biggest banks bear the
cost of their systemic risk by imposing capital surcharges
rather than by forcibly shrinking them.  “Higher and more robust capital requirements, new
liquidity requirements, and stress testing all should help to
materially reduce the probability of a” systemically important
institution “finding itself at the point of failure,” Stein
said today in the text of remarks for a speech in  Washington .  Some perceptions of eventual government support in times of
stress remain, however, conferring a funding subsidy on the
largest firms, Stein said. “Financial firms may still have
excessive private incentives to remain big, complicated, and
interconnected,” he said at an International Monetary Fund
conference.  Rather than opting for caps on the size of banks or a
forced separation of banking and investment banking and trading,
Stein said regulators should stick to their current policy of
capital surcharges for size and complexity and watch how this
mechanism changes banks over time. If those surcharges aren’t
high enough, regulators could change them, he said.  “The capital-surcharge schedule proposed by the Basel
Committee for globally important systemic banks may be a
reasonable starting point,” Stein said. “If after some time it
has not delivered much of a change in the size and complexity of
the largest of banks, one might conclude that the implicit tax
was too small, and should be ratcheted up.”  Basel Committee  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has decided that
systemically important global banks should bear a charge of 1
percent to 2.5 percent more capital to total assets weighted for
risk based on their size, complexity and interconnectedness.  The Financial Stability Board in November listed 28 banks
that should be subject to the surcharge. The list is updated
annually and a phase in period begins to apply in 2016.
Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc, and
Deutsche Bank AG occupied the top tier in the group.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke after the financial crisis raised
analysis of financial stability to an equal footing with
monetary policy, creating the Office of Financial Stability
Policy and Research to monitor markets and financial
institutions for risk.  Bernanke has worked with Daniel Tarullo, President  Barack Obama ’s first appointee to the Federal Reserve Board, to
overhaul supervision and regulation. He has also mobilized
economists, lawyers, and payment systems experts to oversee the
biggest financial institutions in a group called the Large
Institution Supervision Coordinating Committee.  The central bank gained power to set capital, liquidity and
risk management standards under the Dodd-Frank Act.  Before joining the Fed in May, Stein, 52, was an economics
professor at Harvard University in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story: Craig Torres in
Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible
For this story: Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  