-- Fed’s Bullard Opposes Putting More Weight on High Unemployment
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-17T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/fed-s-bullard-opposes-putting-more-weight-on-high-unemployment.html
James Bullard , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said monetary policy should
be guided by the central bank’s  price-stability  goal even with
historically high unemployment.  “The idea that the Fed should ‘put more weight’ on
unemployment does not fare well,” Bullard said in a speech in
New York. “Such an approach may be highly counterproductive.”  Bullard supported the Federal Open Market Committee
decision in March to continue to buy $85 billion in bonds every
month until the labor market outlook improves “substantially.”
It also pledged to keep  interest rates  near zero as long as
unemployment is above 6.5 percent and inflation doesn’t exceed
2.5 percent.  The unemployment rate stood at 7.6 percent in
March.  Bullard, in his presentation on the current economy, said
the U.S.  unemployment rate  has been declining at about 0.7
percentage point per year since peaking after the last recession
ended.  “At this pace, the  unemployment rate  will be in the low 7
percent range by the end of 2013,” he said to the Hyman Minsky
Conference on the State of the U.S. and World Economies.  While that rate is “high by historical standards,”
Bullard cited academic work by economists Federico Ravenna and
Carl Walsh as suggesting the Fed should use its inflation goal,
which is 2 percent, as the main guide to policy.  Serious Inefficiencies  “Frontline research suggests that ‘price stability’
remains the policy advice even in the face of serious labor
market inefficiencies,” Bullard said. “Attempts to address the
various labor market inefficiencies solely with monetary policy
do not work very well because improvements on one dimension are
simultaneously detriments on other dimensions.”  “The essential finding is that monetary policy alone
cannot effectively address multiple labor market inefficiencies,
and so one must turn to more direct labor market policies to
address those problems,” Bullard said.  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen yesterday said
she favors holding the benchmark interest rate “lower for
longer,” while New York Fed President William C. Dudley said a
slowdown in the pace of employment growth in March highlights
the need to maintain the pace of bond purchases.  Bullard joined the  St. Louis  Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana , Kentucky, Mississippi,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  