-- Fido Goes Organic as Private Equity Eyes Pricey Pet Food
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-04-17T21:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/fido-goes-organic-as-private-equity-eyes-pricey-pet-food.html
Brad Kriser has been known to down
a dog biscuit or two. Kriser, the founder of an upscale pet-food
chain that’s opening stores in major U.S. cities, sees his pets
as family, and sampling their diet is what good parents do.  “People will really do absolutely anything they can for
their pets,” said the founder and chief executive officer of
Santa Monica, California-based  Kriser’s , which forecasts revenue
will increase 40 percent this year. “The way that people treat
them is sometimes better than their non-furry children.”  While fancy dog food has been mostly a luxury item for
almost a decade, the trend has picked up considerable steam as
the economy recovered from the financial crisis. The lure of
selling dog food for more than twice its traditional price has
drawn big-box pet chains  PetSmart Inc. (PETM)  and closely held Petco
Animal Supplies Inc. into the gourmet kibble business and also
has private-equity investors eyeing upstarts such as Kriser’s.  “It’s really capitalizing on the trend of health and
wellness,” said Josh Goldin, a managing partner at Alliance
Consumer Growth LLC in New York, a private-equity firm seeking
high-growth consumer brands that invested in Kriser’s last year.  His firm is betting big on the trend, with investments in
the Honest Kitchen, a maker of human-grade dehydrated pet food,
and PawGanics, which sells non-toxic cleaning products for
families with pets. PawGanics is already being sold by Petco,
the San Diego-based chain Texas Pacific Group and Leonard Green
& Partners LP purchased in 2006 for about $1.8 billion.  Food Upgrades  The natural pet foods trend started about a decade ago,
around the same time consumers started paying more attention to
their own food, said Josh McBee, an analyst at researcher
IBISWorld Inc. in Santa Monica,  California .  Natural products got a boost in 2007 after 4,000 pet owners
said their pets were killed after eating contaminated food. The
animals died of kidney failure after eating food made with
Chinese wheat gluten tainted by the chemical melamine, added to
make the protein content seem higher.  Super-premium pet food, which includes most natural and
organic products, makes up about 11 percent of the $20 billion
U.S. pet-food market and is growing at a faster pace than lower-
priced selections, Shannon Brown, a New Orleans-based analyst
for researcher Packaged Facts, said in an e-mail. Premium and
natural foods will help the overall market gain 3.5 percent to
4.5 percent annually for the next few years, she said.  Picky Eaters  Allison Thompson, 30, said she doesn’t mind spending a
little extra on grain-free food for Bella, her six-year-old
Boston Terrier.  “She had cancer last year, so I put her on a natural
diet,” she said, while picking up a 4-pound bag of Fromm Beef
Frittata Veg dog food for $13.49 at a Kriser’s in Chicago’s
Bucktown neighborhood.  Bella is “very picky, but she loves this,” Thompson said.  The first Kriser’s store opened in Chicago’s tony Lincoln
Park neighborhood in 2006, across the intersection from a Petco
shop. Kriser’s expects to operate more than 20 stores by the end
of the year, with 11 in Chicago and the remainder divided
between Southern California and Denver, where it expanded last
year. It’s scouting new markets.  The company’s executives call their chain “The  Whole Foods (WFM) 
of Pets” and like to locate shops, which average about 2,400
square feet, near those grocery stores because they serve
similar customers -- more-affluent and health conscious.  Free-Range Lamb  PetSmart, which has more than 1,200 locations, also is
getting in on the action, selling grain-free  Innova Prime  dog
food made from chicken, peas and turkey for $52.99 for a 25-
pound bag. The chain also sells 33-pound bags of Blue Buffalo
Life Protection foods, some made with free-range lamb, for
$51.99. In contrast, a 30-pound bag of Pedigree dog food is
$19.99.  Super-premium brands such as Blue Buffalo have been “a
major component of the success of PetSmart over the past couple
years,” Sean McGowan, an analyst at Needham & Co. in New York,
said in a telephone interview. Not only do the brands carry
higher profit margins, they also bring in new customers who
purchase other items, he said. McGowan has a hold recommendation
on Phoenix-based PetSmart.  PetSmart shares  more than tripled  from 2008 through the end
of last year. The company, which boosted net income 34 percent
in the year ended Feb. 3, closed yesterday at a 20 percent
premium to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index on a price-to-
earnings basis. The shares fell 0.4 percent to $65.79 at the
close in New York.  Newman’s Own  About 79 percent of pet owners consider the quality of pet
food to be as important as the quality of human food, according
to market researcher Mintel. That is why closely held Newman’s
Own Organics began selling pet food about 12 years ago, Chief
Executive Officer Peter Meehan said in an interview.  “This whole industry has grown up around anthropomorphic
behavior of humans -- we take trends and things that we’re doing
and we apply them to animals,” he said.  Newman’s Own Organics pet food is twice as expensive as
some brands. Still, customers are loyal to its offerings -- some
made with organic beef from Uruguay and lamb from New Zealand,
said Meehan, who declined to provide sales figures.  While Kriser’s doesn’t disclose revenue, the chain’s owners
say same-store sales may gain as much as 20 percent this year,
following increases of more than 10 percent in previous years.
The stores try to lure customers with regular events, including
pet birthday parties, lectures and grooming and training
sessions.  Kriser and President Ken Grouf, who are cousins, even taste
a lot of the food themselves, Kriser said in a telephone
interview. So how are those biscuits?  “You would probably think that you’re eating Teddy
Grahams,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  