-- Forced Blood Tests Often Need Warrant, U.S. Court Says
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-04-17T20:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/forced-blood-tests-generally-need-warrant-u-s-high-court-says.html
Police in many cases need a search
warrant before forcing drunken driving suspects to have blood
drawn, the U.S. Supreme Court said in a ruling that boosts
privacy rights on the road.  The justices today rejected  Missouri ’s contention that
police should never have to seek judicial approval. The state
argued that officers can’t spare the time, given how quickly
alcohol dissipates in the bloodstream.  Writing for the court, Justice Sonia Sotomayor said police
need to seek a warrant when they can do so “without
significantly undermining the efficacy of the search.”  The ruling was narrower than it might have been, stopping
short of declaring a default rule that police need a warrant.
Sotomayor said “cases will arise when anticipated delays in
obtaining a warrant will justify a blood test without judicial
authorization.”  Even so, the ruling will have day-to-day implications
across the country. More than 1.4 million people are arrested
each year in the U.S. for driving under the influence, according
to FBI statistics. About half of the 50 states already have laws
barring nonconsensual blood draws in the absence of a warrant.  Splintered Court  The court splintered in its reasoning in the case. Only
three justices -- Antonin Scalia, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Elena Kagan -- joined the entirety of Sotomayor’s opinion, while
Justice Clarence Thomas dissented.  The other four justices fell somewhere in the middle. Chief
Justice John Roberts, joined by Justices Samuel Alito and
Stephen Breyer, said a warrant shouldn’t be required unless an
officer “could reasonably conclude” that there is time to
secure one before blood can be drawn.  “The natural dissipation of alcohol in the bloodstream
constitutes not only the imminent but ongoing destruction of
critical evidence,” Roberts wrote for the three in a partial
dissent.  Writing for four justices, Sotomayor criticized that
reasoning. Roberts’ approach “might discourage efforts to
expedite the warrant process because it categorically authorizes
warrantless blood draws so long as it takes more time to secure
a warrant than to obtain medical assistance,” Sotomayor said.  Justice Anthony Kennedy cast the pivotal vote, saying in a
concurring opinion that the debate between Sotomayor and Roberts
need not be resolved right now.  Missouri Arrest  The defendant in the case, Tyler G. McNeely, was pulled
over for speeding in 2010 by a state highway patrolman in
southeast Missouri. McNeely failed field sobriety tests and
refused to take a breath test. The officer then took McNeely to
a nearby hospital, where a technician drew blood over the
handcuffed suspect’s objection.  McNeely sought to block use of the blood test at trial. The
high court ruling means prosecutors will have to use other
evidence in their case.  “Today’s decision appropriately recognizes what half the
states have already demonstrated -- that maintaining highway
safety does not require sacrificing personal privacy,”
McNeely’s Supreme Court lawyer, Steven Shapiro of the American
Civil Liberties Union, said in an e-mailed statement.  Missouri argued that getting a nighttime warrant in Cape
Girardeau County, where McNeely was arrested, takes an average
of two hours, by which point a person’s blood alcohol level may
have dropped below the legal limit. The Obama administration
backed Missouri in the case.  Modern Technology  The state said alcohol typically dissipates in the
bloodstream at a rate of 0.015 to 0.020 percentage points an
hour. The blood alcohol limit in Missouri is 0.08 percent.  Missouri was seeking to exempt drunken driving cases from
the normal rule that police must get a warrant for intrusive
bodily searches.  McNeely’s lawyers said police in Cape Girardeau County
often get warrants in less than half an hour. McNeely’s team
also contended that modern technology expedites the process in
much of the country, as officers file telephone or electronic
applications with a judge.  McNeely’s lawyers pointed to Missouri’s “implied consent”
law, which says drivers who refuse a blood or breath test
automatically lose their license for a year. McNeely contended
that law suggests that drivers have the right to refuse a blood
test. All 50 states have implied consent laws in some form.  McNeely, convicted of drunken driving twice before, was
charged with a felony that might subject him to four years in
prison.  Top State Court  The blood test showed McNeely had a 0.154 percent blood
alcohol level. The Missouri Supreme Court ruled that prosecutors
couldn’t use the test at trial, saying officers typically must
seek a warrant before forcing a suspect to have blood drawn.  The Supreme Court had last ruled on the issue in 1966. In
that decision, the court said the warrant requirement didn’t
apply in the case of a man whose blood was drawn in a hospital
about two hours after he was involved in an automobile accident.
The court said that case involved “special facts.”  The high court in other rulings has said police don’t need
a warrant in situations of “exigent circumstances,” as when
evidence is about to be destroyed.  The case is Missouri v. McNeely, 11-1425.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  