-- Forint Weakens First Day in Six on Bets Currency Is Overbought
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-17T14:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/forint-weakens-first-day-in-six-on-bets-currency-is-overbought.html
The forint snapped a five-day rally
as investors speculated its gain to a two-month high this week
was overdone.  Hungary’s currency weakened 0.2 percent against the euro to
294.35 by 3:54 p.m. in Budapest, after strengthening to as much
as 292.5 on April 15, the highest level since Feb. 20. The 3.9
percent advance in the month through yesterday pushed the
forint’s 14-day relative strength index to 71 yesterday, above
the 70 level that some analysts consider as overbought. The RSI
last stood at 67.  The forint has rallied as former economy minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  started his tenure as central bank President by
offering cheap loans to help boost lending, belying analysts
expectations of policy easing through unconventional methods.
While Matolcsy’s plans “helped steady the nerves of the
market,” policy makers may introduce additional measures to
help Hungary get out of recession, analysts at Societe Generale
SA said today.  “The correction in the euro-forint is overdone,”
Guillaume Salomon and Gaelle Blanchard, London-based strategists
at the bank, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Yields on the government’s 10-year bonds were little
changed at 5.6 percent, within one basis point of the lowest
level in eight years.  The central bank’s Monetary Council will probably cut its
benchmark rate by 25 basis points to a record 4.75 percent on
April 23 , according to all nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “While further forint gains can’t be excluded in coming
days and weeks, the expected substantial drop in the benchmark
rate won’t be supportive of the currency in the longer term,”
Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based analyst at Erste Group
Bank AG, wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  