-- Former Consumer Bureau Deputy Date Starts Consulting Firm
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-04-17T17:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/former-consumer-bureau-deputy-date-starts-consulting-firm.html
Raj Date, the former deputy
director of the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has
formed a consulting firm to focus on the industry his agency
regulated.  Fenway Summer LLC, Date’s new Washington-based firm, will
advise clients on business strategy, work on mergers and
acquisitions, and help new firms that “have little more than an
idea to start with,” Date said in an interview. In his new role
he won’t lobby for clients or advise them on government
relations, he said.  “I am not especially interested in technical compliance
work and government focus,” he said. “I think it’s important
work, but it’s not where my particular background or expertise
lies.”  Date, 42, was the first deputy director of the bureau,
which was created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that overhauled
U.S. financial regulation. He helped Democratic Senator
Elizabeth Warren of  Massachusetts , then an adviser to President
 Barack Obama , set up the agency 2010 and 2011. He briefly led
the bureau before Obama named Richard Cordray director in
January 2012.  Date is also an external adviser to McKinsey & Co., one of
his former employers, according to a person briefed on his work.
He declined to speak about that engagement.  McKinsey spokeswoman Yolande Daeninck did not respond to a
request for comment.  A former consumer finance executive at  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  and Deutsche Bank AG, Date said that changes to
bank business models and the emergence of new technologies offer
chances to recast some fundamental products, such as the
checking account.  New businesses “could make the products vastly cheaper to
deliver and offer something to medium-income households,” Date
said.  The name of the new firm is a Massachusetts-oriented
allusion to a public-policy group Date founded to participate in
the debate over Dodd-Frank, the Cambridge Winter Center for
Financial Institutions Policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  