-- France to Revive Plan to Open Hydroelectric Power to Competition
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-17T16:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/france-to-revive-plan-to-open-hydroelectric-power-to-competition.html
President  Francois Hollande  will
set terms for bidding on French hydroelectric power plant
operations, bowing to pressure from the European Union to open
them up to competition, finance ministry documents show.  “Additional reforms are envisaged, notably about renewing
hydroelectric concessions,” according to an outline of its
economic plans for the coming year that was released today.
Details will be given by July after an ongoing national debate
on energy “to respect competition rules.”  Hollande risks a confrontation with lawmakers in the ruling
Socialist Party in reviving a plan to open up dams to
competition that was initiated by his predecessor. Former
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government proposed measures in 2010
for tenders to run plants with a combined output of 5,300
megawatts. Vattenfall AB,  Enel SpA (ENEL)  and EON SE were among
potential bidders.  France ’s hydro plants, the country’s biggest source of
power after nuclear energy, are run by former monopoly power and
gas utilities Electricite de France SA and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA.  Socialist lawmakers including Marie-Noelle Battistel have
expressed concern that in opening up dams to competitive
tenders, France may lose control over energy prices, long seen
as providing a competitive edge for industry.  Cheap Power  “We could lose control over our most competitive energy,”
Battistel told a parliamentary hearing April 3. Competitive
tenders may “go against” industry needs for cheap power, she
said.  Socialist Party senators have already proposed that GDF
Suez and EDF be allowed to extend their concessions by 25 years,
a suggestion that Vattenfall said may contradict national laws.  Other European countries including Sweden, Norway and
 Switzerland  have failed to open their hydroelectric industries
to competition, according to Battistel, who said that companies
taking over dams would be able to sell the power abroad.  France, where nuclear reactors provide three-quarters of
electricity output, has about 25,000 megawatts of hydro power.  The nation “must enable access to hydroelectricity,” Anne
Houtman, head of the European Commission’s representation in the
country, said at a Paris conference in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  