-- German Stocks Drop the Most in Two Months; BMW Slides
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-04-17T15:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/german-stocks-decline-for-a-fourth-day-as-adidas-falls.html
German stocks  declined the most in
more than two months as a report showed that Germany’s auto
market plummeted last month, while  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  BASF SE (BAS)  fell.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  lost more
than 2.5 percent as a gauge of automakers posted the biggest
drop on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Bayer, Germany’s largest
drugmaker, retreated 4.3 percent after a U.S. court ruled that
its patent to produce the birth-control pill Yaz was invalid.
BASF slid 3.8 percent as a gauge of chemical companies slipped.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slumped 2.3 percent to 7,503.03 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , its biggest plunge since Feb. 4. The
equity benchmark completed its longest losing streak in eight
months, erasing its gain for the year. The broader HDAX Index
retreated 2.1 percent today.  “European equities are trading to the down side again as
economic numbers in Germany show a further slowdown in
activity,” Ion Marc Valahu, co-founder and  fund manager  at
Clairinvest in Geneva, said, referring to car sales. “If
Germany the power engine of Europe is slowing, you can imagine
what is happening to other European Union economies.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 13 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The DAX plunged following a surge in the  volume of futures
trading  on the gauge. Some 14,000 contracts expiring in June
changed hands in a a five minute period at about 9:50 a.m. in
Frankfurt today, more than 15 times the 20-day average volume
for that time of day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Boerse AG, the operator of Frankfurt’s stock
exchange, published a statement at 5:14 p.m. saying that
external events rather than a “computer error” or fat-finger
trade caused prices to tumble this morning.  Beige Book  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  releases its  Beige Book 
report at 2 p.m. in Washington. The survey analyzes economic
conditions in 12 U.S. districts. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said on April 8 that “the economy is significantly stronger
than it was four years ago, although conditions are clearly
still far from where we would all like them to be.”  BMW, the largest manufacturer of luxury cars, dropped 2.8
percent to 65 euros, while Volkswagen, the world’s second-
biggest carmaker, fell 2.9 percent to 141.45 euros.  European car sales slid to a 20-year low last month.
Registrations in March fell 10 percent to 1.35 million vehicles,
their 18th consecutive monthly decline, the Brussels-based
 European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association , or ACEA, said in
a statement. First-quarter deliveries in the region dropped 9.7
percent to 3.1 million cars.  Bayer, BASF  Bayer fell 4.3 percent to 77.58 euros. The  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington overturned a trial
judge’s upholding of the patent. The  court ruled  the patent was
an obvious variation of an earlier patent that expires in June
2014. Actavis Inc., Lupin Ltd. and Novartis AG’s Sandoz unit
will be able to sell copies of the contraceptive.  BASF, the world’s biggest chemical maker, slid 3.8 percent
to 65.55 euros.  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest bank, lost 3.4 percent
to 30.23 euros after Societe Generale SA downgraded the shares
to hold from buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  