-- GlobalFoundries Plans $4.4 Billion Spending as Chip Demand Rises
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-04-17T14:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/globalfoundries-plans-4-4-billion-spending-as-chip-demand-rises.html
GlobalFoundries Inc., the contract
chip manufacturer whose clients include  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD)  and Qualcomm Inc., plans to spend $4.4 billion this year to
expand production as demand for smartphones and tablets climbs.  “We continue to expand in all three of our manufacturing
locations --  Germany ,  Singapore  and the U.S.,” Kevin Kimball, a
spokesman at the Silicon Valley-based chipmaker, said by e-mail
on April 15. The spending compares with $3.8 billion last year
and will be met by internally generated cash and funding from
Abu Dhabi-based parent, Mubadala Development Co., he said.  Sales of semiconductor wafers at GlobalFoundries helped
Mubadala, the state-owned company with investments in General
Electric Co. and Carlyle Group, to return to profit last year.
Microsoft Corp. will use a processor of AMD, one of
GlobalFoundries’ biggest clients  according to a Bloomberg
supply-chain analysis,  in its next Xbox game console, people
with knowledge of the matter said last week.  GlobalFoundries is one of the few chip manufacturers able
to spend billions of dollars to build factories that can churn
out the processors and communications chips needed to run the
newest handsets, Chief Executive Officer Ajit Manocha said in
October. The company was formed in 2009 when an investment arm
of the Abu Dhabi government bought AMD’s manufacturing units and
merged them with Singapore’s Chartered Semiconductor Ltd.  Revenue Boost  “GlobalFoundries is expected to be the largest revenue
contributor to Mubadala in coming years,” Amol Shitole, a
credit analyst with SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore,  India , said
in an e-mail on April 15. Capacity expansion in wafer
manufacturing business and a strong customer base are “likely
to result in higher revenues from this segment,” he said.  Semiconductors contributed 47 percent to Mubadala’s revenue
in 2012 compared with 42 percent a year earlier, according to
the company’s financial statement. Sales of semiconductor
wafers, used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and other
microdevices, rose 26 percent to $4 billion.  GlobalFoundries competes with Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. and United Microelectronics Corp. in the
market for contract manufacturing. They allow companies such as
Qualcomm to farm out their chip production, helping customers
focus on design and marketing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  