-- Gold Slump Spurs Surge in Business at Australia’s Perth Mint
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-04-17T09:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/gold-plunge-spurs-doubling-of-business-at-australia-s-perth-mint.html
Gold sales from  Australia ’s Perth
Mint, which refines nearly all of the nation’s bullion, surged
after prices plunged, adding to signs that the metal’s slump to
a two-year low is spurring increased demand.  “The volume of business that we’re putting through is way
in excess of double what we did last week,” Treasurer Nigel Moffatt said by phone, without giving precise figures. “There’s
been people running through the gate.”  Bullion plunged 14 percent in two sessions through April 15,
entering a bear market after losing 28 percent from its record
in September 2011. The recent slump was one of the largest
corrections in modern history, Deutsche Bank AG said. Gold is
now poised to move higher as the physical market reacts after
the decline, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “There’s been significant sales made as people see this as
great value,” Moffatt said yesterday. “Gold owners are very
reactive to significant market movements.”  Gold for immediate delivery, which slumped 9.1 percent on
April 15, climbed 1.1 percent to $1,382.36 an ounce at 5:44 p.m.
in  Singapore . Prices, which peaked at $1,921.15, dropped to
$1,321.95 yesterday, the lowest level since January 2011.  Gold’s drop has been excessive as there are still a lot of
troubles out there, Dominic Schnider, head of commodities
research at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit, said today, citing
the potential for a weaker dollar and debt concerns. Still, the
metal may drop to the so-called marginal cost of production at
$1,150 if  investment demand  doesn’t return, Schnider said.  More Affordable  In  India , the world’s largest gold consumer, the plunge may
make bullion more affordable, said Mehul Choksi, chief executive
officer of Gitanjali Gems Ltd., the nation’s biggest retailer of
jewelry and diamonds by sales. Japanese individual investors
doubled gold purchases on April 16 at Tokuriki Honten Co., the
country’s second-largest retailer of the precious metal.  Sales from the Perth Mint may climb even as gold rebounds
as some people wait for the price to advance before buying,
Moffatt said. “We’ll see a fair bit of buying on renewed
strength,” he said.  The Perth Mint’s sales of gold coins climbed 49 percent to
97,541 ounces in the three months ended March 31 from a year
earlier, according to data from the facility in Western
Australia that was founded in 1899.  The selloff in gold was sparked by investor concern that
European governments may have to follow Cyprus in selling part
of their holdings and exacerbated as the metal fell below so-
called technical-support levels, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
yesterday. BlackRock Inc. said that it was a “panic event.”  Gold is headed much higher over the next decade, investor
Jim Rogers said today, adding that he may start buying after a
so-called selling climax. Gold was set for a correction and
recent decline may be it, he said on Bloomberg Television.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  