-- Grassley Shifts Focus of Probe on Source of Medicare Leak
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/gray-area-of-washington-leak-makes-insider-hard-to-define.html
A U.S. senator’s review of a
possible leak of market-moving government information to an
investor services firm is leading into a gray area of law and
regulation that may help his push for new legislation.  Senator Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, was probing
whether one such firm, Height Analytics LLC, received insider
information from the government prior to telling clients on
April 1 that Medicare was planning to reverse a rate cut for
health plans offered by insurers led by  Humana Inc. (HUM)   Now Grassley is turning away from Height and focusing on a
lobbyist working for a New York-based law firm who exchanged e-
mails about the Medicare rates with a Height analyst, according
to Jill Gerber, the senator’s spokeswoman. Grassley asked in a
letter sent April 9 for all communications between Height and
the Greenberg Traurig LLP law firm.  “This situation emphasizes the value of shedding light on
the political intelligence industry with public disclosure
requirements,” Grassley said yesterday in an e-mail. Grassley
has proposed legislation to have political intelligence firms
register with the government the same way as lobbyist firms do.  Gerber said there has been “no indication that Height
Securities communicated with any government official who had
advance notice of the CMS decision,” referring to the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  Height’s note to clients on the rate change came about 45
minutes before the decision on Medicare Advantage plans was
officially announced, sending insurer stocks soaring before the
market closed.  Information Sought  Now the senator “has requested additional information
about the relationship between Height and Greenberg Traurig and
looks forward to full cooperation from both firms as well as
CMS,” Gerber said.  Before Height’s analyst released his note on April 1, the
firm received advice bolstering its prediction from a former
aide to Grassley, according to company e-mails provided to
Bloomberg. The former aide, Mark Hayes, now a lobbyist with
Greenberg Traurig in  Washington , told Height analyst Justin Simon that “very credible sources” had said the government
would reduce the payment cut for the Medicare Advantage plans.  A spokeswoman for Greenberg Traurig, Jill Perry, said the
company’s lobbyist didn’t receive or share any “material non-
public” information. Instead, Hayes “provided his own policy
analysis.” Hayes didn’t return a phone message or e-mail
seeking comment on his actions.  Height Response  Height has maintained it did nothing wrong. “Our report
was based on careful and close analysis of the facts, and was
solid, sound research in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations,” Andrew Parmentier, Height’s managing partner,
said in a statement yesterday to the firm’s clients. “Our
analyst made an independent call based on multiple data points
and he was correct on the big issue.”  Medicare Advantage plans are those offered by private
insurers with different benefits and costs than the traditional
Medicare health coverage for the elderly and disabled.  The exchanges between Hayes and Height were disclosed
previously by the Wall Street Journal.  The discussions in advance of the Medicare decision
illustrate the connections among those on Capitol Hill, the
administration and lobbying groups that can sometimes be
exploited for profit. Grassley has pushed for a law that would
require those who seek profitable tidbits of information to
register with the government.  “I don’t believe that the political intelligence and
policy research industry has done a very good job of policing
itself,” Mike Mayhew, chairman of New York-based Integrity
Research Associates, said in a telephone area. “Part of that is
that it’s a gray area, so they don’t know how to police
themselves.”  Renewed Focus  The situation being review by Grassley “is clearly putting
renewed focus on this,” Mayhew said.  Height’s investor memo went out at 3:40 p.m. on April 1,
about 45 minutes before Medicare’s official announcement.
“Thirty minutes earlier, at 3:12, p.m. Eastern Time, on Monday,
April 1, 2013, I understand a lobbyist at Greenberg Traurig sent
an e-mail to Height Securities and others regarding the CMS
announcement on the Medicare Advantage policy rate change,”
Grassley wrote in the letter to Greenberg Traurig seeking
information about the incident.  E-Mail Exchange  Hayes wrote Simon at 3:12 p.m., after Simon had written
Hayes three minutes earlier with his speculation about the
decision.  Hayes told Simon that he expected the payment cut to be
reduced after Medicare officials changed their calculations,
including an assumption that Congress would act to reverse a 25
percent cut in physician’s fees scheduled for next year.
Congress has acted every year for a decade to reverse the annual
cut, dictated by a formula called the Sustainable Growth Rate.  “We have heard from very credible sources that the final
notice will adjust the phase-in on risk adjustment and take into
account the likelihood/certainty of an SGR fix,” Hayes wrote in
an e-mail reviewed by Bloomberg.  Health insurer stocks have gained since the announcement.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 index  of managed care stocks advanced
6.8 percent since March 28, the last day of trading before the
Medicare announcement.  A spokesman for the Medicare agency, Brian Cook, said in an
e-mail that he couldn’t comment on whether any agency staff had
communicated with Hayes because the Health and Human Services
inspector general is investigating whether the Advantage
decision was leaked ahead of the official announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  