-- Iamgold Dives as Valeant Soars in Index Split
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-04-17T20:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/iamgold-dives-as-valeant-soars-in-index-split.html
Plunging commodity  stocks  led by
 Iamgold Corp. (IMG)  are overshadowing gains by seven out of 10
industry groups in  Canada ’s top equity index as companies from
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. to  Telus Corp. (T) 
benefit from better prospects for earnings and dividend growth.  A 27 percent slump in raw-material stocks has dragged the
benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index down 2.5 percent
this year through yesterday, compared with a 10 percent gain in
the  S&P 500 . The sub-index has fallen for the past five months,
the  longest retreat  since 1990, amid concern the Chinese economy
is slowing and as gold’s status as a safe haven diminishes.
Among advancing groups, health-care leads with a 22 percent gain
while technology shares are up 14 percent.  “We have the tale of two markets,” Anish Chopra,  fund
manager  with TD Asset Management Ltd. in Toronto, said in a
phone interview last week. His firm manages about C$204 billion
($200 billion). “You have some areas that are trading at all-
time highs whereas other areas like commodities, the stock
pricing is just getting adjusted to the new economic reality.”  The S&P/TSX Composite fell 1.4 percent to 11,947.16 at 4
p.m. in Toronto, its lowest close since November.  The rout in commodity stocks surprised analysts, who
predicted a 33 percent gain in raw-material producers in the
index at the beginning of the year, the most among 10
industries, according to share-price estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Projections for a rally in technology and health-care
stocks have been more accurate.  Masking Strength  Analysts have been too optimistic about  China ’s economic
rebound and didn’t foresee a rush out of gold stocks as the
metal entered a  bear market , said Kash Pashootan, a fund manager
with First Avenue Advisory at Raymond James Ltd.  China’s  economy  expanded 7.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, figures showed on April 14. That compared
with an 8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and
7.9 percent in the prior quarter. China, the world’s biggest
user of commodities,  expanded  last year at the slowest pace
since 1999 after growing at an average rate of 11 percent in the
previous 10 years.  The slump in raw-materials stocks, which  make up  14 percent
of the S&P/TSX, masked strength in other parts of the Canadian
equity market. Five of the 10  industries  in the S&P/TSX rallied
at least 10 percent this year. Utility and energy stocks, the
only other groups that fell, slipped no more than 1.5 percent.  Wrong Forecasts  Canadian equities have risen 0.7 percent in the past 12
months, worst among the 24 developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  Mining analysts forecast copper would rise 2 percent in the
first quarter and gold would increase 7 percent as growth picked
up in China and central bank stimulus spurred demand for a
protection of wealth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Copper sank 4.9 percent in the first three months of this
year for the first back-to-back quarterly drop since 2008 as
China’s imports of the metal fell for a sixth straight month in
March amid a waning construction boom.  Gold, which rallied a 12th straight year in 2012, has
tumbled more than 17 percent this year as inflation worries ease
and some Fed policy makers favor ending its third round of
stimulus measures. The drop extended gold’s losses from the
record close in August 2011 to 27 percent, more than the 20
percent that marks the start of a bear market.  Analysts remain most bullish on raw-materials producers,
projecting them to rise 63 percent over the next 12 months,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Predictions  Paolo Lostritto, an analyst with  National Bank of Canada  in
Toronto, said gold stocks will rebound because monetary stimulus
from the U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe  will boost inflation in the long
term, increasing the allure of the precious metal. He rated gold
producers overweight, an equivalent of buy.  U.S. consumer prices fell for the first time in four
months, dropping 0.2 percent in March after a 0.7 percent
increase in February, the Labor Department said yesterday. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for no change. The
core measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs,
rose 0.1 percent, less than forecast.  “It’s the constant push and pull between the two elements,
deflation versus inflation, and that’s why it’s so difficult to
predict,” Lostritto said in a phone interview on April 15. “We
think over time the inflation argument will bear fruit.”  Worst Performers  Metal companies accounted for nine out of the 10  worst
performers  in the S&P/TSX this year. Iamgold has tumbled 56
percent to C$5.06 in 2013 as of yesterday as the Toronto-based
company contends with higher operating costs and falling gold
prices.  The percentage of analysts covering Iamgold with the
equivalent of a “buy” rating has dropped to 33 percent from a
high of 82 percent in July, while the average 12-month price
target for Teck Resources has fallen 29 percent in the same
period, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Iamgold and Teck are
down 78 percent and 58 percent respectively from their record
highs in 2011 respectively, as of yesterday.  Alana Duffy, a spokeswoman for Teck, declined to comment on
the stock’s performance. Bob Tait, a spokesman for Iamgold,
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  The decline has driven mining stocks to their lowest
 valuations  since December 2008 relative to the S&P/TSX, as of
yesterday. The group is trading at 12.5 times reported earnings,
a 16 percent discount to the broad benchmark index, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Valuations ‘Unwind’  “We’re seeing an unwind of valuations and it depends on
how bullish you are on the China story,” Pashootan, who helps
manage about C$125 million at First Avenue, said in an April 11
phone interview from Ottawa. “Analyst expectations are not in
my view fully pricing in that we’re talking about a major
adjustment in GDP growth.”  Todd Johnson , a portfolio manager at Winnipeg, Manitoba-
based BCV Asset Management, said he’s avoiding mining stocks and
prefers companies with stable earnings and the potential to
raise dividends, such as wireless carrier Telus Corp. and  Magna
International Inc. (MG) , North America’s largest auto-parts maker.  “Cycle turns can be very painful,” Johnson, whose firm
manages C$470 million, said by phone on April 10. “The nature
of the commodity business is that profits can be very volatile
and investor sentiment can amplify that volatility.”  Telus Dividend  Shares of Telus have climbed 8.4 percent in 2013, reaching
an all-time high of C$71.47 on March 5, as the Vancouver-based
company tapped the faster-growing economy of western Canada to
add subscribers and boosted dividends every year since 2004.
 Shawn Hall , a spokesman for Telus, said the company will provide
a forecast for its dividend, which currently yields 3.5 percent,
at its annual investor meeting on May 9.  Tracy Fuerst, a spokeswoman for Magna, based in Aurora,
Ontario, did not immediately respond to a phone message seeking
comment on a potential dividend increase.  Magna is  expected  to raise its dividend as soon as February
2014, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies in the S&P/TSX will boost  earnings  12 percent to
an all-time high of C$896.55 a share in 2013, analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s higher than the 10-year
average growth rate of 11 percent.  Health-care companies rose the most this year, surging 22
percent, as  Valeant (VRX)  Pharmaceuticals, Canada’s largest publicly
traded drug company, jumped 26 percent. The maker of Zovirax
cold-sore cream and Kinerase skin conditioner this month
increased its offer to purchase Obagi Medical Products Inc. by
22 percent to about $417 million, winning a bidding war over
Merz Pharma GmbH for control of the U.S. maker of prescription
skin-care products.  Laurie Little, a spokeswoman for Valeant, based in
 Montreal , could not immediately be reached for comment.  BlackBerry Rally  BlackBerry (BB) , based in Waterloo, Ontario, rallied 21 percent
this year, leading technology shares to a 14 percent increase.
The company, which is attempting a comeback with a new lineup of
smartphones, reported an unexpected quarterly profit on March 28
after embarking on a cost-cutting program last year. A
spokeswoman with BlackBerry declined to comment.  Mining stocks will continue to underperform and an investor
shift out of the industry will benefit other parts of the
market, according to Jeff Burchell, a fund manager with Toronto-
based Aston Hill Financial Inc.  “We’re in a middle of a sector rotation away from the
commodity space and into good, old-fashioned industrial and
consumer businesses,” Burchell, whose firm oversees C$6.74
billion in  North America , said in a phone interview. “Canada
has gotten used to the fact that commodity prices are high and
that the world wants our commodities. My view is that we’re in a
long period where those stocks don’t work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  