-- Liberty Global Said to Weigh Kabel Deutschland Takeover Bid
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-17T14:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/liberty-weighs-bid-for-kabel-deutschland-manager-magazin-says.html
John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) 
is considering a takeover bid for  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ,
the cable provider that’s also a takeover target for  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , two people familiar with the matter said.  No decision has been made and Englewood, Colorado-based
Liberty Global is aware of the antitrust issues of any deal
because it already controls Germany’s second-largest cable
company, the people said, asking not to be identified because
the deliberations are confidential.  Kabel Deutschland  rose 4.3
percent to 73.31 euros at 4:09 p.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the
company at 6.5 billion euros ($8.5 billion).  Buying Kabel Deutschland would add 8.5 million subscribers
to Liberty Global’s 7 million users in Germany and open up vast
areas of the country for selling additional Internet and phone
connections. It would also create a nationwide rival to  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and Vodafone, which are working to overhaul their
fixed-line networks to boost speeds of their broadband offers.  “A Kabel Deutschland acquisition would be completely in
following with their existing strategy,”  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a note. “A deal
between Liberty Global and Kabel Deutschland would put Vodafone
under more pressure, and reduce their optionality in Germany.”  Bert Holtkamp, a Liberty Global spokesman in Amsterdam,
declined to comment, as did Insa Calsow, a Kabel Deutschland
spokeswoman near Munich, and London-based Vodafone spokesman
Simon Gordon. Martina Parulava, a spokeswoman at Germany’s
Federal Network Agency in Bonn, declined to say whether such a
deal would gain antitrust approval.  Bundled Services  Kabel Deutschland rose as much as 8.7 percent in Frankfurt
after Manager Magazin reported the news. Liberty Global shares
fell as much as 2.4 percent to $72.72 today in New York trading.  Vittorio Colao, Vodafone’s chief executive officer, has
said he wants to gain assets that would allow the company to
offer combined Internet, mobile and landline services across
Europe. The company had internal discussions about an
acquisition of Kabel Deutschland, people familiar with the plans
said in February.  In 2010, Liberty Global acquired Unitymedia, with
operations in central and western Germany, and added southwest
operator Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg the following year.  This week, Liberty Global won European Union approval to
buy U.K. cable provider  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  for $16 billion.
Liberty Global purchased a stake in Dutch cable operator  Ziggo
NV (ZIGGO)  last month.  German regulators placed conditions on Liberty Global’s
2011 accord to buy KabelBW, including removing basic encryption
of digital free television programs and enabling competitors to
bid on contracts with housing associations.  Kabel Deutschland itself was blocked from buying smaller
rival Tele Columbus Group in February after the cartel office
said the deal would hamper competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  