-- Hikma to Keep Injectable-Drug Unit After Completing Review
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-04-17T07:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/hikma-to-keep-injectable-drug-unit-after-completing-review-1-.html
Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc (HIK)  will keep
its injectable-drug business after concluding a review of the
unit, saying the long-term growth potential is excellent. The
stock fell as much as 8.4 percent in  London .  “We are confident that retaining and continuing to invest
in this business is the best option for shareholders,” Chief
Executive Officer Said Darwazah said in a statement today.
“Injectables offers excellent long-term growth prospects and
will remain an integral part of our overall growth strategy.”  Hikma said March 1 it was considering a possible sale after
receiving unsolicited approaches for the business, the second-
biggest by volume in the U.S.  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  were
among the companies that expressed interest, and the operation
could have fetched $2 billion in a sale, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  The stock fell 7.2 percent at 8:12 a.m. local time, the
biggest intraday decline since August 2011, giving the London-
based company a market value of 1.8 billion pounds ($2.7
billion).  Potential buyers showed a “significant amount of
interest,” Hikma said in the statement. Spokesman Matthew Cole
declined to comment further on the review.  Hikma expanded the business in 2010 with a $112 million
purchase from  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  The company said in
November the unit has been performing ahead of expectations and
that full-year sales could reach about $460 million, exceeding
an earlier estimate.  “It validates that there is more value in that business
and that they think they can grow it,” Savvas Neophytou, an
analyst at Panmure Gordon in London, said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  