-- Incitec Plans $850 Million U.S. Ammonia Plant on Gas Price
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-17T03:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/incitec-plans-850-million-u-s-ammonia-plant-on-gas-price.html
Incitec Pivot Ltd. (IPL) , Australia’s
largest fertilizer maker, plans to build a $850 million ammonia
plant in Louisiana to take advantage of low natural gas prices
and government policies to support manufacturing in the U.S.  The 800,000 metric-ton-a-year project at a site along the
 Mississippi River  will be funded with debt and cash, the
Melbourne-based company said today in a statement. Houston-based
KBR Inc. has been hired to build the plant and first output is
expected in the third quarter of 2016, it said.  A boom in the production of gas from shale in the U.S. has
driven prices down, revitalizing chemicals companies and
prompting talk of domestic energy self-sufficiency. Shale is
helping to spur a U.S. industrial revival,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
Chief Financial Officer Graham Kerr said last week in Sydney.  “The key driver of this investment is gas,” Incitec Chief
Executive Officer James Fazzino told reporters today on a call.
“The U.S. actually has an energy policy that says, ‘Let’s keep
the gas and give priority to domestic manufacturing and jobs.’”  Gas futures in  New York  are trading at more than $4 per
million British thermal units this week after falling to less
than $2 in April 2012 and touching a 10-year low. Prices may
range between about $4 and $6 per million British thermal units
in the next decade even if exports expand, the  American Gas
Association  said this week.  “Shale gas has enabled a step-change in U.S. gas prices,
which is vital in this project because 80 percent of the cost of
making ammonia is gas,” Fazzino said today. “We see the risk
on U.S. gas prices is for them to go down.”  The investment in the project, the seventh ammonia plant
operated by Incitec globally, is going ahead because of support
from the state of Louisiana and U.S.  energy policy , he said.  “What’s clear in the U.S. is that manufacturing is a
priority,” he said. The U.S. is the world’s largest import
market for ammonia, according to a company presentation.  Since 2000, about 3.3 million tons of new capacity has been
needed every year to meet global demand for ammonia, used in
explosives and fertilizers, according to the presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  