-- India’s Congress Facing Defeat as Local Parties Rise, Poll Says
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-04-17T08:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/india-s-congress-facing-defeat-as-local-parties-rise-poll-says.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s ruling coalition would lose an election held now,
according to an opinion poll, while the chief opposition
alliance is on course to make only marginal gains.  The current political mood in  India  means regional parties
such as the Samajwadi Party that rules  Uttar Pradesh , Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress and the All India Anna Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam in power in southern Tamil Nadu province are
gaining in strength ahead of an election scheduled for May next
year, the C-voter survey for the  Times Now  TV channel found.  Singh’s  Congress party  would win 113 seats, a drop of 90,
in the 545-member lower house of parliament, the survey said.
Times Now didn’t give a sample size or margin of error.  The  Bharatiya Janata Party  has the support to grab as many
as 141 seats, 25 more than its 2009 tally. With its allies,
including the Janata Dal (United), the BJP-led National
Democratic Alliance may win 184 seats.  The BJP’s popularity may rise if Gujarat Chief Minister
 Narendra Modi  is allowed to lead the opposition bloc into the
election, Times Now said on its website, citing the poll.  Singh’s government is struggling to combat an opposition
onslaught over alleged corruption, lift an economy growing at
its weakest pace in a decade and push suspended policy
initiatives.  Modi’s growing role in the Hindu-nationalist BJP is a
concern for some allies, including the Janata Dal party that
rules Bihar, who fear it may alienate Muslim voters. The chief
minister of Gujarat is accused by human rights groups and
opponents of failing to stop anti-Muslim riots in 2002 that
killed more than 1,000 people.  Modi’s administration said it did its best to maintain law
and order during the rioting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  