-- India’s Nifty Futures Gain After Biggest Rally in Seven Months
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-04-17T02:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/india-s-nifty-futures-gain-after-biggest-rally-in-seven-months.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may extend an advance after the
biggest rally in seven months yesterday.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for April delivery rose 0.4
percent to 5,720.5 at 10:13 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying
CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index advanced 2.2 percent to 5,688.95 yesterday, the
largest jump since Sept. 21. The S&P BSE Sensex index rose 2.1
percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-
traded shares rallied 3.5 percent.  Shares jumped yesterday as this week’s slump in gold and
oil prices may narrow India’s record current-account deficit,
easing pressure on the rupee, further damping  inflation  and
boosting scope for a further reduction in  interest rates .
Proposals for India’s biggest opening to foreign investment
since the 1990s may be ready in June, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said yesterday.  “The atmosphere is conducive for investment in equities,”
Raamdeo Agrawal, joint managing director at Motilal Oswal
Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai, said in an interview
yesterday. “Valuations aren’t expensive and interest rates are
expected to go down from here.”  The Sensex has dropped 3.5 percent this year and is valued
at 12.6 times  projected 12-month profits , compared with this
year’s peak of 13.8 times in January. The MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index trades at 10.4 times.  Foreign Investment  Shares of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the second-biggest
stock on the Sensex by weighting, may move after the company’s
quarterly earnings beat forecasts. Net income for the three
months ended March 31 grew to 55.9 billion rupees ($1.01
billion) from 42.4 billion a year ago, the company reported
after the market closed yesterday. That exceeded the 55.3-
billion rupee median estimate of 20 analysts.  Chidambaram said last month many restrictions in about two
dozen industries from telecommunications to banking can be
removed or relaxed. The ruling coalition is trying to lure
foreign capital to fund the  current-account deficit  and fight
the weakest economic growth since 2003.  Gains in wholesale prices slowed to 5.96 percent last
month, the smallest gain in 40 months, government data showed on
April 15. While the  Reserve Bank  of India cut funding costs in
March for a second time this year, it has said lingering
inflation is curbing scope for further reductions. The bank’s
next policy review is on May 3.  Earnings Reports  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s largest software
maker, may report that quarterly net income rose to 36.1 billion
rupees, from 29.3 billion a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of 41 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  may report three-month earnings increased to
3.6 billion rupees, according to the median estimate of 27
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, compared with 2.72 billion a
year earlier.  Net incomes for the 30 Sensex companies in the quarter
ended March 31 may fall 0.8 percent from a year ago, according
to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the first
decrease in profits since a 1.8 percent drop in the three months
ended June 2010, the data show.  Shares of Indian media companies  Sun TV Network Ltd. (SUNTV) ,  Dish
TV India Ltd. (DITV)  and  Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. (Z)  may be
active after the stocks were rated outperform in new coverage at
Credit Suisse Group AG.  Foreign funds bought a net $17.1 million of Indian shares
on April 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show, extending this
year’s net investment in equities to $10.2 billion, a record for
the period according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Inflows last
year totaled $24.5 billion, the most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  