-- Intelsat IPO Gets $347.8 Million as Stock Priced Below Range
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-04-18T09:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/intelsat-raises-347-8-million-pricing-decreased-ipo-below-range.html
Intelsat Global Holdings SA (I) , the
world’s largest satellite services business, raised $347.8
million in its U.S. initial public offering, pricing a decreased
number of shares below the proposed range.  Intelsat sold 19.3 million shares for $18 each, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, after offering 21.7 million
shares for $21 to $25 apiece. The stock will start trading
today, listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol I.  “Compared to its peers in Europe, Intelsat is not that
compelling,” Giles Thorne, an analyst at Jefferies LLC in
London said today by telephone. The Luxembourg-based company is
“not growing as fast as its European peers and at the same time
is highly levered.”  Intelsat was established in 1964 as the first commercial
satellite-services provider, according to its  website . Its
European competitors include Paris-based  Eutelsat Communications
SA (ETL) , London-based  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT) , and SES SA, the world’s largest
publicly traded satellite operator, also based in  Luxembourg .  A group of private-equity funds led by BC Partners Ltd. and
Silver Lake Management LLC acquired Intelsat in a 2008 buyout
that valued the satellite operator’s equity at about $5 billion.
Neither firm planned to offer shares in the IPO, filings show.
Intelsat will use proceeds from the offering to repay debt.  The fact that Intelsat’s private equity owners have not
sold down at the IPO was “encouraging for incoming investors,”
Thorne said.  Intelsat generated $2.61 billion in revenue in 2012, a less
than 1 percent gain from the year-earlier period.  Intelsat’s communications network includes more than 50
satellites that cover more than 99 percent of the world’s
populated areas, the filings show.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer David McGlade,
filed to raise $1.75 billion last May.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and Bank of America Corp. led the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  