-- Intel Sales May Exceed Estimates on Demand for Server Chips
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-04-17T21:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/intel-sales-may-exceed-estimates-on-demand-for-server-chips-3-.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, forecast second-quarter sales that may
exceed some analysts’ estimates as strong demand for server
chips helps make up for a slump in the personal-computer market.  Revenue in the current period will be as much as $13.4
billion, the  Santa Clara , California-based company said
yesterday in a statement. Analysts on average had predicted
sales of $12.8 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Improving demand for powerful chips at the heart of
corporate networks will blunt the impact of falling PC sales and
help Intel boost revenue for the year, Chief Financial Officer
Stacy Smith said. While a consumer shift to smartphones and
tablets from PCs contributed to Intel’s third straight decline
in quarterly  revenue , its server-chip sales have benefited from
the increased Internet traffic these mobile devices bring.  “PCs and notebooks are being replaced by tablets and
smartphones,” said  Cody Acree , an analyst at Williams Financial
Group Inc. who has a hold rating on Intel shares. “That is
impacting the consumer side, but it’s not impacting servers and
is actually driving heavier server traffic.”  Intel  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $21.93 at the
close in  New York , even as the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index
declined 3.3 percent. The stock has gained 6.4 percent this
year, while the chip-industry index has gained 8.7 percent in
2013.  Annual Forecast  Intel is sticking to its projection for 2013 revenue growth
at a “low single-digit” percentage, Smith said. Most of that
increase will be provided by a double-digit improvement in
server-chip sales, he said.  “A big chunk of that comes from the  data center ,” Smith
said in a telephone interview. “That alone gets us into the low
single digits.”  Intel controlled 96 percent of the market for servers that
run on PC processors in the fourth quarter, according to  Cave
Creek , Arizona-based Mercury Research Inc.  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD) , Intel’s only rival in that market, had 4.3
percent.  Smith said Intel agrees with market researchers that have
forecast lower demand for traditional laptops and desktop
computers this year. Intel won’t feel the brunt of that because
its new, lower-power chips will start being used in tablets and
convertible devices, he said. Some touch-screen-enabled laptops
will go on sale for as little as $300, he predicted.  The company aims to complete the search for a replacement
for Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  by the May
shareholders’ meeting, when he will retire, Mark Henninger, a
spokesman, said on a conference call yesterday. Intel won’t
comment further on the process, he said.  First Quarter  Intel’s first-quarter net income fell 25 percent to $2.05
billion, or 40 cents a share, from $2.74 billion, or 53 cents,
in the same quarter a year earlier. Sales fell 2.5 percent to
$12.6 billion, Intel said in the statement. Analysts on average
had estimated earnings of 41 cents a share on sales of $12.6
billion.  The company’s PC business had $7.99 billion in sales in the
first quarter, down 6 percent from a year earlier. Its data-
center group recorded revenue of $2.59 billion, up 7.5 percent
from the same quarter in 2012.  Sales in the current period will be $12.9 billion, plus or
minus $500 million, the company said. The midpoint of that range
would be an increase of about 3 percent from the first three
months of the year, which is “slightly higher than the average
seasonal increase,” Intel said in a separate  statement .  “It wasn’t as bad as feared,” said  Doug Freedman , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  who has a sector perform rating
on Intel shares, the equivalent of a hold recommendation. “The
top-line guidance for the second quarter is pretty good. There
was some concern that number would come down.”  PC Slump  PC shipments fell 14 percent in the three months that ended
in March -- the steepest quarterly drop on record -- as
Microsoft Corp.’s newest operating system failed to ignite
demand, IDC said last week. That was worse than the 7.7 percent
decrease the researcher had forecast.  The chipmaker, which gets about  85 percent  of revenue from
PC sales, has failed to translate that success into a foothold
in the mobile-phone market, where  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s chips
dominate. Intel has been trying to sell Atom, a scaled-down
version of its PC processor, to phone makers, and it has
announced some progress with orders from Google Inc. unit
Motorola Mobility and other companies.  Still, Intel has far to go to catch its mobile-chip
competitors. It ended 2012 with market share of less than 1
percent in phone-application processors. Smartphone shipments
grew an estimated  44 percent  last year, according to IDC, while
PC shipments dropped 3.7 percent for the first annual decline in
more than a decade.  Capital Spending  Gross margin , the percentage of sales left after
subtracting production costs, was 56 percent in the first
quarter. That measure of profit will be about 58 percent in the
current period, Intel said, matching analysts’ predictions.  The company reduced its 2013 budget for spending on new
plants and equipment to $12 billion, plus or minus $500 million.
That was $1 billion less than a January prediction.  Intel’s results come at the start of two weeks of earnings
reports from the largest U.S. technology companies. Because its
chips power the majority of the world’s PCs,  investors  watch
Intel’s earnings for an indication of broader demand for
desktop, server and laptop computers.  The company’s biggest customers are PC makers Hewlett-
Packard Co. and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , which together contribute more than
30 percent of revenue, according to a Bloomberg  supply-chain
analysis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  