-- Intuitive Lawyer Says Warnings in Robot Surgery Ignored
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-17T18:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/intuitive-lawyer-says-warnings-in-robot-surgery-ignored.html
A lawyer for  Intuitive Surgical
Inc. (ISRG)  told jurors that a doctor who used the company’s robot in
surgery on a morbidly obese patient who later died ignored
warnings that the operation shouldn’t be performed.  Allen Ruby, in his opening statement today to jurors in
state court in Port Orchard, Washington, defended Intuitive
against a lawsuit claiming that the company’s robotic  da Vinci
surgical system  training was compromised by aggressive
marketing, and led to errors in removing a patient’s prostate
gland, and eventually caused his death four years later.  Fred Taylor was five-feet, 11-inches tall, and weighed 280
pounds, giving him a body mass index of 39 -- a measurement that
should have precluded robotic surgery according to the training
Intuitive provided to the doctor, Scott Bildsten, Ruby said.  “Morbid obesity is not a criticism, it is a medical
fact,” Ruby told jurors. Bildsten was asked in a deposition
what Intuitive taught him “in regards to the physical size of
the patient relative to using the da Vinci.”  “Yes, there were suggestions not to do overly obese
patients in your initial procedures,” Bildsten said, according
to Ruby.  Early Procedures  Bildsten, who is expected to testify as a witness at trial,
was warned by Intuitive that for his early procedures with the
da Vinci -- at least the first four to six surgeries -- he
should choose simple cases and patients with a low body-mass
index, Ruby said. “He was taught not to do this in his early
cases,” Ruby said.  The case, brought by Taylor’s widow, Josette Taylor, is the
first to go to trial of at least a dozen lawsuits filed against
Sunnyvale, California-based Intuitive since 2011 alleging
injuries tied to its  da Vinci surgical system . The robots were
used in more than 300,000 U.S. operations last year.  Richard Friedman, a lawyer for Josette Taylor who finished
his opening arguments yesterday, claimed Taylor was a victim of
training Intuitive provided for the robotic surgery. After
Intuitive won regulatory approval for its daVinci robot the
training was diluted in an aggressive marketing campaign to
increase sales, Friedman claimed.  Intuitive designed a training program to get U.S. Food and
Drug Administration approval for its robot that, starting in
2000, was simplified and “watered down so much that nobody’s
ever failed -- ever,” Friedman said yesterday.  Seven Hours  After seven hours of robotic surgery on Taylor in September
2008, complications developed and Bildsten and other doctors
turned to traditional surgery and then emergency care to repair
a rectal laceration. Taylor died in August of heart failure
resulting from injuries caused by Intuitive’s inadequate
training of Bildsten, according to Friedman.  Intuitive’s robots, which cost about $1.5 million each, are
used in 1,371 U.S. hospitals, the company has said. The robots
and related products generated most of its $2.2 billion  revenue 
in 2012.  Bildsten had performed 100 successful prostatectomies using
a traditional procedure and hadn’t used the da Vinci system on a
patient without being supervised. He failed in Taylor’s surgery
to create a watertight seal between the bladder and the urethra
when the prostate was removed, inflating Taylor’s abdomen with
carbon dioxide pressure which led to a stroke, according to
court filings.  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  Watertight Seal  According to court filings, Bildsten said Intuitive’s
training didn’t inform him of the need to create the watertight
seal or warn of the risk of abdomen inflation. After reading
Food and Drug Administration documents about the “learning
curve to obtain basic competency” with the da Vinci system,
Bildsten said, “I believe I likely would not have agreed to
begin training on the robot had I been given this information,”
according to the filing.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical
Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of  Washington , Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in Port Orchard, Washington, at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  