-- Italy’s Presidential Candidates Vetted as Rivals Negotiate
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-17T15:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/italy-s-would-be-presidents-vetted-as-rivals-pushed-to-negotiate.html
Italy ’s deadlocked political forces
are back at the bargaining table for a new round of talks after
their failure earlier this month to form a government.  This time they’re vetting candidates to succeed President
Giorgio Napolitano in a parliamentary vote that starts tomorrow,
and investors are looking for a deal that could help resolve the
government stalemate. Italian 10-year bond yields fell to a
three-month low as talks continued between the two biggest
parliamentary groups, led by  Democratic Party  head Pier Luigi
Bersani and  Silvio Berlusconi .  “It should be possible to find a compromise,” said
 Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at Mizuho
International Plc. “It would be certainly viewed as at least a
glimmer of hope that they can have an agreement on a government
to last for a year or two and pass critical reforms.”  Parliament will start voting at 10 a.m. tomorrow in Rome
and can hold two ballots a day until consensus is reached.
Former Prime Minister Giuliano Amato and Sabino Cassese, a judge
on Italy’s constitutional court, are the top candidates to bring
Bersani and Berlusconi together, according to an aide to a
Democratic Party lawmaker.  Bond Gain  Yields on Italian 10-year debt fell 6 basis points to 4.25
at 5:15 p.m. That’s down from 4.89 percent at the close on Feb.
26, the day after Italy’s inconclusive general election left the
country with a fractured parliament.  The Democratic Party today denied a report by news agency
Ansa that Bersani had presented a list of candidates to
Berlusconi that included Amato, former Prime Minister  Massimo
D’Alema  and former speaker of the Senate Franco Marini.  The political standoff is pushing Bersani and Berlusconi, a
billionaire three-time premier, to consider renewing the 13-
month alliance that ended in December with the fall of Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s government. The two leaders are being
thrown together again by the emergence of Beppe Grillo, the ex-
comic seeking to sweep established parties and politicians from
power.  Resolving Impasse  Napolitano’s successor will become the key figure in the
effort to resolve the political deadlock that’s left a lame-duck
government and a fractious Parliament. The head of state
appoints the prime minister and, when stalemates prove
intractable, dissolves parliament and calls snap elections. In
times of impasse, the president acts as a broker among the rival
political forces.  Grillo, head of the third-biggest parliamentary force, said
yesterday that his more than 150 electors would back television
journalist Milena Gabanelli for president. Gabanelli told
newspaper  Corriere della Sera  today that she wouldn’t wouldn’t
accept the nomination and wanted to continue her work as a
journalist. Grillo posted a Twitter message today that law
professor Stefano Rodota, who came in third in the party’s
primary, had agreed to serve as the candidate.  The president is chosen by a 1,007-member electoral college
comprised of all national lawmakers and some regional
representatives. To win in any of the first three rounds, a
candidate must secure two-thirds of the potential votes. From
the fourth round an absolute majority is enough for victory. The
president serves a seven-year term.  Grillo’s Candidate  Bersani, whose coalition controls Italy’s lower house of
parliament, needs help from forces led by Grillo or Berlusconi
to secure a majority in the Senate as governments must have
majorities in both houses of Parliament to legislate. Grillo
said today that he expected Bersani would make a deal with
Berlusconi, which would be “suicide for the republic.”  Amato, 74, was prime minister in 1992-1993 and in
2000-2001, and served at the head of the Treasury and interior
ministries. A law professor by training, Amato entered
Parliament as a member of Bettino Craxi’s Socialist Party in the
1980s and served as a Senator 2001-2006 with a forerunner to
Bersani’s Democratic Party. Amato has been a senior adviser for
Deutsche Bank AG in Italy since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  