-- Italy May Need $9.2 Billion of Spending Cuts, Official Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-04-17T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/italy-may-need-9-2-billion-of-spending-cuts-official-says.html
Italy  may need to make as much as 7
billion euros ($9.2 billion) in additional spending cuts this
year to cover jobless benefits and other expenses, said Finance
Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo.  “There are additional expenses worth 5 billion euros to 7
billion euros that need to be covered,” Polillo said in an
interview in Rome on April 15. These include as much as 600
million euros to finance military operations abroad and about
1.2 billion euros for unemployment programs, he said. Funding
the expenses through tax increases would aggravate Italy’s
fourth recession since 2001, he said.  The estimate doesn’t take into account possible changes in
the government policies such as a reduction in a property tax
introduced by Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government, Polillo
said. All political parties promised to cut or abolish the tax
during the campaign for February’s inconclusive elections.  Italy is mired in a second month of a political stalemate
after the Feb. 24-25 vote failed to produce a majority in
Parliament. Still, the yield on the 10-year bond has dropped
about 60 basis points since then, as investors shrug off the
risks of a prolonged political impasse.  Italy doesn’t need a bailout, though may be a victim of “a
domino effect” if  Spain  were forced to ask for aid, he said.
Only a government with full powers would be able to make an aid
request. “In general, we need a government able to cope with
increasing difficulties as soon a possible,” he said.  Bond Rally  Italian bonds should hold on to most of their post-election
gains, even if the selection of a new president of the republic
starting this week fails to resolve the political impasse,
Polillo said.  “Markets understand that a situation of tension over
liquidity in the European market doesn’t permit speculative
moves,” he said. “I’m convinced that the spread will remain in
the range of 300 to 350 basis points.”  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond closed at 4.31 percent
yesterday, leaving the difference with comparable German bunds
at 303 basis points.  Parliament and regional delegates will meet April 18 to
elect Italian President Giorgio Napolitano’s successor, a
procedure that can take a few days. The new president will play
a key role in designating a prime minister candidate to form the
next government. Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, who
won a majority in the Chamber of Deputies but fell short in the
Senate in the February vote, failed in his first attempt to to
put together government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  