-- Italy Presidential Election Set to Begin Amid Political Crisis
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-04-17T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/italy-presidential-election-set-to-begin-amid-political-crisis.html
The Italian parliament meets today
to begin the election of a new president. The vote will be
closely watched as the new head of state will take the lead in
trying to end  Italy ’s political gridlock after inconclusive
elections on Feb. 24-25. Here are some details on how it works.  * When will the new president be elected?
-- President Giorgio Napolitano’s seven-year term expires on May
15. Members of Parliament and 58 regional delegates will begin
voting for his successor today. The procedure can take several
days as just two rounds of voting are held each day. While some
presidents, such as Francesco Cossiga in 1985, were chosen in
one day, the election of Giovanni Leone in 1971 took 23 rounds
of voting.  * How does the vote work?
-- The presidential election is held in Parliament in a roll
call vote of more than 1,000 lawmakers and regional officials.
The ballot is secret. To win in the first three rounds a
candidate must secure two-thirds, or 672, of as many as 1,007
potential votes. From the fourth round, an absolute majority of
504 electors is required. Two rounds of votes will be held today,
with the first one starting at 10 a.m. local time.  * How are the electors split?
-- Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani’s coalition has
496 electors, combining members of parliament and regional
delegates. Former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s bloc and its ally
the  Northern League  have 270. Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement
has 162 electors while caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
centrist bloc has 70. Bersani’s bloc is 8 votes shy of a simple
majority, which is enough to elect the president from the fourth
round. Bersani could then need to reach out to Monti’s electors
or agree on a candidate with Grillo. Bersani and Berlusconi’s
blocs together have enough votes to elect the new president from
the first round.  * What it the role of Italy’s president
-- The president is a largely ceremonial figure. He’s the head
of the armed force, and can also reject laws that he considers
unconstitutional. Those powers are enhanced at times of
political crisis as the president also has the power to dissolve
parliament and designate prime minister candidates.  * What are the positions of the main parties?
-- Berlusconi has reiterated his People of Liberty party should
have a decisive role in choosing the next president, while
signaling he would support a PD presidential candidate if
Bersani’s party agrees to form a broad coalition government.
Bersani has so far ruled out an alliance with Berlusconi.
-- Five Star said it will vote for professor of law Stefano Rodota. Grillo has urged the PD to support Five Star’s
candidates, offering to restart alliance talks.
-- Bersani told his lawmakers yesterday that former Senate
speaker Franco Marini is the candidate with the broadest support
among all political parties. Marini may face opposition from
some Democratic Party dissenters. Berlusconi agreed on Marini as
presidential candidate, according to a Twitter message by his
staff. Other potential candidates had included former Prime
Minister Giuliano Amato and ex-premier  Massimo D’Alema .  * What’s going to happen once the new president is in place?
-- The new president will probably hold another round of
consultations with political parties before deciding whether to
give a mandate to someone to form a government, install a
transitional government or leave Monti’s caretaker
administration in power to carry out certain needed reforms
before calling a new vote. He can also decide to dissolve
parliament immediately and call new elections, which Napolitano
couldn’t do at the end of his mandate.  * What are market expectations?
-- A scenario in which the president is elected in the first
three ballots would signal that parties have found common ground
on how to manage the post-election impasse, paving the way for a
reform of the election law and new elections early next year,
Barclays Economist Fabio Fois said in a note April 16. If that’s
not the case, the risk of political impasse may remain elevated
and the newly elected president may call elections in the third
quarter this year, he said.
-- A “likely deal” on the new president will probably be part
of a broader agreement between Bersani and Berlusconi for a new
government, Gianluca Ziglio, fixed-income strategist at Sunrise
Brokers, wrote in a note to clients April 12.
-- Peter Ceretti, a New-York-based analyst for Eurasia Group,
assigns a 60 percent probability to the election of a figure
acceptable to the two main forces in parliament and a 40 percent
chance to a candidate unacceptable to the PDL. “If the PD and
PDL can agree on a president, cooperation on forming a
government and moving ahead with an agreed policy agenda is much
more likely,” while if a divisive president is elected
political gridlock will continue, he said.
-- The election of the new president “might provide some
volatility” in Italian  government bonds , Annalisa Piazza, a
fixed- income analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said in a note
published yesterday. News reports of a possible agreement
between PD and PDL on Amato seem to have been welcomed by the
market “as he is seen as the best candidate to lead to a smooth
transition ahead of the new elections,” Piazza said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  