-- Italian Political Impasse Tested as Presidential Vote Begins
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-18T07:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/italian-political-impasse-tested-as-presidential-voting-begins.html
Italian lawmakers get a chance to
begin breaking an eight-week political deadlock today as they
consider nominations for the next head of state.  The first ballot at 10 a.m. in  Rome ’s Chamber of Deputies
will indicate whether tensions between Pier Luigi Bersani’s
Democratic Party and forces loyal to former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  have eased. Broad agreement on a successor to
President Giorgio Napolitano could revive moribund talks on
forming a new government, which have yielded only acrimony since
inconclusive elections Feb. 24 and Feb. 25.  “The number of voting stages ultimately required to elect
the president will have a very important signaling content,”
 Nick Matthews , senior European economist for Nomura
International Plc in  London , said yesterday in a report. “It
should show whether an agreement between the center-left and the
center-right was achieved.”  Competition between the Democratic Party on the left and
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party on the right reduced
parliament to a near-standstill and scuttled Bersani’s attempt
to secure the premiership. Bersani and Berlusconi told their
respective supporters last night they would support the
candidacy of former speaker of the Senate Franco Marini, though
the choice is dividing Bersani’s coalition.  Party Divided  Matteo Renzi, who challenged Bersani for the party
leadership, said last night that the agreement “was
disrespectful for the country.” Nichi Vendola, whose SEL Party
is also part of Bersani’s coalition, said his supporters won’t
back Marini.  More than 90 of Bersani’s coalition allies opposed the
candidacy in an internal party vote last night, according to
Twitter posts by lawmakers attending. That level of dissent may
leave Marini short of the needed two-third majority on the first
three ballots. From the fourth vote, only a simple majority is
needed.  Napolitano’s successor will become the key figure in the
effort to resolve the political impasse. The head of state
appoints the prime minister and, when stalemates prove
intractable, dissolves parliament and calls new elections.  Political Players  Investors are relying on Bersani and Berlusconi to reach a
deal that will ultimately lead to a government with enough
support to pass economic stimulus and shield against the
 European debt crisis . The  Democratic Party , known in  Italy  as
the PD, and Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, or PDL, have been
thrown together by the emergence of Beppe Grillo, whose Five
Star Movement won a blocking minority in the February elections.  The president is chosen by secret ballot in a 1,007-member
electoral college comprising all national lawmakers and some
regional representatives. Votes are cast one at a time and then
counted one by one in a process that typically allows time for
two ballots a day.  “Numerous structural factors now make an agreement between
the PD and PDL on a presidential candidate slightly more likely
than not,” Peter Ceretti, a Eurasia Group analyst in  New York ,
said yesterday in a research report. “Low trust between Bersani
and Berlusconi, the sheer number of veto players involved, and
the possibility of surprise defections all create distinct
risks.”  Yields Decline  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 2 basis points to 4.23
percent at 9:30 a.m. in Rome, down from 4.45 percent before the
February vote.  Grillo said yesterday that his more than 150 electors would
back Stefano Rodota, a university professor and former lawmaker.
Grillo settled on Rodota, who finished third in an online Five
Star primary, after the top two choices declined the nomination.  Bersani, who controls Italy’s lower house of parliament,
needs help from forces led by Grillo or Berlusconi to secure a
majority in the Senate. Last month Bersani failed to entice
Grillo into an alliance while shunning a potential deal with
Berlusconi, a billionaire and three-time premier.  “We hope to have an answer quickly,”  Federico Ghizzoni ,
chief executive officer of UniCredit SpA, said the presidential
selection at an event in Rome yesterday. “This is very
important, also in order to have, soon after, a new
government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  