-- Living-Fossil Fish’s Genome Gives Clues of Landlubbers
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/living-fossil-fish-s-genome-gives-clues-of-landlubbers.html
The fish known as a living fossil
for its close resemblance to ancient predecessors had its genome
sequenced by scientists who say it offers clues to how animal
ancestors crawled out of the sea.  African coelacanth, discovered alive in 1938 after having
been presumed extinct for 70 million years, was found to have
genes that reveal how land animals’ hands, feet, immune systems
and other body features may have evolved, according to  a report 
in the journal Nature.  The coelacanth can grow to two meters (six feet) and live
as many as 60 years in the wild, according to  National
Geographic . Their front fins are fleshy, resembling the limbs of
four-legged land animals. The gene sequencing enabled
researchers to see changes between water and air, to the sense
of smell, the immune system, and the body’s ability to eliminate
waste.  “People had these romantic views of the coelacanth, that
it was a fish lost in time or something like that,” said
 Jessica Alfoldi , a research scientist at the  Broad Institute of
MIT and Harvard  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and a study author.
“We found that actually, the vast majority of the genome isn’t
slow-evolving.”  The genes, or the minority of the genome that codes
proteins, haven’t changed much, the report found. That’s because
the deep-sea caves where the coelacanth live likely don’t have
many predators or much competition for resources, Alfoldi said.  “Evolution acts strongly on genes when they need to
change,” Alfoldi said. “That’s why we don’t look like fish
anymore.”  Gene Analysis  The group did an analysis of which genes and regulatory DNA
were lost, gained or altered. They found changes to regulatory
DNA, which influenced genes involved in smell, suggesting a
change from underwater smelling to detecting airborne odors.
Also, a large number of immune system regulatory DNA changed,
possibly as a response to the different types of pathogens found
on land.  Several genetic regions may have been used to form limbs,
fingers, toes, and, in mammals, the placenta. Of note is a
region called HOXD, which is shared between coelacanths and
four-legged land animals. This sequence is probably what altered
to allow for hands and feet, the researchers said.  Waste elimination changed when the ancestors of landlubbers
first crawled out of the sea. Protein is broken into sugars and
nitrogen; fish get rid of the nitrogen by excreting ammonia into
the water. Humans and other land animals convert the ammonia to
urea in the liver; urea and water together are known as urine.
One of the key genes in this cycle was modified in land animals,
when compared to the fish.  The research was supported by grants from the  National
Human Genome Research Institution.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  