-- Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Decline Amid Growth Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-17T23:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/japanese-australian-stock-futures-decline-amid-growth-concern.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  fell, tracking declines in the U.S., as commodity prices
retreated and some American companies missed earnings forecasts.  American Depositary Receipts  of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  lost 3
percent from yesterday’s closing price Sydney as declining
metals and oil prices weakened the earnings outlook for the
world’s biggest mining company. Hitachi Ltd. may be among
suppliers to Apple Inc. that are active today after audio-chip
maker Cirrus Logic Inc. predicted that sales at the world’s
second-largest company would miss estimates.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June traded at 13,290 in Chicago yesterday, down from 13,400 at
the close in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
13,260 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index retreated 0.7 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index fell 0.5 percent.  “Weak corporate earnings results and renewed concerns
about the global economy saw traders switch to a risk-off
mode,” said Matthew Sherwood, head of investment markets
research in Sydney at Perpetual Investments, which manages about
$25 billion.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The gauge yesterday dropped 1.4 percent amid
disappointing results by companies from Bank of America Corp. to
Textron Inc. U.S. stocks are poised for a “spring break” that
will bring losses to investors as economic growth slows and
corporate earnings weaken, according to  Jonathan Golub  at UBS
AG.  U.S. Earnings  Of the 57 companies on the  S&P 500  that have reported so
far this season, 39 have beaten profit estimates and 29 have
exceeded forecasts for sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley, previously the most bullish brokerage on
Japanese stocks, says the Topix Index will fall about 10 percent
as investors await corporate earnings and progress on promised
economic reforms. The gauge has surged 57 percent from Nov. 14,
when elections were announced that brought Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to power on a platform of stimulus and trade liberalization
to beat 15 years of deflation.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, yesterday traded at 13.8 times average estimated
earnings compared with 14 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and 12.3 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The London Metal Exchange Index of industrial metals fell
2.3 percent and West Texas Intermediate crude oil dropped to a
four-month low.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 2.4 percent in New York
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  