-- Kenya’s Sole Shariah-Compliant Insurer to Expand in Region
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-04-17T07:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/kenya-s-sole-shariah-compliant-insurer-to-expand-in-region-1-.html
Takaful Insurance of Africa Ltd. ,
 Kenya ’s only Shariah-compliant insurer, plans to expand its
operations into five East African nations, Chief Executive
Officer Hassan Bashir said.  Under Takaful’s five-year plan spanning 2013-2017, it will
expand into Ethiopia, Tanzania, Uganda, Somalia and the
autonomously governed enclave of  Somaliland , where it was
granted a license this year, he said.  Islamic insurance  is known
as takaful.  “The intention is to grow the tafakul model both in the
country as well as into the Eastern Africa region,” Bashir said
in an April 12 interview in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi.  The global market for Shariah-compliant financing is set to
double to $3 trillion by 2015, according to  Standard & Poor’s .
Kenya has two companies doing  Islamic finance  and lending, Gulf
African Bank Ltd. and  First Community Bank Ltd.   CIC Insurance Group (CIC) , Kenya’s second-biggest insurer by
premiums, is one of the largest investors in Takaful with about
22 percent, while four investment companies also have stakes.  In Kenya, Takaful Insurance has four outlets and 80 agents
in Nairobi and Mombasa, two of the 47 counties in East Africa’s
biggest economy. The company plans to add at least two more
outlets this year and double the number of agents, he said.  Most agents are lenders including the two Islamic finance
banks, Nairobi-based Chase Bank Ltd., African Banking Corp. and
Equatorial Commercial Bank Ltd., Bashir said.  Barclays Bank of
Kenya Ltd. ,  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , Equity Bank Ltd.,  Co-
operative Bank of Kenya Ltd.  and  National Bank of Kenya Ltd. ,
will be among those recruited this year, he said.  Selling Shareholding  The company will raise as much as 300 million shillings
($3.56 million) this year by selling a third of its stock to
investors as it plans to expand. Currently, 70 percent of the
company’s share capital has been paid up and the rest will be
sold before the year is over, Bashir said.  Takaful has faced challenges including a regulatory
requirement that 10 percent of premiums be invested in Treasury
bills and bonds, both of which are not Shariah-compliant, Bashir
said. The interest earned from that is now put in a charity
account while the company awaits approval to invest the 10
percent in the two Islamic banks, he said.  The company does not invest premiums collected on the
 Nairobi Securities Exchange. (NSEASI)  Most investments are in the two
Shariah-compliant banks, real estate and short-term lending to
 oil companies  importing crude oil, Bashir said.  Equity Investments  “We are studying about 10 companies,” including those
involved in tea, coffee and cement manufacturing, and  Kenya
Electricity Generating Co. (KEGC) , he said. They must go through
Shariah council evaluation for approval, Bashir said.  Takaful’s premiums totaled 430 million shillings last year,
compared with 178 million shillings in the eight months through
December 2011, he said.  Kenya’s Retirement Benefits Authority licensed the company
last month to start providing the country’s first Shariah-
compliant pension plan, he said. It is being run on a trial
basis and will be introduced in June.  “It is our expectation that there will be Shariah-
compliant stocks and bonds that will provide a pool of
investments for companies both in Kenya as well as in the
region,” Bashir said. “Kenya is quickly developing as an
important hub for Islamic finance.”  Kenya Reinsurance Corp. (KNRE) , which by law takes 18 percent of
Kenyan insurers’ premiums, introduced Retakaful to provide
Islamic reinsurance, he said. The company’s risks are also
spread over several companies including units of African
Reinsurance Corp., Zep Re (Pta Reinsurance Co.) Ltd.,  MNRB
Holdings Bhd (MNRB)  of Malaysia and  Islamic Arab Insurance Co. (SALAMA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  