-- Kim Says World Bank Can’t Reject Coal If People Freeze
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-04-17T21:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/kim-says-world-bank-can-t-reject-coal-if-people-freeze.html
The World Bank, which has boosted
investment in renewable energy, cannot refuse to finance a coal-
fired plant in  Kosovo  if the alternative is having people there
“freeze to death,” the lender’s president said.  As the Washington-based institution considers providing
partial guarantees for a lignite-fired power plant in the Balkan
country, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim said today he’s
looking for all possibilities to avoid investing in coal. If the
lack of energy became “a humanitarian issue” and the bank got
involved, it could at least make the project cleaner, he said.  “I don’t think it’s fair to tell the people in Kosovo
‘While the rich countries continue to burn coal, you’re going to
have to freeze to death because it’s against our political
ideology to support you,’” Kim said on a panel discussion in
 Washington  today. “I can’t do that.”  The Kosovo plant would be the first major coal project
getting World Bank support since 2010. Kim has vowed to boost
the lender’s contribution to easing the effects of climate
change as part of a new goal to eliminate extreme poverty,
though he’s also said poor countries cannot be denied access to
energy.  “The issue for us in Kosovo is that their need for energy
is so severe that it’s not a question of whether everyone can
have three refrigerators and multiple flat-screen TVs,” Kim
said today.  More than 50 organizations  wrote  to Kim this month asking
him to stop financing fossil-fuel projects, saying his
commitment to addressing climate change would be judged on the
bank’s lending practices.  “We will look for everything we can possibly do to avoid
that but look, poor people should not pay the price with their
lives of mistakes that people have been making in the developed
world for a very long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  