-- Kinder Morgan Earnings More Than Triple on Expansion
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-04-17T21:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/kinder-morgan-first-quarter-earnings-rise-on-higher-gas-volume.html
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ,
the biggest U.S. pipeline company, said first-quarter profit
more than tripled as it expanded its interstate pipeline
network.  Net income increased to $783 million from $206 million in
the same quarter of 2012, Houston-based Kinder Morgan said in a
statement today. After payments to parent company Kinder Morgan
Inc., Kinder Morgan earned 97 cents per unit, compared with a
33-cent loss a year ago. Revenue rose to $2.7 billion from $1.8
billion in the first quarter of 2012.  Profit from gas pipelines rose 78 percent to $497 million,
boosted by the purchase of the Tennessee Gas Pipeline and half
of the El Paso Natural Gas Co. from its parent. Gas shipments
rose to 1.5 trillion cubic feet of gas during the quarter from
1.4 trillion cubic feet a year ago.  “Everything points to the continued development of natural
gas supplies in the United States, which drives demand for
midstream infrastructure to connect the additional supplies to
markets,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Kinder
said in the statement.  Kinder Morgan Inc. acquired the pipelines when it bought El
Paso Corp. in May, creating the biggest so-called midstream
company in the U.S. Kinder Morgan also closed earlier than
expected on the second half of the El Paso Natural Gas
acquisition, Elvira Scotto, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets
in New York, wrote in an April 12 note. The March 1 purchase may
add $38 million to Kinder Morgan’s first-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, deductions and amortization, according to the
note.  Kinder Morgan agreed to buy  Copano Energy LLC (CPNO)  in January
for $3.2 billion in stock. That deal, along with further
purchases from its parent, will help Kinder Morgan maintain its
growth for the rest of the year, Scotto wrote.  The company announced earnings after the close of regular
trading in New York. The shares fell 0.8 percent to $89.26 at
the close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  