-- King Defeated in QE Push as Officials Downplay Remit Change
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-17T08:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/king-defeated-in-qe-push-as-officials-downplay-remit-change-1-.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  was defeated for a third month in a push for more stimulus
as officials signaled the change to their remit hasn’t altered
their approach to policy in light of current risks.  Six of the Monetary Policy Committee voted to keep
quantitative easing at 375 billion pounds ($575 billion) this
month, the central bank said in the minutes of the panel’s April
3-4 meeting, published in London today. King,  David Miles  and
 Paul Fisher  wanted to increase it by 25 billion pounds.  The meeting was the first for the MPC since Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  reworked the BOE’s mandate to give
officials more flexibility to meet their 2 percent inflation
target. In the minutes, the MPC said Osborne’s move
“confirmed” their decision to look through the bout of above-
target price growth at a time of  economic weakness .  “The short-run trade-off between output growth and
inflation meant that the committee could return inflation to the
target more quickly than currently expected only by taking
policy actions that would provide less support to output,” the
MPC said. “In responding to this trade-off, the committee was
setting policy in broadly the same way it had done since its
formation.”  The comments echo remarks by individual MPC members in
recent months that they have always interpreted their mandate
flexibly to avoid shocks to the economy.  Unemployment Rises  A separate report today showed unemployment rose at its
fastest pace in more than a year. Unemployment as measured by
International Labour Organisation methods rose by 70,000 to 2.56
million in the three months through February, the most since
November 2011. The  unemployment rate  climbed to 7.9 percent from
7.8 percent in the previous quarter.  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the data.
It traded at $1.5321 as of 9:34 a.m. London time, down
0.3 percent on the day.  At the April meeting, the MPC majority said monetary policy
was already “highly stimulatory” and noted that medium-term
inflation expectations “had drifted upwards in recent months.”  “A further easing might exacerbate this movement and
prompt renewed weakness in sterling, with implications for wages
and prices,” they said. Inflation was at 2.8 percent in March.  The majority also noted that the impact on supply capacity
from a demand increase would depend on how the reallocation of
capital and labor occurred. They said this issue “was better
addressed by policies to improve the working of credit
markets.”  Minority View  The MPC said that there had been some signs that the pace
of improvement in credit conditions had eased. It said it “saw
merit” in possible extensions to the Funding for Lending Scheme
“that would boost lending further.”  For the minority of the MPC, their argument was that more
QE could lower longer-term  interest rates , support asset prices
and “facilitate a smoother path toward the economy’s new
equilibrium, help prevent a more persistent reduction in
spending and thereby avoid potentially lasting damage to
productive capacity.”  On inflation, the MPC forecast it will accelerate to around
3 percent by the middle of the year. It said that administered
and regulated prices “were likely to make unusually large and
sustained contributions to inflation over the next two years or
so.” Still, it saw price growth slowing to the target in the
medium term.  On the economic outlook, the MPC noted the threats from the
euro-area crisis and the government’s fiscal squeeze.  It said the market reaction to developments in Cyprus has
been “relatively limited,” though “some market moves could be
interpreted as suggesting that the Cyprus bailout had
demonstrated a greater commitment by the euro-area authorities
to shift the burden of future banking sector restructuring from
governments to private creditors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  