-- Kravis Resolves Claims Against Bryant Over Johns Works
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-17T20:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/kravis-resolves-claims-against-bryant-over-jasper-johns-works.html
Henry Kravis , co-chairman of KKR &
Co., and art collector Donald L. Bryant Jr. agreed to resolve
claims that Bryant reneged on an agreement to donate paintings
by  Jasper Johns  to the Museum of  Modern Art  in New York.  Kravis sued Bryant in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  in January, claiming he went back on an agreement to
donate the paintings they jointly owned to MoMA after the two
collectors took turns displaying the works in their homes.  Kravis, his wife Marie-Josee, MoMA and Bryant, in a court
filing dated yesterday, asked a judge in Manhattan to approve a
proposed consent order and final judgment resolving Kravis’s
claims and counterclaims filed by Bryant.  “This effectively resolves the situation, so case
closed,” Fraser Seitel, a spokesman for Bryant, said in a
telephone interview.  The proposed order would amend an agreement among the three
parties to allow the Kravises to possess the artworks until Feb.
16, 2014, when they would be given to Bryant. The two parties
would then have alternating rights of possession every 12
months. The works are to be donated to MOMA after the death of
the owners.  ‘Promised Gift’  Bryant in a court filing last month said he “never
impliedly or expressly repudiated the promised gift of his
interest” in the art to MOMA and that he confirmed to Johns his
intent to donate the works to the museum. Bryant said he was
preparing to transfer possession of the works to Kravis in
January when the lawsuit was filed, and that the art was
delivered on Jan. 30.  Margaret Doyle, a spokeswoman for MoMA, which had sought to
intervene in the suit as a plaintiff, declined to comment on the
filing.  Gregory P. Joseph, an attorney representing Kravis, didn’t
immediately return telephone messages seeking comment on the
filing.  The case is Kravis v. Bryant, 150705/2012,  New York  State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  