-- N.Z. Set to Legalize Gay Marriage in Asia-Pacific First
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-04-17T23:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/n-z-set-to-legalize-gay-marriage-in-asia-pacific-first.html
(Corrects number of nations allowing same-sex marriage in
third paragraph of story published yesterday.)  New Zealand  became the first Asia-
Pacific nation to legalize same-sex marriage after a parliament
vote today, 27 years after sexual relations between men were
decriminalized.  The third and final reading of the  Marriage Equality Bill 
was passed 77 votes to 44. The legislation amends 1955 laws to
rule that all adults in New Zealand, including those identified
as transgender or transsexual, can marry.  New Zealand joins 12 other nations that allow same-sex
marriage, including  Canada , South Africa and Spain. Prime
Minister John Key voted in favor of the law-change, after last
May saying he wasn’t opposed to gay marriage, shortly after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  voiced his support. Key had previously
voted against civil unions, which New Zealand legalized in 2005.  “A civil union is demeaning -- this idea that you will
never be good enough, that your love is somehow less than or not
as worthy,”  Lynda Topp , a New Zealand entertainer who in March
joined her same-sex partner in a civil union, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Our marriage is as honest, loyal and
committed as anyone’s and we should have the same rights as
anyone else.”  New Zealand decriminalized sexual relations between men
aged 16 and over in 1986, while such activity between women was
not illegal, the Ministry of Culture and Heritage said on its
New Zealand History  website . Seven years later, discriminating
against people on the grounds of their sexual orientation was
outlawed, the ministry said.  Supporters Gather  Both supporters and opponents gathered in Wellington ahead
of the vote. The first reading of the bill in August passed by
80 votes to 40, and the second in March by 77 votes to 44,
according to statements from Louisa Wall, the parliamentarian
from the main opposition  Labour Party  who sponsored the bill.  A New Zealand Herald  Digipoll  survey conducted last month
showed 52 percent of respondents supported same-sex marriage
while 48 percent were opposed. The poll surveyed 750 people and
had a margin of error of 3.6 percent.  Gay marriage is also legal in Argentina, Belgium,  Denmark ,
 Iceland , Netherlands,  Norway , Portugal,  Sweden  and Uruguay as
well as parts of the U.S. and Mexico City. The French Senate
this month approved a bill allowing same-sex marriage, paving
the way for it to become law later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  