-- Najib Warns Anwar Malaysia Election Win Spells Disaster
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-04-18T08:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/najib-warns-anwar-malaysia-election-win-spells-disaster.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, whose coalition faces its biggest challenge in 55 years,
said the election offers a choice between a reforming government
that’s boosted growth and a fractious opposition that could
bring “catastrophic ruin” for the country.  “Change, if not managed in a way, can lead to a disastrous
outcome,” the 59-year-old leader said in an interview yesterday
in Putrajaya, the country’s administrative center outside of
Kuala Lumpur, ahead of May 5 polls. “Countries that have been
going through Arab Spring, now many people are saying it’s Arab
Winter, because the dividends for the change they expected have
been very disappointing.”  The ruling Barisan Nasional coalition is battling a
revitalized opposition led by former Finance Minister Anwar Ibrahim. Najib is under pressure to regain some of the ground
lost in the last poll in 2008, when the coalition had its
closest victory since independence from Britain in 1957. Both
have pledged to tackle corruption, with Anwar demanding an end
to cronyism and monopolies in what he called a peaceful
“Malaysia Spring” in 2011.  Barisan Nasional, also known as the National Front, is
fielding new candidates in one-third of parliamentary seats in a
bid to woo voters who cite entrenched corruption and living
costs among their most pressing concerns. Former Prime Minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi and Economic Planning Unit chief Nor Mohamed Yakcop are among veteran politicians making way for
fresh blood.  ‘Getting Defensive’  “When Najib uses language like this, it shows he’s getting
defensive and moving into attack mode,” said Bridget Welsh,
associate professor of political science at Singapore Management
University. “He appears to be painting it in black and white as
a zero-sum game. The  opposition  is also pro-markets and pro-
investment.”  Both sides have similar policies and the election result is
likely to be very tight, she said.  Najib, who took over mid-term in 2009 and is facing voters
for the first time as leader of the 13-party coalition, said he
would abide by a loss.  “We are all a strong believer in the democratic process,”
he said. “It’s the will of the people that decides.”  He described the People’s Alliance, led by Anwar, 65, as a
“fractious, ideologically-incompatible collection of parties.”
The alliance includes one party with mostly ethnic Chinese and
another whose members support the wider implementation of
Islamic law.  Market Risk  The opposition’s promises would be “horrendous for
 Malaysia  in terms of results,” Najib said. “The market, the
currency, would take a very sharp decline.”  Anwar has pledged to roll back racial preferences for the
ethnic Malay majority, cut oil, electricity and water charges,
abolish road tolls and subsidize higher wages.  Brokerages from RHB Investment Bank Bhd. to Citigroup Inc.
expect a closer result than in 2008. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia
KLCI Index closed at a record high yesterday, though it remains
Southeast Asia’s worst performing stocks benchmark this year,
rising 1.1 percent. The KLCI index dropped 0.2 percent as of
3:49 p.m. today.  The ringgit has rebounded 1.8 percent since Najib dissolved
parliament on April 3 and traded at 3.0322 to the dollar today.  A change in government could result in some short-term
market weakness, Choo Swee Kee, who oversees 700 million ringgit
($231 million) as chief investment officer at TA Investment
Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur, said yesterday. “Ultimately
whoever forms the government will still implement pro-business
policies. It should not have major disruption to business.”  Popularity Contest  Anwar described Najib’s comments as an attempt to “strike
fear” in the financial community and “a desperate and
irresponsible act” to paint the opposition in a bad light. “It
is most unbecoming of Najib to use his position as caretaker
prime minister to make such rash statements calculated to spook
the public and agitate the market,” Anwar said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Najib is more popular than his government. According to a
 Merdeka Center for Opinion Research  survey his approval rating
was 61 percent in February, while the poll of 1,021 voters
conducted Jan. 23 to Feb. 6 found 48 percent of respondents were
“happy” with the government.  The prime minister said he’s “cautiously optimistic” that
Barisan Nasional can reclaim a two-thirds majority in parliament
and recapture some states, without naming them. In 2008, the
coalition lost control of five of the 13 state assemblies, later
regaining power in Perak after defections from the opposition.  The People’s Alliance now holds 75 of 222 parliamentary
seats, while Barisan Nasional has 137, according to the
Malaysian parliament website. Anwar predicted a minimum 10-seat
majority for his alliance during a March 8 interview.  Race Riots  Najib was a teenager when riots erupted between Muslim
Malays and ethnic Chinese in Kuala Lumpur in 1969. His father
Abdul Razak Hussein became prime minister the following year and
responded with a program to reduce Chinese dominance in business
by giving preferential treatment to Malays and indigenous
people, collectively known as bumiputeras.  As leader, Najib has adopted  “1Malaysia”  as his slogan,
rolling back some aspects of the government’s affirmative action
policies and replacing them with a more meritocratic approach.  “We believe that affirmative action is necessary, but we
have made it fairer in terms of its implementation,” he said.  The Merdeka Center’s February survey found 34 percent of
ethnic Chinese voters, who make up about a quarter of the
population, were satisfied with Najib’s performance, the lowest
since May 2009.  “I’m trying to engage them,” Najib said. “The Chinese
community doesn’t like uncertainty and instability.”  Transformation Plan  Najib is seeking a mandate to complete government and
economic transformation programs he started three years ago,
overseen by Idris Jala, a former  Malaysian Airline Systems Bhd. (MAS) 
chief executive officer. Private investment has since tripled,
rising 25 percent last year to 139.5 billion ringgit, according
to government data.  He still has initiatives from his first term in office
outstanding, including implementing a goods and services tax and
further cutting state subsidies to narrow the budget  deficit .  “I am aware that more needs to be done,” he said. “I
believe with a strong mandate, I can continue to do reforms to
make Malaysia a fully matured democratic and economically
competitive nation.”  Oil, Railway  Since taking charge, Najib has streamlined bureaucracy and
opened up more industries to foreign investors. His government
identified $444 billion of private sector-led projects to help
champion this decade, ranging from oil storage to a mass
railway.  “I would like to accelerate reforms but I believe it’s
better for us to manage change, rather than change that is
unleashed in an uncontrolled manner,” Najib said.  In the lead up to polls, Najib has announced increased cash
handouts for low-income families and higher pensions for civil
servants, military and police.  Najib, an industrial economics graduate, inherited a
country in recession when he took over in April 2009.  The economy has weathered the global slowdown, expanding
more than 4 percent in each of the 13 quarters to the end of
2012, helped by domestic demand and  investment , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The budget deficit narrowed from 6.6 percent of GDP in 2009
to 4.5 percent last year, and is expected to shrink to 4 percent
this year, as the government seeks to balance the budget by
2020, according to a report last month by the government’s
Performance Management and Delivery Unit, or  Pemandu .  “Under Barisan Nasional, we’ve always had a current
account surplus,” Najib said. If the opposition “were to
deliver all their populist but reckless policies it would lead
to an immediate current account deficit, which means they’d be
borrowing to pay for salaries and subsidies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  