-- National Bank of Kuwait First-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-04-17T14:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/national-bank-of-kuwait-first-quarter-profit-beats-estimates.html
National Bank of  Kuwait  SAK, the
country’s largest lender, posted a 0.4 percent rise in first-
quarter profit, beating estimates, amid a “promising” outlook
for growth this year.  Net income  rose to 81.3 million dinars ($285.5 million)
from 81 million dinars in the same period last year, the bank
said in an e-mailed statement today. The median estimate of four
analysts was for a profit of 79.5 million dinars, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  This year “holds a promising outlook for the operating
environment in Kuwait in contrast to last year, in light of the
government’s position to adopt a more dynamic fiscal policy and
to accelerate implementation of mega projects,” Chief Executive
Officer Ibrahim Dabdoub said in the statement. “This is
expected to boost economic activity and spur growth creating new
opportunities in the local economy.”  The global credit crisis weakened lending and investment
banking in the  Middle East , pushing up loan-loss provisions and
led to a drop in the value of investments. Corporate lending in
Kuwait has lagged its peers in the Gulf Cooperation Council as
conflict between the government and parliament stalled a $110
billion development plan to diversify the oil-reliant economy
and modernize the nation. The executive and legislative branches
this year pledged to put the investment plan, first approved in
February 2010, on a fast track. Loans to private businesses grew
4.8 percent in the year to February.  NBK’s net operating income grew 10 percent to 147.3 million
dinars, it said. The bank’s shares fell 1.1 percent to 930 fils
at the close in Kuwait today. The stock has gained 1.7 percent
this year compared with a 19.4 percent rise in the benchmark
Kuwait Stock Exchange Index. There are 1,000 fils to the dinar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  