-- Nissan Considers Expanding North American Infiniti Production
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-04-17T02:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/nissan-considers-expanding-north-american-infiniti-production.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Infiniti,
seeking a bigger share of global luxury vehicle sales, is
considering adding a second production site in North America to
produce models for the brand locally.  Infiniti moved its global headquarters to Hong Kong last
year and is preparing to make vehicles in China for sale in that
market. The luxury marque of Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan has
also said it plans to produce in the U.K. for export.  “In this context, Infiniti is also considering a second
manufacturing location in North America,” the company said in a
statement yesterday, without elaborating.  Cars under the luxury line are currently manufactured in
 Japan  and the U.S., where a Nissan plant in Smyrna,  Tennessee ,
makes one Infiniti model -- the JX crossover. Nissan officials
met in Japan this week with Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis, who made a pitch for the carmaker to build an Infiniti
plant in Canada.  There’s no decision on when and where further production
for the Nissan luxury line may be added, Kyle Bazemore, a
spokesman for Infiniti’s U.S. unit, said by phone yesterday.  Nissan’s Infiniti, outsold by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus
and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Acura, increased U.S. deliveries 4.4
percent in the first quarter to 27,376 cars and light trucks,
buoyed by JX sales. Infiniti models are to be built in China
from 2014 as the brand targets 200,000 sales annually there by
the end of the decade.  U.S. headquarters for Nissan and  Infiniti  are in Franklin,
Tennessee. Nissan builds autos for North America in Canton,
 Mississippi , and at two plants in Mexico, as well as in
Tennessee. A $2 billion auto-assembly plant being built in
Aguascalientes, Mexico, Nissan’s third in that country, is
scheduled to open late this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  