-- Nomura Tumbles as Prosecutors Seek Monte Paschi Assets
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-04-17T06:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/nomura-falls-as-italian-prosecutors-seek-monte-paschi-assets.html
Nomura (8604)  Holdings Inc. shares fell
the most in two weeks after Italian prosecutors said they aim to
seize 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion) of its assets as part of
a probe into  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA .  Japan ’s biggest brokerage slid 2.3 percent, the steepest
decline since April 1, to 754 yen at the close on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 1.2 percent.  The seizures are linked to allegations of fraud and usury
related to Monte Paschi’s use of derivatives to hide losses,
prosecutors in Siena, where the Italian bank is based, said in a
statement yesterday. Monte Paschi has claimed Nomura colluded
with its former managers to devise one of two  derivatives  in
2008 and 2009 that hid total losses of much as 557 million
euros. Nomura reaped at least 88 million euros from the
transaction, dubbed Alexandria, according to the Italian lender.  “There is a sense of uncertainty over Nomura as it’s
unclear what’s going on in  Italy  and information is limited,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , chief  fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “We don’t know if this is an
individual issue or institutional issue and investors may find
it difficult to buy the shares until there is some clarity.”  Wrongdoing Denied  Sadeq Sayeed, Nomura’s former European head, and Raffaele Ricci, a managing director in fixed-income sales, are being
probed for colluding to obstruct regulators and making false
statements, prosecutors said. They are also sequestering 14.4
million euros of assets from three former Monte Paschi managers
already under investigation, including Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari , General Manager Antonio Vigni and finance chief
Gianluca Baldassarri.  Nomura, which isn’t under investigation itself, said
yesterday that the Tokyo-based bank will “vigorously” contest
any suggestion of wrongdoing in the case. Sayeed, 59, said he
denied any allegation of wrongdoing against him. Ricci didn’t
return a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  The prosecutor’s order to seize assets must be ratified by
a judge in Siena within 10 days, an Italian police official said
yesterday.  Italian Bet  As part of the deal with Nomura, Monte Paschi bought
Italian  government bonds  using a loan from the Japanese bank. It
swapped the fixed-rate interest payments on the bonds with a
floating rate and guaranteed the credit risk on the bonds,
effectively making a bet on the future value of Italian
government bonds.  As those securities tumbled during  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis, Monte Paschi was forced to post additional margin at a
cost of 173 million euros, the bank said.  About 1.7 billion euros of the assets to be seized is
margin pledged by Monte Paschi to Nomura, prosecutors said. The
Siena prosecutor has frozen payments on the contract, said a
person with direct knowledge of the probe, who asked not to be
identified because the investigation is continuing.  Nomura said in a statement that no assets have been seized.
Because Monte Paschi deposits its margin in an account used by
Nomura in  Germany , the  Bank of Italy  may ask the Bundesbank to
seize the contents of that account, according to two people with
knowledge of the investigation who asked not to be identified.
They declined to give details of the German central bank’s
response. Officials at the Bundesbank declined to comment.  Monte Paschi has said Nomura’s transaction, and a similar
derivative designed by Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG,
“should never have been put together.” The two firms “were
perfectly aware of the context, the illicit objectives” of
Monte Paschi’s former executives, the company said in a report
released March 29. Lawyers for the three former Monte Paschi
executives didn’t immediately answer calls to their mobile
phones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  