-- Li Ka-Shing Port Workers Widen Protests After New Wage Offer
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-18T02:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/hong-kong-port-contractors-raise-wage-offer-as-workers-protest.html
Hundreds of port workers at Li Ka- shing’s Hong Kong terminals surrounded his  Cheung Kong  Center
headquarters in the city’s business district after rejecting a
pay raise aimed at ending a three-week strike.  Contract workers of Li’s Hongkong International Terminals
Ltd. were offered a 7 percent raise by their employers, the
company said in an e-mail, compared with the workers’ demand for
a 23 percent increase. Hong Kong government mediators have
helped narrow the differences between employers and workers,
Labor Secretary Matthew Cheung told reporters yesterday.  Unhappy at the offer, more than 200 workers gathered
outside Cheung Kong Center, holding placards demanding better
pay and shouting slogans against Li. The strike, which prompted
shipping lines to divert vessels  to Shenzhen,  China , from the
city’s harbor, is the biggest revolt against the 84-year-old Li,
who is  Asia ’s richest man and is nicknamed “superman” by the
local media for his investing prowess.  Workers are “extremely disappointed” with the talks as
the wage increase offered is less than the union’s demand, said
Wong Yu-loy, a representative of the Union of  Hong Kong  Dockers.  Employees marched near the 70-story Cheung Kong Centre,
home to offices of companies such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Barclays Plc. Dozens of the striking workers slept in tents
surrounding the building overnight and more will come back today
to continue the protest, Choy Sai-leung, a 52-year striking
stevedore said today.  Cheung Kong Centre  Police and security guards are patrolling the area, with
Cheung Kong Centre closing all but one of its exits. The
striking dock workers will stay outside of the building until a
wage agreement is reached, Wong said yesterday.  About 450 workers, mostly crane operators and stevedores,
walked out on March 28, seeking higher wages and better working
conditions as rising living costs and record  home prices  spur
discontent in the city.  Hongkong International Terminals is operated by  Hutchison
Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , whose largest shareholder is Li’s Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. Hutchison Port, along with partner Cosco Pacific
Ltd., dominates half of the capacity at Hong Kong, the world’s
third-largest container port behind Shanghai and  Singapore .  Shares of Hutchison Port were unchanged at 82 cents as of
10:22 a.m. Hutchison Whampoa shares fell 0.6 percent to HK$80.30
in Hong Kong trading.  Fair Demand  The strike may entail increases in costs for the port
operator,  Johnson Leung , an analyst at Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd.,
told  Rishaad Salamat  on Bloomberg TV today.  “It’s fair for them to ask what they think they deserve,”
Leung said. “From an investment angle, we probably have to
expect a bit more cost inflation.”  The strike in Hong Kong prompted shipping lines including
 Evergreen Marine Corp Taiwan Ltd. (2603)  to divert vessels to Shenzhen.
Terminals controlled by Hutchison Port have a 46 percent market
share in that port.  Chan Tsz-kit, who has worked as a stevedore for 22 years
for one of the port contractors, said he decided to join the
strike because his wages don’t meet his expenses.  “The companies have forced us into a hopeless situation,”
said 40-year-old Chan, who moved house to neighboring Shenzhen
because he can’t afford Hong Kong rents. “Our pay can never
catch up with inflation. Everything is so expensive now.”  Work to Rule  The dockworkers at Hong Kong port earn HK$55 ($7) an hour,
according to Union of Hong Kong Dockers. That is less than they
were paid in 1995, according to the union. The workers had a pay
cut in 2003 during the SARS outbreak.  In support of the dockworkers, about 300 crane operators,
hired by Hongkong International, began a work-to-rule action on
April 4, according to Sin Hiu-yan, a spokeswoman of Hongkong
International Terminal Group Employees General Union. To play
strictly by the rulebook, the workers took an on-the-ground
toilet break, instead of relieving themselves aloft to save a
half-an-hour trip to the ground, Sin said.  The daily financial loss caused by the strike narrowed to
HK$2.4 million on April 5 from HK$5 million earlier as an
“increasing number” of workers returned to the port after the
strike began, according to Hongkong International.  In  Australia , where Hutchison is building container
terminals, the company has agreed to pay dock workers at least
A$80,000 ($82,928) a year, Joe Deakin, assistant Branch
Secretary at Maritime Union of Australia, said yesterday. Deakin
was in Hong Kong to support the striking workers.  “It’s unfair that workers here have been subjected to
terrible treatment by Hutchison subcontractors,” he said. “Yet,
workers in Australia are going to be treated decently, that’s
not right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  