-- Mongolia Says Rio Mine Audit Seeks Answers on $2 Billion Overrun
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-04-17T16:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/mongolia-says-rio-mine-audit-seeks-answers-on-2-billion-overrun.html
Mongolia  said it’s undertaking an
audit of  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s Oyu Tolgoi operation as it seeks to
understand the reasons for an alleged $2 billion cost overrun at
the mine where output is due to start in June.  “We are checking procurement documents and expenditures,”
Finance Minister Chultem Ulaan told reporters yesterday in the
capital Ulaanbaatar. “No one understands why the project has
gone $2 billion over budget, so we are checking this.”  The $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi mine will be the largest
contributor to Mongolia’s economy and is estimated to account
for one-third of the nation’s gross domestic product by 2020.
The government’s audit team is studying what equipment was
bought for the mine and its cost, said Ulaan. The operators of
Oyu Tolgoi have brought in a foreign auditor, he said.  Oyu Tolgoi is 66 percent owned by London-based  Rio Tinto ,
the world’s second-largest mining company, with the remainder
controlled by the land-locked nation. They’ve been in dispute
over alleged cost overruns and management control with three
emergency shareholder meetings held this year.  Mongolian President Tsakhia Elbegdorg said in February the
country should have more control over the project, prompting Rio
to threaten delays to the start of production. Talks on
legislation governing Rio’s investment at the mine are
continuing.  “The agreement is fine, there are just some parts that
need to be streamlined so it will be more efficient,” minister
Ulaan said. “We don’t intend to increase the tax on Oyu Tolgoi,
we are just saying that they should pay what every other mining
company pays.”  Tax Demand  Ulaan repeated a claim that Rio Tinto owes taxes to the
government for 2012.  “We believe that Oyu Tolgoi needs to pay taxes for 2012,”
he said. “We have that position. All the companies should
follow the law.”  Cameron McRae, chief executive officer of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, a
unit of Rio Tinto, said yesterday at a conference in  London  that
“constructive progress” is being made in talks with the
government.  “The focus is both on reviewing progress to date and
ensuring that production and future expansions are delivered
together – and that critical agreements and finance are
supported,” he said.  The company is well advanced in funding talks for an
expansion of Oyu Tolgoi, he added.  ‘Most Attractive’  “Bank funding in the form of project finance is the most
attractive finance option because it is cheaper and better
tailored to the project than any other option currently
available,” McRae said. “The process is now well advanced.”  A London-based spokesman for Rio declined to make any
further comment.  The underground component of the planned mine expansion
includes 250 kilometers (155 miles) of tunnels and may cost $5.1
billion, according to a report last month by Rio Tinto unit
 Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ)   The boards of International Finance Corp., the  World Bank ’s
funding arm, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development granted approval in February for the lenders to join
a $4 billion project-finance deal for the Oyu Tolgoi mine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Kohn in Singapore at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  