-- Online Sales-Tax Bill Said to Be Primed for Senate Vote
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-17T20:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/online-sales-tax-bill-said-to-be-primed-for-senate-vote.html
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
said he is “looking at” scheduling a bill that would let
states collect taxes on out-of-state sellers as the next issue
on lawmakers’ agenda after pending gun legislation.  Reid, who controls the flow of legislation to the U.S.
Senate’s floor, indicated in a brief interview today in
Washington that he hadn’t made a decision yet. A vote on the
sales tax measure could come as early as next week, said a
Senate Democratic aide who spoke on condition of anonymity.  The bill, backed by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , would let states collect some of the $24 billion in
revenue they lose to untaxed sales made by retailers with no
physical presence in their states.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and anti-tax groups
such as Americans for Tax Reform oppose the measure.  The Senate took a 75-24 non-binding vote in favor of the
proposal on March 22, as part of its debate of a government he
budget. The Senate is currently considering gun-control
legislation spurred by the December shootings at a Connecticut
elementary school.  “The big vote last month made it clear that sooner or
later, this is going to become the law,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, a Tennessee Republican and one of the sponsors of the
sales tax proposal.  Skirting Committee  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, yesterday began the process of
bypassing the Senate Finance Committee and bringing the measure
directly to the floor.  The committee’s chairman, Democrat Max Baucus of  Montana ,
represents one of five states without a sales tax. He opposes
the measure.  Senator Kelly Ayotte, a New Hampshire Republican and the
measure’s chief opponent, said she would “fight with every
procedural tool” at her disposal to thwart it.  “New Hampshire doesn’t have a sales tax, and this notion
that we’re going to burden online sellers, which has been a
robust area of our economy, to become the sales-tax collectors
for the nation, I think it’s wrong for economic growth,” she
said.  The bill includes a $1 million exemption to protect small
businesses. That needs to be “improved,” said Brian Bieron,
senior director of global public policy at EBay.  The bill is “threatening them with audits and litigation
by tax collectors from states that are thousands of miles away
from where they live, work and create jobs,” he said in a
statement.  The bill is S. 743.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  