-- Monsoon Rainfall in India Seen Normal This Year, Forecaster Says
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-04-17T09:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/monsoon-rainfall-in-india-seen-normal-this-year-forecaster-says.html
India , the second-biggest rice,
wheat and cotton grower, may get normal monsoon rainfall for the
third time in four years in 2013, a private forecaster said.  Rainfall will be 103 percent of a 50-year average in the
four months through September, Jatin Singh, chief executive
officer of Skymet Weather Services Pvt., told reporters in New
Delhi today. The  India Meteorological Department , the state
forecaster, will issue its first outlook later this month.  A normal monsoon is critical to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s efforts to galvanize economic growth from the lowest in
a decade as 55 percent of farmland does not have access to
irrigation. Agriculture accounts for about a fifth of the
economy and bigger harvests may cool the highest  food inflation 
among major economies and sustain exports of rice and wheat.  “Good rains will be a positive sign for agricultural
growth and the country may have a good production this year,”
said Prasoon Mathur, an analyst at Religare Commodities Ltd. “A
lot will depend on spatial distribution of rainfall. In the
medium term, there will be some bearish impact as already we
have surplus food grains.”  The weakest monsoon in three years in 2012 parched parts of
Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat states, cutting harvests of
sugar, cotton and rice. The agriculture sector is set to expand
1.8 percent this year, the least in three years, according to
the government’s annual Economic Survey. The economy will expand
5 percent in 2012-2013, the least in a decade, according to the
government.  India’s more than 235 million farmers depend on rain for
irrigating crops such as rice and cotton. The monsoon, which
brings more than 70 percent of the annual rain, usually makes
landfall in the south in June and covers the whole country by
July 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  