-- Moody’s May Cut Ratings of 29 Local Issuers on Pension Data
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-17T21:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/moody-s-may-cut-ratings-of-29-local-issuers-on-pension-data.html
Chicago , Cincinnati,  Minneapolis 
and 26 other municipalities may face credit-rating downgrades
affecting $12.5 billion in debt because pension liabilities are
underreported, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Moody’s said it’s reviewing the cities and school districts
for possible rating cuts after it changed the way it analyzes
retirement obligations. No state ratings are affected, Moody’s
said in a report released yesterday.  Retirement obligations are a “significant” credit
pressure for localities and call for a more conservative view of
the potential size of the liabilities, Timothy Blake, a Moody’s
analyst, said in the report. Moody’s made the changes to its
methodology to bring it closer to what’s used in private
industry, Blake said.  “The manner in which these obligations are reported varies
widely, and we believe liabilities are underreported from a
balance sheet perspective,” Blake said in the report. “The
purpose of the adjustments is to provide greater transparency
and comparability in pension-liability measures for use in
credit analysis.”  The 18-month recession that ended in 2009 has left U.S.
localities with retirement-funding deficits. As of 2010, U.S.
states’ public pension funds had $757 billion less than they
needed for retirement payments they had promised workers,
according to the Washington-based Pew Center on the States.  Changes to Moody’s analysis include designating multiple-
employer cost-sharing liabilities to specific employers based on
proportionate shares and replacing asset smoothing with reported
market or fair value, according to the report.  Moody’s said it anticipates the review will result in
downgrades of one to two credit levels. Of the 8,000 local
governments that it rates, less than 1 percent of those with
general obligation or equivalent ratings have been placed under
review because of the new pension adjustments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  