-- OPEC May Cut Supply to Hold Budgets at $99 Oil: Apicorp
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-04-17T12:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/opec-may-cut-supply-to-hold-budgets-at-99-oil-apicorp.html
OPEC will probably cut output if
Brent prices keep trading below $100 a barrel because that’s
less than what many member countries need to balance their
budgets, an inter-governmental Arab energy lender said.  Oil prices must average $99 this year for the 12 members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to be able to
balance their national budgets, said Ali Aissaoui, a senior
consultant at the Arab Petroleum Investments Corp., or Apicorp.  “OPEC will definitely need to cut production to shore up
prices as they can’t produce at prices close to their break-even
level,” he said today by phone from Khobar, Saudi Arabia, where
the bank is based.  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s largest producer, needs an average
price of $94 to balance its budget, according to Apicorp
estimates.  Iran  requires oil at $125 to break even, or almost
double the level needed by  Qatar , Aissaoui said. The break-even
level represents the price sought by the government, not the
actual cost of producing oil.  Brent crude for June settlement fell 95 cents to $98.96 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
front-month contract fell below $100 yesterday for the first
time since July. OPEC’s basket price, which represents the
group’s export grades, has also fallen below $100.  Inventory Levels  “If Dated Brent slips further, this would shift the
futures market from a long period of backwardation to a contango
position, thereby encouraging the accumulation of inventories in
the physical markets,” Aissaoui said today in a an e-mailed
note. A contango and rapid accumulation of inventories would
make it harder for OPEC to stabilize prices near member nations’
desired break-even levels, he said.  Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said on March 18 in Hong
Kong that Brent crude at about $100 is reasonable.  Venezuela 
supports a price floor of $100, oil minister Rafael Ramirez told
reporters in Caracas on April 15, adding that he thinks all OPEC
countries agree with this price.  Al-Naimi said in his Hong Kong speech that Saudi Arabia is
concerned about global economic growth, not about maintaining
oil prices at any specific level. Any suggestion that the nation
is trying to keep prices high to finance domestic spending is
“not realistic,” he said then.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization’s next ministerial
conference will be held on May 31 in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  