-- More U.S. Oil Probably Won’t Destroy the Climate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L e v i
-- 2013-04-17T22:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/more-u-s-oil-probably-won-t-destroy-the-climate.html
A brief walk with Jeff Mitton and
Scott Ferrenberg through the pine forests of Niwot Ridge, nearly
a mile above the town of Boulder, Colorado, makes it easy to
understand why people are worried about  climate change . The
world has been getting hotter, and so has Niwot Ridge.  Mitton, the model of a naturalist with his white beard and
big smile, studied evolutionary biology after getting his Ph.D.
in 1973. When I visit, he is toting a tripod-mounted camera.
Ferrenberg, carrying a small ax, is tall and lanky with a salt-
and-pepper goatee; he spent time in  California ,  Pennsylvania  and
 Arizona , working jobs from insect research to technical support
for forest-fire control, before moving to Boulder and eventually
becoming a graduate student in Mitton’s lab. They were then part
of a team studying the effect of higher temperatures on alpine
trees by planting big heating lamps in the hills above Boulder
and watching to see what happened.  One late spring day in the forest, the two men spotted
something odd: Mountain pine beetles were moving about. These
bugs had recently been in the news. By 2010, pine beetles had
damaged 4 million acres of Rocky Mountain forest in northern
 Colorado  and southern  Wyoming , and beetle watchers were warning
of worse to come. It wasn’t unusual to see mountain pine beetles
in the Colorado hills: They had been there for as long as anyone
could remember. But everyone knew they couldn’t live at the high
altitudes of Niwot Ridge and that the beetles usually didn’t
come out until July.  Two Generations  Ferrenberg and Mitton realized what was happening. The life
cycles of the cold-blooded beetles are controlled by heat; add
more high-temperature days, and their lives speed up. With
rising temperatures, altitudes that had always been too cold to
support pine beetles were suddenly warm enough. More troubling,
though, was how quickly the beetles were multiplying. It used to
be that they would breed one generation, then die off in the
cold. Now, they were breeding two generations a year, one in the
late spring and one in summer. If one generation of beetles
amounts to 60 insects, two generations means 3,600. A small
change in climate meant big and devastating consequences on the
ground.  And it was not just the lowly mountain pine beetles that
were feeling the heat. Scientists have been gingerly attributing
extreme weather events, such as heat waves and droughts, to a
changing climate, and confidently predicting worse effects to
come. Whatever their individual causes, wildfires, droughts and
storms with the power of  Hurricane Sandy  have made vivid the
dangers of a warming world. No corner of the Earth was being
spared by these and other looming dangers, and yet people
continue to use energy largely as if nothing is amiss.  For decades, dedicated lawmakers and activists have been
trying to change things, through new laws that would shift the
way Americans use energy. By 2011, though, many of those efforts
had stalled, and some people decided to change tactics: They
would go after the Keystone XL pipeline and campaign to keep
North American oil in the ground.  It’s true that Americans are rapidly tapping into ever-
bigger pools of petroleum, and that hardly seems instinctively
wise if we want to limit greenhouse-gas emissions. But how
worried about it should we be?  Carbon Cost  There are two reasonable ways to gauge the climate danger
of U.S. oil development. The first uses something called the
social cost of carbon, which puts a dollar figure on the damage
that a ton of carbon-dioxide emissions could be expected to
cause. The methods that scientists and economists use to
estimate this are complicated and controversial. In a 2009
review of the numbers, the U.S. government concluded that every
ton of emissions causes a little more than $20 worth of harm --
though it acknowledged that the real figure might be three times
larger, or possibly several times smaller. Others have argued
that the actual damage is considerably higher.  These figures can help us compare the climate costs of
rising U.S. oil production with the economic benefits. Keep in
mind that when U.S. oil production increases by one barrel, some
OPEC members are likely to cut their own output to stabilize
prices.  Imagine, for instance, that every barrel the U.S. adds to
the market is offset by four-fifths of a barrel that others
remove, so that the net increase is only one-fifth of a barrel.
Since producing and burning a barrel of oil leads to about half
a ton of carbon dioxide emissions, the net climate damage from
every added barrel of U.S. oil works out to about $2. Even if
the U.S. government analysts are way off, and the social cost of
carbon is $100 a ton, the net climate damage from every extra
U.S. barrel is probably less than $10. Unless oil production
depends on subsidies that are much larger than the ones
currently in place, the economic benefit gained from a barrel of
U.S. oil production will almost always exceed these costs by
more than that.  It’s useful to also measure big fossil-fuel developments
against big goals. In recent years, international negotiations
have focused on limiting atmospheric concentrations of carbon
dioxide to 450 parts per million. The current concentration is
almost 400 ppm. Measured against this benchmark, burning all the
oil in  North America , or even in the U.S., would be catastrophic
for climate change. The Canadian  oil sands  alone contain enough
carbon to raise concentrations by about 60 parts per million,
blasting right through the 450 ppm limit. Shale oil, offshore
oil and Alaskan oil would each push the level by a smaller
amount, but their effects add up.  Burn Rate  The logic that equates tapping these resources with
destroying the climate is weak, however, because what matters
isn’t how much oil is in the ground but how much will be burned
in the coming years. It would take 3,000 years to extract all
the fuel from the Canadian oil sands at today’s pace, and it
would take even longer to tap out U.S. oil. The future course of
climate change will be determined long before then.  So the question is, what are the climate consequences of
the amount of oil that could plausibly be produced in the near
future? We can put some numbers on this. As of 2011, the U.S.
produced 5.7 million barrels of oil a day. Imagine that this
amount suddenly doubled. How much extra carbon dioxide emissions
would there be? An added 5.7 million barrels of oil a day
translates into about 1 billion tons of carbon dioxide a year
(and this ignores any compensating cutbacks from elsewhere in
the world). This compares with about 6 billion tons a year of
total U.S. emissions and almost 40 billion tons a year of global
emissions (so far). It’s a decent addition, particularly to the
U.S. contribution, but measured against the global total it’s
still relatively small.  Figured another way, 1 billion tons of carbon-dioxide
emissions adds about 0.07 ppm to the atmospheric concentrations
of carbon dioxide. Over 60 years, that would be about four parts
per million. Again, this is far from trivial, but in a world
that’s on course to see carbon-dioxide concentrations rise by
many hundreds of parts per million, it’s not game-changing,
either.  To be sure, such arguments can be slippery. No single
action, even a big one, will make the difference when it comes
to dangerous climate change. And the right U.S. actions can help
build international support for cooperative efforts. Yet U.S.
restraint is unlikely to influence other big oil-producing
countries. Most of the biggest ones -- including  Iran ,  Iraq ,
 Kuwait ,  Russia ,  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates  --
depend on oil production for their survival. They can’t slash
their production without risk to their economies.  Ultimately, if you really want to cut emissions, you need
to reduce oil demand directly. That would reduce production too:
slashing demand would lower prices, cutting producers’
incentives to pump more oil. Attacking that demand is the only
real path to confronting the climate consequences of abundant
oil.  (Michael Levi is the David M. Rubenstein senior fellow for
energy and the environment at the  Council on Foreign Relations .
This is the second of three excerpts adapted from his new book,
“The Power Surge: Energy, Opportunity, and the Battle for
America’s Future,” which will be published May 2 by  Oxford
University Press . The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part
1  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Levi at  mlevi@cfr.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  