-- Morgan Stanley Sees Topix Drop as Goldman, Nomura Boost View
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-04-18T05:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/morgan-stanley-sees-topix-retreat-as-goldman-nomura-boost-views.html
Morgan Stanley, previously the most
bullish brokerage on Japanese stocks, says the  Topix Index (TPX)  will
fall about 10 percent as investors await corporate earnings and
progress on promised economic reforms.  Japan ’s broadest equity measure may fall to 1,020 “in the
near term,” according to Morgan Stanley which in March had a
year-end estimate for the Topix of 1,270, the highest among
brokerages and asset managers surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
company isn’t changing its outlook even as others including
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  raise their
forecasts, Jonathan Garner, Hong Kong-based chief strategist for
Asia and  emerging markets , said by phone.  “We’ve gone from an expectation phase to a now more
difficult delivery phase,” Garner said. “From here on out, we
think yen weakness will be slower. Companies need to deliver on
earnings and we need delivery on a macro-economic side.”  The Topix has surged 57 percent from Nov. 14, when
elections were announced that brought Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
to power on a platform of massive stimulus and trade
liberalization to beat 15 years of deflation. The  Bank of Japan (8301) 
said this month that it would double the monetary base in two
years, spurring the fourth Japan-share outlook upgrade for the
year at Goldman Sachs and a third by Nomura. Nomura’s target is
1,350 by year end while Goldman’s sees the same level within 12
months.  “Unlike some of our competitors, we’ve chosen not to raise
our target price post the BOJ meeting,” said Garner. “A lot
more needs to be done. However that process will be more subject
to setbacks along the way and will take longer in terms of
delivery.”  Average Outlook  The average estimate for the end of the year for the Topix
is 1,160, according to a Bloomberg survey of 15 analysts. That’s
a 21 percent gain from the March average of 961. The measure
fell 0.6 percent to 1,129.32 as of 2:49 p.m. local time, as the
yen gained 0.2 percent to 97.97 against the dollar.  When  Morgan Stanley (MS)  raised its Topix forecast last month,
the brokerage estimated  earnings per share  on the measure to
increase by 50 percent in 2013, Garner said. The average analyst
estimate is now for growth of 45 percent, he said, thus
“limiting the further potential for earnings upgrades” that
would boost share prices.  Positive earnings estimates and reflationary expectations
have caused share prices to rise, making valuations less
attractive, said Garner. The Topix index is now trading at about
1.3 times  book value . That compares with a low of 0.82 times the
value of net assets on June 4 last year, when the measure closed
at its bottommost level since 1983, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A value below one means a company can be purchased
for less than the reported value of its assets.  ‘Extremely Overbought’  The measure is also trading at about 36 percent above its
200-day  moving average , Bloomberg data show. That’s the most
since 1987, the 10th year of a 12-year win streak before the
bursting of the country’s asset bubble at the end of 1989, the
data show.  “Technically it is extremely overbought,” said Garner.
“We can only find two previous occasions in the entire history
of Japanese equities when it has been more overbought -- in 1973
and 1987. The obvious cheapness of Japan has gone away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in 東京 at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  