-- Hospitals Profit From Surgery Complications in Quality Conundrum
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-04-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/hospitals-profit-from-surgery-complications-in-quality-conundrum.html
Reducing surgical complications
could cost hospitals money, according to a study that
researchers said may help explain why the medical providers
haven’t fully embraced quality improvement efforts.  The study published in the  Journal of the American Medical
Association  found hospitals have significantly higher profit
margins when patients covered by private or  public health 
insurers suffer surgical complications.  An estimated $400 billion is spent on surgery each year in
the U.S., according to the researchers. The study found “clear
evidence” that improving quality and reducing harm is penalized
in the current health care system, said Sunil Eappen, chief
medical officer of the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary in
Boston, one of several institutions involved in the research.  “It’s been known that hospitals are not rewarded for
quality, but it hadn’t been recognized exactly how much more
money they make when harm is done,” said Atul Gawande, senior
author and professor in the department of health policy and
management at  Harvard School of Public Health  in  Boston .  The research was conducted by Ariadne Labs, a joint venture
of  Brigham and Women’s Hospital  and the  Harvard School of Public
Health ,  Boston Consulting Group , Massachusetts Eye and Ear, all
based in Boston, and  Texas  Health Resources, based in Arlington,
Texas.  The research found that hospitals received an additional
$8,000 on average per patient for each complication, measured by
the additional revenue generated over and above the extra cost
of care. The difference was greatest for patients covered by
private insurance, with an additional $39,017 per patient.  The financial incentive for complications was lower for
those covered by Medicare at about $1,749 per patient. It was
lower still for those covered by the Medicaid programs for the
poor or among patients who pay for their own care.  The researchers examined data from 34,256 surgical patients
treated in 2010 at a non-profit hospital system in the southern
U.S. They looked for 10 severe, preventable complications, and
found 1,820 procedures with at least one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  