-- Emerging Stocks Fall on Commodity Plunge as Brazil Slumps
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-17T21:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/most-emerging-stocks-rise-on-earnings-as-chinese-banks-decline.html
Emerging stocks fell to a four-
month low, led by energy companies, as declining commodities
prices dragged down equities from Brazil to Russia.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest natural-gas producer, slid to
the lowest level since March 2009. Brazil’s Bovespa index
slumped the most among major benchmarks in  developing countries 
as OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil producer of
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , dropped 11 percent.  KGHM (KGH) 
Polska Miedz SA tumbled 7.3 percent in Warsaw as copper
retreated, driving Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  to a seven-month low.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 0.8 percent to
1,001.10 in New York. Copper plunged the most in 16 months as
the  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for China’s
gross domestic product growth yesterday, while crude oil tumbled
to a four-month low. The rand weakened 0.7 percent versus the
dollar and South African bonds gained, as March inflation was
slower than predicted by economists.  “Commodities have been in a downtrend for a while, and
that accelerated with the GDP out of China,”  Walter Todd , who
oversees about $940 million as chief investment officer of
Greenwood Capital Associates LLC in Greenwood, South Carolina,
said in a telephone interview. The IMF cutting forecasts
“certainly doesn’t help.”  Gauges of energy and material stocks in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index fell the most among 10 industry groups. The
emerging-markets index slipped 5.1 percent this year, trailing a
6.1 percent increase in the MSCI World Index of developed-
country stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades at 10.4
times 12-month projected profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
13.7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund lost 1.6 percent to $41.04. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a  measure  of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
jumped 12 percent to 22.46.  The Bovespa Index slumped 2.1 percent in  Sao Paulo  as OGX
 plunged  after saying its output in offshore wells dropped 26
percent in March. LLX Logistica SA and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos
SA, also controlled by Batista, slumped at least 9.5 percent
today. Mexico’s IPC index dropped 1.4 percent.  Russia’s Micex index fell 1.2 percent, retreating for a
fifth day, the longest losing streak in two months. Gazprom sank
1.9 percent. Poland’s WIG20 Index dropped 1.9 percent. KGHM, the
country’s sole copper and silver producer, fell as copper lost 3
percent.  Chinese Stocks  Most Chinese stocks rose as Hisense Electric Co. led
appliance stocks higher amid a jump in profit. Banks declined on
concern lending will slow. China Minsheng Banking Corp. slid 2.8
percent as the China Securities Journal said new lending may
drop to 800 billion  yuan  ($129.4 billion) this month.  India’s (SENSEX)  benchmark stock index fell for the first time this
week amid concern company earnings will trail analysts’
estimates.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the second-biggest stock on
the 30-stock gauge by weighting, retreated the most in six
months after quarterly sales lagged behind forecasts.  The won fell from a two-week high as a worsening outlook
for the currency spurred sales of South Korea’s shares by global
funds.  Government bonds  also declined.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 295 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  