-- Mota-Engil May Sell $105 Million in Convertible Bonds This Year
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-17T11:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/mota-engil-may-sell-105-million-in-convertible-bonds-this-year.html
Mota-Engil SGPS SA (EGL) , Portugal’s
biggest construction company, may sell as much as 80 million
euros ($105 million) in convertible bonds this year to take
advantage of growing investor appetite for the securities.  “There is a plan to sell international convertible
bonds,” said Jose Sampaio de Freitas, 34, who was appointed
chief financial officer on Jan. 7. “If market conditions allow
us, we could carry out a sale this year.”  Mota-Engil joins a trend among European companies for
convertible bond sales as a rally in stock markets pushes equity
prices toward all-time highs. Convertible debt offers cheaper
funding than traditional bonds because investors sacrifice
interest for the right to swap the securities for equity.  Companies including  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s largest
airline,  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest oil company, and Spanish
hotelier  Melia Hotels International SA (MEL) , raised $10.1 billion
from the sale of these bonds in the first quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the biggest first-quarter
amount since the first three months of 1999 when Bloomberg began
compiling records.  Mota-Engil, an Oporto-based company with operations in more
than 20 countries, sold in March a 175 million euro note due
2016 to individual investors, more than double its original
target. The stock has risen 21 percent this year, the third best
performer in Lisbon’s PSI20 Index. It traded 0.6 percent lower
at 1.88 euros at 10:29 a.m. in the Portuguese capital.  Diversify Funding  “The goal is to continue to extend our debt maturities and
diversify our sources of financing,” said Freitas. Mota-Engil’s
net debt fell to 850 million euros in 2012 from 866 million
euros a year earlier, the company said in a regulatory filing on
 March 20 .  Mota-Engil is also looking to raise money from the sale of
non-core assets, said Freitas, declining to give details.  Freitas said he was “confident” Mota-Engil will win
several contracts in  Africa  as it bids for a total of $5 billion
in projects on the continent. Work on some of these deals may
only begin in 2014, he said.  Mota-Engil forecast in March that its order book this year
will exceed 3.5 billion euros as it seeks to increase its
presence in  Mozambique  and enter new markets in Africa including
 Zambia , Ghana, Uganda and Kenya.  “We are studying some possible projects in Mozambique.”
Freitas said. “We believe Mozambique has great potential
because it is rich in minerals and gas and the country has to
develop the proper infrastructures to transport its minerals.”  Mota-Engil is building a stretch of a railway line in
 Malawi  for Brazilian mining company  Vale SA (VALE5)  that links
Mozambique’s western province of Tete to the country’s northern
port of Nacala. The partnership with Vale may lead to other
projects “elsewhere,” Freitas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  