-- How the Falling Yen Can Save the Euro
-- B y   M e l v y n   K r a u s s
-- 2013-04-17T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/how-the-falling-yen-can-save-the-euro.html
Japan ’s new bond-buying program
amounts to a declaration of currency war against its trading
partners, no matter how you sugarcoat it. Yet it may also prove
constructive for the euro area, jolting Germany to at last adopt
more growth-friendly policies. How else is Europe to overcome
the deflationary sting of a depreciated yen, if not with a
growth boost from the German government?  The Japanese currency fell by more than 20 percent against
the euro in the past four months. Japan accounts for between 3
percent and 4 percent of  Europe’s trade , but that understates
the impact a weak yen has. Exports make up about  50 percent  of
gross domestic product in  Germany , the euro area’s dominant
economy. German carmakers and heavy machinery giants go head to
head with their Japanese equivalents around the world, and they
will have to cut prices to compete.  The  European Central Bank  can’t be expected to let the
German government off the hook by adopting its own round of
quantitative easing in response to this deflationary threat. The
ECB’s immensely successful bond-buying program was one thing,
quantitative easing by purchasing sovereign bonds is another. It
isn’t anywhere on the bank’s agenda.  Poor Timing  The timing of Japan’s drastic policy change is bad for
Europe, and shows it isn’t a good partner. Major new German
policy initiatives have been put on hold until after the
country’s parliamentary elections in September. This means it
will be at least five months before Germany can respond;  Europe 
will have to muddle through until then. Japan would have been a
much better partner had it waited with its shock-and-awe until
September.  Still, Japan’s quantitative easing may turn out to be the
straw that breaks the back of German resistance to expanding its
fiscal deficit, with the aim of rebalancing its economy to favor
consumer demand over exports. In the face of a soaring euro-yen
exchange rate that restricts German exports, the government in
Berlin might conclude that fiscal stimulus is just the right
medicine to restore growth.  Japan’s policies will also create pressure for Germany to
loosen its purse strings for other euro-area countries. Germany
needs to spend more on euro-area structural reforms, the key for
periphery partners to become cost competitive on global markets.
Trading bailout money for structural reform makes sense for
Germany. And it doesn’t mean going soft -- Germany can always
cut off the funds if the periphery countries stop reforms.  Logically, once the elections are over, Japan’s move should
also goad Germany to action in creating a banking union, which
is necessary if Europe’s banks are to be put on a firmer
footing. Stronger banks would help offset the deflationary
effects of a weaker yen.  Critics are trying to sort out whether Japan’s new policy
is a beggar-thy-neighbor move or something constructive to aid a
global economic recovery. At the International Monetary Fund
meetings this week in  Washington , Japan’s partners looked as if
they’ll soft-pedal the issue in public, while the IMF described
the large scale quantitative easing as “appropriate.”  Certainly, the U.S., the IMF and Europe have been trying to
get Japan to do something like this for years. But Japan’s
timing creates suspicions about its motives. Had  Bank of Japan 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda waited just six months, such a huge
injection of quantitative easing would look like a good partner
doing something constructive. Instead, it seems a ploy to gain
advantage -- even if it usefully pushes Germany in the direction
of more growth-friendly policies.  (Melvyn Krauss is an emeritus economics professor at  New
York  University and a senior fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at
 Stanford University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Melvyn Krauss at  melvynbkrauss@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 