-- Toyota Hybrid Sales Gain as U.S. Demand Offsets Slump in Japan
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-04-17T07:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/toyota-hybrid-sales-gain-as-u-s-demand-offsets-slump-in-japan.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
biggest maker of hybrid vehicles, boosted first-quarter sales of
dual-powered autos as a jump in overseas demand outweighed a
drop in  Japan , where government subsidies expired last year.  Deliveries rose to 332,100 units worldwide in the three
months ended in March, compared with 329,000 units a year
earlier, the company said today by e-mail.  Hybrids accounted for 14 percent of Toyota’s total vehicle
sales last year and the company expects the category to help it
maintain a lead in global car sales over  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG. (VOW3)  Led by the Prius, the world’s best-selling hybrid
vehicle, deliveries of vehicles powered by electricity and
gasoline reached 5 million units through March 31, the Toyota
City, Japan-based carmaker said in a  statement  today.  “We expect hybrids to eventually become the majority in
markets that are conscious about the environment,” Takeshi Uchiyamada, Toyota vice chairman, said today, without giving a
timeframe. Uchiyamada was chief engineer for the first-
generation Prius, introduced in 1997.  The carmaker plans to introduce 18 new hybrid models,
including model changes, from this year to 2015, according to
the statement. Hybrids run on batteries that are charged when
braking. When the charge runs down, the engine automatically
shifts to gasoline power until the batteries are recharged.
Plug-in models allow the driver to also charge the battery from
an electrical outlet.  Toyota expects U.S. Prius sales to reach “about a quarter
million” vehicles this year,  Jim Lentz , head of Toyota’s U.S.
sales unit, said last month. Deliveries at that level would be a
record for the world’s best-selling hybrid line, and 5.6 percent
more than in 2012.  The automaker’s biggest Japanese rival,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  is
also seeking growth from alternative energy vehicles and last
month put Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga directly in
charge of electric cars. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
has said he expects that by the end of the decade, 1 in 10 cars
sold will be electric.  -- Editors: Dave McCombs, Suresh Seshadri  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  