-- Panamax Ship Rates Advance as Coal and Grain Cargoes Seen Rising
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2013-04-17T13:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/panamax-ship-rates-advance-as-coal-and-grain-cargoes-seen-rising.html
Rates for Panamax vessels shipping
grains and coal rose for a sixth session, amid speculation that
demand to haul both cargoes is increasing.  Earnings from the ships, hauling about 75,000 metric tons
of cargo, rose 2.1 percent to $9,326 a day, according to the
 Baltic Exchange  in London. They’re the largest ships to navigate
the Panama Canal. Costs for the Baltic Dry Index, a wider
measure of freight, advanced 0.6 percent to 885 points. Two
vessel classes within the gauge rose and two fell.  Charters for ships to load Latin American grains and
soybean cargoes advanced to 19 last week from seven in the prior
seven-day period,  Jeffrey Landsberg , president of Commodore
Research in  New York , said by phone today.  China  is also
importing more Australian and Indonesian thermal coal for its
power stations because of maintenance to a railway that handles
domestically mined supply of the fuel, he said.  “The increase in both these demand sides has been enough
to help the market,” said Landsberg, whose company advises ship
owners. Delays loading at ports in  Latin America  are curbing the
supply of vessels, he said.  Capesize vessels, the largest ship type monitored by the
Baltic Exchange, declined 1.6 percent today to $4,480 a day,
according to the bourse. Smaller Supramaxes fell 0.1 percent to
$9,403 while Handysizes advanced 1.1 percent to $7,984.  Rates may gain in the second half of the year because of
Chinese demand for coal and iron ore, Pareto Securities AS, an
Oslo-based investment bank, said today.  “We are fundamentally optimistic on dry bulk, encouraged
by Chinese dry-bulk import growth,” Nicolai Hansteen, chief
economist of Pareto Shipping, a unit of Pareto Securities, said
at a conference in Copenhagen. “The second quarter is going to
be a very weak quarter, but we expect to see a recovery in
freight rates in the second half of this year, driven by Chinese
imports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  