-- Paschi Probe Seeks Nomura Funds in Citigroup, BofA Accounts
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-04-17T13:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/paschi-prosecutors-seek-nomura-funds-in-citigroup-bofa-accounts.html
Prosecutors probing  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA ’s use of derivatives to hide losses are
seeking to seize as much as 1.95 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of
assets held by  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in accounts across  Europe .  Magistrates are trying to sequester money held on behalf of
the Tokyo-based lender in accounts at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of
America Corp . in the U.K., according to an April 15 decree
signed by four prosecutors in Siena,  Italy , and obtained by
Bloomberg News. They are also trying to seize funds Nomura holds
at other banks through Target2, Europe’s cross-border payment
system, the document shows.  Prosecutors allege Nomura colluded with Monte Paschi’s
former managers to devise one of two derivatives in 2008 and
2009 that hid total losses of much as 557 million euros. Nomura
took advantage of Monte Paschi’s strained finances and knew of
management’s intention to falsify accounts with the so-called
long-term repo it arranged, dubbed Alexandria, prosecutors said
in their order.  Japan ’s biggest brokerage reaped 88 million
euros from the deal, a transaction so biased in Nomura’s favor,
it equates to usury, the magistrates wrote.  Shares Drop  Nomura, which isn’t under investigation itself, said
yesterday it will “vigorously” contest any suggestion of
wrongdoing in the case. A Citigroup spokeswoman in Milan didn’t
have an immediate comment, while spokesmen for Bank of America
and Nomura in  London  declined to comment. Neither Citigroup nor
Bank of America are part of the probe, which is focused on
former managers of Monte Paschi and Nomura executives.  Nomura tumbled 2.3 percent to 754 yen at the close on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, the steepest decline since April 1. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.2 percent. Monte Paschi, which
sought a 4.1 billion-euro rescue in February, has lost 35
percent of its market value since Jan. 17, when  Bloomberg News 
first reported the lender’s use of derivatives.  Prosecutors and the finance police are working with the
 Bank of Italy  to sequester the funds held outside Italy, two
people with knowledge of the investigation who asked not to be
identified said yesterday. Because Monte Paschi deposits its
margin in an account used by Nomura in  Germany , the Bank of
Italy may ask the Bundesbank to seize the contents of that
account, the people said.  Alexandria Deal  As part of the Alexandria deal, Monte Paschi bought Italian
government bonds using a loan from the Japanese bank. It swapped
the fixed-rate interest payments on the bonds with a floating
rate and guaranteed the credit risk on the bonds, effectively
making a bet on the future value of Italian  government bonds . As
those securities tumbled during Europe’s fiscal crisis, Monte
Paschi was forced to post more margin.  In total, the Italians pledged about 1.87 billion euros to
Nomura as margin on about 3.05 billion euros of borrowings
arranged by Nomura, according to the prosecutors’ order. They
are also seeking Nomura’s alleged profit on the transactions.
The magistrates’ order to seize assets must be ratified by a
judge in Siena within 10 days of issue, a police official said.  As part of the seizure request carried out yesterday,
prosecutors have frozen contracts between Monte Paschi and
Nomura, halting payments on the agreements, the document shows.
The transactions continue to create “imposing” financial
difficulties for  Monte Paschi (BMPS)  and could cause further damages as
a result of the alleged usury, according to the magistrates.  The prosecutors are also examining a separate trade put
together by Deutsche Bank AG, dubbed Santorini, which the
magistrates described as a “twin-like” deal, according to the
asset seizure document.  Deutsche Bank, based in  Frankfurt , said the transaction was
subject “to our rigorous internal approval processes and also
received the requisite approvals of the client who was
independently advised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Liefgreen at   dliefgreen@bloomberg.net  