-- PBOC’s Yi Says Yuan Floating Band to Be Widened Further
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-18T04:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/pboc-s-yi-says-yuan-floating-band-to-be-widened-further.html
The yuan’s trading band will be
widened “in the near future,” said  Yi Gang , deputy governor of
the People’s Bank of  China , after the currency rallied yesterday
to a 19-year high.  “The exchange rate is going to be more market-oriented,”
Yi said at an International Monetary Fund conference in
Washington yesterday. “Last year, they increased the floating
band from 0.5 percent to 1 percent. I think in the near future
they’re going to increase the floating band even further.”  China may come under pressure to quicken appreciation of
the yuan from members of the Group of 20 nations and the IMF
meeting in Washington this week. A U.S. Treasury Department
report last week called the currency “significantly
undervalued,” and asked Japan to refrain from devaluing the yen.  The  yuan  closed yesterday at a 19-year high of 6.1723 per
dollar in  Shanghai , the upper limit of a trading range that
spans 1 percent either side of the central bank’s daily
reference rate. The  fixing  was cut 0.12 percent today to 6.2416,
the biggest decline since August and forcing a weakening of the
currency. The spot rate slipped 0.13 percent to 6.1805 as of
11:53 a.m. local time, the biggest drop in two months, based on
China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices.  Two-Way Moves  “It is to encourage two-way volatility and is a part of
their strategy for managing capital flows,” said Ramin Toloui,
global co-head of  emerging markets  in  Singapore  at Pacific
Investment Management Co., referring to the widening of the band.
“They are trying to inject a bit of uncertainty into the market
and some two-way movements in the currency, in order to avoid
people believing that the  renminbi  is a one-way bet.”  The central bank in April 2012 widened the trading band to
1 percent from 0.5 percent on either side of its daily fixing
against the dollar. The yuan has been within 0.1 percent of its
ceiling most days since October.  Of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News in November, 12
forecast the yuan’s trading band would be widened in 2013, while
eight predicted it would take place in 2014. Seventeen said the
next change would lead to the yuan being allowed to diverge 1.5
percent to 2 percent from the reference rate.  Offshore Yuan  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.06 percent
to 6.1805 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards rose 0.02 percent to
6.2520, a 1.1 percent discount to the onshore exchange rate. The
yuan is expected to be at 6.10 at the end of March 2014, based
on the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The PBOC scrapped a decade-old peg of 8.3 per dollar in
July 2005 and the currency has since strengthened 34 percent. It
kept the yuan near 6.83 for about two years through June 2010 as
the global financial crisis battered exports.  The central bank will broaden the currency’s trading range
in the next step of its exchange-rate reforms, the China Daily
newspaper reported yesterday, citing Wang Yu, deputy director-
general of the PBOC’s research bureau.  The monetary authority will also free up trading in its
currency by allowing more market participants and lower
transaction costs, the state-run China Daily said. The report
didn’t give details of how much the yuan’s band will be widened
or when the change will be made.  Yi told reporters after the conference in  Washington  that
current market conditions make it “appropriate” to consider
widening the band. “It’s good for the market,” he said.  The band will probably be widened this quarter, Credit
Agricole CIB analyst Anthony Lam wrote in a research note today.
Speculation of such a move may be “the force” driving gains in
the yuan, which set new 19-year highs on each of the last four
trading days.  Current Account  “The flexible exchange rate appreciating both in nominal
and in real terms really made a difference for the adjustment of
the current-account surplus as a percentage of our GDP,” Yi
said in his conference panel presentation in Washington. “The
exchange-rate regime will continue to reform in the market-
oriented direction, and to make market demand and supply, to a
large extent, determine the rate.”  The surplus as a proportion of the economy “peaked in the
2007-2008 period and has since then declined,” Yi said. “It
was 1.9 percent in 2011 and 2.3 percent in 2012, so in the 2
percent range.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew reiterated yesterday
that China needs to allow further yuan appreciation. The onshore
yuan has advanced 0.8 percent against the dollar this year after
rallying 1 percent in 2012 and 4.7 percent in 2011.  “We are concerned that in recent months, movement towards
more currency flexibility appears to have slowed,” Lew said at
Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International
Studies. “The pace of China’s intervention in the market has
picked up.”  Record Reserves  The nation’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest,
increased by $128 billion to a record $3.44 trillion in the
first quarter of this year, official data show. Lew urged G-20
officials to follow through on a pledge to refrain from
influencing exchange rates at the expense of other countries.  “We will continue to press G-20 countries to avoid a
downward spiral of ‘beggar thy neighbor policies,” Lew said
yesterday ahead of meetings of finance ministers starting today.
“It is imperative that all G-20 countries follow through on
their recent commitment not to target exchange rates for
competitive purposes.”  The G-20 will affirm that commitment, according to a draft
statement prepared for a meeting this week in Washington,
Bloomberg BNA reported.  BOJ Policy  The Bank of  Japan  surprised markets on April 4 by doubling
monthly bond purchases to almost match the Federal Reserve’s
monetary easing, and by setting a two-year horizon for achieving
its goal of 2 percent inflation. The Treasury Department, in its
April 12 report to Congress, stopped short of declaring either
Japan or China currency manipulators.  Lew traveled to China last month and said he pressed the
country’s new leadership on the exchange rate. A market-
determined yuan is in China’s interest, and “they recognize the
need to do it for internal reasons as well,” Lew said during
his two-day visit.  PBOC’s Yi said China is “closely monitoring” the
aftermath of the policies in certain countries. If big
depreciation in one currency causes competitive depreciation
from other countries, “that won’t be a situation the IMF nor
the G-20 would like to see,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  