-- Peabody Energy Objects to Bankruptcy Probe by Patriot
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-04-17T19:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/peabody-energy-objects-to-bankruptcy-probe-by-patriot.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) ’s disputes with
its former parent and creditors intensified as  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU)  contested a probe over Patriot’s 2007 spinoff and
creditors differed over whether the company is more likely to
liquidate with a trustee.  Peabody yesterday objected to Patriot’s proposal to
investigate possible claims, saying the coal producer already
plans to pursue a lawsuit and has set aside $2 million to fund
it. In a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  St. Louis , where
both companies are based, Peabody said that it is already
cooperating with information requests and restoring old e-mails
and records at its own cost.  “None of this is legitimately necessary to ‘investigate’ a
potential adversary proceeding against Peabody,” the company
said in its filing. “If it were, Patriot would not have
proposed already to set aside $2 million for a litigation trust
to fund litigation against Peabody.”  In its request to probe Peabody, Patriot said the 2007
transaction that created it rid Peabody of $600 million in
health-care and environmental liabilities.  “Patriot was solvent, adequately capitalized and
positioned for success,” Peabody said in its objection, adding
that the company controlled 1.2 billion tons of coal reserves
and saw its stock price quadruple to $80 a share from $18 in the
year after it was spun off.  Separately, Patriot creditors and lenders said yesterday
that approving two noteholders’ request to appoint a trustee in
the company’s Chapter 11 case may trigger a liquidation.  Health Costs  Patriot filed for bankruptcy in July, seeking to  reorganize 
and shed some of the $1.6 billion it estimates is owed for
lifetime health care for 8,100 retirees. On April 23, a judge is
scheduled to consider the company’s motion to reduce benefits by
changing an agreement with the United Mine Workers of America,
which represents about 42 percent of its 4,000 employees.  The judge will also consider a request by noteholders
Aurelius Capital Management LP and Knighthead Capital Management
LLC to appoint an independent Chapter 11 trustee.  Aurelius and
Knighthead own 3.25 percent notes due this year and a majority
of the 8.25 percent notes due in 2018, the funds said in court
papers.  Patriot, its unsecured creditors and its bankruptcy lenders
all said in objections filed yesterday that appointing a trustee
would trigger a default on the company’s bankruptcy operating
loan.  ‘Greatly Accelerate’  “Ironically, the noteholders point to a potential
financial covenant default down the road as a reason for
appointing a trustee, without acknowledging that the relief they
request would ensure and greatly accelerate the crisis they
allegedly want to avoid,” Patriot said.  Patriot also disputed the noteholders’ main argument for
appointing a trustee -- that most of Patriot’s 99 units in
bankruptcy don’t have obligations to its unions and retirees and
can therefore be reorganized separately.  Any separation of Patriot’s units “would be utterly
impracticable and severely damaging to the debtors’ business
operations, resulting in value degradation for all of the
debtors’ stakeholders,” Patriot said.  Citigroup Inc.’s Citibank and Bank of America Corp., agents
to the loan, both said that the appointment of a trustee would
constitute a default. Patriot’s access to cash collateral would
end and lenders would “cease extending further credit,”
Citibank said.  Wilmington Trust  Wilmington Trust Co., as indenture trustee for Patriot’s
$250 million in 8.25 percent senior notes due in 2018, said it
supports the motion to appoint a trustee.  Patriot seeks to force the noteholders to disclose details
of all their investments by April 23 or be barred from
participating in the case, according to a separate motion filed
yesterday. By complying with a bankruptcy rule that groups of
investors state their holdings to the court, Patriot and the
U.S. Trustee, a bankruptcy watchdog for the  Justice Department ,
can “fully and accurately evaluate the actions and intentions
of the noteholder group,” Patriot said.  Patriot also has been at odds with the noteholders and some
creditors over whether it can keep the exclusive right to file
its reorganization plan after May 5. Patriot has asked a judge
to extend its control. Aurelius and Knighthead and a committee
of its unsecured creditors say the bankruptcy should be opened
up to proposals from an outside investor or buyer.  The case In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-51502, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  