-- Pentagon Recoups $283 Million in Supreme Foodservice Fight
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-17T20:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/pentagon-recoups-283-million-in-supreme-foodservice-food-fight.html
The Pentagon has recouped more than
a third of the $757 million in overpayments it says were made to
Supreme Foodservice AG, a contractor in  Afghanistan , according
to an agency official.  The Defense Logistics Agency wants Supreme, based in
Ziegelbrücke, Switzerland, to return the entire $757 million,
Matthew Beebe, the agency’s deputy director for acquisition,
said in prepared testimony for a hearing today in Congress. The
company has claimed it’s owed $1.8 billion more than the $5.5
billion already paid under the contract to supply food and water
to troops.  The military agency’s demand for refunds “followed six
years of unsuccessful negotiations between DLA and Supreme over
fair and reasonable rates for distributing food to hundreds of
forward operating bases throughout Afghanistan,” according to a
memo prepared by the Democratic staff of a House Oversight and
Government Reform subcommittee.  The memo and prepared testimony were obtained by Bloomberg
News in advance of the panel’s hearing.  The Defense Logistics Agency, which manages the contract,
in March 2012 began withholding $21.8 million per month from
Supreme, Beebe said. As of March 31 this year, the agency had
recouped $283 million, he said.  Supreme Appeal  Supreme has appealed the agency’s demands with the U.S.
Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals, and the case is
scheduled to be heard in April 2014.  Michael Schuster, a managing director at Supreme, told the
lawmakers today that the defense department’s audits of the
company were “fundamentally flawed,” operating as if the
contract was cost-plus, rather than fixed-price. Schuster said
the “heart” of the dispute with the Pentagon came from this
discrepancy.  Under a “cost-plus contract,” a contractor is paid for
all of its allowed expenses.  In prepared testimony, he said that the Defense Logistics
Agency had rapidly expanded the company’s responsibility weeks
after awarding the contract in 2005. The changes required
Supreme to “change fundamentally” its approach to working in
isolated and dangerous Afghanistan, Schuster said.  “Although the military agency’s original solicitation said
that only ’remnants’ of the Taliban were still active, Supreme
had to build this network in an active war zone,” he said. More
than 300 subcontractors for Supreme have been killed while
delivering food to troops in Afghanistan, he said.  Chaffetz, Tierney  U.S. Representatives  Jason Chaffetz  and John Tierney, the
Republican chairman and the top Democratic, respectively, of the
House Subcommittee on National Security, sent a letter to
Schuster last May, requesting documents related to the contract.
The committee is now reviewing them.  “It is outrageous that the American taxpayer has been on
the hook for over $750 million in overpayments to Supreme,”
Tierney said in an e-mailed statement. “While I am encouraged
that DLA has been successful in recouping a portion of these
funds, I am deeply concerned about the federal government’s
ability to collect once the contract ends.”  Pentagon Inspector General Gordon Heddell said at a Dec. 7,
2011, hearing that the original Supreme contract was “an
example of just how bad it can get.”  The contract wasn’t well designed or “well-thought out,”
Heddell said.  Supreme earlier this month sued the Pentagon in the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims for awarding a $10 billion food contract
to Anham FZCO.  Charles Tiefer, a law professor at the University of
Baltimore and former member of the Commission on Wartime
Contracting, said “Supreme Foodservice gouged the taxpayer big-
time.”  “The government offered to pay Supreme all its costs and
overhead, plus a generous profit,” Tiefer said in an e-mail.
“Instead of taking the government’s sensible offer, Supreme
overcharged massively on the blatantly fictitious notion that it
deserved a made-up and highly inflated ‘market’ rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  