-- Philadelphia Bars Public From Mayor’s Investor Meeting
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-04-17T03:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/philadelphia-holds-closed-meeting-with-wall-street.html
Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter,
whose municipality has the lowest credit rating of the five
most-populous U.S. cities, will address investors at a
conference financed by underwriters and closed to the public and
the press.  The invitation bills tomorrow’s meeting as a chance to hear
“Philadelphia leaders and investors discuss building the city’s
future.” In addition to Nutter, a 55-year-old Democrat,
 speakers  will include finance director Rob Dubow and Mark Gale,
chief executive officer of Philadelphia International Airport,
according to the agenda.  Philadelphia is hoping to attract investors for the city,
which is rated three steps above junk by Standard & Poor’s. The
city and its authorities have $8.75 billion in outstanding debt
as of September, according to bond documents. Philadelphia’s
pension system is 47.6 percent funded this year, the documents
say.  Tours of city assets are set for the second day of the
conference, including the Philadelphia Gas Works, the largest
municipally owned natural-gas utility in the U.S. The city plans
to hire a broker to steer the sale of the system, which may
fetch as much as $496 million, according to  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   “It is a private meeting,” said Mark McDonald, a
spokesman for Nutter. Underwriters pledged to cover the $8,500
cost of the conference, he said by telephone. McDonald said the
donors will be made public when the city receives the full
amount.  City’s Underwriters  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Jefferies & Co. were underwriters of
the city’s $127 million tax- and revenue-anticipation notes
offered in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Citigroup Inc.,
Siebert Branford Shank & Co. LLC, Samuel A. Ramirez & Co., Loop
Capital Markets LLC and Janney Montgomery Scott LLC have also
served as underwriters, according to the city’s  website .  Bloomberg News wrote Nutter April 4 objecting to the
press’s exclusion from the conference. The Associated Press, the
Philadelphia Inquirer, and the Arlington, Virginia-based
nonprofit Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press have
supported the protest.  Philadelphia, where more than a quarter of the population
of 1.5 million lives in poverty, carries ratings by the three
major companies that are the lowest for the top five most
populous cities. It’s rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, three
steps above noninvestment grade. Fitch Ratings puts it one step
higher, at A-, while Moody’s Investors Service ranks it two
levels higher, at A2.  ‘Some Concern’  Sam Katz, chairman of the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental
Cooperation Authority, created in a 1991 state law that oversees
the city’s finances, said that with the conference being held
locally, it “certainly created some concern on the part of
people that it should be made public.”  He’s more troubled, however, by the fact the school
district isn’t on the agenda, he said. Facing a $304 million
deficit, school officials have  asked  the city for $60 million
and the state for $120 million.  “The school district’s in a crisis,” Katz said. “They’re
the same tax base.”  Philadelphia officials facing a $1.35 billion spending gap
over five years voted in March to shut 9 percent of its public
schools.  Philadelphia entered into $3.5 billion of swaps, and its
borrowing cost may swell by as much as $186 million compared
with what it would’ve paid to issue fixed-rate debt, estimated
city treasurer Nancy Winkler in October. The city is lobbying to
maintain its ability to engage in the transactions after a bill
that would ban the practice for municipalities was introduced in
the state legislature in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  