-- Philippines to Adjust Foreign-Exchange Rules to Spur Outflows
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-17T10:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/philippines-to-adjust-foreign-exchange-rules-to-spur-outflows.html
The Philippine central bank will
announce the latest changes to its rules on foreign-currency
transactions tomorrow to boost demand for dollars, spur capital
outflows and slow peso appreciation.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will hold a briefing at 2:30
p.m. tomorrow on the “6th wave of foreign-exchange
liberalization,” it said in an e-mail today. The adjustments in
rules, which will allow easier access to foreign exchange, are
aimed at encouraging fund outflows, Governor Amando Tetangco
told Bloomberg Television on March 28 when he revealed the April
timetable for the new rules.  The  Philippines , which won its first investment-grade
credit ranking from  Fitch Ratings  last month, is seeking to slow
a surge in capital inflows that fueled the biggest peso gain in
six months and drove local shares to a record high. Foreign
 portfolio inflows  into the $225 billion economy jumped 79
percent from a year earlier to $7.3 billion in the first
quarter, after rising to a 10-year high in 2012.  “To encourage the purchase of dollars, the BSP will
probably expand the list of transactions that are not subject to
a cap and probably raise some of the caps,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president at Security Bank Corp. in
Manila. “Right now, there are still more dollars coming in than
going out, so the impact of the rules may be minimal at the
moment.”  Stronger Peso  The peso rose 0.4 percent to 41.235 per dollar at the close
in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency has
gained 3.4 percent in the past 12 months, the second-best
performance in the region. Philippine exports fell 15.6 percent
in February from a year earlier, the biggest drop since 2011,
according to official data.  Bangko Sentral allowed banks to hold more foreign exchange
in February 2007 as the peso traded near a six-year high. Since
then, it has increased the amount of dollars that companies and
individuals can buy or invest overseas without prior regulatory
approval and allowed lenders to trade more foreign-currency
derivatives.  In March 2012, the monetary authority  raised  the limit on
purchases of the greenback by importers that don’t need to be
supported by documents to $500,000 from $50,000. In November
2011, companies were given  three months  until February 2012 to
repay overseas loans that weren’t registered with the central
bank with dollars bought from banks.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  