-- Philippine Three-Year Bonds Advance on SDA Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-17T05:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/philippine-three-year-bonds-advance-on-sda-rate-cut-speculation.html
Philippine bonds rose, pushing the
three-year yield to a two-week low, on speculation the central
bank will reduce the  interest rate  on its special-deposit
accounts. The peso strengthened.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, which will review policy on
April 25, is monitoring capital flows after the  Philippines 
achieved an investment-grade ranking from  Fitch Ratings  last
month, Governor Amando Tetangco said on April 5. The monetary
authority is keeping the option of further trimming the 2.5
percent it pays on 1.9 trillion pesos ($46 billion) in the SDAs
after two reductions this year, he said this month.  “The market consensus is that the BSP has room to reduce
the SDA rate and will continue to cut,” said Raul Tan, head of
the balance-sheet segment at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp.’s
Treasury Group in  Manila . “Whether it will happen next week or
in future meetings remains to be seen.”  The yield on the 7.5 percent bonds due March 2016 fell 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 2.79 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp. That was the lowest level since April 1.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 41.295 per dollar at the noon
trading break in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency fell to 41.413 yesterday, the weakest level since
October. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose four
basis points to 4.76 percent.  Fitch raised the rating on the nation’s long-term foreign
currency-denominated debt one level to BBB- from BB+ on March 27.
The next day, Tetangco said the central bank is preparing to
announce a new set of “liberalization measures” to encourage
outflows as early as April.  Bangko Sentral reduced the rate on its special accounts by
about half a percentage point each in January and in March
meetings. Inflation slowed to 3.2 percent in March from 3.4
percent in February, the most since September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  