-- Pig Crates, 10 Million Caged Hens Stir Humane Society CEO
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/pig-crates-10-million-caged-hens-stir-humane-society-ceo.html
Thanks to Wayne Pacelle, a growing
number of hens and pigs are enjoying better lives before their
eggs and bacon end up in someone’s belly.  As president and chief executive officer of the  Humane
Society of the U.S.  since 2004, Pacelle has pursued initiatives
that give these animals on some farms more room than the cramped
cages and crates that are the norm.  He oversees the nation’s largest animal-welfare
organization, with an annual budget of about $160 million, and
11 million constituents including some 1.5 million donors and
members of several affiliated U.S. animal-welfare organizations.  The number of cases of animal abuse -- from  Tennessee 
walking horses to puppy mills and medical labs -- is beyond
reckoning.  A vegan since 1985, Pacelle spoke at Bloomberg’s world
headquarters in New York over a lunch of grilled tofu,
vegetables and a couscous salad.  Cole: You have a lot of issues on your plate.  Pacelle: We’ve got all these sectors of factory farming,
chimpanzees, animal testing in Europe and  China , dogfighting,
cockfighting, puppy mills. It’s really an incredible triage
situation for us.  Cole: Tell us about one of the battles you’re fighting now.  Pacelle: We’re working in many states to prohibit private
ownership of wild animals as pets. There are six states that
we’re working in now that have no rules on ownership of chimps,
lions, bears. It never turns out well for the animals.  Cole: Suffering animals at factory farms also are a big
problem. What do you see when you visit one?  Iowa Farm  Pacelle: There are 200 egg producers in this country who
produce 82 billion eggs. I went to one farm in  Iowa  with 10
million hens all jammed into small cages, 8 or 10 levels high.
They’ve been genetically manipulated for hyper-reproductive
purposes, and they’re living on a wire mesh.  Cole: Children today seem to grasp the idea of animal
welfare quickly. Some ask their parents if the eggs they buy are
cruelty-free.  Pacelle: Right. Think back to your childhood. Almost every
kid is kind of fascinated by other creatures, and they don’t see
animals in hierarchical ways. They see these other animals, they
know they’re different, but differences are exciting. Kids
aren’t burdened with notions that we’re so superior to animals
that they don’t matter. So it makes them ripe for this kind of
message.  Cole: What do you think about these reports of state
legislators trying to ban investigative videos by animal-welfare
groups?  Undercover Meat  Pacelle: That’s aimed at us. We did probably the most
famous undercover investigations in the animal-welfare field, at
Hallmark Meat Packing Co. in  California . This was the No. 2
supplier to the national school-lunch program. That led to the
shutdown of the plant and to the largest meat recall in the
country. When we’ve been successful with a tactic or a strategy,
there has been an attempt to take the legs out from under us.  Cole: How did  Carl Icahn  hook up with the Humane Society?  Pacelle: His daughter got him involved. Carl called me and
said he’d gotten concerned about animal issues. He was
influential in our talks with  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   Cole: What did he do?  Pacelle: We spoke to the chief executive officer of
McDonald’s, and we said you have to make a declaration on this
issue of crates for pigs. To its credit, McDonald’s said it
would phase out the crates over a 10-year period.  Cole: A recent Time magazine article reported that animals
express sorrow and grief and mourn their dead. Will this
revelation change the way our society views animals?  Common Sense  Pacelle: It’s just common sense that animals have feelings.
Elephants clearly grieve. They pick up the bones of the members
of their family groups, Chimpanzees form a procession line
toward a dead chimpanzee.  We’re seeing military service dogs come back from Iraq and
 Afghanistan  with post-traumatic stress disorder. If we accept
that animals feel pain and that they suffer, how can we put them
in factory farms and how could we subject them to laboratory
experiments?  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining,  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pCole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  