-- Pound Slides Most in 6 Weeks Versus Dollar as Unemployment Rises
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-04-17T15:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/pound-slips-versus-euro-before-minutes-of-boe-s-policy-meeting.html
The pound fell the most in six
weeks against the dollar after government data showed the U.K.
 unemployment rate  climbed and wage increases slowed, adding to
signs the economy is weakening.  Sterling dropped versus most of its 16 major counterparts
as minutes of the Bank of England’s April meeting released today
showed Governor  Mervyn King  pushed for additional stimulus for a
third month before being outvoted. U.K. government bonds rose as
investors sought safer assets. The  International Monetary Fund 
cut its economic forecast for the U.K. yesterday and said the
central bank should boost stimulus.  “The outlook for the U.K. economy and the pound are
actually quite bad,” said Arne Rasmussen, head of currency
research at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “The jobs data today
is disappointing. That’s why investors should not underestimate
the possibility the  Bank of England  will act aggressively to
support growth even as it’s keeping the quantitative-easing
target unchanged for now. The pound will fall much further.”  The U.K. currency dropped 0.8 percent to $1.5244 at 4:22
p.m.  London  time. It fell as much as 0.9 percent, the biggest
decline since March 1. The pound rose 0.2 percent to 85.62 pence
per euro, reversing a decline to 86.37 pence, the weakest level
since March 15.  The 17-nation shared currency slid after European Central
Bank Board memberJens Weidmannwas quoted by Dow Jones as
saying the ECB may cut rates if data warrants.  Jobless Data  Joblessness as measured by International Labour
Organisation methods rose by 70,000 to 2.56 million in the three
months through February, the  Office for National Statistics 
said. The unemployment rate climbed to 7.9 percent from 7.8
percent. Regular pay growth slowed to 1 percent, the least since
records began in 2001.  Six members of the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy
Committee voted to keep quantitative easing at 375 billion
pounds this month, according to the minutes of the April 3-4
meeting. King,  David Miles  and  Paul Fisher  wanted to increase it
by 25 billion pounds.  “The short-run trade-off between output growth and
inflation meant that the committee could return inflation to the
target more quickly than currently expected only by taking
policy actions that would provide less support to output,” the
MPC said.  The pound has tumbled 4.3 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 2.8 percent and the
euro climbed 1.5 percent.  Three-month implied volatility for the pound against the
dollar rose to 7.33 percent today, the highest since April 3.  Gilts Advance  U.K. 10-year bonds rose for the fourth time in five days as
the jobs data fueled speculation the central bank will expand
stimulus in coming months. Gilts also gained along with U.S.
Treasuries and German bunds as a slide in European stocks and
commodity prices boosted demand for safer assets.  The 10-year gilt yield dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.68 percent. The 1.75 percent bond
maturing in September 2022 gained 0.44, or 4.40 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 100.61.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the
world’s biggest bond fund, is holding fewer longer-maturity
gilts than recommended by the benchmark it uses to gauge
performance, according to Mike Amey, a  money manager  for the
company in London.  Amey said the 30-year gilt yield, at 3.02 percent today,
provides scant protection when inflation is taken into account.  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in March from a year
earlier, a government report showed yesterday. The rate has been
above the central bank’s target of 2 percent every month
starting in December 2009.  “If you have a sticky inflation rate, and maybe we will
hit 3 percent, then flat real yields on a 30-year bond don’t
look like a great deal to me,” Amey said. “I’m still
underweight.”  U.K. government bonds returned 1.3 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bonds and U.S. Treasuries both gained 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  