-- Putin Envoy Says Recession Should Spur Easing: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-04-17T01:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/putin-envoy-says-recession-should-spur-easing-russia-overnight.html
Russia  is probably already in a
recession and monetary policy should be eased to ignite growth,
said Ksenia Yudaeva, President  Vladimir Putin ’s representative
to the Group of 20 nations.  “The first two months were really bad, external demand
change had an impact on Russia and this is why we’ve seen such a
significant slowdown in the Russian economy,” Yudaeva said in
an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.
“There is no pressure on the central bank, but some monetary
easing is possible.”  Putin has called for a plan to revive Russia’s flagging
economy after policy makers cut the growth forecast for 2013 to
2.4 percent amid declining oil and metals prices. The economy,
which averaged about 7 percent growth during Putin’s first two
terms,  expanded  2.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the least
since a contraction in 2009. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index (RUS14BN)  rallied 0.7 percent from a five-month low yesterday, and
RTS Index  futures  gained 0.8 percent to 133,090 in U.S. hours.  While Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said last week that
Russia could slide into recession without stimulus, the central
bank has kept key  interest rates  unchanged since September as
inflation remains above target at 7 percent.  “I don’t think massive cuts are possible, given that
inflation is very high,” said Yudaeva, who is in the U.S. for
this week’s G-20 meeting in Washington.  The central bank “should do more” to slow consumer
lending rates, she said.“Cooling the consumer finance market,
because it drives up interest rates on deposits and company
loans, can be even more effective than just some decrease in the
central bank rates.”  ‘Already in Recession’  Russia’s $2 trillion economy probably grew 1.1 percent in
the first quarter, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said
last week. The central bank cut some interest rates on less-
frequently used credit instruments this month, while leaving the
 refinancing rate  at 8.25 percent.  “Frankly speaking, Russia probably already is in
recession,” Yudaeva said.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge of the most-traded Russian
stocks in the U.S. climbed to 91.02 yesterday, led by a 3.5
percent jump in American depositary receipts of OAO  Lukoil (LUKOY) , the
nation’s biggest independent oil producer.  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
the  stock futures , dropped 0.3 percent, while the  Market Vectors
Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded fund dedicated to
Russian equities, climbed 1 percent to $26.21, rising for the
first time in four days.  Rostelecom Slides  OAO Rostelecom (ROSYY) , the country’s biggest fixed-line phone
operator, retreated 5.6 percent to $20.45 in New York, the
lowest close since June 12. Trading volumes were more than three
times the daily average over the past three months. Rostelecom
also slid 6 percent in  London , the steepest one-day drop since
July 23.  The sale of shares by stock option program participants may
be behind the declines,  Luis Saenz , head of equity sales and
trading at BCS Financial Group in London, wrote in an e-mail to
clients yesterday.  Lukoil rose 3.5 percent to $60.83 in the biggest advance
since Sept. 14.  The global economy needs to improve before Russia’s can,
said Yudaeva, the nation’s G-20 Sherpa. The  International
Monetary Fund  trimmed its global growth forecast to 3.3 percent,
according to a report yesterday, from a January projection of
3.5 percent.  China Concern  Commodities, which made up more than 80 percent of Russia’s
export revenue in 2011, are down 5.7 percent this year,
according to the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials. The index sank 2.3 percent April 15 after  China , the
world’s second-largest crude consumer, reported slowing economic
growth for the first quarter.  “China is a big concern,” Yudaeva said. “We don’t fully
understand why the Chinese economy is slowing down and what can
be done.”  Crude for May delivery was little changed at $88.72 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, while
Brent oil for June settlement dropped 0.7 percent to $99.91 a
barrel on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals crude,
Russia’s major export blend, rose less than 0.1 percent to
$96.70, climbing for first time in five days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  