-- Rajan Says India’s Cooling Wholesale Prices Boost Rate-Cut Odds
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-04-17T11:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/rajan-says-india-s-cooling-wholesale-prices-boost-rate-cut-odds.html
Raghuram Rajan , chief economic
adviser at India’s  Finance Ministry , comments on inflation, the
current-account deficit and growth. He spoke in an interview
yesterday in  New York .  On easing wholesale-price inflation:  “It increases the probability of more accommodative
monetary policy. Whether it pushes it up a huge amount or a
little bit is hard to say.  ‘‘We have to wait and see, but the news on wholesale-price
inflation has steadily been downwards. I feel quite comfortable
now that wholesale-price inflation core is within the
comfortable zone. Wholesale-price inflation has come down but
consumer-price inflation hasn’t made any significant advances.
That’s what we need to hope for.  ‘‘If consumer-price inflation comes within a comfort zone,
I don’t think there is any constraint on the RBI cutting
rates.’’  On the current-account deficit:  ‘‘Hopefully, the current-account deficit improves, so that
doesn’t become a second reason why you worry about interest
rates. It’s a balancing act and has been a balancing act for the
last two years. There are no clean answers here so the RBI has
to make up its mind.”  On economic expansion:  “Growth is below what you normally want. And especially
the aspects of demand that the  interest rate  can affect, like
investment demand and durables goods demand, they have sort of
fallen.  ‘‘So that would suggest that plenty of medicine has been
applied, and we have to think whether too much has been applied.
On the other hand, while you quell that kind of demand and, as a
result, that kind of inflation is very, very subdued, food
prices are still high.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  