-- RBS Hires in Germany as Export Growth Boosts Transaction Banking
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2013-04-17T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/rbs-hires-in-germany-as-export-growth-boosts-transaction-banking.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
which closed its German mergers and equities business in a
global strategy change last year, is hiring again, citing the
strength of  Europe ’s biggest economy.  RBS (RBS) , which cut staff in Germany to about 350 at the end of
2012 from 400 a year earlier, is adding people in transaction
services and sales as competition for clients intensifies amid
Germany’s resilience to the debt crisis, Ingrid Hengster, the
head of the Edinburgh-based bank’s business in Germany,  Austria 
and Switzerland, said in an interview in Frankfurt.  European banks such as RBS, which got a 45 billion-pound
($69 billion) lifeline from the U.K. government during the
financial crisis, are seeking to grow their businesses in
Germany as firms including  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG benefit from an economic recovery in the U.S. and
export more goods to  China . RBS, like many of its rivals, has
seen operations shrink in Europe, where a recession has
undermined its bedrock lending business.  “Germany is and will continue to be an important market
for RBS,” Hengster, 52, said. The decision to exit the deals
and equities business “was a global one and was driven by the
desire to really stick to the fields in which we have a market-
leading position. The impact was digestible. It was a difficult
decision but in hindsight it was the right decision.”  Export Powerhouse  Germany is RBS’s largest market after the U.K., and the
bank is second behind  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in the league table for
managing the sales of investment-grade bonds, Hengster said.  The bank’s strength in risk management and transaction
banking, which facilitates the movement of cash and securities
around the global financial system, is helping RBS retain and
build relationships with its corporate and financial clients in
Germany, she said.  RBS is “one of the top five or six houses” for
transaction banking worldwide, she said. “Germany is a natural
home for this business because there are so many export-oriented
clients.”  German exports probably increased 3.4 percent year-on-year
in the first quarter, according to the median estimate of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg from April 5 to April 10.  RBS, now 82 percent owned by the U.K. government, drew
about half of its operating profit from investment-banking
activities in 2007. As the crisis hit the following year, the
business lost almost 11 billion pounds. Last year, Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Hester eliminated 3,500 investment
banking jobs as he closed down major pieces of the division,
including the cash equities desk and the M&A advisory business.  Commercial-Banking Flows  An internal analysis this month of commercial-banking flows
from Europe to Asia at RBS showed that “Germany is bigger than
the U.K., which, looking at the client base, is also natural,”
Hengster said, declining to give volumes.  As local firms such as Deutsche Bank and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  try
to win more business from the so-called Mittelstand, the
thousands of small and medium-sized companies that form the
backbone of Germany’s 2.64 trillion-euro ($3.5 trillion)
economy, RBS is focusing on a core of about 100 corporate
clients and about 50 customers in the finance industry.  “We have not changed our client base,” Hengster said,
adding that RBS made some adjustments after the bank acquired
ABN Amro NV in 2008. When and if changes were necessary as a
result of “double exposure,” RBS “did this over time and in
close alignment with our clients,” she said.  Crisis Resilience  The German economy is showing resilience to Europe’s debt
crisis even as other economies shrink. Industrial output
rebounded in February, gaining 0.5 percent from the month
earlier, when it contracted 0.6 percent, the German Economy
Ministry said last week.  Still, German exports fell 1.5 percent in February,
compared with a forecast by economists for a 0.3 percent
decline.  “You can’t say everything is stabilizing, it varies sector
by sector,” Hengster said. “My impression from speaking to
clients is that maybe overall business volume, not just for
banks but in general, is a bit slower at the beginning of the
year but most clients are quite positive at the moment about
their exports, about their order books, so I would say they’re
cautiously optimistic.”  Yield Search  Germany is a safe haven for investors, who are tapping
corporate bonds and the real estate market in a search of higher
returns, said Hengster, who was formerly head of investment
banking for Germany at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and country chief
at ABN Amro.  Seven-year euro-denominated bonds of Evonik Industries AG,
Germany’s second-largest chemicals maker, yielded 1.82 percent
yesterday compared with 1.94 percent on March 26, when the firm
sold 500 million euros to investors. Bonds of Volkswagen
maturing in March 2021 returned 1.98 percent. Ten-year German
government bonds traded at 1.29 percent.  “The bund is of course a safe haven, but if you need
better yields then this is the natural alternative,” she said.
“This demand I think is unbroken.”  “In terms of real estate, we see good appetite. It’s one
of the natural homes you can go to if you don’t see other
alternatives. If you compare the German hotspots with
international locations, it’s still not expensive.”  Hengster said that while there’s a risk the market may
overheat, the more cautious approach to real estate financing in
 Germany  means there won’t be a bubble.  “The search for yield is enormous,” Hengster said.
“Everybody, including corporates, when they do bonds and don’t
need it immediately, then of course they have the question of
what do they do with the money. It’s a big topic. For
institutional investors as well as I would say private people.”  Hengster said she doesn’t fear a breakup of the euro.  “When I speak to business leaders, most say they don’t
fear at the moment or any longer that this could fall apart
because there’s a huge desire to keep the euro area together,”
she said. “We’ll see bumpy phases, definitely, but in the mid
to long term” there’s a political will “to get out of this
crisis. Politicians are definitely doing the right thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Cullen in  Frankfurt  at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  