-- Ricin From Castor Plant Available to Convert to Poison
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-17T19:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/ricin-from-castor-plant-available-to-convert-to-poison.html
Ricin, the toxin that preliminary
tests show was discovered on a letter addressed to President
 Barack Obama , is readily available, may be deadly in tiny
amounts if properly prepared and can kill in 72 hours.  While it’s not easy to convert the substance into a useable
poison, its attraction is its availability, said Jim Romagnoli,
the vice president of emergency management at the  North Shore-
LIJ Health System  in Great Neck, New York.  “This is a tricky thing for an amateur, although amateurs
have done this with small amounts in the past,” Romagnoli said
in a telephone interview. Ricin is found in castor beans, he
said, and is part of the waste produced by making castor oil, so
it’s “easily available.”  If the poison is partially purified or refined, it can be
used in air, food or water, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention . It works by preventing a person’s cells
from making necessary proteins, thereby killing the cells.  “You must inhale or ingest it,” for the ricin to be
poisonous, Romagnoli said. “You don’t get sick just from
touching it.”  To process ricin from mash, it must first be dried into a
powder. A powdery substance believed to be ricin was found on
letters to the White House and U.S. Senator  Roger Wicker , a
Mississippi Republican.  The lethal dose depends on how the ricin is processed and
how people are exposed.  Lethal Doses  Inhaled or injected doses of as little as 3 to 5 micrograms
per kilogram of body weight may be lethal, according to a
December 2010 report from the  Congressional Research Service .
That translates into as little as 240 micrograms to 400
micrograms for a 175-pound person.  Those dosages are extrapolations of animal studies, which
varied from animal to animal, said Eric Toner, a senior
associate at the Center for Biosecurity at the University of
Pittsburgh Medical Center. “If you had a pure,
concentrated formulation and you could aersolize it, that dose
is true. But those two conditions are really important. A
state-sponsored program could do this, but I don’t think the
average terrorist could.”  In 1978, a tiny pellet of ricin was used to assassinate
Georgi Markov, a Bulgarian dissident, in  London  when it was
injected into his skin using the tip of an umbrella.  Initial symptoms of poison from inhalation occur as early
as four to six hours after the exposure, and include difficulty
breathing and a cough. The symptoms progress rapidly to fluid
within the lungs and respiratory failure. Deaths from the poison
usually happen within 36 to 72 hours, according to the
Congressional Research Service report.  While no antidote exists, doctors can counteract the
effects of the poisoning by helping victims breathe or giving
them fluids.  “It’s likely being used to terrorize people,” Toner said.
“It’s an effective way to produce havoc and get a lot of
attention, but not an effective way to kill people. Of course
whether the perpetrator knows this or not, I don’t know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  