-- Riksbank Sees Quicker Debt Growth After Rate Increase Postponed
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-04-17T12:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/riksbank-sees-quicker-debt-growth-after-rate-increase-postponed.html
Sweden ’s Riksbank predicted that
low  interest rates  and an improved economic outlook for Sweden
will quicken  household debt  growth after policy makers pushed
back planned tightening toward the end of 2014.  The central bank now forecasts that household debt as a
percentage of disposable incomes will exceed 175 percent for the
first time in the third quarter and reach 177 percent in the
first quarter of 2015, according to data published today. In
February, it saw the debt ratio standing at 174.2 percent in the
third quarter and 174.5 percent in the first quarter 2015 and
estimated that it would again fall below 174 percent in 2016.  “The brighter prospects for the Swedish economy, together
with low interest rates, have contributed to an increase in
housing prices,” the Riksbank said. “This development is
expected to continue and to contribute to a faster increase in
household debt in the coming period than was forecast earlier.”  Policy makers in the largest Nordic economy are being
squeezed between supporting growth and avoiding excessive krona
gains and preventing low rates from creating a housing market
bubble. The central bank today left its main rate unchanged at 1
percent for a second meeting and delayed tightening to the
second half of 2014. In February, it had forecast a rate
increase after 12 months.  Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves , who is also the head of
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , has warned against
keeping rates low for too long.  ‘Building Up’  “An even lower repo rate today would mean that inflation
attained the target somewhat more quickly, but at the same time
it would further increase the risk of imbalances building up,”
the bank said today. “The monetary policy conducted is expected
to stimulate the economy and inflation at the same time as
taking into account the risks linked to households’ high
indebtedness.”  House prices  have continued to gain in the Nordic region’s
largest economy. Swedish apartment prices advanced 3 percent in
March to an average of 26,113 kronor ($4,045) per square meter
and jumped 12 percent in the first quarter compared with the
same period a year earlier, according to data from Svensk
Maeklarstatistik. Prices in central Stockholm and in Gothenburg,
Sweden’s second-largest city, reached all-time highs in March.  That development has prompted warnings that Sweden’s
housing market is facing a correction. Danske Bank A/S, the
fifth-largest lender in Sweden, estimates that Swedish property
prices are more than 20 percent overvalued and sees a 5 percent
decline in prices this year followed by another 2.5 percent drop
next year, it said March 21.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  this week cut his
forecast for economic growth in 2014 to 2.2 percent from a
December estimate for 3 percent, citing among other things the
fallout of the strong krona on exports. Gross domestic product
will expand 1.2 percent this year, his ministry estimates.  Sweden sells about half of its economic output abroad, with
70 percent of exports destined for  Europe . Borg, who predicted
budget deficits for 2013 and 2014, said the euro zone’s crisis
is hurting Sweden’s recovery. Borg estimates unemployment will
reach 8.4 percent next year, the highest rate in Scandinavia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in  Stockholm  at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  