-- Romania’s Ponta Avoids No-Confidence Vote Over Restitution Law
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-04-17T12:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/romania-s-ponta-avoids-no-confidence-vote-over-restitution-law.html
Romanian opposition failed to win
backing for a no-confidence vote against Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s four-month-old Cabinet over a property-restitution law
demanded by the  European Court  of  Human Rights .  The Democrat-Liberals plan to challenge the bill at the
 Constitutional Court , party head Vasile Blaga said today. The
government wants the legislation in force by May 12 to meet a
deadline set by the Strasbourg-based rights court and stave off
claims the budget can’t fulfill, according to Ponta.  “The fact the opposition didn’t file a no-confidence
motion shows they don’t have a better version for the law,”
Ponta told reporters in Bucharest. “Their challenge to the
court is the most irresponsible political gesture of the last 23
years because the deadline to have the law in force is very
tight and we don’t have the resources to start paying the
claims.”  To compensate citizens for communist-era property seizures,
Romania has set up  Fondul Proprietatea SA (FP) , which owns shares in
the country’s biggest companies, including  OMV Petrom SA. (SNP)  Still,
it continues to face lawsuits in Strasbourg from people who
missed out on damage payments. The court agreed to extend by as
much as a month an April 12 deadline by which Romania should
pass a bill to help resolve the claims.  Budget Effect  The Cabinet, which counts on a two-thirds majority in the
587-seat parliament, is trying to spread the settlement of about
8 billion euros ($10.5 billion) of claims to limit the impact on
the budget. It plans to return most of the property in the
coming years so the budget won’t be affected before 2017, when
seven years of cash payments will start, Minister Delegate for
Budget Liviu Voinea said March 14.  To enter into force, the restitution law must also get the
backing of President Traian Basescu.  Romania has settled about 5 billion euros of claims since
communism fell, according to official data. It’s also returned
about 9,000 buildings to claimants and more than 1 million
hectares (2.47 million acres) of land, the government has said.
The eastern European country plans to keep the  budget deficit  at
less than 3 percent of economic output to meet pledges to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ; 