-- Rosengren Says Banks Owning Broker Units Need More Capital
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-04-17T20:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/rosengren-says-banks-with-broker-dealer-units-need-more-capital.html
Boston Federal Reserve President
 Eric Rosengren  said banks should hold more capital if they own a
broker-dealer unit because such businesses pose greater risks
during periods of financial stress.  “Bank holding companies with large broker-dealer
affiliates should hold more capital to reflect the reduced
stability of their liabilities during times of stress,”
Rosengren said in prepared remarks for a speech today in New
York.  Rosengren made his call as members of Congress and
regulators try to reduce the risk that a large bank failure
might result in a taxpayer-funded bailout. Senate Republicans
and Democrats are discussing legislation that would boost
capital standards. Fed officials are considering ways to curb
balance-sheet expansion at the largest banks and toughen capital
requirements for the largest firms.  “Despite the central role that broker-dealers played in
exacerbating the crisis, too little has changed to avoid a
repeat of the problem,” Rosengren said at the 22nd Annual Hyman
P. Minsky Conference in New York. “I firmly believe that a
reexamination of the solvency risks of large broker-dealers is
warranted.”  The Fed-assisted emergency sale of Bear Stearns Cos. to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in March 2008 was the first time since the
Great Depression that the U.S. central bank had come to the
assistance of a securities firm, as opposed to a bank.  Lehman Bankruptcy  Six months later, the bankruptcy of Bear Stearns’s larger
rival, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., shocked financial markets
and led the three biggest U.S. securities firms -- Merrill Lynch
& Co.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley -- to be
acquired by or convert to banks in an effort to get the backing
of the Fed.  To help keep the firms afloat during the financial crisis
in 2008, the Fed launched the Primary Dealer Credit Facility,
which at its peak lent out $156 billion. A second facility, the
Term Securities Lending Facility, lent an additional $246
billion at its peak.  Susceptible to Runs  “Given that recent history, the assumption that
collateralized lenders like broker-dealers are not susceptible
to runs has been proven wrong,” Rosengren said at the
conference, hosted by the Levy Economics Institute of Bard
College and the Ford Foundation.  “Broker-dealer capital regulation by the SEC remains
largely unchanged, despite the lessons of the financial
crisis,” he said. “Consequently, broker-dealers remain
vulnerable to losing the confidence of funders and
counterparties should the world economy again experience a
significant financial crisis.”  Rosengren’s speech is “consistent with discussions” going
on internationally about applying capital and liquidity
standards to financial institutions other than banks, said Karen
Shaw Petrou, managing partner at the Washington research firm
Federal Financial Analytics.  “This is the beginning of the U.S. -- or at least Eric
Rosengren -- saying we can do” something about this, Shaw
Petrou said.  Subsidiaries’ Capital  Rosengren said in a question-and-answer period that there
needs to be a “broader discussion” about how subsidiaries
within a bank holding company should be capitalized.  The Boston Fed chief, formerly his bank’s head of
supervision, has previously taken the lead in calling for
additional regulations on the money-market fund industry that
were subsequently endorsed by all 12 Fed presidents.  The 2011 bankruptcy of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  once again
called into question the ability of independent securities firms
to survive on funding provided by the capital markets. Jefferies
Group Inc., which staved off a run on its own funding in the
wake of MF Global’s collapse, agreed in November to combine with
its largest shareholder to shore itself up against future market
turmoil.  “The status quo represents an ongoing and significant
financial-stability risk,” Rosengren said.  U.S. and international regulators have an analytical
approach that requires more capital for risks embedded in large
bank holding companies. The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision has decided that systemically important  global banks 
should bear a charge of 1 percent to 2.5 percent more capital to
total assets weighted for risk based on their size, complexity
and interconnectedness.  Additional Capital  The Financial Stability Board in November listed 28 banks
that should be subject to the requirement for additional
capital. The list is updated annually and a phase-in period
begins in 2016.  Global trading banks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C) , JPMorgan
Chase,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , and Deutsche Bank AG occupy the top
tier in the group, bearing a charge of 2.5 percent. Barclays and
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  are in the second tier, with a charge of 2 percent;
Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley,  Bank of America  Corp., Credit
Suisse Group AG and four other banking groups are in the third
tier, at 1.5 percent.  In addition, the Fed determines capital adequacy through
its  stress tests  which include a separate diagnostic for firms
with large-scale trading operations.  Stress Tests  The Fed tested the 19 largest banks this year against three
different scenarios with 26 variables including exchange rates,
incomes and interest rates. In addition, six bank holding
companies with “significant trading activity” -- Bank of
America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  -- had their portfolios stressed
under conditions of a global market shock.  Rosengren said that securities-trading units should face
higher capital requirements whether they are in a bank-holding
company or not.  “Given the very different risks of runs posed by broker-
dealers and their less stable liability structure, an argument
can be made for higher capital requirements for broker-dealers
as well as organizations, such as bank holding companies, with
significant broker-dealer operations,” he said.  Rosengren, 55, became president of the Boston Fed in July
2007, and previously served in the economic and supervision
departments of the bank.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  