-- Rosneft Eurobond Should Follow Lukoil on Rating, Raiffeisen Says
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-04-17T16:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/rosneft-eurobond-should-follow-lukoil-on-rating-raiffeisen-says.html
OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded oil company, should follow OAO Lukoil in selling
Eurobonds after  Standard & Poor’s  lifted both to the same rating
as the Russian government,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
said.  Lukoil is selling $1.5 billion of five-year bonds at a
yield 255 basis points above the benchmark midswap rate and $1.5
billion of 10-year notes at 270, according to a person with
knowledge of the plans who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  Russia ’s biggest privately owned
oil producer is tapping the market two days after S&P lifted its
rating to BBB, the second-lowest investment-grade category.
Rosneft’s upgrade followed yesterday.  “It makes more and more sense for Rosneft to issue soon,”
Alexander Sklemin, deputy head of credit research at Raiffeisen,
eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, said by e-mail from
Vienna. “This week’s rating action created a positive technical
background.”  State-controlled Rosneft hasn’t sold Eurobonds since it
completed the $55 billion takeover of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s joint venture in
Russia last month. The company last sold foreign notes in
November, raising $3 billion in five-year and 10-year
securities. The yield on the 2022 bonds rose eight basis points
today to 4.3 percent, the highest level this year.  Rosneft’s press service in Moscow declined to comment when
contacted by  Bloomberg News  by e-mail today.  Russia’s government plans to sell $7 billion of Eurobonds
this year, according to the budget plan.  “It makes sense for Russian investment grade-rated
companies to issue paper before the mooted placement of the
sovereign this year,” Sklemin said.  Debt Ratio  The yield on Lukoil’s dollar bonds due November 2020 added
9 basis points to 4.02 percent today, taking this year’s
increase to 21 basis points, compared with a 37 basis-point
advance in the average rate of emerging-market oil and gas
companies, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes .  Lukoil had net debt of 0.2 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 1.2 times Ebitda for
state-run Rosneft.  Lukoil appointed BNP Paribas SA and Citigroup Inc. as lead
managers for the bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  