-- Roubini Says U.S. Fiscal Policy Path Opposite of Optimal
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-04-17T17:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/roubini-says-u-s-fiscal-policy-path-opposite-of-optimal.html
The fiscal policy that the U.S. is
pursuing is “opposite of the optimal” for a weak economy, said
 Nouriel Roubini , known as Dr. Doom for predicting hard times
before the global financial crisis began in 2008.  Ideally, in a weak economy, “you would like to have short-
term stimulus, and for that short-term stimulus to continue for
as long as necessary, while you have a credible medium-term plan
for the fiscal discipline,” Roubini said today during a
macroeconomic policy debate in Washington.  “The U.S. right now is doing the opposite of the optimal,
because we have no medium-term plan for fiscal consolidation”
due to political gridlock, “and we don’t have actual short-term
stimulus,” Roubini said.  Congress and the Obama administration are at loggerheads
over how to replace the across-the-board federal spending cuts,
called sequestration, that kicked in earlier this year and aimed
at lower deficits.  President  Barack Obama  sent a  $3.8 trillion budget  to
Congress on April 10, calling for more  tax revenue  and slower
growth in entitlement spending while Congressional Republicans
oppose higher taxes and seek to eliminate the  deficit  within a
decade by cutting $4.6 trillion out of federal expenditures.  The U.S.’s  fiscal gap  will narrow to 6.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 from 8.5 percent in 2012, while the
country lacks a clear plan to reduce its debt, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in its Fiscal Monitor report yesterday.  Roubini is a professor of economics and international
business at Stern School of Business at  New York  University and
the co-founder and chairman of  Roubini Global Economics LLC , a
macroeconomic and market strategy research company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  