-- Trump School Must Show Malice to Prove Defamation in Suit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-17T21:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/trump-school-must-show-malice-to-prove-defamation-in-suit.html
Trump University, which promises to
teach developer Donald Trump’s “insider success secrets,” must
show that an ex-student knew she was making false statements 
when she accused the school of unethical and deceptive practices,
a court ruled.  The university’s “aggressive advertising campaign” making
“controversial claims about its products and services” helped
create a public controversy over its business practices, three
judges of a federal appeals court in San Francisco said today.  The panel agreed with the ex-student that the school is a
“public figure” and must show she acted with malice when she
alleged in letters to the Better Business Bureau and other
entities that it engaged in high-pressure sales tactics,
trickery and “a gargantuan amount of misleading, fraudulent,
and predatory behavior,” the judges said.  “Trump University is not a public figure because Donald
Trump is famous and controversial,” the court said. “Trump
University is a limited public figure because a public debate
existed regarding its aggressively advertised educational
practices.”  The ex-student, Tarla Makaeff, who paid $34,000 in
enrollment fees, sued the school in 2010 on behalf of herself
and other students alleging deceptive business practices. The
school countersued, alleging defamation.  Makaeff sought dismissal of the school’s claims under a law
that protects people from frivolous lawsuits meant to quell free
speech over public issues. A federal judge denied her request,
saying Trump University wasn’t a public figure and had a
reasonable chance of success on its defamation claim.  Appeals Court  The appeals court said that as a public figure the school
must be held to a heightened standard of proof and show Makaeff
acted with malice when she criticized Trump University.  The panel sent the case back to the trial judge and said
that if Trump can’t make such a showing, “it has no possibility
of success on the merits” and the defamation claim should be
thrown out.  Jill Martin, an attorney for Trump, said the company will
ask for a rehearing by the full appeals court and that Makaeff
“must be held accountable for her defamatory statements.” Eric
Issacson, a lawyer for Makaeff, didn’t immediately reply to e-
mail and voice-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling.  Trump University, founded as an online school for business
professionals, later became the Trump Entrepreneur Initiative.  The appeal is Makaeff v. Trump University, 11-55016, U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).
The original case is Makaeff v. Trump University LLC, 3:10-cv-
00940, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California  (San
Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  