-- Russian Retail Sales Surprise in Sign of Support to Economy
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   Z o y a   S h i l o v a
-- 2013-04-17T14:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/russian-march-retail-sales-exceed-forecast-as-unemployment-drops.html
Russian  retail sales  grew faster
than forecast last month as unemployment unexpectedly fell,
suggesting household demand may help shore up the sagging
economy after government officials warned of a recession threat.  Receipts at merchants rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier
after a revised 3 percent jump in February, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said today. Unemployment dropped to
5.7 percent. Economists predicted a 2.6 percent increase for
retail sales and a jobless rate remaining at 5.8 percent,
according to the median estimate in two Bloomberg  surveys .  Russia ’s $2 trillion economy is growing at the weakest pace
since a 2009 contraction as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs exports
and corporate investment.  Consumer spending , accounting for half
of gross domestic product, may help ward off the threat of
recession, according to Dmitry Savchenko of Nordea Bank.  “The data were on the positive side and it’s quite
reassuring right now,” Savchenko, a senior analyst at Nordea in
Moscow, said in a phone interview. “Household consumption
remains the main engine for growth on the back of wage growth
and a healthy labor market.”  The ruble weakened 1.2 percent against the dollar to
31.6240 as of 6:18 p.m. in Moscow. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 1.3
percent to 1,334.69, the lowest since June 25.  Investment Drop  Investment unexpectedly fell 0.8 percent from a year
earlier, missing the median forecast for an increase of 0.5
percent in a Bloomberg survey, the report showed.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  told lawmakers today that he
sees “serious” risks to the economy. He aims to boost economic
expansion to a stable 5 percent, or more than twice the pace
forecast for this year.  Russia risks sliding into a recession without stimulus,
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said last week after cutting
this year’s growth forecast to 2.4 percent from 3.6 percent.  “The first months of the year show that the world trend of
slowing economic growth is continuing, leading to serious
risks,” Medvedev told lawmakers in Moscow today. “The
government’s task is to implement balanced measures to achieve
acceptable dynamics for the main indicators.”  Russian GDP grew 1.1 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, expanding 2.3 percent in March from the same month
in 2012, the news service Interfax cited Deputy Economy Minister
 Andrei Klepach  as saying today.  Real disposable incomes surged 8.3 percent in March from a
year earlier, the statistics office said, exceeding the median
estimate of 5.4 percent. Real wages grew 4.2 percent, up from a
revised 3.3 percent a month earlier. Economists projected a 5.2
percent increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoya Shilova in Moscow at 
 zoya@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  