-- S&P Sued by More Australian Towns Trying to Recoup Losses
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-04-17T03:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/s-p-sued-by-more-australian-towns-trying-to-recoup-losses.html
Standard & Poor’s, found liable in
November for misleading Australian towns with investment
ratings, faces more lawsuits from councils and charities seeking
to recoup their losses.  The city of Swan and Moree Plains Shire Council today sued
S&P and its parent company  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  in Sydney federal
court claiming the AAA, AA+, AA and AA- ratings given to
synthetic collateralized debt obligations were misleading. The
two municipalites are representative plaintiffs for about 90
councils, religous organizations and funds who aren’t named in
the statement of claim.  “This filing in Australia will pave the way for further
filings in  Europe ,” John Walker, executive director of IMF
(Australia) Ltd., the litigation funder, said in a statement.
“Rating agencies played a pivotal role in the misallocation of
billions of dollars worldwide from 2005 to 2008 and it is
important they be held accountable.”  Swan and Moree Plains bought a series of notes valued at
A$76.5 million ($79 million), which lost 83.3 percent of their
value, according to the statement of claim. The collateralized
debt obligations, whose value collapsed following the global
financial crisis in 2007, represent some of the $5 trillion that
was invested in the products around the world, according to
 Amanda Banton , a partner at Piper Alderman in Sydney, who
represents the towns.  “Our ratings were based on the good faith judgment of our
analysts and reflect what they knew at the time,” S&P in
 Australia  said today in an e-mailed statement. The rating
company said it would defend itself against the suit.  Misleading Descriptions  Australia Federal Court Justice Jayne Jagot in November
found S&P, ABN Amro Bank NV and Local Government Financial
Services Pty liable for misleading other towns with descriptions
and ratings that gave the impression of safe investments. She
awarded those towns A$20.2 million plus costs incurred in the
litigation.  S&P and ABN Amro appealed Jagot’s ruling. A date for the
hearing hasn’t been set.  The U.S. accused S&P in February in a separate lawsuit of
inflating grades on mortgage-backed securities to win business,
helping trigger the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  The U.S. is seeking as much as $5 billion in damages in its
lawsuit filed Feb. 4 in Los Angeles. S&P rated more than $2.8
trillion of residential mortgage-backed securities and about
$1.2 trillion of collateralized-debt obligations from September
2004 through October 2007, according to the U.S. complaint.  The case is Between City of Swan and McGraw-Hill Companies
Inc. NSD656/2013. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  