-- Samsung’s Galaxy S4 Phone Will Go on Sale Next Week in U.S.
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-17T18:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/samsung-s-galaxy-s4-phone-will-go-on-sale-next-week-in-u-s-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy S4
smartphone, the main challenger to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, will go
on sale next week at U.S. carriers, including T-Mobile USA Inc.
and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Seven U.S. carriers and seven retailers will be selling the
Galaxy S4, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said in a statement.
T-Mobile has set an April 24 release date, aiming to be first to
offer the device. Sprint will follow on April 27, while  AT&T
Inc. (T)  plans to make it available on April 30.  Verizon Wireless ,
the largest U.S. carrier, hasn’t set a date yet.  The Galaxy S4, unveiled last month at a lavish event in New
York, represents the biggest threat to the iPhone’s lead in the
U.S. market. The phone sports a larger screen, faster processor
and higher-resolution camera, putting pressure on Apple to match
those capabilities. The next version of the iPhone isn’t
expected until later this year.  “Samsung’s marketing has been quite effective at giving
people permission to buy something other than the iPhone,” said
Avi Greengart, a Teaneck, New Jersey-based analyst at Current
Analysis. “But it’s a large market. There’s room for both
Samsung and Apple. I don’t see one knocking off the other.”  Retail Race  The Samsung phone also provides an opportunity for carriers
and stores to jockey for customers. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the
world’s largest retailer, plans to  offer the device  for $168
with a two-year contract from AT&T. Sprint will sell the Galaxy
S4 to new customers for $149.99 with a contract, though existing
subscribers will pay $249.99.  T-Mobile, the fourth-largest U.S. carrier, is using the
Galaxy S4 debut to spotlight its new installment-plan approach
to selling smartphones. It will  offer  the phone for a down
payment of $149.99, followed by monthly payments. Its offer --
part of its new Simple Choice strategy -- doesn’t require a
long-term contract.  With the S4, Samsung is capitalizing on inroads it made
with the previous version of the Galaxy, Greengart said. The new
model is expected to have about 20 percent longer battery life,
he said. It also can use its front- and rear-facing cameras to
take picture-in-picture photos.  “Consumers loved the Galaxy S3, so the new version should
build on the popularity of that device,” Greengart said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  