-- Samsung Ends Anonymous Reviews Amid Taiwan Investigation
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-04-18T04:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/samsung-ends-anonymous-web-reviews-amid-taiwan-probe.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  ended an
online campaign in  Taiwan  amid a local regulator’s probe into
whether the company broke the law by paying for positive reviews
of its products and negative comments about rivals.  Taiwan’s Fair Trade Commission is gathering information
after receiving e-mails earlier this month alleging posts to
online forums were suspicious, Sun Lih-Chyun, a commissioner at
the regulator, said in a telephone interview yesterday. Samsung
said in a statement the situation was “unfortunate” and it
ceased using anonymous comments in online marketing last year.  Samsung, which has overtaken  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  to
lead the $294 billion smartphone market, last month unveiled its
new Galaxy S4 handset during an event in  New York ’s Radio City
Music Hall. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  HTC Corp. (2498) , which released its
flagship HTC One for sale last month, has lost market share amid
competition and delays in shipments of own products.  “These are the two star products at least for the first
half of this year,” said Warren Lau, an analyst at Kim Eng
Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “So I would suspect that some
sales marketing people will try their very best to market their
products.”  Posts to online forums are alleged to have included
criticism of rival smartphones, including those made by HTC, and
praise of Samsung’s products, Sun said. HTC has been asked to
provide information, while Samsung has yet to be contacted by
the commission, he said.  ‘Insufficient Understanding’  Samsung Electronics, which announced its online
communications credo in 2011, said it remains committed to
engaging in transparent and honest communications with
consumers.  The Suwon, South Korea-based company’s credo prohibits
criticisms of competitors and their products and it voluntarily
ceased using anonymous comments last year, it said in a
statement today.  The situation “occurred due to insufficient understanding
of these fundamental principles” of transparent and honest
communications with consumers, Samsung said yesterday.  The commissioners discussed whether the posts would breach
one of the articles of fair trade regulations relating to false
advertising, with penalties of as much as NT$25 million
($837,000) an incident, said the FTC’s Sun.  A more serious breach of a separate article on defamation
is also being investigated and could lead to criminal charges
with imprisonment of as long as two years per case, Sun said. A
defamation case would first require a victim to file a formal
complaint, he said.  “We are disappointed that a competitor would resort to
misleading consumers to discredit our innovation,” HTC said in
a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  