-- SanDisk Falls on Concern Over Supply Growth Limits
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-04-18T21:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/sandisk-shares-fall-after-earnings-miss-highest-estimates.html
SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) , a maker of  flash
memory  for mobile devices, fell the most in a year amid concern
that plans to limit increases in chip supply will curb sales
growth.  The  shares  slid 6.6 percent to $52.02 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest decline since April 2012. SanDisk isn’t
increasing spending on new plants and equipment and doesn’t
expect enough output to meet all of the orders it receives this
year, the Milpitas, California-based company said yesterday.  “When you look for upside from here, it’s hard to see
where we are going,” said Wedbush Securities analyst Betsy Van Hees. She has an outperform rating on the shares. Chip prices
probably won’t rise, limiting potential revenue gains for
SanDisk, she said.  Second-quarter sales will be $1.35 billion to $1.4 billion,
Chief Financial Officer Judy Bruner said on a conference call
yesterday with analysts. For the year, sales will be $5.6
billion to $5.75 billion, Bruner said. That compares with
average analyst projections of $1.34 billion for the quarter and
$5.65 for 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Healthy Supply’  SanDisk is limiting increases in output from its factories
and expects enough demand to keep prices healthy this year,
Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Mehrotra told analysts on the
call. SanDisk, in a manufacturing partnership with  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) , competes with Samsung Electronics Co. in the market for
so-called Nand flash memory, chips that act as storage for data
in phones, tablets and some personal computers.  “Nand flash supply is tight,” said Mehrotra. “We expect
a healthy demand and supply balance and a favorable pricing
environment in 2013.”  First-quarter profit excluding some items was $207 million,
or 84 cents a share, on sales of $1.34 billion, SanDisk said in
a statement. Analysts on average had estimated profit of 79
cents a share and revenue of $1.3 billion, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The highest estimates were for profit of
$1.03 a share and sales of $1.47 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  