-- Scene Last Night: Bucket Lists for Ruffalo, Gyllenhaal
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-04-17T14:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/scene-last-night-bucket-lists-for-ruffalo-gyllenhaal.html
Thomas H. Lee, the private-equity
manager, said he’d like to do more scuba diving.  Henry Cornell, who’s set to retire from  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , wants to spend a month sailing with his family.  “My bucket list is not having a bucket list,” said Reed Krakoff, the designer and executive creative director of  Coach
Inc. (COH)  Easy for a handbag designer to say -- the man has buckets.  The  Whitney Museum of American Art  awards dinner was held
last night at Highline Stages, and Krakoff had donated five of
his Reed Krakoff Track Totes, embellished by artists, for an
auction during the evening.  Krakoff, an honoree, had decorated his with the initials of
artists and the number of their works in the Whitney’s
collection.  “I’m not an artist, so mine is more conceptual -- it’s
somewhat of a puzzle,” he said, reaching inside the bag and
pulling out a little gray booklet, the decoder. “Next to my
initials is zero.”  His favorite painting in the collection: “Early Sunday
Morning” by Edward Hopper.  “I have to get back to the Prado,” said gallery owner
David Zwirner. “But you never pass through  Madrid .”  “I’d like a retrospective occupying the entire building of
the new Whitney,” said artist Marilyn Minter.  “I’m dying to go to Sicily,” said Adam Weinberg, the
director of the Whitney. “I love ancient Roman architecture.”  Stein Erik Hagen, a Norwegian industrialist, said the South
Pole is on his list.  Miami Heat  Miami real-estate developer Martin Margulies, also honored,
has a desire closer to home: “I’d like to watch the NBA
playoffs, with the Miami Heat,” he said.  Vito Schnabel and siblings Rainer and Flavin Judd --
children of artist Donald Judd -- arrived. Waiters passed pigs
in blankets. A bartender served cocktails made with D’Usse
cognac.  Cornell ordered a glass of white wine, then filled in the
details of his sailing trip. “It could be from North Africa to
 Turkey ,” Cornell said. “A trip with no worries.”  Of scuba diving, Lee said “It’s unbelievable to be under
the surface of the water, all you hear is your breathing. And
then you see all these creatures, you can’t communicate with
them but you can get close.”  Close Standing  Lucky for them, Riverkeeper Inc. was having a benefit down
the street at Chelsea Piers, raising money to protect our
waters. Lyle Lovett performed, drawing Glenn Close to her feet,
swaying to the music.  Mark Ruffalo, who was honored for his anti-fracking work,
ordered guests to hug and kiss. “No tongue, Sunrise, Robert,”
he added, instructing his wife and Riverkeeper chief prosecuting
attorney Robert F. Kennedy Jr.  The bucket list continued to fill.  “I wouldn’t mind doing a tow-in surfing,” Ruffalo said.  “I do want to go to  Venice , and I need to have someone
singing to me in a gondola,” the actress Cheryl Hines said.  “My friend is a professor of Tibetan Buddhism,” actress
Maggie Gyllenhaal said. “We’ve always said we’d take our
daughters to  Tibet .”  James Prosek, whose documentary on freshwater eels will air
tonight on the PBS series “Nature,” said he’d just like time
to “process the experiences I have in nature.”  He added: “If we were all good stewards, we’d be in a much
better place.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Ryan
Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 