-- Schaeuble to Press G-20 for Debt Cuts Armed With German Example
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-17T14:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/schaeuble-to-press-g-20-for-debt-cuts-armed-with-german-example.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet backed a spending plan that will yield budget surpluses
this year and next, strengthening the government’s hand as it
presses international partners to focus on cutting debt.  Ministers meeting in Berlin today adopted the annual
Finance Ministry report to the European Commission in which they
agreed to cut  Germany ’s debt over the next four years.  The German stance sets up a potential clash among finance
chiefs from the Group of 20 biggest economies when they gather
in  Washington  from tomorrow. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
plans to press the group to sign up to similar “growth-
friendly,” deficit-reduction policies to those he pursues at
home, a government official told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  “Germany is committed to complying with all the national
and European fiscal policy requirements,” the  Finance Ministry 
said in a statement after the Cabinet meeting. “Sound public
finances are a significant basis for effective government action
and on-going favorable growth conditions.”  Germany will insist that G-20 members honor their deficit-
reduction commitments made in Toronto in 2010 and seek to make
progress on extending that pledge beyond 2016, the official told
reporters.  Schaeuble may fail to find common cause with his U.S.
counterpart, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, who used his first
visit to Berlin on April 9 to prod Germany to help spur consumer
demand, saying there is a need “to balance policies of growth
and investment in the future with policies of fiscal
consolidation.”  IMF Forecasts  Lew’s case was backed up by the  International Monetary
Fund , which trimmed its global growth forecast and urged  Europe 
to do all it can to strengthen private demand.  Germany’s budget, adjusted for economic swings and one-time
factors, was in surplus last year at all levels of state and
including social insurance coffers, the Finance Ministry said.
Germany will maintain this “structural surplus” this year and
next and cut its debt to 69 percent of gross domestic product by
2017 from 80.5 percent of GDP this year, it said.  Also today, Germany sold 3.35 billion euros ($4.4 billion)
of 10-year  government bonds  at an average yield of 1.28 percent,
the  lowest on record , according to Bundesbank data. Portugal’s
borrowing costs increased at today’s auction of 1.5 billion
euros of 12-month bills.  While the Washington-based IMF sees the 17-country euro
area shrinking 0.3 this year, with  France  joining Spain and
Italy in contracting, it expects the German economy to grow 0.6
percent. Germany’s leading economic institutes will forecast
growth of 0.8 percent in a joint report tomorrow, twice the
government’s outlook, the Handelsblatt newspaper reported.  No. 2 Exporter  Germany, the world’s third-biggest exporter last year, will
overtake the U.S. again in 2013 to place second after  China ,
Bild newspaper cited DIHK industry and trade chamber chief
economist Volker Treier as saying today. Germany is moving ahead
of the U.S. this year because its 6 percent export growth is
faster than that in the U.S., Treier said.  The IMF cut its U.S. growth projection to 1.9 percent from
2 percent in January to incorporate the expected impact of
across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration. While the
threat of a euro region recession is the biggest immediate risk
to global growth, failure to devise debt reduction plans in the
U.S. and  Japan  over the medium term would also have
consequences, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  