-- SEC Sues Schottenfeld Trader Mancuso Over Goffer Tips
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/sec-sues-schottenfeld-trader-mancuso-over-goffer-tips.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued Joseph Mancuso, a former trader at Schottenfeld
Group LLC, accusing him of making about $350,000 on a series of
illegal tips from Zvi Goffer, a former Galleon Group LLC trader.  Mancuso, 36, of  Manhattan , worked with Goffer when both men
were at Schottenfeld, and was described by regulators as
Mancuso’s “good friend and colleague.” Goffer shared tips with
him about nonpublic information about the acquisition of Avaya
Inc., 3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma Inc., Hilton Hotels Corp. and
Kronos Inc., the SEC said in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan.  “Mancuso, by virtue of his close personal and professional
relationship with Zvi, was a regular recipient of Zvi’s tips,”
the SEC alleged. “So close was the relationship between Mancuso
and Zvi, who had been friends since they met in college in the
mid-1990s, that Mancuso earned the nickname ‘mini Zvi’ among his
colleagues at Schottenfeld.”  Goffer obtained the information leaked by two Ropes & Gray
LLC lawyers Brien Santarlas and Arthur Cutillo about the firm’s
clients, which he passed on to his friends, the SEC said. Goffer
also paid kickbacks to the two lawyers in exchange for the
inside information. Prosecutors said Goffer and others to whom
he passed the information earned $10 million.  Swapped Tips  The group of a dozen people who the SEC said provided and
swapped tips with Goffer included  Roomy Khan , 54, a former  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  executive who also worked for Galleon Group LLC co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam; Franz Tudor, another former Galleon trader who
obtained information from Goffer, and  Thomas Hardin , a former
analyst at Lanexa Global Management LP.  By trading on Goffer’s tips about Avaya, Axcan, 3Com and
Kronos, Mancuso earned more than $261,000, the SEC said. Another
series of Hilton trades based on tips Goffer provided, earned
him about $134,250, the SEC said.  “We look forward to presenting a vigorous defense,”
Justin Sher, a lawyer for Mancuso, said.  Goffer is serving a 10-year prison term after being
convicted in 2011 of 14 counts of conspiracy and securities
fraud. Santarlas was sentenced to six months in prison while
Cutillo received a 30-month sentence. Khan was sentenced to
serve a one-year prison term while Tudor was sentenced to three
years’ probation for his cooperation.  The case is SEC v. Mancuso, 13-cv-02555, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  