-- Sept. 11 Hearings Delayed Until June After Computer Crash
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-04-17T19:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/sept-11-hearings-delayed-until-june-after-computer-crash.html
Five days of hearings scheduled for
next week in the case of the accused plotters of the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks were postponed after defense lawyers
said internal documents went missing on government computers.  The judge, Army Colonel James Pohl, postponed the hearings
until mid-June in a two-page order posted today.  Lawyers for the accused plotters requested the delay last
week after complaining that their confidential work was
inexplicably missing from the U.S. Defense Department computers
on which they store documents.  Army Lt. Colonel Todd Breasseale, a Pentagon spokesman,
said in a statement that the Office of Military Commissions,
which is prosecuting the case, “suffered from a nearly
catastrophic server ‘crash’” that led to “losses of
indiscriminate data.” Of almost 400 gigabytes of data initially
lost, “seven gigabytes have yet to be accounted for,” he said.  Hearings in the case, which began last year, have been
plagued by delay. In August, the threat of a hurricane canceled
a week of arguments while hearings this year were slowed as the
judge probed defense claims that the government was
eavesdropping on them.  Death Penalty  The next round of hearings will begin on June 17, the judge
said.  Accused mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and the four
other defendants are accused of plotting the attacks that used
hijacked passenger airplanes to kill almost 3,000 people at the
World Trade Center in  Manhattan , the Pentagon in  Virginia , and
in  Pennsylvania .  They are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the planes, terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians. They could be executed if
convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York 
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  