-- Six Packs Help Klabin Weather Paper-Price Drop: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-04-17T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/six-packs-help-klabin-weather-paper-price-drop-corporate-brazil.html
Klabin SA (KLBN4) ,  Latin America ’s largest
papermaker, is beating its top competitors in the Western
Hemisphere as its focus on six-pack carriers and milk cartons
shield the company from falling paper prices.  Klabin is posting the best risk-adjusted return in the
Americas among peers with a market value of at least $300
million, the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows. The stock
climbed 172 percent in the three years ending April 15, for a
risk-adjusted return of 5.3 percent. Brazil’s No. 2 papermaker,
Suzano Papel & Celulose SA, has slumped 63 percent in the period
and a the benchmark Bovespa index is down 25 percent.  The company, the only maker of waterproof cardboard in the
region, is benefiting by transforming itself into a consumer
stock as a swelling middle class drives demand for beverages and
frozen foods. Sao Paulo-based Klabin has doubled its output of
paper used in packaging since 2008 and may spend $3.4 billion to
make pulp for diapers and feminine hygiene products. Meanwhile,
Suzano cut prices for its paperboard and coated-paper products
last year amid higher imports.  “While competitors have invested in output of paper -- the
commodity -- Klabin boosted output of value-added packaging
paper,” Catarina Pedrosa, an analyst at BES Securities, said in
an April 15 telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “It was a smart
move.”  Omo Soap  The move is helping Klabin, whose paper is used in a range
of product packaging from Unilever’s Omo soap powder to BRF SA’s
frozen lasagnas, post the America’s highest earnings as a
percentage of revenue. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- known as Ebitda -- equaled 44
percent of its sales last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares with 27 percent in 2011.  Schweitzer-Mauduit
International Inc. (SWM) , a U.S.-based maker of fine papers for the
tobacco industry, had the second-highest Ebitda-to-sales ratio
in 2012 at 25 percent.  Klabin is seen as a “consumer growth story instead of a
commodity player,” Alan Glezer, an analyst at  Banco Bradesco
SA (BBDC4) ’s brokerage unit, wrote in a report on April 9. That position
is helping the “company navigate through a volatile environment
for commodities.”  Economic Slowdown  Demand for  consumer goods  in Brazil has withstood an
economic slowdown as minimum-wage gains and record-low  interest
rates  propelled retail-sales growth past that of other
industries. Gross domestic product grew 0.9 percent in 2012, the
second-worst performance in 12 years, while domestic consumption
expanded 3.1 percent, according to the national statistics
agency.  Klabin’s 30-day  historic volatility , a measure of price
swings, rose to 29.8 percent yesterday from this year’s low of
20.6 percent on Feb. 6.  The average prices for paper sold by  Salvador , Brazil-based
Suzano in  Brazil  fell 6.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012
from the first quarter of 2011, according to a statement from
the company.  Klabin declined to comment about its share performance when
contacted by  Bloomberg News . Suzano’s press office decline to
comment on the company’s pricing policy and stock performance.  Klabin is further expanding its exposure to the consumer
sector with plans to invest in a new pulp plant in Brazil’s
southern state of Parana. The plant, slated to start in 2015, is
expected to produce 1.5 million metric tons of pulp, including
water-absorbent fluff pulp, used in diapers.  Ambitious Spending  The company’s investment plan may prove too ambitious if a
deeper slowdown in Brazil hurts consumption, said Victor Penna,
an analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA. (BBAS3)  Policy makers today may lift
the benchmark  Selic rate  from a record low to fight inflation
that exceeded the upper limit of the central bank’s target for
the first time since November 2011.  “They have a sizable investment coming, and the outlook
for the Brazilian economy is not as bright as in past years,”
Penna said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Klabin’s shares have also gained in the past few years as
the company’s new management, led by Chief Executive Officer
Fabio Schvartsman, who took over in 2010, cuts costs to boost
profit margins, said Eduardo Carlier, head of core equities at
Schroder Investments.  “The market gave a vote of confidence to the new
management, and they’re showing that they can carry out a
successful turnaround in the company,” Carlier said by phone
from Sao Paulo. “Klabin is showing more discipline managing its
costs, and that boosts investors’ confidence in the stock.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  