-- Slovenia Doubles Target at Debt Sale as State Banks Buy
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-04-17T15:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/slovenia-sells-double-bond-sale-target-amid-bailout-speculation.html
Slovenia sold more than double the
amount planned at a Treasury-bill sale, easing pressure on its
financing needs as the first post-communist nation to adopt the
euro looks to avoid an international bailout.  The government raised 1.1 billion euros ($1.44 billion) in
an auction of 18-month bills, compared with its 500 million-euro
target, the  Finance Ministry  in Ljubljana said in an e-mailed
statement today. The yield was 4.15 percent, compared with 3.99
percent in December 2011. It also repurchased 510.7 million
euros of notes at a yield of 3.99 percent after planning to buy
as much as 855 million euros.  State-controlled banks including the country’s two largest,
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
d.d. (KBMR) , signaled they would participate in the biggest auction in
six months as Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s new government
tries to convince markets Slovenia won’t follow five other euro
members in seeking aid.  “The successful debt sale is in line what we had expected
although the extent of the demand comes as a surprise,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-markets economist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in  London , wrote in a note to clients.
“Today’s auction takes pressure off the government’s finances
for the coming months and possibly even until the end of the
third quarter or early fourth quarter.”  Slovenian bonds due in October 2022 gained after the sale,
with the yield falling 47 basis points to 5.85 percent as of
5:03 p.m. in Ljubljana. The bond’s yield is on track to have the
biggest single-day drop since it was sold, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  CDS Price  The cost to insure Slovenian  government bonds  against non-
payment for five years tumbled 17 basis points, the steepest
fall among emerging-European nations tracked by Bloomberg, to
355, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price had
jumped 141 basis points since the start of the year through
yesterday on concern investors would make Slovenia the sixth
euro-area country after Cyprus to seek a bailout.  “The fact that the ministry accepted foreign demand and
offered a slightly higher rate is a step in right direction in
order to calm the markets,” Milan Smiljanic, head of trading at
Perspektiva d.d. in Ljubljana, said by e-mail after the auction.  French Support  The ex-Yugoslav republic, which last sold foreign debt in
October and missed a target for T-bill sales by almost half at
an auction on April 9, is turning to local investors after a
second recession since 2009 caused a banking crisis and fueled
speculation the nation would follow Cyprus in seeking aid.  “ France  has confidence in what’s started in Slovenia,
which is a clean up of its budget and courageous steps to deal
with the banking system and improve competitiveness” French
President  Francois Hollande  said in Paris today after meeting
his Slovenian counterpart Borut Pahor. “We should provide
Slovenia with what it’s asking for, which is confidence.”  Bratusek told lawmakers today that while urgent measures
needed to be taken to address Slovenia’s woes, the country
doesn’t need a bailout. The government will present measures to
reduce the  budget deficit  and fix the banks within a month, a
time frame agreed with European leaders in Brussels, she said.  “Banks are the priority, and if they don’t start lending
once their balance sheets are cleaned up, we’ll have done
nothing,” she said.  Slovenia, which adopted the euro in 2007, sold 12-month
notes at a yield of 2.99 percent at its last T-bill auction on
April 9, up from 2.02 percent for similar bills on Feb. 12,
Finance Ministry data show.  Boosting Holding  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, said it
would boost its holdings of Slovenian bonds if the nation
successfully reformed its troubled banks. Today’s auction of 18-
month securities will draw “very good” demand, said Scott Thiel, deputy chief investment officer of fixed-income
securities at BlackRock in London.  “The bonds are very attractive, it’s just hard to get
them,” Thiel said in an interview at BlackRock’s London office
yesterday. “The government has to continue pushing forward with
this idea of sorting out the banks. I also think that there has
to be a little bit of a return of investor confidence. I think
the bill auction will shore that up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Ljubljana at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  