-- Slovak Car Industry Group Sees Output Rising to Record This Year
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-04-17T13:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/slovak-car-industry-group-sees-output-rising-to-record-this-year.html
Carmakers in Slovakia will probably
assemble a record number of vehicles this year as demand for
models made in the country is set to defy a slowing automotive
market in Europe, an industry body estimated.  The total number of cars produced in Slovak factories
operated by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  will “slightly” exceed the 926,555 vehicles assembled
last year, Jaroslav Holecek, president of the Slovak Car
Industry Association, told journalists today in Bratislava. He
declined to give an exact estimate, adding it will be less than
1 million.  The industry in Slovakia is benefiting from product mix,
which includes luxury models such as the Audi-brand Q7 sport-
utility vehicle, as well as smaller cars including Volkswagen
Group’s subcompact cars. Output at the three carmakers and their
local suppliers is supporting the country’s economic  growth  even
as the uncertainty over the euro region has depressed demand for
cars in the continent.  Slovakia’s car production jumped to a record last year
after the addition of the so-called New Small Family subcompact
models doubled output at Volkswagen’s factory in Bratislava.
Kia, which makes Sportage SUVs as well as the cee’d and Venga
models, also assembled a record number of vehicles.  Europe  car registrations in March fell 10 percent to 1.35
million vehicles, the 18th consecutive decline, with  Germany ’s
auto market plunging 17 percent, the Brussels-based European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA, said today.
First-quarter deliveries in the region dropped 9.7 percent to a
record-low 3.1 million cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  