-- Slovenia Buys Time to Dodge Bailout With Debt Sale Win
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-18T07:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/slovenia-buys-time-to-dodge-bailout-with-debt-sale-win.html
Slovenia eased concern that it will
be the next euro-area state to need a bailout as investors
scooped up twice the targeted amount in a debt sale yesterday.
The country’s bonds surged and its default risk tumbled.  The government sold 1.1 billion euros ($1.43 billion) of
18-month bills, compared with its 500 million-euro target, the
Finance Ministry in Ljubljana said in an e-mail. The yield was
4.15 percent, compared with 3.99 percent in December 2011. It
also repurchased 510.7 million euros of notes at a yield of 3.99
percent after planning to buy as much as 855 million euros.  State-controlled banks including the country’s two largest,
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
d.d. (KBMR) , signaled they would participate in the biggest auction in
six months as Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s new government
tries to convince markets Slovenia won’t follow five other euro
members in seeking international assistance.  “This T-bill auction was successful and is likely to ease
the pressure on Slovenian assets,” said  Jaromir Sindel , an
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Prague. Still, in the short-term,
specific asset-sale proposals, a stability program to address
the European Commission’s comments on economic imbalances and
the creation of a bad bank may be more important, he said.  Slovenia’s dollar bonds due in October 2022 gained after
the sale, with the yield falling 36 basis points to 5.95 percent
yesterday and was little changed today at 9:34 a.m. in
Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CDS Tumbles  The cost to insure Slovenian government bonds against non-
payment for five years using credit default swaps tumbled 30
basis points, the steepest fall among emerging-European nations
tracked by Bloomberg, to 342, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. CDSs declined 1 basis point to 341 at 9:34 a.m. in
Ljubljana. The price had jumped 141 basis points since the start
of the year through April 16 on concern investors would make
Slovenia the sixth euro-area country after Cyprus to seek a
bailout.  “The successful debt sale is in line with what we had
expected although the extent of the demand comes as a
surprise,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-markets economist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London , wrote in a note to
clients. The “auction takes pressure off the government’s
finances for the coming months and possibly even until the end
of the third quarter or early fourth quarter.”  French Support  The ex-Yugoslav republic, which last sold foreign debt in
October and missed a target for T-bill sales by almost half at
an auction on April 9, turned to local investors after a second
recession since 2009 caused a banking crisis and fueled
speculation the nation would follow Cyprus in seeking aid.  “ France  has confidence in what’s started in Slovenia,
which is a clean up of its budget and courageous steps to deal
with the banking system and improve competitiveness” French
President Francois Hollande said in Paris yesterday after
meeting his Slovenian counterpart, Borut Pahor. “We should
provide Slovenia with what it’s asking for, which is
confidence.”  Bratusek told lawmakers yesterday that while urgent
measures needed to be taken to address Slovenia’s woes, the
country doesn’t need a bailout. The government will present a
plan to narrow the budget gap and fix the banks within a month,
a time frame agreed with European leaders in Brussels, she said.  “Banks are the priority and if they don’t start lending
once their balance sheets are cleaned up, we’ll have done
nothing,” she said.  Slovenia, which adopted the euro in 2007, sold 12-month
notes at a yield of 2.99 percent at its last T-bill auction on
April 9, up from 2.02 percent for similar bills on Feb. 12,
Finance Ministry data show.  Boosting Holding  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, said it
would boost its holdings of Slovenian bonds if the nation
successfully overhauled its troubled banks. Yesterday’s auction
of 18-month securities will draw “very good” demand, said
Scott Thiel, deputy chief investment officer of fixed-income
securities at BlackRock in London.  Foreigners may have accounted for as much as half the
demand at the auction, according to Milan Smiljanic, head of
trading at Perspektiva d.d. in Ljubljana.  “The fact that the ministry accepted foreign demand and
offered a slightly higher rate is a step in right direction in
order to calm the markets,” he said. “After the auction, the
Slovenian debt curve immediately responded with lower yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  