-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the  Beige Book .  The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before April 5.  BOSTON: “Economic activity in the First District continues
to expand modestly according to business contacts, although
conditions are somewhat mixed across individual firms. Retailers
generally cite slower than expected sales, and tourism has
softened, partly on account of unseasonal weather. Over half of
responding First District manufacturers report demand
improvements in the first quarter; the rest are less upbeat.
Most consulting and advertising firms say business is strong. In
the residential sector, limited inventory is said to be
constraining home sales in the region, but median home prices
are rising modestly. Contacts say hiring reflects demand growth,
so few firms are adding substantially to headcounts except in
the consulting sector. Price pressures are minimal.”  NEW YORK : “Economic growth in the Second District has
picked up somewhat since the last report. Business contacts
continue to report moderate input price pressures but most
report their selling prices remain steady. There has been fairly
broad-based strengthening in labor market conditions. Retailers
report that sales have generally been strong and ahead of plan
in March, and auto sales have remained fairly robust. Tourism
activity has generally been strong in recent weeks, though
Broadway theaters have been in a bit of a slump. Commercial and
especially residential real estate markets have strengthened
since the last report. Finally, bankers report widespread
increases in loan demand, continued narrowing in loan spreads,
and further modest declines in delinquency rates.”  PHILADELPHIA: “Aggregate business activity in the Third
District has maintained the modest pace of growth that was
evident during the previous Beige Book period. General retail
activity and residential construction appear to have decelerated
somewhat, to a modest rate of growth. Sales of new and used
autos maintained a moderate rate of growth as did residential
real estate sales. Transportation services accelerated to a
moderate pace of growth this period. The manufacturing sector
reported slight increases in overall demand -- a pickup since
last period. General  price levels , as well as wages and  home
prices , were reported to have increased slightly overall --
similar to the last Beige Book period. While some uncertainty
remains as sequestration unfolds, contacts express greater
confidence in the underlying strength of the economy. However,
many contacts continue to hold off on their plans to expand
capacity and hire more staff.”  CLEVELAND: “Business activity in the Fourth District
expanded at a moderate pace during the past six weeks.
Manufacturing orders and production were mostly higher. The
momentum seen in residential construction since the beginning of
the year, including multi family, has been maintained. Retail
sales volume between mid-February and mid-March was higher
relative to the lackluster post-holiday period, while new motor
vehicle sales posted moderate gains on a year-over-year basis.
Freight transport volume exceeded projections made late last
year. Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors, although the
pace has picked up among home builders since the start of the
year. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of
 job openings  and placements rose slightly, with vacancies found
primarily in industrial production. Wage pressures were
contained. Input prices were stable, apart from increases in
construction materials.”  RICHMOND: “The District economy grew moderately overall in
recent weeks, although activity varied by sector. Manufacturing
production continued to expand but at a somewhat slower pace.
Retail sales contracted, with the notable exception of robust
light vehicle sales. The residential real estate sector
generally strengthened, and commercial real estate and
construction markets improved. Cold, wet weather hindered spring
plantings by farmers, while oil and natural gas production
maintained a moderate pace during the past six weeks. Labor
markets were mixed since our last report. Retail prices rose
more slowly, and average retail wages declined.”  ATLANTA: “Sixth District business contacts reported that
economic activity continued to advance at a modest pace from
mid-February through March. Reports across sectors were
generally positive and expectations for the coming months
remained optimistic. Retail reports were mixed with some
retailers citing improved sales and others feeling the pinch
from a constrained consumer. Homebuilders and brokers
experienced further improvements in sales and prices of new and
existing homes, and inventories continued to decline on a year-
over-year basis. Overall, manufacturing activity remained
positive as new orders and production increased. Payrolls
continued to grow at a tepid pace as firms remained reluctant in
hiring due to uncertainty over fiscal policy and healthcare
reform.”  CHICAGO: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
expanded at a modest pace in March. In general, contacts
remained cautiously optimistic about the economic outlook.
Growth in  consumer spending  edged lower, while growth in
business spending picked up. Manufacturing production growth
slowed. Residential construction continued to rise at a moderate
pace, and nonresidential construction increased slightly. Credit
conditions remained favorable. Cost pressures were largely
unchanged, and wage pressures remained moderate. Prices for
corn, soybeans, milk, and hogs fell, while cattle prices were
little changed on net.”  ST. LOUIS: “The economy of the Eighth District has
expanded at a moderate pace since our previous report. Recent
reports of planned activity in manufacturing have been positive,
while recent reports of planned activity in the service sector
have been mixed. Residential real estate market conditions have
continued to improve throughout most of the District, and
commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have
also improved in many areas of the District. Total lending at a
sample of small and midsized District banks remained largely
unchanged from mid-December 2012 to mid-March 2013.”  MINNEAPOLIS: “The Ninth District economy grew moderately.
Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism,
professional services and manufacturing. Construction and real
estate grew at a fast pace, the energy and agriculture sectors
were steady at high levels, while mining slowed. Labor markets
tightened somewhat, and wage increases were moderate. Overall
price increases were modest.”  KANSAS CITY: “The Tenth District economy expanded
moderately in March, and expectations for future activity
strengthened. District contacts reported stronger-than-expected
consumer spending and anticipated additional gains this spring.
Improvements in residential and commercial real estate market
conditions exceeded typical seasonal trends with robust sales,
higher prices and brisk construction activity. Although District
manufacturing activity softened, factory managers projected a
rebound in orders, production, and shipments. Persistent drought
hindered winter crop development, while crop insurance payments
lessened the demand for operating loans. District contacts
expected oil drilling activity to strengthen as seasonal demand
supports higher oil and gasoline prices. Though more companies
anticipated hiring additional workers in the coming months, wage
pressures remained subdued except for specialized positions at
transportation, high-tech, energy and construction firms.”  DALLAS : “The Eleventh District economy expanded at a
slightly faster pace over the past six weeks than during the
previous reporting period, when growth was moderate. Many
manufacturing firms noted that activity increased since the last
report. In the nonfinancial services sector, legal and
accounting demand increased, although staffing firms reported
sluggish demand. Retail sales and auto sales were up. Robust
housing demand led to price gains, and commercial real estate
activity remained strong. Lenders noted moderate growth in loan
demand, and activity in the energy sector remained at high
levels. Drought conditions remained prevalent in the
agricultural sector. Reporting firms said prices remained stable
overall, and there were limited reports of wage pressure.
Employment levels were steady to up.”  SAN FRANCISCO: “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period of late
February through early April. Price increases for most final
goods and services were limited, and upward wage pressures were
minimal overall. Sales of many retail items rose, and most
business and consumer services gained further. District
manufacturing activity appeared to increase on net. Production
activity and sales grew for agricultural producers. Demand for
both homes and commercial real estate properties continued to
expand on balance. Contacts from financial institutions reported
increased loan demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  