-- U.K. Unemployment Rises as Fragile Economy Weighs on Hiring
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-17T08:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-k-unemployment-rises-as-fragile-economy-weighs-on-hiring-1-.html
U.K.  unemployment  rose at the
fastest pace in more than a year and wage increases slowed,
providing further evidence the labor market is succumbing to a
weak economy.  Joblessness as measured by International Labour
Organisation methods rose by 70,000 to 2.56 million in the three
months through February, the most since November 2011, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in  London . The
 unemployment rate  climbed to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent in the
previous quarter. The median forecast of 27 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for the rate to stay unchanged.  The figures are a blow to Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
with the labor market previously providing a bright spot in an
economy struggling with an austerity program, accelerating
inflation and a crisis in  Europe , Britain’s biggest trading
partner. The number of people  in work  fell 2,000 in the latest
quarter to 29.7 million, the first drop since October 2011.  “Today’s labor market data provided more evidence that the
previous resilience of the jobs market is fading fast,” said
 Vicky Redwood , chief U.K. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
London. “What’s more, the combination of a slowdown in regular
pay growth and a drop in bonuses left overall average earnings
unchanged on a year ago. More reason, then, to doubt that the
pickup in consumer activity since the  start of the year can be
sustained.”  King Defeated  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  was defeated for a
third month in a push for more stimulus, according to minutes of
this month’s Monetary Policy Committee meeting, published by the
central bank today. Six of the nine-member panel voted to keep
the target for quantitative easing at 375 billion pounds ($575
billion). King,  David Miles  and  Paul Fisher  wanted to increase
it by 25 billion pounds.  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
report and was trading at $1.5303 as of 9:59 a.m. in London,
down 0.4 percent on the day.   Unemployment claims  fell 7,000 in March from February to
1.53 million. The median forecast of 27 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for no change. Underlining the pressure on
household incomes, regular pay growth slowed to 1 percent, the
least since records began in 2001, from 1.3 percent. Bonus
payments fell, leading total pay growth to slow to 0.8 percent,
the lowest since 2009.  A lackluster recovery is taking its toll on jobs.  Axa SA (CS) ,
Europe’s second-largest insurer, plans to cut 450 jobs in the
U.K. as it stops providing financial advice following a change
in regulation.  Recession Risk  Data next week will show whether Britain’s economy entered
its first ever triple-dip recession in the first quarter after
it contracted by 0.3 percent in the final three months of 2012.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its forecasts
for the U.K. economy and said the Bank of England should
consider increasing stimulus to boost the recovery. It also said
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  should consider
easing the pace of budget cuts.  The IMF sees gross domestic product rising 0.7 percent this
year before expanding 1.5 percent in 2014, according to its
World Economic Outlook.  Part-time jobs accounted for all of the decline in
employment in the latest quarter, dropping 62,000 compared with
a 60,000 increase in full-time work, today’s figures showed.  The unemployment total and rate reached its highest level
since July last year. Youth unemployment increased and there was
also a rise in the number of people out of work for longer than
a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  