-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.
FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. The District economy grew moderately overall in recent
weeks, although activity varied by sector. Manufacturing
production continued to expand but at a somewhat slower pace.
Revenues at non-retail services firms steadied at moderate
growth, and tourism strengthened. Retail sales contracted, with
the notable exception of robust light vehicle sales. Lending
remained stable, with a slight uptick in demand for residential
mortgages. The residential real estate sector generally
strengthened, and commercial real estate and construction
markets improved. Cold, wet weather hindered spring plantings by
farmers, while oil and natural gas production maintained a
moderate pace during the past six weeks. Labor markets were
mixed since our last report. Manufacturers’ input and finished
goods prices moved up at a slightly slower rate, and wage
increases also slowed. The pace of price change slowed at
services firms, while wage increases in that sector were more
widespread. Retail prices rose more slowly, and average retail
wages declined.  Manufacturing. Fifth District manufacturing production expanded
at a somewhat slower pace since our last report. A textile maker
reported that his business was slow with the exception of
automotive products. He expected a pickup in non-automotive
business during the next few months, however. A producer of
electrical components told us that business was poor in the U.S.
but good in  Europe  and Latin America. Additionally, a textile
manufacturer indicated that while sales levels had improved, his
outlook remained cautious. Moreover, a dental equipment producer
noted that work volumes had increased earlier this year, but
that the market recently softened. On the other hand, a
manufacturer of technical foam products commented that sales
through the first quarter of 2013 had been solid and he expected
a strong year. According to our latest survey, prices grew at a
slightly slower rate for both raw materials and finished goods.  Ports. We received a variety of reports on District port
activity. A port executive commented that European-bound vessels
were leaving the port lighter than in the past, which he
attributed to weaker economies there. In particular, exports of
construction and agricultural equipment were down since the
start of 2013. In a smaller District port, container shipments
matched year-ago levels, while exports of lumber and plywood
recently picked up, and corn and grain exports from the Midwest
were up over last year’s low, drought-related levels. A contact
in West Virginia remarked on port bottlenecks of coal exports.
Container traffic increased at larger District ports, with
continued strength in trade of auto parts. Drivers of import
growth in recent weeks were consumer housing goods such as
furniture and flooring. The inland port in Greer, South Carolina
remained on target to officially open in the third quarter of
2013; that port is expected to shift cargo from trucks to
railroads.  Retail. Retail sales fell in recent weeks in most categories,
and shopper traffic was down. In Virginia Beach, a store manager
at a chain discount store commented that persistent cold weather
softened overall sales, particularly sales of seasonal items. In
contrast, a few surveyed retailers and wholesalers in
construction-related lines indicated that revenues rose over the
reporting period. Also, auto sales remained constant at high
levels.  Consumer confidence , improved stability in middle-class
home values, and low interest rates underpinned strong sales and
good performance on auto financing. Contacts in the industry
noted that used car prices remained relatively high, narrowing
the spread relative to new car prices. Survey respondents
indicated that overall, retail price increases were less
prevalent since our last report.  Services. Activity at services firms remained steady at a
moderate pace. Seasonal businesses such as tax services and
landscaping reported higher revenues, while most other services
providers noted little change. Prices at services firms rose at
a slower pace, according to our latest survey.  Tourism generally increased over the past month, although most
areas reported delayed spring weather. Cold weather in the
nation’s capital moved the Cherry Blossom Festival’s peak bloom
time into April. A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina
commented that despite cool weather, Easter and spring break
brought plenty of tourists. In addition, an upscale resort in
western North Carolina had higher bookings. A contact in
Charleston, South Carolina noted that the addition of a national
airline is expected to strengthen the local hospitality
industry. Several hoteliers and rental agents across North
Carolina expected to be able to raise transient rates by three
to six percent this year, but they anticipated a decline in
government-rate bookings as a result of sequestration.  Finance. Loan demand remained relatively stable since our last
assessment. Although most bankers reported a slight uptick in
demand for residential mortgages, they noted that demand for
both commercial mortgages and other business loans flattened. An
exception was a banker in North Carolina who cited a modest
increase in business loan demand driven by the need to replace
assets. In addition, no significant changes in delinquencies or
credit quality were reported, apart from improvement reported by
an Eastern Shore banker and a West Virginia contact. Bankers
indicated that competition continued to intensify, compressing
already-tight margins. A few lenders said that their competitors
were lowering collateral requirements and fixing interest rates
for a longer period, just to close deals. Contacts also reported
a decrease in customers’ willingness to take on debt. For
example, a Virginia banker observed that prospective homebuyers
now request a specific monthly payment and no longer inquire
about the maximum amount for which they could qualify.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity generally
strengthened in this reporting period. A contact in North
Carolina stated that residential real estate was booming and
inventories were low. A Realtor in the Washington, D.C. area
reported an increase in purchases for renovation and resale. He
stated that inventory was down thirty-five percent from last
year, and some developers were offering all cash, non-contingent
contracts for well above list price. Similarly, a Realtor in the
metro-Richmond area said foot traffic rose, which he attributed
to the limited supply of homes, pent up demand, and low interest
rates. A contact in  Charlotte  reported that low inventories of
residential building materials had put building permits on hold.
Similarly, a source in Hampton Roads, Virginia reported that
sequestration had put potential buyers on the sidelines.  Commercial real estate and construction markets improved since
our last report. A Richmond Realtor reported a steady increase
in leasing activity. A source in Charlotte cited a rise in land
and retail investment transactions and more hospitality-related
renovations. Most contacts described a tight supply of Class A
office space, with positive absorption and declining vacancy
rates. Several Realtors said that discounts could still be found
for Class B or C space. A representative of a large construction
firm in Baltimore reported that activity was very strong,
especially for healthcare buildings and data centers, and the
outlook was “extremely positive.” A contact in the Washington,
D.C. area also reported several large projects under
construction.  Agriculture and Natural Resources. Cold temperatures and wet
weather delayed land preparation and hindered spring plantings
in the agricultural sector. Hay supplies were running low in
some regions, resulting in higher demand for supplemental
feeding. However, a contact on the Eastern Shore of  Maryland 
stated that poultry production and agriculture were doing well,
grain and land prices were good, and the overall outlook was
positive.  Conventional oil and natural gas production maintained a
moderate pace and the rig count in West Virginia was little
changed since our last report. Coal production declined. A
source in West Virginia attributed the drop to displacement of
coal by natural gas, although coal exports had partially offset
lower domestic demand.  Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market activity were mixed
since our last report. On the one hand, manufacturing firms in
the Carolinas reported temporary layoffs due to softness in
orders, and contacts in sectors from real estate to wholesale
trade to manufacturing said that they were reducing staff or not
expanding due to the Affordable Care Act. On the other hand, a
Maryland firm planned to add 200 to 250 engineers as a result of
the recent pick-up in construction, and a lumber firm increased
its average employee work week. Moreover, contacts from a number
of temp agencies cited stronger demand for workers, resulting in
part from uncertainty about federal fiscal policies. The highest
demand was for information technology workers; short supply
pushed up their wages. Demand for telecommunication workers
picked up, as carriers upgraded systems. Additionally, demand
for automobile industry workers strengthened. According to our
latest surveys, average wages at non-retail services firms rose
more quickly, while manufacturing wages rose at a slower pace in
recent weeks and retail wages declined.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 