-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  The Ninth District economy grew moderately. Increased
activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism, professional
services and manufacturing. Construction and real estate grew at
a fast pace, the energy and agriculture sectors were steady at
high levels, while mining slowed. Labor markets tightened
somewhat, and wage increases were moderate. Overall price
increases were modest.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending increased moderately. March sales at a
Minneapolis-St. Paul area restaurant chain were up about 6
percent from a year ago; demand for catering services was very
strong. Sales activity at a Montana mall was level from a year
earlier, but warmer weather was helping boost traffic over the
past few weeks. Meanwhile, samestore sales at a Minneapolis area
mall were down slightly, while cold, wintry weather during March
reduced traffic levels. A  Minnesota  auto dealer noted a solid
start to 2013, and is cautiously optimistic for a very good
year. Truck sales were strong at dealerships in eastern North
Dakota.  The winter tourism season finished stronger than last year.
Ample snow cover and cold temperatures kept winter tourism
active during March in northern Minnesota and  Wisconsin . A
travel agency in Minnesota noted that leisure travel to warm-
weather destinations was softer than last year as airfare was up
from a year ago; however, bookings to  Europe  were higher.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity continued to increase at a
very fast pace since the last report. The value of March
commercial permits in Billings, Mont., increased over 900
percent from last year. In Sioux Falls, S.D., March permits were
$14 million, up from nearly zero a year ago. A contact at a
Fargo, N.D., real estate company noted that “the medical field
is building like crazy.” Residential construction increased
rapidly from a year ago. The value of March residential building
permits in Billings nearly doubled from last year, and the value
of March permits in Sioux Falls was up over 63 percent from a
year ago. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, March residential
permits were up 21 percent compared with March 2012.  Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since
the last report. A Minneapolis-St. Paul area commercial real
estate broker noted increased strength in the office and
industrial markets. Minneapolis-St. Paul office vacancy rates
during the first quarter of 2013 were down 1.9 percentage points
from a year ago to 17.7 percent. A Fargo broker noted that
recent activity has increased a “fair” amount and that office
vacancy is at 4.8 percent and warehouse vacancy is at 1.6
percent. Residential real estate market activity increased at a
strong pace. Recent home sales were up 12 percent from the same
period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the
inventory of homes for sale was down 30 percent, and median sale
prices rose 16 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, March home
sales were up 5 percent, inventory was down 18 percent and the
median sale price increased 6 percent relative to a year
earlier.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms increased
at a moderate pace since the last report. A home inspector noted
an increase in business due to more homeowners who were
considering selling. A Minnesota travel agency noted an increase
in business travel compared with a year ago. A Minnesota freight
trade group expects volumes and rates to increase this year. A
financial institution noted a significant increase in demand for
loans.  Manufacturing  The District manufacturing sector continued to grow since
the last report. A March survey of purchasing managers by
Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that manufacturing
activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. A Minnesota
architectural glass producer announced a $30 million expansion
at a plant. A transportation vehicle maker in Minnesota was
expanding its facilities. A sawmill in  Montana  restarted
production after sitting idle for more than four years.
Meanwhile, a paper mill in Minnesota cut production.  Energy and mining  Activity in the energy sector was steady at high levels,
while mining slowed. Late-March oil and gas exploration
decreased slightly in Montana and North Dakota from the last
report, but production remained near record levels. A $2.2
billion modernization of Minnesota’s electrical grid is under
way, with an estimated $1 billion to be spent this year. A
diesel refinery broke ground in North Dakota, and a separate
$400 million refinery that will break ground this year was also
announced. A copper-nickel mining development in the Upper
Peninsula halted construction in response to “economic
headwinds” and volatility in metals markets. An iron ore mine in
the Upper Peninsula idled at the end of March.  Agriculture  The District agricultural sector remained in strong
condition heading into the planting season, though persistent
drought remained a threat. Early indications of planting
intentions suggest District farmers plan to increase corn,
soybean and hay acreage this year, with a reduction in wheat
acres. An agricultural cooperative announced $50 million in
investments in the District, including a grain terminal in North
Dakota and a fertilizer depot in Minnesota. Prices received by
farmers increased in March from a year earlier for wheat, corn,
soybeans, hay, chicken, milk and eggs; prices decreased for
cattle, hogs, turkeys and dry beans.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Labor markets tightened somewhat. A company recently
announced plans to add 300 information technology consultant
jobs in South Dakota and North Dakota. A retailer recently
announced plans to build a distribution center in Minnesota that
would create 300 jobs. Businesses in eastern Montana noted
continued challenges attracting and retaining quality workers
due to competition from the nearby oil-drilling region. A record
number of companies participated in a job fair in eastern South
Dakota, reflecting the relatively high availability of jobs in
the area. However, a Minnesota food company laid off 125
workers.  Overall wage increases were moderate. According to a recent
St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Quarterly Business Report, 48 percent of
respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six
months, while 49 percent expect no change. In last year’s
survey, 42 percent expected to increase compensation, while 54
percent expected no change. A contract agreement was recently
reached with a union representing janitors in Minnesota that
would improve wages and health care coverage. Overall price
increases were modest. Minnesota gasoline prices decreased about
20 cents per gallon from late February to early April. Some
metals prices also decreased since the last report. Meanwhile,
bank directors noted increases in health care insurance costs.
Prices for framing lumber have increased steadily over the past
couple months.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 