-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  Aggregate business activity in the Third District has maintained
the modest pace of growth that was evident during the previous
 Beige Book  period. In particular, general services, staffing,
tourism, and commercial real estate leasing continued to expand
at modest rates. General retail activity and residential
construction appear to have decelerated somewhat, to a modest
rate of growth. Sales of new and used autos maintained a
moderate rate of growth as did residential real estate sales.
Transportation services accelerated to a moderate pace of growth
this period. The manufacturing sector reported slight increases
in overall demand - a pickup since last period. Loan growth at
Third District banks softened - growing little, while  credit
quality  continued to improve. Resorts in the Pocono Mountains
maintained good activity, as they shifted from their winter to
spring season. Casino revenues continued to decline. General
price levels, as well as wages and  home prices , were reported to
have increased slightly overall - similar to the last Beige Book
period.  The overall outlook for modest growth remains the same as those
views expressed in the last Beige Book. While some uncertainty
remains as sequestration unfolds, contacts express greater
confidence in the underlying strength of the economy. However,
many contacts continue to hold off on their plans to expand
capacity and hire more staff.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have reported that orders and shipments have risen
slightly. The makers of food products, lumber and wood products,
fabricated metals, industrial machinery, electronic equipment,
and instruments have reported gains since the last Beige Book.
The makers of primary metals reported lower activity. Contacts
have attributed the greatest gains to ongoing auto-related
demand and growing demand from housing-related sectors; the
greatest uncertainty was attached to military-related sectors.
Third District manufacturers remained optimistic that business
conditions will improve over the next six months; their optimism
is expressed broadly across nearly all sectors. A contact from a
lumber and wood products firm reported the best growth prospects
in five years due to a firming housing market; another wood
products firm was hiring to expand capacity to meet growing
demand. However, firms overall have somewhat lowered their
expectations of future hiring and their plans for  capital
spending  since the last Beige Book.  Retail. Third District retailers reported modest growth overall
in February and March. After a falloff in sales (year over year)
at many malls in February, contacts report that March sales were
stronger and that an early Easter should boost the month’s final
results. During March, stores had increased their promotions to
move spring apparel to make way for the arrival III - 2 of the
summer lineup; meanwhile, lingering cold weather had shoppers
still searching for appropriate winter wear. In contrast,
shoppers enjoyed warmer overall temperatures last year,
including one 80-degree day during March to splurge on spring
clothes.  Although February ended with softer sales, auto dealers have
continued to report a moderate pace of overall sales growth
since the last Beige Book. Growth in sales has been as strong as
last year despite worse weather, which has created up-and-down
weekly sales patterns. A late March snowstorm and an early
calendar-year appearance for Passover and Easter may have
dampened sales in the final week of March. Dealers sustained a
positive outlook but maintained lean inventories. Contacts
reported that nearly half of the dealers plan to add staff,
especially for sales and service. Most of the remaining dealers
expect no change in staff levels.  Finance. Overall, loan growth among Third District financial
firms has softened somewhat since the previous Beige Book -
growing little if at all. Contacts suggested the lull might be
partially explained by the relative dearth of big deals in the
wake of the fourth quarter frenzy, plus more immediate concerns
for the pending sequestration impacts. Mortgage refinancings as
a percent of total mortgages fell at many firms (often from as
much as 90 percent to 75 percent). Total loans secured by any
real estate fell slightly during the period. Most bank contacts
report little change in credit standards and slow, steady gains
in quality; many continue to report aggressive behavior from
some of their bank and nonbank competitors. Financial
institutions remain optimistic about future growth; however, the
horizon for this growth appears farther away.  Real Estate and Construction. Homebuilders reported that
contract activity was near plan for February and March. Modest
year-over-year growth rates were slower than last period;
however, more new homes were rising from the ground in the first
quarter of 2013 than in any year since 2008. Compared with
historical patterns, current new construction tends to be
smaller, more affordable, more rental, and more urban. Builders
are prepared to hire if current trends continue but are
reporting that good labor is increasingly scarce. Residential
brokers reported little change in the moderate pace of sales;
however, year-over-year growth in February was modest compared
with last year when weather was unseasonably warm. The existing
inventory of homes continues to fall, and bank contacts reported
that investor loans used to convert residential properties to
rentals are increasing.  Nonresidential real estate contacts reported little change
overall - maintaining modest growth in overall leasing activity
and slight growth in construction. A drop-off in the recently
high level of contract values being bid for construction of
public utilities projects was partially offset by bids for
residential construction (including a $200 million high-rise
apartment and a university dorm project). Many contracts for
repair work from  Hurricane Sandy  have yet to go to bid.
Investors appear to have increased development activity in
 Delaware ’s shore communities in expectation of attracting more
tourists from  New York  and New Jersey. Overall, contacts are
more optimistic, citing increased inquiries, more commitments to
decisions, rather than deferrals, and more deals to approve.  Services. Third District service-sector firms have maintained a
modest pace of growth overall since the last Beige Book. Resorts
in the Poconos were still enjoying an extended ski season, as
their golf season was getting underway. Moderate growth through
their winter season was boosted by early spring holiday
weekends. Expectations that the positive trend will continue
were buoyed by strong bookings for Memorial Day. Strong, early
bookings for summer were also reported by the operators of
Delaware shore hotels, who report getting more inquiries from
 New Jersey  and New York residents this year. However, casino
revenues for February fell by double digits in  Atlantic City  and
by nearly eight percent throughout  Pennsylvania  from the prior-
year levels.  In other sectors, staffing firms reported small increases in
billable hours over the past month and project the trend to
continue for three to six weeks based on their flow of work
orders. Activity at logistics and transport firms grew
moderately. However, firms with defense-related work and other
entities dependent on federal money (e.g., higher education) are
now anticipating somewhat lower levels of employment and
activity for the remainder of this year. Overall, service-sector
firms remain generally optimistic about future growth.  Prices and Wages. Overall,  price levels  continued to increase
slightly, similar to the previous Beige Book. Manufacturing
firms reported only modest cost pressures and a slight decline
in prices received - essentially unchanged from last period.
Auto dealers reported no changes in pricing. Homebuilders
continued to note higher prices, especially for lumber and labor
costs. Higher-end homebuilders reported some ability to make
price increases stick. Real estate contacts continued to report
that low-end  house prices  are firm or rising slightly, while
high-end home prices are still falling in most markets. Outside
of homebuilders, contacts continued to report that wages rose
only slightly, if at all. Contacts continued to relay a wide
range of costs and strategies to provide medical insurance
benefits for their employees; their decision processes remain
fraught with confusion and uncertainty.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 