-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District-- Kansas City.  The Tenth District economy expanded moderately in March, and
expectations for future activity strengthened. District contacts
reported stronger-than-expected consumer spending and
anticipated additional gains this spring. Improvements in
residential and commercial real estate market conditions
exceeded typical seasonal trends with robust sales, higher
prices and brisk construction activity. Although District
manufacturing activity softened, factory managers projected a
rebound in orders, production, and shipments. Bankers reported
stable loan demand, improving loan quality, and stronger
deposits. Persistent drought hindered winter crop development,
while crop insurance payments lessened the demand for operating
loans. District contacts expected oil drilling activity to
strengthen as seasonal demand supports higher oil and gasoline
prices. The prices of raw materials for manufacturing,
construction and food services rose, with some pass-through to
finished goods prices. Though more companies anticipated hiring
additional workers in the coming months, wage pressures remained
subdued except for specialized positions at transportation,
high-tech, energy and construction firms.  Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending was stronger than expected in March and
was expected to strengthen further in the coming months. After
falling during the last survey period, District retailers
reported modest, but stronger-than-expected sales in March and
positive expectations for future sales growth. Lower-priced
items such as apparel and hardware sold well, while demand for
higher-priced premium and custom goods remained weak. Some store
owners noted that the payroll tax increase and cold weather
during March limited sales growth. Auto sales bounced back in
March, and most dealers were optimistic that sales would rise
further during the next few months. Smaller cars and used
vehicles continued to sell well, while dealers reported slower
demand for larger cars, trucks and sport-utility vehicles.
Tourism contacts reported a rise in visitor counts compared to
the last survey and expected a seasonal increase in tourism
spending with warmer weather. District hoteliers indicated that
occupancy rates rose with a slight drop in average room rental
rates. Restaurant owners reported solid sales and slightly
higher average check amounts.  Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activity rose sharply in March, and
commercial real estate activity strengthened. In addition to a
seasonal rise in home sales during the spring, real estate
agents commented that pent-up buyer demand, an improving economy
and low interest rates were driving stronger sales. Low- and
mid-priced homes in good condition continued to sell quickly,
and some real estate contacts noted increased demand for
investment properties. Brisk sales and lower home inventories
spurred further home price increases. Residential mortgage
lenders reported a jump in loan applications for home purchases,
and some real estate contacts were concerned that appraisals
were not reflecting current market conditions amid rapid price
increases. Housing starts were up sharply from the previous
survey, but some builders noted that a lack of available sub-
contractors could constrain construction in the coming months.
Sales at construction supply firms rose with increased building
activity.  Commercial real estate markets improved, and District
contacts expected additional strength in coming months. New
commercial construction edged up and was expected to gain
momentum as vacancy rates trended down and rents moved higher.
Commercial sales activity and real estate prices rose well above
year-ago levels. Developers reported no change in access to
credit.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.  After softening in March, District manufacturing activity
was expected to rebound in the coming months, and sales at
transportation and high-tech service firms improved during the
survey period. District manufacturing activity remained slightly
below year-ago levels driven by weaker durable goods production,
particularly for machinery and fabricated metal products. In
contrast, non-durable goods production rose modestly with an
uptick in food and chemical processing. After falling during the
last survey period, the volume of new orders and shipments
stabilized in March and was expected to strengthen during the
next six months. Export orders, however, remained weak. Looking
ahead, more plant managers planned to add workers and increase
work hours to handle an expected rise in production. Some
District factories and transportation firms were also making
capital investments. Trucking traffic picked up, but qualified
drivers were still in short supply. Business activity at high-
tech firms expanded further, and sales were expected to remain
strong. Some high-tech companies reported difficulty finding
software developers and experienced IT technicians.  Banking.  In the recent survey period, bankers generally reported
stable loan demand, improving loan quality, and stronger
deposits. Bankers reported steady demand for commercial and
industrial loans, residential and commercial real estate loans,
and consumer installment loans. Although residential real estate
loan demand increased for purchases, bankers noted fewer loans
for home refinancing. Bankers reported that interest rates
trended lower on commercial and industrial loans. A majority of
bankers reported improved loan quality compared to a year ago,
and they expected further improvements during the next six
months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major
loan categories, and respondents reported stronger deposit
growth.  Agriculture.  Agricultural growing conditions remained poor in most of
the District. March precipitation provided little relief to
persistent drought, and the winter wheat crop was still in fair
to poor condition. Despite recent declines, crop prices remained
elevated due to short crop supplies, and District farmers did
not plan to significantly alter their current crop mix.
Livestock operators continued to post losses with falling cattle
and hog prices and high feed costs. Pork exports remained weak,
but beef exports edged up, partly due to less restricted trade
with  Japan . Operating loan demand remained soft as crop
insurance payments bolstered farm income. Farmland values rose
further and were expected to stay elevated.  Energy.  In the energy sector, District activity remained solid and
was expected to strengthen slightly heading into summer. An
upswing in oil prices and an anticipated seasonal rise in demand
kept the number of active oil rigs in the District above year-
ago levels. Even though colder than usual temperatures reduced
natural gas inventories and boosted prices, the effect was
expected to be temporary and the number of active natural gas
rigs in the District dipped during March. Looking ahead, some
District contacts were concerned that permitting delays could
constrain oil and gas exploration.  Wyoming ’s coal production
remained well below year-ago levels as more electricity was
being generated from natural gas. District ethanol production
held steady, but profit margins improved recently due to lower
corn prices.  Wages and Prices.  Wage pressures remained relatively subdued during the
survey period, raw materials prices climbed, and some finished
goods prices rose. More firms indicated they would be adding
staff in the coming months to handle an anticipated increase in
business activity, but most were not planning to raise wages.
However, some companies, particularly those recruiting workers
with specialized skills such as engineers, software developers,
and commercial truck drivers, were increasing salaries. The cost
of raw materials for manufacturing remained elevated, and some
firms were raising finished goods prices. Some construction
supply companies reported passing along higher prices for
building materials, particularly lumber, to customers. Retail
prices edged up, and retailers expected prices to trend higher
during the next few months. Restaurant owners planned further
menu price increases due to rising food costs.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 