-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District has expanded at a
moderate pace since our previous report. Recent reports of
planned activity in manufacturing have been positive, while
recent reports of planned activity in the service sector have
been mixed. Residential real estate market conditions have
continued to improve throughout most of the District, and
commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have
also improved in many areas of the District. Total lending at a
sample of small and midsized District banks remained largely
unchanged from mid-December 2012 to mid-March 2013.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been
positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms
reported significant plans to add workers, expand operations, or
open new facilities in the Eighth District, while a smaller
number of manufacturers reported plans to lay off workers. Firms
in printing, food, housewares, automobile parts, jewelry, metal,
lumber products, and beverage manufacturing plan to hire new
employees and expand operations in the near future. In contrast,
a firm that manufactures aircraft parts announced plans to lay
off workers in the District.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service
sector have been mixed since our previous report. Firms in
social and legal services reported plans for new hiring and
expansion in the District. In contrast, firms in religious,
 information technology , business support, healthcare
distribution, data processing, print and publishing, and
transportation services reported plans to lay-off employees.
Reports from retail contacts showed increases in sales and new
store openings. Sales reports from auto dealers have generally
been positive, and a number of contacts in the District
announced plans to open new dealership locations.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of
the Eighth District on a yearover-year basis. Compared with the
same period in 2012, February 2013 year-to-date home sales were
up 12 percent in Louisville, 14 percent in  Little Rock , 4
percent in Memphis, and 11 percent in St. Louis. February 2013
year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the
majority of the District metro areas compared with the same
period in 2012. Permits increased 16 percent in  Memphis  and 36
percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits decreased 8 percent
in Little Rock and remained unchanged in Louisville over the
same period.  Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions
have continued to improve throughout most of the District. A
contact in northeast  Arkansas  reported that commercial real
estate activity was strong in the Jonesboro and Paragould area
but remained flat in other areas. Contacts in Louisville noted
that vacancy rates of commercial and industrial properties
improved. A contact in central Arkansas reported an increase of
commercial real estate activity in Little Rock, and a contact in
St. Louis reported strong office leasing activity in the
northwest and south portions of St. Louis County. Commercial and
industrial construction activity is picking up throughout most
of the District. Contacts in south central Kentucky continued to
report that commercial real estate construction was strong in
the downtown  Bowling Green  area, while contacts in Louisville
reported that industrial real estate construction was strong in
the Shepherdsville area. A contact in Arkansas also reported
several ongoing commercial construction projects in southwest
and west Little Rock.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized
District banks were virtually unchanged from mid-December 2012
to mid-March 2013. Real estate lending, which accounts for 72.8
percent of total loans, increased 1.9 percent. Commercial and
industrial loans, accounting for 15.1 percent of total loans,
increased 3.9 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7
percent of total loans were largely unchanged. All other loans,
accounting for 7.3 percent of total loans, decreased 14.1
percent. During the same period, total deposits at these banks
increased 4.3 percent. Agriculture and Natural Resources Farmers
in the District’s states expect to plant more sorghum and
soybeans in 2013 than was planted in 2012; they also anticipate
planting less corn, cotton, and rice. Additionally, Arkansas and
Mississippi farmers expect to significantly increase corn
acreage while reducing cotton and rice acreage. As of early
April, over 90 percent of the District’s winter wheat crop was
rated in fair or better condition, and over 60 percent was rated
as good to excellent. Year-to-date coal production in the
District’s states (excluding eastern  Kentucky ) at the end of
February was 4.7 percent lower than the same period last year.
Similarly, coal production for February was 5.7 percent lower
than February 2012.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 