-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a
modest pace during the reporting period of late February through
early April. Price increases for most final goods and services
were limited, and upward wage pressures were minimal overall.
Sales of many retail items rose, and most business and consumer
services gained further. District manufacturing activity
appeared to increase on net. Production activity and sales grew
for agricultural producers. Demand for both homes and commercial
real estate properties continued to expand on balance. Contacts
from financial institutions reported increased loan demand.  Prices and Wages  Price increases for most final goods and services were
limited. Reports were mixed for construction materials, with
prices for some products such as cement, logs, and lumber edging
up further; meanwhile, prices for some other metal and wood
products were mostly flat. Contacts from retail grocery and
restaurant chain establishments reported largely constant food
prices as the prices of some of the underlying commodities have
stabilized. Health-care price increases were limited, and fees
for legal services held steady.  Contacts reported that wage gains were contained across
most occupations, industries, and regions in the District.
Restrained hiring plans and ready worker availability have held
down increases in wages and compensation for most sectors and
regions. A shortage of trained engineers continues to prompt
vigorous employer competition and significant compensation gains
for this group across a number of industries. In a few areas
experiencing significant rebounds in housing market activity,
wages of construction workers and experienced mortgage
underwriters have risen. Contacts mentioned downward pressure on
the wages for some low-skilled jobs and government employees.
Most firms expect wage growth between 2% and 4% this year.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales rose on balance. New and used automobile sales
remained at high levels. Among computer and electronic products,
sales of personal computers remained weak relative to sales of
mobile computing devices, including smart phones and tablets.
Demand for some gaming products and apparel picked up, with e-
commerce sales growth for these items outpacing sales growth at
traditional retail stores. Retail grocers reported soft sales,
experiencing intensifying competition from discount and online
retailers. Demand was steady for retail pet products.  Demand for most business and consumer services gained.
Contacts expect more robust growth this year for various
technology services, such as cloud computing and data
processing, compared with modest gains at the end of last year.
Food service providers reported strong sales on net, with some
discount chains faring particularly well. Activity in the
District’s travel and tourism sector advanced, as visitor
counts, expenditures, and occupancy rates climbed in  Hawaii ;
however, reports indicated weaker activity in  Southern
California  in recent weeks. Contacts in the health-care industry
described plans to freeze hiring and scale back  capital
expenditures  in response to the federal spending cuts.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity appeared to step up during
the reporting period of late February through early April.
Contrary to downbeat expectations from earlier in the year
arising from product release challenges, production activity for
commercial aircraft and parts continued to grow robustly.
Manufacturers in defense-related subsectors noted furloughs,
layoffs, and plant closures at some production facilities.
Reports indicated that inventories of semiconductors fell at the
end of last year but remain roughly in line with current demand.
Pharmaceutical goods producers reported modest gains. Wood
product manufacturers stated that demand grew further, fueled
both by recent rebounds in domestic residential construction
activity and demand from  China . Demand for steel products used
primarily in transportation infrastructure and nonresidential
construction projects increased, although overall capacity
utilization for steelmakers remained at a relatively low level.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Agricultural producers noted increased sales and production
activity. Demand for most crop and livestock products grew
further. Agricultural producers faced mostly stable or somewhat
lower petroleum-based fuel and natural gas costs. Supplies of
most raw materials were adequate. However, some contacts
communicated concerns that volatile weather conditions and
limited water availability in parts of the District could pass
through to lower seasonal hiring and reduced agricultural output
in coming months. Reports indicated that electricity and natural
gas sales remained strong for both households and businesses,
and natural gas inventories declined a bit further.  Real Estate and Construction  Activity in residential and commercial real estate markets
continued to gain momentum, with notable gains in selected
locales. Home sales climbed further in most regions, and low
inventory levels coupled with healthy demand supported stable or
increasing prices. Reports indicated that the pace of
residential housing permit issuance increased significantly in
many regions throughout the District. Rental activity for both
single-family and multifamily homes was strong, based on low
vacancy rates and stable rental rates. Construction of
multifamily residential projects expanded further. Commercial
real estate development and leasing activity increased,
particularly in major metropolitan areas across the District,
fueled in large part by sustained growth in the technology
sector.  Financial Institutions  Contacts from financial institutions reported that loan
demand improved. Ramped-up mortgage and automobile lending
continued to spur growth in overall loan demand. Banking
contacts again highlighted ample liquidity and generally stiff
competition among lenders for well-qualified business borrowers.
Contacts also pointed to a recent buildup of privately held
technology companies poised for public offerings. Despite the
clear potential for action, the pace of initial public offerings
and new venture capital deals in the District’s Internet and
digital media subsectors has been relatively slow. By contrast,
private equity financing has shown steady growth in recent
months. Reports indicated modest improvement in  credit quality 
for both business and consumer loans.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Board
 