-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  Summary.  Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded at a
modest pace in March. In general, contacts remained cautiously
optimistic about the economic outlook. Growth in  consumer
spending  edged lower, while growth in business spending picked
up. Manufacturing production growth slowed. Residential
construction continued to rise at a moderate pace, and
nonresidential construction increased slightly. Credit
conditions remained favorable. Cost pressures were largely
unchanged, and wage pressures remained moderate. Prices for
corn, soybeans, milk, and hogs fell, while cattle prices were
little changed on net.  Consumer spending.  Growth in consumer spending edged lower in March. Retailers
reported higher inventory levels in part because lingering
winter weather delayed the introduction of spring-related
merchandise sitting in their warehouses. Some contacts indicated
that the end of the payroll tax credit was having an
increasingly negative effect on retail sales. Nonetheless, sales
during the Easter holiday were largely in-line with
expectations. Home improvement and clothing stores reported
lower sales than during the previous reporting period, but
 discount stores  noted an increase in sales of apparel. Sales of
furniture and appliances also rose, buoyed by the recent upswing
in the housing market. In contrast, auto sales leveled off.
Dealers are still optimistic that sales will rise further year
than last year, and are building inventory for the spring
selling season. Used vehicle prices remained elevated, boosting
trade-in values. In addition, dealers noted that customers’
credit profiles continue to improve, allowing more of them to
qualify for auto loans.  Business spending.  Growth in business spending picked up in March. Inventory
levels increased slightly, and spending on equipment and
software and on structures picked up. However, a number of
manufacturing contacts reiterated that they plan to make  capital
expenditures  this year only as necessary, delaying investments
because of uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook. Labor
market conditions improved slightly. Hiring continued to
increase. Contacts indicated that there is still strong demand
for talent in skilled professional and manufacturing jobs, and
that shortages of qualified candidates remain in many of these
occupations. In addition, a staffing firm reported an increase
in demand for its services from the manufacturing sector. Other
signs of improving labor demand also were reported, such as
greater competition among employers to fill internships this
year and a stronger job market for new college graduates.  Construction/real estate.  Construction and real estate activity increased in March.
Demand for residential construction rose, reflecting both
continued strength in multifamily construction and an improving
single-family housing market. The gains have helped buoy
confidence among homebuilders. Development of single-family
homes in urban areas picked up some after years of limited
activity. More generally,  home prices  have increased for both
new and existing homes, with inventories of homes for sale
shrinking. Growth in nonresidential construction, particularly
for smaller retail stores and in the industrial sector,
continued to be moderate. Commercial real estate conditions also
continued to improve, with rents increasing and vacancy rates
decreasing.  Manufacturing.  Growth in manufacturing production slowed in March. Several
contacts speculated that the uncertainty surrounding
sequestration had affected their customer’s orders. However,
they had yet to see much evidence of this in their shipments.
That said, a contact did note that his military customers were
actively seeking to squeeze out any potential inefficiencies in
their supply chain in an effort to lower their costs in
anticipation of tighter future defense budgets. Demand for steel
was flat, and steel service center inventories were slightly
above desirable levels. Specialty metal manufacturers reported
declines in new orders, although backlogs remained elevated.
Activity in the energy sector was mixed, with natural gas-
related industries reporting stronger activity but the coal
industry remaining weaker. Demand for heavy equipment was also
mixed. Mining activity, particularly for coal, continued to
decline. However, contacts indicated that construction equipment
distributors and rental companies remain optimistic, pointing to
the ongoing recovery in the housing market as a potential source
of strength in the second half of the year. Demand for heavy and
medium-duty trucks remained firm; and the  auto industry 
continued to be a source of strength. Manufacturers of building
materials and consumer products also noted an increase in demand
with the exception of lawn and garden equipment.  Banking/finance.  Credit conditions remained favorable over the reporting
period. Credit spreads and financial market volatility continued
to be low. Banking contacts reported moderate growth in business
lending, especially to small businesses and for the purposes of
expanding and upgrading of facilities. Real estate lending also
reportedly picked up. Increased competition for borrowers was
noted to be putting downward pressure on pricing and loosening
commercial and industrial loan standards. Consumer borrowing
also rose modestly, with a further increase in auto lending
reported over the reporting period. Several financial contacts
noted that the recent rise in equity and home prices appear to
be boosting  consumer confidence  and spending. That said, a
financial services industry contact indicated that consumer
borrowing had been lower than anticipated given recent increases
in consumer spending.  Prices/costs.  Cost pressures were roughly unchanged, on balance, in
March. Commodity prices were down slightly, and energy prices
remained elevated. Scrap metal prices continued to decline, and
a contact in the industry speculated that weaker demand from
 China  was largely to blame. Contacts did note some upward price
pressure on raw materials such as chemicals, lumber, and
concrete as well as on transportation costs, but said that pass-
through to downstream prices was limited. Retailers reported
mostly modest wholesale price increases. Wage pressures remained
moderate, although several contacts indicated increasing concern
over the rising cost of healthcare. Other cost pressures that
were mentioned included higher property taxes and regulatory
costs.  Agriculture.  Cold weather delayed field work during the reporting
period, but there was little concern expressed by contacts that
planting would be seriously delayed. Corn and soybean prices
dropped based on expectations of a larger crop this year and
current stocks that are not as tight as anticipated. Contacts
indicated that the number of soybean acres should be higher than
the prior year in the District, while corn acres should be
lower. Farmers seemed to increase their levels of crop insurance
relative to last year. Milk prices moved lower during the
reporting period, but remained above the levels of a year ago.
Hog prices fell and were under year-ago levels. Cattle prices
moved sideways during the reporting period, but were below the
levels of a year ago. Some livestock producers were reportedly
taking advantage of low long-term  interest rates  by refinancing
and lengthening the maturity of their debt.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 