-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a slightly faster
pace over the past six weeks than during the previous reporting
period, when growth was moderate. Many manufacturing firms noted
that activity increased since the last report. In the
nonfinancial services sector, legal and accounting demand
increased, although staffing firms reported sluggish demand.
Retail sales and auto sales were up. Robust housing demand led
to price gains, and commercial real estate activity remained
strong. Lenders noted moderate growth in loan demand, and
activity in the energy sector remained at high levels. Drought
conditions remained prevalent in the agricultural sector.
Reporting firms said prices remained stable overall, and there
were limited reports of wage pressure. Employment levels were
steady to up. Prices Most responding firms said prices were
stable, although housing contacts said home prices increased at
a fast pace, and cotton prices increased according to
agriculture contacts. Staffing firms noted no change in rates,
and accounting firms said rates were flat to slightly up. Food
producers said selling prices were up since January but do not
expect more increases going forward. One airline said ticket
prices were up slightly. Retail prices and auto prices were
steady. Financial services contacts said loan pricing was flat
to down.  Oil prices  fell slightly, as the price of WTI averaged
under $94 per barrel over the past six weeks. A late winter
reduced natural gas inventories and pushed prices above $3.65.
Gasoline and diesel prices increased since the last report.  Labor Market  Employment held steady or increased at most responding
firms. Food manufacturers and airlines said employment had
increased, and reports of scattered hiring came from some
accounting and finance firms, retailers, auto dealers and
transportation manufacturers. Several contacts noted difficulty
finding qualified people to fill open positions, particularly in
banking, auto sales and manufacturing. Staffing firms said the
supply of labor was tight in the Houston energy sector. Wage
pressures remained largely subdued, although wage increases for
experienced or topperforming workers were reported in
accounting, legal and financial services. Increased labor costs
were also noted in energy services.  Manufacturing  Construction-related manufacturers said demand was flat to
up slightly. A lumber contact noted a seasonal increase in
demand for the first time in several years. A cement producer
said demand remained strong, particularly for residential
construction projects. Expectations among construction-related
producers are for increases in demand, and contacts believe 2013
will be stronger than 2012. Fabricated metals producers reported
a broad-based increase in demand over the reporting period.
Demand reports from primary metals manufacturers were mixed and
below year-ago levels. Reports on high tech orders were mixed
across customer groups. Semiconductor producers reported
stronger demand from industrial users, such as automotive, but
continued weak demand from communication device and personal
computer manufacturers. Most contacts expect moderate
improvement over the next three to six months.  Demand for paper products fell over the reporting period;
contacts remained cautious in their outlooks but expect to see
an increase in May or June. Food contacts noted demand was much
better than anticipated and was up from the last report and from
a year ago. Respondents were making significant  capital
expenditures  in anticipation of further increases in activity.
Transportation manufacturers noted a pickup in demand. Sales of
recreational vehicles increased after experiencing a seasonal
slump during the last reporting period. Demand for aviation
equipment continued to rise due to a recent large project.
Transportation manufacturing contacts expect 2013 to be about
the same or better than 2012.  Petrochemicals producers said Gulf Coast chemical
production was stronger than a year ago. Contacts noted refinery
operating rates and margins were up over the reporting period,
partly due to normal seasonal trends.  Retail Sales  Retail sales were up since the previous report and from a
year ago, according to contacts.  Texas  continued to perform
well, and according to one national retailer the rate of sales
growth in Texas outperformed the nation during the reporting
period. Prices remained stable since the last report. Some
contacts added employees in line with expanding operations.
Outlooks for the quarter ranged from cautiously positive to
good, and contacts expect steady growth for the remainder of the
year. Automobile sales were strong and picked up since the last
report, partly due to seasonality. Inventories varied by
manufacturer, but all contacts noted inventories were slightly
lower than desired. Selling prices held steady, as the market
remained very competitive. Head count was up slightly from a
year ago, and hours worked were flat over the reporting period.
Outlooks for the second quarter and the rest of the year were
good. Uncertainty and increasing expenses are challenges that
dealerships continue to face.  Nonfinancial Services  Staffing firms said demand was flat or down since the last
report. Responding placement firms noted activity in most
sectors was sluggish, with the exception of energy related
activity in Houston and overall demand for residential
construction workers. Outlooks were mixed, but better than
earlier in the year. Accounting firms noted continued strong
demand for their services. Demand for energy, audit, insurance,
consulting work and transactions was robust, while demand for
tax services remained flat. Outlooks were optimistic. Legal
firms said growth in demand for their services was weaker than
expected, with the exception of strong real-estate related
activity. Outlooks were optimistic, with contacts expecting a
pickup in activity over the next three months. Reports from
transportation service firms were positive. Railroad contacts
said volumes picked up since the last report. Petroleum
shipments continued to be strong, and contacts noted healthy
volumes of some construction-related products, including lumber
and wood and crushed stone. Intermodal cargo volumes increased
slightly, and shipping companies said small parcel shipments
grew strongly, propelled by retail trade. Air cargo volumes were
flat during the reporting period as increases in domestic
shipments were offset by declines in international shipments.  Airline contacts said passenger demand increased slightly
since the last report, in part due to spring-break related
travel. Contacts expect demand to strengthen in the summer
months and the outlook is for slight improvement in 2013 over
2012.  Construction and Real Estate  Texas  home prices  rose rapidly due to strong demand and
very low inventories. Some builders were still finding financing
difficult. Outlooks for the single-family housing sector were
positive, but price gains are expected to slow later in the year
as building activity picks up. Contacts said apartment demand
remains strong, in part, thanks to strong job growth and
migration. Commercial real estate contacts reported that gains
in occupancy and rents may be slowing property sales as owning
has become more profitable. Most contacts noted banks were more
aggressive with lending, and Texas office and warehouse markets
were improving.  Financial Services  Financial institutions reported broad-based growth in loan
demand. Consumer lending improved, with solid growth in mortgage
and automobile lending activity. Commercial lending grew at a
moderate pace, and energy-related activity remained strong in
Houston, Austin,  San Antonio  and the Eagle Ford area. Commercial
real estate and home equity lending activity has started to
bounce back from low levels, noted contacts. Non-performing
loans continued to decline. Loan pricing remained very
competitive. Deposits and deposit rates remained mostly
unchanged. Outlooks were optimistic, and contacts expect growth
in loan demand and deposits to continue in the near term.  Energy  Energy activity was slightly improved, and respondents at
energy-related service firms seemed more confident that the
number of active drilling rigs may have bottomed out. Margins
for services, particularly pressure pumping, remained tight, and
contacts reported little change in pricing pressures otherwise.
Contacts said drilling activity was flat over the reporting
period and continue to expect improvement in the second half of
the year, particularly in the  Gulf of Mexico . Agriculture
Drought conditions worsened slightly across the District over
the reporting period. Nearly half of the Texas wheat crop was in
poor or very poor condition, and spring crops were largely being
planted into very dry soil. Texas feedlots continued to run
negative margins, due in part to feed costs remaining elevated.
Cotton was a bright spot, with continued strong demand and
rising prices.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 