-- U.S. Credit Swaps Rise; Softbank Said to Plan $2 Billion in Debt
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-17T21:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-rise-before-fed-releases-beige-book.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose as a business survey from the  Federal Reserve  showed
“moderate” growth in the economy and as analysts forecast a
decline in corporate earnings.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 2.3
basis points to a mid-price of 84.2 basis points at 4:29 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings at companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
dropped 1.4 percent in the first three months of the year,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 60
firms that posted  results , 70 percent have beaten estimates for
profit this season and 52 percent have exceeded forecasts for
sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With some of the data that’s come out, people see that
it’s not going to be a quick, strong recovery,”  Mirko Mikelic ,
a  money manager  at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Grand Rapids ,
Michigan, said today in a telephone interview.  “No one expects
earnings to be great, just OK. Things are just going to take
some time.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Measured Growth  The Fed said the measured growth in the U.S. was led by the
manufacturing, housing and automobile industries, according to
its Beige Book report, a survey that analyzes economic
conditions in 12 U.S. districts.  Consumer spending  grew modestly, while employment
conditions were unchanged or “improved somewhat,” the Fed’s
business survey said. Officials are debating when to curtail
their unprecedented bond buying based on the outlook for the
labor market.  “Housing has been doing better and corporate balance
sheets are pretty well positioned,”  Paul Scanlon , co-head of
the fixed-income team at Putnam Investments LLC in Boston, said
in a telephone interview. “But you’ve had a little
disappointment in employment lately. There’s been a little bit
of a slowdown in some of the data.”  Softbank Corp. (9984) , the Japanese telecommunications company
vying with  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  to acquire  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , is
preparing to sell $2 billion of bonds.  Acquisition Financing  The company may sell seven-year notes denominated in
dollars and euros this week, according to a person familiar with
the transaction who asked not to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The bonds may yield 4.5 percent to 4.75 percent, and
the sale is not contingent on the deal’s closing. Softbank began
marketing the debt last week with part of the proceeds intended
to be used for the Sprint transaction, the person said.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index climbed 9.3 basis points to 408 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  There were eight defaults among U.S. companies, affecting
$8 billion of debt in the first three months of 2013, compared
with 15, comprising $7 billion of debt, a year earlier,
according to a report today from Moody’s Investors Service. The
media and energy industries accounted for most of the defaults
in this year’s first quarter.  “Solid demand from fixed-income investors for bonds and
leveraged loans, along with low  interest rates , have contributed
to the low default count,” Moody’s analysts led by Lenny Ajzenman said in the report. “Companies have taken advantage of
accessible bond and loan markets to refinance pending
maturities.”  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt widened 6.6 basis points to 540.4 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  