-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Sixth District business contacts reported that economic
activity continued to advance at a modest pace from mid-February
through March. Reports across sectors were generally positive
and expectations for the coming months remained optimistic.  Retail reports were mixed with some retailers citing improved
sales and others feeling the pinch from a constrained consumer.
Hospitality contacts reported healthy activity in both leisure
and business travel. Homebuilders and brokers experienced
further improvements in sales and prices of new and existing
homes, and inventories continued to decline on a year-over-year
basis. Commercial contractors noted a strong year to date as
construction levels improved from late last year. Overall,
manufacturing activity remained positive as new orders and
production increased. Loan demand remained steady according to
bankers. Payrolls continued to grow at a tepid pace as firms
remained reluctant in hiring due to uncertainty over fiscal
policy and healthcare reform. Prices remained stable and most
firms continued to report having relatively little pricing
power.  Consumer Spending and Tourism. District merchants reported mixed
results from mid-February through March. Several contacts
indicated improvements in profit margins and sales over the last
three months, while others noted that they experienced the
result of consumers taking a hit with the expiration of the
payroll tax cut, increased fuel prices, a delay in income tax
refunds, and increased health insurance premiums. Yet, even with
these challenges, most retailers remained reasonably upbeat.
District automotive contacts cited favorable sales for the same
time period.  Travel and tourism activity remained robust and continued to
exceed expectations, especially in the leisure segment. Although
government and business bookings decreased due to location
restrictions and/or budgetary constraints, overall demand
remained healthy. Concerns that gas prices could dampen summer
travel continued; however, hospitality contacts anticipate
activity to still exceed 2012 levels. International visitation
for leisure and convention travel continued to be a strong
contributor to growth despite the strength of the dollar.  Real Estate and Construction. According to District brokers,
housing markets across the region continued to improve. Recent
sales growth was described as strong on a year-over-year basis.
Existing home inventories continued to contract and brokers
noted that this was restraining sales. Furthermore, many
reported receiving multiple offers on properties, particularly
at the low-end of the market. Most indicated that home prices
rose modestly compared with a year earlier. Appreciation was
strongest among Florida contacts. Overall, the outlook for
existing home sales growth over the next several months remained
positive.  Similar to our last report, homebuilders reported that recent
new home sales were ahead of year earlier levels, and they noted
improving levels of buyer traffic across the region. Just over
half said that new home inventories were below the year-ago
level. The portion of builders characterizing home prices as up
relative to a year ago also rose compared to our previous
report. Reports also cited that new home construction was ahead
of last year’s level. Contacts remarked that access to
construction financing had improved somewhat from late last
year, but the majority continued to report that the number of
actual loans made was still short of demand. The outlook for
construction activity and new home sales over the next several
months remained positive with most anticipating levels to be
slightly ahead on a year-over-year basis.  District commercial real estate contacts indicated that the
first quarter of this year had started off solid compared with
the end of last year. Commercial brokers reported that net
absorption was positive. Contacts also noted growing optimism as
businesses in the office and industrial sector began to position
themselves for growth over the next 12 to 18 months. However,
the demand for retail space remained soft across most of the
region. Contacts remarked that investor interest had spread to
secondary and tertiary markets, particularly in the apartment
sector where demand had been especially strong. Commercial
contractors cited that construction improved from late last year
and backlogs were up as well. Activity was dominated by build-
to-suit projects. Most contacts expect District commercial real
estate markets to improve further this year.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Regional manufacturers
reported that activity expanded for the third consecutive month
in March. Increases in new orders, production, employment, and
finished inventory contributed to the highest level of
manufacturing activity since May 2012. Contacts noted profit
margins slightly improved from mid-February through March.
However, they do not expect production to be as high in the
coming months as they had in our previous report.  District trucking contacts reported a slowdown in volume, citing
reduced imports of retail goods from west coast ports, along
with poor weather conditions. Still, volumes were ahead of year
earlier levels. Strong movement of housing-related materials was
cited as the housing recovery continued. Railroad companies
described activity as flat to slightly down. Chemicals and oil
and gas showed the strongest growth, while coal reflected some
softening, particularly in export of thermal coal. Intermodal
growth remained solid and the movement of forest products also
improved. Domestic air freight traffic was up slightly, and
international tonnage grew compared to the same period last
year, marked by increases in Asian volumes and exports to  Europe 
and Latin America, specifically  Brazil .  Banking and Finance. Driven by historically low rates, consumers
continued refinancing mortgage loans and businesses continued
restructuring debt. Competition remained intense for high
quality loan applicants and community bankers noted that large
regional and national banking organizations were more willing to
offer lower fixed-rate, longer-termed loans to attract these
customers. Many community banking contacts indicated that their
institution had exited the mortgage lending business altogether
because of increased regulations. Some stated that commercial
real estate loan demand had increased, particularly for branded
hotel construction, healthcare, and multi-family projects. Banks
also cited more willingness to lend to small businesses;
however, the overall demand for loans and credit line usage
continued to remain low. Credit spreads remained tight and some
bankers reported downward pressure on loan pricing.  Employment and Prices. Since our last report, payroll growth
continued to increase at a lackluster pace across the District,
though contacts continued to report that uncertainty over fiscal
policy and healthcare reform were contributing to reluctance in
hiring. In Florida and  Georgia , the two states in the District
with the largest concentrations of employment, unemployment
rates declined slightly since the previous report, while
unemployment rates have fluctuated in the four other states due
to changes in the size of those states’ labor force.  Input costs remained mostly stable. Increases in prices for fuel
and construction materials were viewed by most firms as
transitory. Year-ahead unit cost expectations were 1.9 percent
in February and March, roughly unchanged since the beginning of
the year, according to the Atlanta Fed’s Business Inflation
Expectations Survey. Most businesses noted very little pricing
power. Exceptions were transportation contacts who were able to
successfully cover cost increases using fuel surcharges, and
retailers, whose profit margins improved as sales levels ticked
up somewhat over the reporting period.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. The energy industry remained
an especially bright spot in the region. In particular, projects
to increase the Gulf Coast’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) export
capacity--through investment in new LNG export facilities at
ports and new transportation infrastructure, like pipeline and
LNG tanks--were strong drivers of capital and labor demand.  Drought conditions improved significantly in Georgia,
southeastern  Alabama , and the Florida panhandle. Since the last
report, monthly soybean and corn prices rose moderately, while
broiler prices reached record highs. Cotton prices continued to
be below year-ago levels, but rose modestly since the last
report. Driven by increasing global demand and low interest
rates, contacts reported continued investment in new, more
efficient equipment reducing both labor and fuel costs.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 