-- U.S. Federal Reserve April Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-april-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text
of the  Federal Reserve  Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest
overall economic activity expanded at a moderate pace during the
reporting period from late February to early April.  Activity in the Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis,  Minneapolis , and
 Kansas City  Districts was characterized as growing at a moderate
pace, while the  Boston , Philadelphia, Atlanta,  Chicago , and San
Francisco Districts noted modest growth. The New York and  Dallas 
Districts indicated that the pace of expansion accelerated
slightly since the previous Beige Book.  Most Districts noted increases in manufacturing activity since
the previous report. Particular strength was seen in industries
tied to residential construction and automobiles, while several
Districts reported uncertainty or weakness in defense-related
sectors. Consumer spending grew modestly, and firms in some
Districts cited higher gasoline prices, expiration of the
payroll tax cut, and winter weather as factors restraining sales
growth. Retailers in several Districts expect continued sales
growth in the near term. Overall vehicle sales remained strong
or increased, but sales of used automobiles declined in some
Districts. Travel and tourism expanded across most reporting
Districts, boosted by both business and leisure travel.  Demand for nonfinancial services increased at a modest pace, and
several Districts noted growth in freight and transportation
services. Most Districts said residential and commercial real
estate improved markedly since the last report.  Home prices  were
rising in many areas of the country. Loan demand was steady to
slightly up in most Districts. Reports on agricultural
conditions were mixed, as drought or cold weather adversely
impacted some Districts while others reported a strong
agricultural sector. Oil and natural gas activity remained
robust over the reporting period, with contacts in the
Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts expecting a rise in
activity in coming months, while coal production continued to
decline.  Employment conditions remained unchanged or improved somewhat,
and reports Of hiring were most prevalent in the manufacturing,
residential construction, information technology, and
professional services sectors. Wage pressures were generally
contained, although several Districts cited upward pressures in
occupations experiencing labor shortages, such as  information
technology , construction, and engineering. Aside from reports of
increases  * Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas based on
information collected on or before April 5, 2013. This document
summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts
outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views
of Federal Reserve officials.  in home prices and residential construction materials, price
pressures remained mostly subdued across Districts.  Outlooks among respondents remained optimistic across sectors
and Districts, With growth mostly expected to continue at the
same or a slightly improved pace. Some uncertainty remained,
primarily regarding fiscal policy and health care reform.  Manufacturing Manufacturing activity held steady or increased in
most Districts since the previous  Beige Book . The pace of growth
picked up in the Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Dallas, and
San Francisco Districts, while the Richmond and Chicago
Districts noted that the pace of growth in production was slower
than earlier this year. Contacts in the Boston District reported
mixed conditions, and manufacturing activity held steady in the
New York District.  Manufacturing conditions in the Kansas City District continued
to soften, driven by weaker durable goods production, although
factory managers project a rebound in coming months. Firms in
the New York, Philadelphia, and Dallas Districts were broadly
optimistic about prospects for 2013, while cautious optimism was
expressed by manufacturers in the Cleveland District, and mixed
outlooks were expressed in the Boston District. Contacts in the
Atlanta District do not expect future production to be as high
as previously projected.  Strength in residential construction spurred manufacturing
increases in several Districts. There were widespread reports of
growth in demand for wood products; a contact in the
Philadelphia District noted the best growth prospects in five
years, a sawmill in  Montana  restarted production after idling
for more than four years, and a Dallas District lumber firm
noted a seasonal demand increase for the first time in several
years. The  auto industry  remained a source of strength for
several Districts, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago,
 St. Louis , and Minneapolis. Gains were reported by food
manufacturers in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts, and food
contacts in the St. Louis and Dallas Districts plan to expand
operations or make significant  capital expenditures . In the
Cleveland District, suppliers to the shale gas industry cited
strong activity, and increased activity in natural-gas related
industries was seen in the Chicago District. Electronic
equipment and instruments manufacturers in the Philadelphia
District and high tech firms in the Kansas City District noted
gains over the reporting period, iii while reports on high tech
orders in the Dallas District were mixed across customer groups,
and semiconductor firms in the Boston District said sales
continued to languish.  Numerous Districts reported uncertainty or weakness in military
or defense-related sectors. San Francisco District defense-
related manufactures noted furloughs, layoffs, and plant
closures at some production facilities, and military customers
in the Chicago District were taking measures to lower costs in
anticipation of tighter future defense budgets. Lower activity
was indicated by makers of primary metals in the Philadelphia
District, and Chicago District specialty metal manufacturers
noted declines in new orders. Demand for steel was relatively
flat in the Cleveland and Chicago Districts, while firms in the
San Francisco District saw an increase in demand for steel
products used primarily in transportation infrastructure and
nonresidential construction projects. Reports from fabricated
metals producers were mixed across Districts, with increases
noted in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts while weaker
production was noted in the Kansas City District.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism Most Districts reported increases
in retail spending. Firms in the New York, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts noted sales increased at a modest to
moderate pace. Most retailers in the Boston District said demand
was slower than expected. Sales activity was mixed according to
the Atlanta District’s report, and retail spending declined in
the Richmond and Chicago Districts. Demand for apparel rose in
the Boston, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts,
and sales of furniture and appliances in the Chicago District
were buoyed by improvements in the housing market. Sales of
electronics rose in the Cleveland District, and the San
Francisco District report indicated strong demand for mobile
computing devices. Contacts in some Districts cited higher
gasoline prices, expiration of the payroll tax cut, and winter
weather as factors restraining sales growth. Looking ahead,
retailers in several Districts expect modest sales growth in the
near term. In particular, the St. Louis District reported new
store openings, and some retailers in the Dallas District said
they have added employees in line with expanding operations.  Overall, automobile sales remained strong or increased
moderately since the last report. The exception was a slight
decline in sales of used vehicles in the New York and Cleveland
Districts. A number of contacts in the St. Louis District
reported plans to open new dealership Iv locations, and dealers
in the Chicago District were building inventories for the spring
selling season. Used vehicle prices remained high. Outlooks were
mostly positive, and contacts in the Cleveland, Chicago,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts expect sales to
increase in coming months. However, some auto dealers in the
Cleveland District expressed concern about the potential
negative impact of fiscal policy on consumer spending.  Reports from most Districts pointed to continued strength in
travel and tourism, bolstered by both the business and leisure
segments. Business travel remained robust in the Boston,
Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts, and foreign visitors
continued to boost convention travel according to the Atlanta
District. The Minneapolis District noted that winter tourism
activity was stronger than last year, and spring-break related
travel bolstered tourism in the Richmond District. Restaurants
in the Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts noted increased
sales. Bookings were strong at some resorts in the Philadelphia
and Richmond Districts, and hotels in Manhattan, Hawaii, and the
Kansas City District noted solid gains in occupancy rates. In
contrast, business at restaurants and museums in the Boston
District softened in part due to unfavorable weather conditions.
Attendance and revenues were slightly lower at Broadway
theaters, casino revenues fell in the Philadelphia District, and
tourism activity weakened in Southern California during the
reporting period.  Nonfinancial Services
Demand for nonfinancial services expanded at a modest pace since
the previous report. The Kansas City and San Francisco Districts
noted solid growth in information technology services, and
contacts expect demand to remain robust through year-end. The
Boston District reported strong demand for healthcare consulting
services partly due to changes resulting from the Affordable
Care Act, while healthcare firms in the San Francisco District
indicated plans to freeze hiring and scale back capital
expenditures in response to federal spending cuts. Defense
related and other firms dependent on the federal government in
the Philadelphia District said they expect a decline in activity
for the remainder of the year.  Activity expanded for professional and business services, such
as accounting, advertising, marketing, consulting, and legal
services. Consulting services remained strong in the Boston
District, and firms in the Dallas District noted strength in
accounting services. Advertising and marketing firms in the
Boston District said an uptick in growth for their services was
buoyed by stronger financial positions of clients. The St. Louis
District noted plans for hiring and expansion in social and
legal services, while the Dallas District report indicated
weaker-than-expected growth in demand for legal services.  Transportation service activity increased since the previous
report.  Air travel  improved in the Dallas District, in part due
to spring-break related activity. Intermodal cargo volumes moved
higher in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts, and activity at
logistics and transport firms in the Philadelphia District grew
at a moderate rate. Trucking traffic picked up in the Kansas
City District, and trucking cargo volumes were above year ago
levels according to Atlanta’s report. Railroad contacts in the
Dallas District said shipments grew, particularly for petroleum
and construction-related products, and freight transportation
volumes were higher than expected in the Cleveland District.
According to Richmond’s report, container traffic increased at
larger ports in the District because of continued strength in
shipments of auto parts. Air freight volumes rose in the Atlanta
District, and small parcel shipments grew strongly in the Dallas
District. However, railroad shipments were flat to slightly down
in the Atlanta District, and a contact in the Richmond District
said that European-bound vessels were leaving the port lighter
than in the past, particularly due to a decline in construction
and agricultural equipment exports.  Real Estate and Construction
Residential real estate activity continued to improve in most
Districts, and some Districts, including Cleveland, Richmond,
Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco,
noted increased momentum since the last report. The New York
District, in particular, noted especially strong improvement in
residential real estate--both in for-sale housing and apartment
markets.  Home sales continued to rise in most Districts. Although
homebuyer demand was high in the Boston District, low home
inventories were restraining sales, keeping growth modest. Home
sales were reportedly strong in both the Atlanta and Dallas
Districts. The Richmond District noted low inventories were
pushing up contracts to well above listing prices, and the
Boston and New York Districts said multiple bids on properties
have become more common.  Tight inventories and strong sales led to rising home prices in
many Districts, including Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco. Within the New York District, condo
sales volumes strengthened and low inventories have begun to
drive up selling prices in New York vi City and surrounding
areas, while New Jersey home prices were rising modestly and
inventories were shrinking with a marked reduction in the number
of distressed properties. Contacts in the Boston District also
noted a decline in the stock of distressed properties.  New  home construction  continued to pick up in most Districts,
although the Richmond District said that a low supply of
residential building materials had stalled construction. Only
the Philadelphia District noted that residential construction
decelerated somewhat, although home sales were still growing
moderately. Multifamily construction increased in several
Districts including Boston, Chicago, and San Francisco. The New
York District noted apartment rents accelerated in early 2013,
due to stronger demand coupled with historically low
inventories. The Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts
said apartment demand remained strong.  Commercial real estate and construction activity improved in
most Districts. Office vacancy rates declined in the Boston
District and contacts said the construction of mixed-use
projects was picking up. The New York District reported that
office vacancy rates continued to decline and rents rose in
Manhattan. The Philadelphia District commented that there was
not much change in nonresidential activity during the reporting
period, but that contracts for repair work from  Hurricane Sandy 
have yet to be approved. Contacts in the Richmond District cited
a tight supply of class A  office space  and said there were
several large projects under construction in the Washington D.C.
area. Commercial construction saw widespread improvement with
the New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City
Districts noting increases. Both commercial real estate
development and leasing activity increased across the San
Francisco District, mostly fueled by growth in the technology
industry. Several Districts, including Boston, Richmond,
Atlanta, and Kansas City said commercial property investment
sales activity increased during the reporting period.  Contacts in the Philadelphia and Kansas City Districts were
somewhat optimistic in their outlooks for the commercial real
estate and construction markets in general, but contacts in the
Cleveland District were cautious about near-term construction
activity. Dallas District contacts said office and warehouse
markets were improving, and Atlanta District respondents noted
growing optimism for the office and industrial sectors.    Banking and Finance
Loan demand was steady to slightly up at most District Banks
that commented on lending. The Philadelphia District, however,
said loan volumes softened somewhat since the previous report.
The New York District noted widespread increases in loan demand,
particularly for commercial loans and residential mortgages, and
the Cleveland District said business and consumer loan demand
picked up since the last report. The Dallas District saw broad-
based improvement in loan demand as energy-related lending
remained strong and commercial real estate and home equity
lending bounced up from low levels. The San Francisco District
said increased growth in automobile and  mortgage loans  spurred
overall improvements in loan demand. Several Districts,
including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago,
Dallas, and San Francisco, said loan pricing was very
competitive.  Reports on mortgage lending were mostly favorable. Stronger
refinancing activity was cited by the New York and Atlanta
Districts. The Cleveland and Kansas City Districts noted a shift
from mortgage refinancing to new purchases, and the New York,
Richmond, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported an uptick
in residential mortgage loans.  Most District banks said credit conditions remained favorable,
with improved  credit quality  for business and consumer loans.  Agriculture and Natural Resources
Agricultural conditions were mixed across Districts, largely due
to varying weather patterns. Drought persisted in the Kansas
City District and worsened slightly in the Dallas District,
straining the respective winter wheat crops and causing
continued losses in the livestock sector. However, drought
conditions improved significantly in much of the Atlanta
District, and the winter wheat crop in the St. Louis District
was largely in good condition. Cold weather delayed field
preparation for spring planting in the Richmond and Chicago
Districts. The Minneapolis District’s agricultural sector
remained strong, and producers in the San Francisco District
noted increased production as well as higher demand. Farmers in
the Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts plan to
increase soybean acreage this year but were mixed in their plans
for corn and other grain acreage. Contacts in the Chicago
District noted that corn and soybean prices dropped over the
reporting period based on expectations of a larger crop this
year and current stocks not being as tight as anticipated.  Oil and natural gas production generally held steady at moderate
to high levels since the last report. Drilling activity was
stable over the reporting period, but contacts in the Kansas
City and Dallas Districts expect a rise in coming months. Output
in some wet gas regions of the Cleveland District is expected to
increase later in the year as new gas processing units come
online. The energy sector was a bright spot in the Atlanta
District, as projects to increase the Gulf Coast’s liquefied
natural gas (LNG) export capacity drove capital and labor
demand. Across the country, coal production continued to
decline, with lower output reported by the Cleveland, Richmond,
St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts.  Employment, Wages, and Prices
Labor market conditions remained unchanged or improved slightly,
and reports of hiring were more widespread in the manufacturing,
residential construction, information technology, and
professional services sectors. Several Districts noted robust
demand for workers tied to the residential construction sector,
including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco. In
particular, a lumber and wood products firm in the Philadelphia
District said the firming housing market had resulted in the
best growth prospects in five years. Demand for information
technology professionals and engineers was strong in the New
York, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco
Districts. Staffing firms in the Cleveland and Chicago Districts
noted an increase in orders from the manufacturing sector, and
several manufacturers in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts
said they planned on expanding their payrolls. Reports from the
New York and Richmond Districts indicated strong demand for
temporary workers. The Minneapolis District noted a tightening
labor market, and along with the Dallas District cited continued
challenges in attracting and retaining workers in areas close to
oil-drilling regions. The Chicago District cited a stronger job
market for new college graduates and more competition among
employers to fill intern positions. Contacts in several
Districts faced difficulties finding highly trained or skilled
workers, especially in the information technology and
engineering fields. In contrast, hiring activity was limited in
the Boston and Cleveland Districts, demand for staffing services
softened in the Dallas District, and some Districts, including
Richmond and Atlanta, reported restrained hiring due to
uncertainty over fiscal policy or healthcare reform.  Overall upward wage pressures continued to be fairly modest.
There were a few exceptions, however. Several Districts reported
wage pressures in sectors experiencing labor shortages, such
as information technology, construction, and engineering. The
Kansas City District noted wage increases for commercial truck
drivers, and the Richmond District reported widespread wage
increases in the service sector. Rising healthcare costs were a
concern among contacts in a few Districts, including
Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago.  The majority of Districts said overall price pressures remained
minimal during the reporting period. Several Districts,
including Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas
City, and San Francisco, said prices for some construction
materials rose since the last report, but there were few reports
of pass-through.  Kansas City District contacts said price increases for raw
materials used in manufacturing led to higher selling prices in
some instances and retail prices edged up. New York District
respondents noted some increased selling prices in the service
sector, and the Atlanta District reported that contacts in the
transportation sector were able to cover cost increases with
fuel surcharges. The Atlanta and Dallas Districts said that
cotton prices rose since the last report.  Contacts in the Richmond District noted input and finished goods
prices rose at a slower pace since the last report, and Chicago
District contacts said commodity prices were down slightly.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 