-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  Economic growth in the Second District has picked up somewhat
since the last report. Business contacts continue to report
moderate input price pressures but most report their selling
prices remain steady. There has been fairly broad-based
strengthening in labor market conditions. Retailers report that
sales have generally been strong and ahead of plan in March, and
auto sales have remained fairly robust. Tourism activity has
generally been strong in recent weeks, though Broadway theaters
have been in a bit of a slump. Commercial and especially
residential real estate markets have strengthened since the last
report. Finally, bankers report widespread increases in loan
demand, continued narrowing in loan spreads, and further modest
declines in delinquency rates.  Consumer Spending Retailers report that sales were generally
brisk in March. One major chain reports that samestore sales
were ahead of plan--especially in and around New York City--and
up modestly from March 2012 levels. A contact in upstate New
York also reports that mall sales were brisk in March and up
from a year ago, following a tepid performance in February; some
of the recent strength is attributed to Canadian shoppers.
Inventories are reported to be in good shape, prices are
characterized as steady, and no unusual discounting is reported.  Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new
vehicle sales have remained fairly strong since the last report.
February sales were roughly on par with comparable 2012 levels,
despite an exceptionally strong performance a year ago; March
appears to be shaping up as a solid month as well. Used vehicle
sales are reported to have softened a bit, but this is largely
attributed to attractive deals in the new car market. Wholesale
and retail credit conditions for auto purchases are reported to
be in good shape.  Tourism activity has been mostly robust since the last report.
 Manhattan  hotels report continued brisk business in February and
March: revenue per room was up nearly 15 percent, driven by a
combination of high and rising occupancy rates and escalating
room rates. Hotels in the outer boroughs continue to see fairly
strong business, partly reflecting ongoing demand from Sandy
recovery workers, and also from displaced residents. On the
other hand, Broadway theaters report some weakening in both
attendance and revenues since mid-February; they have been
running below comparable 2012 levels by roughly 8 percent and 4
percent, respectively. Finally,  consumer confidence  in the
region has ebbed somewhat. The Conference Board’s survey of
residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows
confidence retreating in March after rising in February, and
Siena College’s survey of New York State residents shows a
similar pattern.  Construction and Real Estate Residential real estate markets in
the District have shown increasingly widespread signs of
improvement in recent weeks.  New York City  apartment rents,
which had flattened out in the final months of 2012, have
accelerated in early 2013 and are reported to be up 6-7 percent
from a year ago in Manhattan and by somewhat more in  Brooklyn .
With respect to the city’s co-op and condo market, a major
appraisal firm reports that sales volume has strengthened, while
the inventory of apartments for sale is down sharply to one of
the lowest levels on record. Most of the new development is at
the upper end of the market, while low inventories across the
rest of the spectrum have begun to drive up selling prices
across New York City, as well as in Westchester County and  Long
Island . Multiple offers (bidding wars), though hardly the norm,
are becoming more frequent across the region. Prime areas of
Brooklyn, where market conditions are particularly strong, are
reported to be seeing a good deal of commercial-to-residential
conversion. Similarly, an expert on northern New Jersey’s
housing market reports continued improvement in market
conditions: the volume of distressed properties there has been
shrinking, with noticeably fewer homes moving into delinquency
or foreclosure recently. Still, prices have moved up only
modestly, held back by a slow foreclosure process. Buffalo-area
Realtors also report strong market fundamentals--declining
inventories and fairly rapid price appreciation.  Commercial real estate markets across the District have also
shown signs of improvement in the first quarter. Office vacancy
rates continued to decline across Manhattan, and asking rents
rose-- particularly in the Midtown South area--while vacancy
rates edged down and asking rents were little changed in Long
Island and northern  New Jersey . Office vacancy rates in New York
City and Long Island are currently at their lowest levels in a
number of years. In contrast, office vacancy rates remain near
multi-year highs in northern New Jersey, as well as in
Westchester and Fairfield counties; one New Jersey contact
describes new construction activity there as “moribund”. In New
York City, though, commercial construction activity has been
more robust, particularly in  Lower Manhattan , reflecting ongoing
work on the World Trade Center complex and a new major transit
hub and complex. Industrial markets have been mixed: vacancy
rates are down and rents up fairly sharply on Long Island,
whereas both are little changed at sluggish levels in northern
New Jersey, and in Westchester and Fairfield counties.  Other Business Activity Contacts in both manufacturing and other
sectors report steady business activity in recent weeks, while
they remain broadly optimistic about prospects for 2013. In
general, price pressures are reported to be steady and moderate
in the manufacturing sector but more widespread among
servicesector businesses; a small but growing number of service-
sector contacts say they are increasing their selling prices.  There are growing signs of improvement in the job market. In
general, more business contacts indicate that they plan to
increase than reduce staff in the months ahead. A major
employment agency reports that demand for temps remains strong,
and that firms are also hiring more full-time workers, as well
as transitioning more temps to full-time positions. Qualified
job candidates are increasingly hard to find, and more job-
seekers are now getting multiple job offers. An employment
agency contact reports increased hiring activity from a broad
cross-section of industries, including financial services and
publishing, which had been sluggish. Another contact in the
employment services industry notes particularly strong demand
for IT workers. While starting salary offers remain fairly
stable in general, employers are reportedly often willing to pay
top dollar for tech workers with specialized skills.  Financial Developments Small- to medium-sized banks report an
increase in demand for commercial loans and mortgages but little
change in demand for consumer loans and residential mortgages.
Bankers report an uptick in demand for refinancing. Credit
standards are reported to be unchanged across all loan
categories. Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of loan
rates over costs of funds for all loan categories--particularly
for consumer loans, where roughly one in four bankers reports
lower spreads and no respondent reports higher spreads.
Respondents also indicate continued decreases in average deposit
rates. Finally, bankers report continued modest declines in
delinquency rates on all categories of loans.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 