-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  Business activity in the Fourth District expanded at a moderate
pace during the past six weeks. Manufacturing orders and
production were mostly higher. The momentum seen in residential
construction since the beginning of the year, including multi
family, has been maintained. Nonresidential construction
activity increased slightly, but remains below levels seen in
the second half of last year. Retail sales volume between mid-
February and mid-March was higher relative to the lackluster
post-holiday period, while new motor vehicle sales posted
moderate gains on a year-over-year basis. Conventional and
unconventional natural gas and oil production was stable, but a
pickup is expected later in the year as additional gas
processing units come on line. Output at coal mines trended
lower. Freight transport volume exceeded projections made late
last year. Demand for business and  consumer credit  was higher
when compared to early in the first quarter.  Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors, although the pace
has picked up among home builders since the start of the year.
Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of  job
openings  and placements rose slightly, with vacancies found
primarily in industrial production. Wage pressures were
contained. Input prices were stable, apart from increases in
construction materials.  Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicated that
new orders and production were mostly higher during the past six
weeks. Companies seeing the most activity were suppliers to the
residential construction, shale gas, and transportation
industries. Manufacturers serving the defense and commercial
building industries experienced some weakening in new orders.
Exports to Pacific Rim countries improved, while exports to
 Europe  diminished. Compared to a year ago, manufacturing
activity was mixed. Steel producers and service centers reported
that the pickup in shipping volume early in the first quarter
has leveled off. Excess steel produced in  China  and Europe is
now being imported into the  United States  in larger quantities.
Auto production at District plants rose at a moderate pace
during February on a month-over-month basis. Compared to a year
ago, production numbers were little changed. Many manufacturing
contacts remain cautiously optimistic about near-term growth
prospects. Capacity utilization rates stood within their normal
ranges. Steel producers reported reducing inventories during the
past six weeks, while inventories at other factories held
steady. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year.
Most outlays are allocated for technology that will be used to
enhance productivity. Little capacity expansion is planned. Raw
material and finished goods prices were flat or trended lower.
Many manufacturers noted that their ability to raise prices
during 2013 is likely to be very limited. Manufacturing payrolls
were stable and wage pressures are contained.  Real Estate. Sales of new and existing single-family homes
continued on an upward trend since our last report, and sales
were higher than a year ago. Contracts were found mainly in the
mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for multi-family
housing remains strong. A developer of market-rate apartments
described activity as very good. Another developer said that
demand for affordable rental units is surging. While builders
expressed confidence that the improvement in the housing market
will persist in the upcoming months, they still see the
appraisal process and the availability of financing as headwinds
to more robust growth. Reports indicated that list prices of new
homes increased by 1 to 2 percent this year, which was
attributed to shrinking inventories and rising prices for
building materials, especially lumber and drywall. Builders have
cut back on discounting.  Nonresidential contractors saw a modest increase in activity,
relative to the January/February time period. The number of
inquiries is rising, but many builders are underbidding in an
effort to keep their resources engaged. As a result, tight
margins are being compressed even further. Project work is found
mainly in manufacturing, large multifamily developments
(affordable, market rate, and senior), and shale gas
infrastructure. Our contacts are cautious about near-term
activity. Many builders pointed to uncertainty in the market and
clients who are unwilling to take risks at this time. In
addition, the time-consuming process of financing a project is
holding back some clients. Little change was reported in prices
of building materials.  General contractors (residential and nonresidential) expect
subcontractors will attempt to raise their rates and push
through price increases for materials by the second half of this
year. The potential rise was attributed to a dwindling number of
subcontracting businesses and stronger demand. Residential
builders are hiring at a moderate pace, especially field
personnel. Nonresidential builders are looking to hire a few
project managers and back-office employees. Concerns about
difficulties in finding qualified workers and escalating
healthcare benefit costs were widespread.  Consumer Spending. Most retailers reported that sales volume for
the period from mid-February through mid-March was higher
relative to the previous 30-day period. Rising volume was
particularly evident in apparel and electronics. Store managers
who experienced a downturn in sales cited higher gasoline prices
and taxes as contributing factors. Second-quarter sales are
expected to be up slightly, when compared to the same quarter
last year. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. A food producer
commented that agricultural commodity prices, though elevated,
are fairly stable, and he anticipates little upward pressure on
prices attributable to food during 2013. Capital expenditures
were on plan for the fiscal year. One retail chain projected
significantly higher  capital investment  this year, but much of
it is allocated for remodeling older stores. No hiring is
anticipated, except for staffing new stores.  Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate
increase during February compared to the same time period a year
ago. A few dealers noted that cold weather had curbed consumer
enthusiasm. Buyers continue to prefer smaller, fuel-efficient
cars and compact SUVs. Large pick-up trucks were big sellers in
regions with significant shale gas activity. New-vehicle
inventories were higher than most dealers would like. Our
contacts are cautiously optimistic about sales prospects for the
year, with most projecting 5 percent to 10 percent growth over
2012. However, some are concerned about fiscal policy decisions
and the potentially negative impact they could have on the
economy and  consumer spending . Sales of used vehicles declined
during February. Leasing is trending higher, which should help
to replenish the used-vehicle inventory. Financing continues to
loosen except for those buyers with low credit scores. Dealers
are reluctant to add to their sales staff at this time.  Banking. Demand for business credit has picked up since our last
report. Although requests originated from a broad range of
sectors, commercial real estate and manufacturing stood out.
Loan pricing remains under pressure. Reports on consumer credit
also showed a small rise in demand, mainly for home-equity
products and auto loans. Bankers noted a slight drop-off in
residential mortgage activity; however, there was a definite
shift in applications from refinancing to new purchase.
Delinquency rates held steady or declined across consumer and
commercial loan categories. No changes were made to loan-
application standards. Aggregate core deposits grew; customers
continue to transfer monies from non-liquid to liquid accounts.
Bankers remain very concerned about shrinking net interest
margins. In response, some are considering raising fees in all
areas. On balance, there was little change in payrolls. Two
bankers reported rising employment numbers due to acquisitions.  Energy. Coal production continued to trend down across the
District, with lower production projected for the near term. One
producer commented that demand from electric utilities has risen
slightly due to an extended period of cold weather and an uptick
in natural  gas prices . Spot prices for metallurgical and steam-
coal are up somewhat. Output from conventional and
unconventional oil and natural gas wells was steady during the
past couple of months. In the wet gas regions of  Ohio  and  West
Virginia , output should begin to increase later in the year as
newly constructed gas processing units come on line. Well-head
prices for oil and gas rose slightly. Rig count in the District
was stable during the first quarter. Capital expenditures were
at targeted levels, with little change expected. Production
equipment and material prices were flat across most categories.
Oil and gas payrolls held steady, while coal operators reported
additional layoffs.  Freight Transportation. For the most part, our contacts reported
that shipping volume was somewhat higher than expected for this
time of year, although no product area stands out. Freight
executives are more optimistic about growth prospects than
earlier in the year, and some believe that their growth
projections for 2013 may be too low. Diesel-fuel prices have
started to trend down from high levels, which carriers passed
through via surcharges. Costs associated with equipment and
maintenance items were stable.  Capital spending  was generally
down in the first quarter of this year relative to late last
year. However, our contacts believe that spending will begin to
pick up in the second quarter. One executive stated that he has
an aggressive spending plan in place, which includes capacity
and footprint expansion. Hiring is for replacement and capacity
expansion. New hours-of-service regulations (federal) may prompt
additional hiring, but it will put upward pressure on shipping
prices. Wage pressures are contained.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 