-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-04-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s First District-- Boston.  Economic activity in the First District continues to expand
modestly according to business contacts, although conditions are
somewhat mixed across individual firms. Retailers generally cite
slower than expected sales, and tourism has softened, partly on
account of unseasonal weather. Over half of responding First
District manufacturers report demand improvements in the first
quarter; the rest are less upbeat. Most consulting and
advertising firms say business is strong. Reports from the
commercial real estate sector are more positive in this round
than previously, with leasing activity improving in some
markets. In the residential sector, limited inventory is said to
be constraining home sales in the region, but median  home prices 
are rising modestly. Contacts say hiring reflects demand growth,
so few firms are adding substantially to headcounts except in
the consulting sector. Price pressures are minimal. Most
respondents expect current trends to continue, yielding modest
to moderate growth in the second quarter and the second half of
the year.  Retail and Tourism Retailers contacted for this round cite mixed
results for first quarter 2013. One reports that year over-year
comp store sales were up 2.5 percent to 2.6 percent, while
others report slower than expected sales. Some contacts
attribute their slowdowns partly to the prolonged winter
weather, noting that while this winter has been unseasonably
cold in some regions, winter 2012 was unusually mild. Demand
remains strong for clothing, shoes, and home furnishings.
Inventories are in good shape, and any price increases are
moderate. Contacts continue to expect that 2013 sales increases
will be in the modest single digits.  The tourism business softened in February and March compared
with a year earlier; some of this slowdown is also attributed to
weather-related factors, especially for restaurants and museums.
January through March is seasonally the slowest period for
leisure travel. Tourist activity from  Europe  dropped about 5
percent this quarter compared to a year ago. Corporate business
travel and entertaining remain strong.  Manufacturing and Related Services Conversations with a dozen
manufacturing contacts paint a mixed picture. More than half
report that demand for their products improved in the first
quarter versus the previous quarter or a year earlier. The two
firms reporting the strongest sales growth were in the health
care sector--a  drug company  and a medical device manufacturer--
and both reported spectacular growth. At the other end of the
spectrum, two firms in the semiconductor business report that
sales continue to languish. One, a maker of analog devices,
acknowledged that the semiconductor business is cyclical, but
said that the duration of the current slowdown is unlike
anything he had encountered in his years in the industry. Hiring
patterns largely mirror sales growth, with four firms reporting
substantial hiring, three citing stability, and five firms
reporting staff reductions. The two health care-related firms
led the pack, I-2  increasing staff at annualized rates of 15 percent to 18
percent. For the medical device manufacturer, the hiring was
largely support personnel such as sales, marketing, and back
office. Weakness in demand is not yet translating into lower
 capital expenditures , with only one firm reporting a reduction.
Half the firms noted increases in spending and the rest reported
no change. One of firms engaged in substantial  capital spending 
relative to sales is the analog semiconductor firm reporting
continued weakness in sales; the firm’s managers indicate they
remain confident that the long-term growth patterns in the
industry will justify their investment.  Looking forward, only one-third of manufacturing respondents
were negative about the outlook. Most of the rest were
optimistic or “cautiously optimistic.”  Selected Business Services Consulting and advertising contacts
in the First District report a generally strong first quarter
and were positive about their firms’ recent performance and
near-term outlook. Marketing and advertising contacts note an
uptick in growth due to clients in stronger financial positions
and with more money to spend. Several contacts report robust
demand for health care consulting services as the industry
adapts to massive changes attributable in part to the Affordable
Care Act. Economic consulting remains strong because of high
levels of complex high-stakes litigation; management and
strategy consulting contacts cite improved business conditions
as clients have become more optimistic and seem to believe that
it is time to invest for future growth. The only contact to
report a bad quarter works mostly with the federal government
and has been heavily affected by fiscal contraction.  Contacts generally report cost increases around 2 percent and
most firms either raised their rates between zero and 5 percent,
or plan to do so later in the year. Several firms have done no
hiring because of strong recent hiring or a desire to wait until
stronger demand seems more certain. Other firms report stronger
hiring, particularly related to health care consulting, in order
to deal with increasing demand. Most contacts expect growth to
remain strong or to pick up through the rest of 2013. One
exception is a government contractor who is too uncertain about
future fiscal policy to offer a forecast. Other respondents seem
minimally concerned about fiscal issues, the  European debt
crisis , and the state of the macro economy, a change from the
recent past. One contact specifically notes that client
businesses seem to have become comfortable with the level of
uncertainty in the economy and are deciding to move forward with
investment and business expansion rather than wait for more
clarity; several other contacts’ reports are consistent with
this characterization.  Commercial Real Estate Reports from commercial real estate
contacts in the First District contain much good news. Boston
contacts uniformly remark that the office leasing market has
firmed up in recent months and that the vacancy rate is down
significantly from one year ago. Activity is particularly strong
in the seaport district, but financial district towers are also
seeing absorption of long-vacant space. Investment sales  activity in greater  Boston  remains brisk, especially for
multifamily structures. Planned construction projects in Boston
picked up considerably, with a focus on mixed-use projects, and
should lead to job gains for the sector moving forward. In
Hartford, the state government purchased a large downtown office
tower, absorbing a large block of Class A space, boosting
business sentiment and, it is speculated, helping put upward
pressure on rents. In Portland, the retail  property market  saw
healthy leasing activity and investment sales activity picked up
modestly. In Providence, progress continues on some large office
leasing deals (despite not yet leading to completions),
investment sales activity continues to rise, and business
sentiment is seen as increasingly optimistic. On the downside,
Hartford saw stagnant office leasing and virtually no
construction activity, while  Portland ’s office vacancy rate
remains stubbornly high at 12 percent. Small-scale commercial
real estate loan demand remains well below last year’s pace,
according to one regional lender. Construction materials costs
are on the rise, putting pressure on profit margins at small
firms in particular.  In Portland, property fundamentals are expected to remain flat
despite forecasts of healthy transaction volume and a possible
increase in hiring by some large firms. In Hartford, the outlook
remains cautiously optimistic. In Providence, upside risks to
absorption and rents remain, while the federal sequester poses a
threat to the state’s defense industry. In Boston, one contact
expects improvement in fundamentals to remain slow while another
expects absorption to accelerate if employment growth continues
at its current pace. Boston is expected to remain a magnet for
investors owing to its strength in the health and education
sectors. However, Boston contacts continue to express concern
over property valuations that appear high in relation to income-
growth potential.  Residential Real Estate Strong consecutive months of year-over-
year growth in single-family homes sales halted in February,
with some  New England  states experiencing marginal increases and
most observing a decline. According to contacts, buyer demand
remains strong, but dwindling inventory levels have hampered
growth in sales. Meanwhile, median sale prices across the region
rose from a year ago. Contacts attribute the price rise to the
declining stock of distressed properties compared to a year ago
as well as to the general decline in inventory reducing supply
relative to demand. Particularly in urban areas throughout New
England, decreasing inventory levels have placed upward pressure
on prices. In the Greater Boston area, contacts report that
multiple bids on properties have become more common as inventory
continues to dwindle.  Contacts express concern that low inventory levels in the next
several months could discourage buyers and continue to be a
significant factor limiting the growth of sales. On the other
hand, inventory levels may rise with the beginning of the busy
spring season. In addition, rising prices will eventually lure
into the market sellers who have been waiting for the value of
their homes to pick up before listing them.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 