-- Huawei Hires for European Growth as Alcatel to Ericsson Cut
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-18T07:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/huawei-ceo-plans-to-hire-5-500-in-five-years-for-european-push.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
biggest maker of phone- network equipment , will hire 5,500 people
in  Europe  in the next four to five years, bringing its workforce
in the region to 13,000, even as competitors make reductions.  The company, based in Shenzen, predicts the need for faster
telecommunications services and cheaper devices will drive
demand in Europe, as the economy shows some signs of
improvement, acting Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chairman
Ken Hu told reporters in Paris, speaking through a translator.  “In the past 10 years we’ve achieved a deep understanding
of Europe,” Hu said. “We now have local partners, research and
development facilities. We will continue to increase our
investments in this market. If we can be successful in Europe
and have a virtuous circle, we can invest more.”  As Huawei expands, competing vendors are reducing their
workforces. Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent SA said it would cut
5,500 jobs, and Stockholm-based Ericsson AB, the world’s largest
maker of mobile networks, announced it would eliminate 1,550
positions in  Sweden . Nokia Siemens Networks, the venture between
Nokia Oyj and Siemens AG, announced plans in 2011 to slash
17,000 jobs, or 23 percent of its headcount.  Alcatal (ALU)  shares rose 0.4 percent to 1.063 euros at 9:35 a.m.
in Paris, taking the advance to 6 percent this year. Ericsson
 climbed  0.6 percent to 77.35 kronor in  Stockholm , and have
jumped 19 percent in 2013.  Faster Networks  European operators for years were reluctant to spend on
their networks amid falling profits and grim economic prospects.
They’ve started investing again to upgrade to a new generation
of faster networks. Executives from Europe’s mobile-phone
operators, including France Telecom SA and Vodafone Group Plc,
have said that by being able to charge a premium for quicker
data services they may increase revenue from consumers.  Huawei’s push in Europe threatens rivals on their own turf,
as they struggle to cut costs and cope with falling prices.  “We’re not here to replace Alcatel,” Hu said. “Huawei
and Alcatel can coexist in  France  or elsewhere, just like they
do in China.”  Huawei has predicted an increase in spending this year from
carriers building faster networks using a technology called
long-term evolution. Ryan Ding, head of Huawei’s carrier network
business group, forecast in February that the unit’s sales will
rise by 9 percent this year to about $28 billion.  U.S. Security  The Chinese company said last week it will get about 500
million euros ($651 million) in the coming five years from a
contract to help build a high-speed mobile network for Italian
phone company Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA. It is one of Huawei’s
biggest deals so far in Europe, according to Roberto Loiola, who
heads the Western Europe unit at the Chinese company.  Alcatel-Lucent has said it expects sales of network
equipment to be stable in Europe this year. Huawei’s Hu declined
to give a forecast.  While business for Huawei has been flowing at home from the
likes of  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the company is fighting concerns
over cyber-security in some markets abroad, including the U.S.,
as American intelligence agencies and security companies traced
Web attacks to China.  Hu said there is no evidence to back “rumors” about
Huawei’s network equipment threatening security.  “Whatever the market, if we want to succeed, there’s our
efforts, and there’s the need for the environment to be open,
fair and transparent,” Hu said. “We didn’t feel abnormal
limitations toward us in the European Union. We’re satisfied
with the European market, that’s why we want to invest more and
create more jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  