-- Tullow Drops as French Guiana Well Finds No Significant Oil
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-04-17T16:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/tullow-drops-as-well-in-french-guiana-finds-no-significant-oil.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer
that found French Guiana’s first crude, plunged to a 1 1/2-year
low in London trading after a second well off the Latin American
territory found no “significant” oil.  Tullow shares fell 8.4 percent to 982.5 pence, the lowest
closing price since at least August 2011. The stock was the
worst performer on the  FTSE 350 Index (NMX)  today.  The GM-ES-3 well targeting Priodontes, a prospect northwest
of French Guiana’s Zaedyus find, hasn’t found “significant
hydrocarbons,” Tullow said in a filing after partner  Northern
Petroleum Plc (NOP)  released a statement. Failure of the geological
formation to trap oil has had “no follow-on consequences for
prospectivity elsewhere in the block,” Tullow said.  The results are a further setback for the London-based
company in a week when it reported a delay at its Sabisa
exploration well in  Ethiopia . The shares fell 5.4 percent on
April 15 and extended their decline by 1.6 percent yesterday.  “Following quickly on from inconclusive results from the
Sabisa well in Ethiopia earlier in the week, the news on
Priodontes will have reset expectations on exploration for
2013,” said Theepan Jothilingam, a London-based analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “These were both seen as trigger wells,”
or those that would transform the company’s fortunes.  Share Distribution  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which holds a 45 percent stake in
the Guyane Maritime license where Priodontes is located,
declined to comment today. Tullow has 27.5 percent of the
license and  Total SA (FP)  25 percent. Northpet Investments Ltd., a
company jointly owned by Northern Petroleum and  Wessex
Exploration Plc (WSX) , holds a 2.5 percent interest.  Tullow’s Zaedyus well found oil in September 2011. A second
well at the site, Zaedyus-2, failed to find commercial
quantities of crude. GM-ES-3 is the third well in the area.  Northern Petroleum slumped 18 percent in London today,
while Wessex sank 45 percent.  The GM-ES-3 well, or Priodontes-1, will be drilled deeper
to 6,483 meters (21,271 feet) to further examine the Atlantic
geology, Tullow said.  That extension may delay future wells in the exploration
program, according to London-based Northern Petroleum. The
company and its partners found “oil staining” in the so-called
Bradypus fan part of the well, indicating “broader active
hydrocarbon systems and potential,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
TLW LN <Equity>
RDSA LN <Equity>
NOR LN <Equity>
FP FP <Equity>
WSX LN <Equity>
NOP LN <Equity> 