-- Lundin Mining Falls After Congo Halts Some Copper Exports
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-04-17T17:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/lundin-mining-falls-after-congo-halts-some-copper-exports.html
Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , a Canadian
diversified mining company with investments in Africa, slumped
the most in more than 18 months after the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo banned exports of copper and cobalt concentrates.  Lundin Mining  fell  9.9 percent to C$3.73 at 1:08 p.m. in
Toronto, after earlier falling 10 percent the most intraday
since Sept. 22, 2011.  Congo took measures to block exports of the metals to force
mining companies to add value to the commodities before shipping
them outside the country, Mines Minster  Martin Kabwelulu  said
today in a phone message.  Lundin Mining, based in Toronto, has a 24 percent stake in
the Tenke Fungurume mining project in Congo, according to its
website. Phoenix-based  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
operates Tenke and owns 56 percent. The remainder belongs to
Congo’s state-owned mining company.  “We want companies to export mineral products with great
added value,” Kabwelulu said. Producers of the commodities in
Congo have 90 days to clear their inventories of concentrated
minerals, he said.  Sophia Shane, a Vancouver-based spokeswoman for Lundin
Mining, said the restrictions aren’t expected to affect Tenke’s
copper shipments.  “Most of what we produce is pure, refined copper,” she
said by telephone today. “We do not produce copper
concentrate.”  Shane wasn’t aware of whether the new export rules would
affect Tenke’s cobalt shipments.  Congo was the world’s eighth-largest producer of copper and
the biggest producer of cobalt last year, according to the  U.S.
Geological Survey . Tenke, Congo’s biggest mining project,
produced 11,669 metric tons of cobalt last year, according to
data on Lundin Mining’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  