-- Hungarian Law Threatens Fair Elections, Transparency Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-04-17T16:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/hungarian-law-threatens-fair-elections-transparency-says.html
Hungary’s new election law may open
the way for voter fraud in the next balloting, Transparency
International said.  Based on the law approved this month, it will be impossible
to verify how many people cast ballots by mail and to verify
their identities, Transparency International’s Budapest-based
Hungarian unit said in a  statement  posted on its website today.  “It can’t be ruled out that fictitious ballots be cast in
the name of those registered to cast ballots by mail but who end
up not voting,” Transparency said, adding that the data will be
“essentially secret.”  Hungary will hold parliamentary elections in 2014, with
Prime Minister Viktor Orban seeking re-election to confirm his
unprecedented consolidation of power since winning at the polls
in 2010 with a two-thirds parliamentary majority.  Orban’s lawmakers have since rewritten the constitution
over opposition protests, redrawn electoral districts and
changed the election rules, ousted the chief justice of the
Supreme Court and picked party allies to head independent
institutions including the media regulator and the Audit Office
and to fill the benches of the Constitutional Court.  The electoral law “doesn’t guarantee political parties or
international observers the right to review the register of
those voting by mail,” Transparency said, adding that the
register is of “public interest.”  A lack of transparency in party financing and a ban on
campaign ads in private media also threaten the legitimacy of
the 2014 vote, the report said.  ‘Serious Concerns’  The Constitutional Court struck down the ban on political
campaign ads in private media before Orban’s lawmakers, using
their two-thirds parliamentary majority, inserted it into the
Constitution last month and barred justices from reviewing the
issue again.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive, has “serious
concerns over the compatibility” of the most recent
constitutional amendment, including on the banning of political
ads in private media, EC President Jose Barroso said in an April
12 letter to Orban. The government has since submitted a bill to
parliament which would allow such ads in European Parliament
elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  