-- United Breweries Says Heineken India Sales to Rise 50% This Year
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-04-17T18:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/united-breweries-says-heineken-india-sales-to-rise-50-this-year.html
United Breweries Ltd. (UBBL) ,  India ’s
largest brewer, expects sales of  Heineken NV’s (HEIA)  namesake brand to
climb more than 50 percent in the country this fiscal year as it
ramps up distribution of the pricier foreign beer.  Heineken is the fastest growing line in the company’s
portfolio, Samar Singh Sheikhawat, United Breweries senior vice
president of marketing, said in an April 16 interview. The
Amsterdam-based company owns about 37 percent of United
Breweries, which began distributing the European brand in 2011.  The brewer, based in Bangalore, is seeking to boost  sales 
from the international label as demand for premium beers surges
and global rivals from  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  to  Carlsberg A/S (CARLB)  market new
products to increasingly affluent young Indians. A quart of
Heineken costs 170 rupees ($3.14) including taxes in Mumbai,
about 70 percent more than United Breweries’ Kingfisher brand.  “Heineken is a small but useful business, and it is
gaining traction,” Sachin Bobade, an analyst at Brics
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, said via phone. “European and
American beers have a different taste and people in urban
markets like that.”  The company doesn’t disclose its annual sales from the
Heineken brand.  Shares of United Breweries have declined 19 percent this
year, compared with the 3.6 percent drop in the S&P BSE  Sensex. (SENSEX)   Select Markets  “The strategy for Heineken is to limit it to certain
select markets”, Sheikhawat said. “We are in all five-star
hotels, pubs, nightclubs, fine-dining restaurants, clubs, but
not in small retail stores.”  United Breweries, which began as a supplier to British
troops stationed in India, benefits from a wider distribution
network than competitors in a beer market that London-based
Euromonitor International projects will expand about 74 percent
to 447.9 billion rupees in the five years to 2016.  As much as 83 percent of the beer sold in India’s beer
industry is “strong,” with alcohol content of six to eight
percent, according to Sheikhawat’s estimate. United Breweries
gets most of its revenue from its flagship Kingfisher brand,
under which it sells lines including Strong, Draught and  milder
variants such as Ultra.  A fourth of the company’s beer sales by volume comes from
regional lines such as London Pilsner, Zingaro, and Bullet. The
company only sells one mild beer under the Heineken brand, and
all of it is brewed at its manufacturing plant in  Mumbai . There
are no plans to introduce any other Heineken variants,
Sheikhawat said.  With Kingfisher and Heineken “we are present in every
state at every price point,” Sheikhawat said. ‘At the back of
all this growth is the very low per capita consumption in this
country.’’ The Indian beer market is expanding about 15 percent
annually, he said.  Kingfisher  Heineken’s share of United Breweries’  profit  increased by
20 percent due to higher pricing and lower bottle costs,
according to the Amsterdam-based beermaker’s  annual report .  United Breweries, owned partly by alcohol to airline tycoon
Vijay Mallya, increased its share of the beer market to 57
percent in 2011 from 43 percent in 2006, according to
Euromonitor.  Carlsberg, which entered India in 2007 and had a 4.4
percent share in 2011 has introduced stronger brews, including
Carlsberg Elephant and Tuborg Strong. SABMiller’s offerings
include Haywards 5000 and Fosters Strong.  United Breweries’ profit rose 75 percent to 342 million
rupees in the second quarter ended September. That contrasts
with Mallya’s money-losing  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  The carrier,
which has defaulted on payments to creditors, aircraft lessors
and airports, lost its license to fly from Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  