-- Urals Crude Price Spread in Europe Widens to Most in Eight Years
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-04-17T14:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/urals-crude-price-spread-in-europe-widens-to-most-in-eight-years.html
The  spread  between benchmark
Russian Urals crude in northwest  Europe  and the Mediterranean
has widened to the most in more than eight years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Urals loading from the Mediterranean is $1.52 a barrel
higher than in northwest Europe, the data show. That’s the
biggest premium since Dec. 31, 2004.  Daily exports of the grade out of the Black Sea port of
Novorossiysk dropped in April by 6.6 percent to 755,601 barrels
while loadings from the Baltic port of Primorsk rose 23 percent
to 1.39 million barrels, according to shipping schedules
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The wide difference in price between the two regions would
normally open up the opportunity to send crude from northwest
Europe to the Mediterranean. Due to a lack of available Aframax
tankers that monopolize this route this flow is not taking
place, analysts at Vienna-based JBC Energy GmbH said.  “The apparent shortage of Aframax vessels has blown out
freight costs in the north, grinding arbitrage flows to a
halt,” the researcher said in a report on April 15. “Urals
prices in the Mediterranean have been fetching higher values
than cargoes in the North on the back of lower absolute
loadings, as well as ongoing sanctions on some 850,000 barrels a
day of Iranian and Syrian export barrels.”  JBC expects the price gap to collapse as more tankers
become available, which will probably happen once trading moves
to cargoes for loading in May.  Iran ’s crude exports declined in March to the lowest this
year as weaker global demand and international sanctions aimed
at the Gulf state’s nuclear program cut purchases, the
 International Energy Agency  said in a report on April 11.  An Aframax tanker can carry 80,000 to 100,000 metric tons
of Urals crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  