-- Turkey Said to Sign Oil Deal With Kurds, Defying Baghdad
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2013-04-17T15:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/turkey-said-to-sign-oil-deal-with-kurds-defying-baghdad.html
Iraq’s Kurdish region has signed a
landmark agreement with Turkey to supply it directly with oil
and gas, two people familiar with the matter said.  The accord was signed last month when Turkey’s Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  met Iraqi Kurdish Prime Minister
Nechirvan Barzani in Ankara, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the plans are private. Turkish Energy
Minister  Taner Yildiz , contacted via his press office, declined
to comment, as did an Iraqi Kurdish official. The Oil Ministry
in  Baghdad  didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  The Kurdish government will sell oil and gas directly to
Turkey in a deal that so far has bypassed the Iraqi government
in Baghdad, which has warned the Kurds not to sign separate
energy accords. Turkey may also take the Kurdish government’s
stake in concessions operated by Exxon Mobil Corp. on the
enclave’s border with the rest of  Iraq , one of the people said.  “Large-scale oil exports would change the economic
position of Kurdistan,” said Robin Mills, head of consulting at
Dubai-based Manaar Energy Consulting and Project Management.
“If this deal goes through, it’s an aggressive move by Turkey
that really means busting relations with Baghdad.”  Iraq’s deputy prime minister, Hussain al-Shahristani, said
yesterday his government has told Turkey that it doesn’t allow
oil agreements without central government approval, and that
Turkey must respect Iraqi sovereignty.  Genel Windfall  The accords also spell a windfall for oil and gas companies
such as  Genel Energy Plc (GENL) , the largest producer in the Kurdish
region. Genel Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said last
week that he expected a new pipeline transporting oil from the
Kurdish region to Turkey to be finished by midyear.  Patrick d’Ancona, a spokesman for Genel, declined to
comment on the agreement.  The Kurdish regional government in northern Iraq signed a
production-sharing agreement with Exxon Mobil in 2011. It
covered six blocks, the region’s oil minister  Ashti Hawrami  said
in November that year, including Qara Hansher in the disputed
region where the Kurdish enclave borders the rest of Iraq.  The Kurdish area could export 250,000 barrels of oil a day
this year and that may increase to 1 million barrels by 2015 and
2 million by 2019, Hawrami said this month. “We believe a
decentralized oil policy and the sharing of power and wealth is
essential to Iraq’s unity,” he said.  Oil Nationalism  A deal with Turkey would make the Kurds less dependent on
the Iraqi budget. That’s long been a point of contention between
Baghdad and Erbil, the northern capital and base for a semi-
autonomous Kurdish administration since after the 1991  Gulf War .  “Oil is linked to nationalism,” said Aziz Sardar, a
visiting lecturer in Middle Eastern studies at University
College Cork in Ireland. “Barzani is using it to secure his
position and mobilize people, who see it as a way to
independence.”  For Turkey, the accord offers access to cheaper energy that
would reduce its import bill and  current-account deficit , the
$800 billion economy’s key weakness.  The deficit ballooned to about 10 percent of economic
output in 2011, exceeding $77 billion and ranking as the world’s
second-biggest after the U.S. Last year Turkey imported $59
billion of energy, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said in
January.  In recent years Turkey has reversed its earlier hostility
to autonomy for Iraqi Kurds and moved toward an alliance. It had
previously cited concerns that self-rule in northern Iraq would
encourage  Turkey ’s own Kurdish minority to demand similar
rights.  The government this year has opened peace talks with
Kurdish militants who have been fighting in southeast Turkey for
almost three decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ; 