-- Vale Iron Output Falls More Than Forecast on Permitting Delays
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-04-17T22:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/vale-iron-output-falls-more-than-forecast-on-permitting-delays.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, said first-quarter output of the steelmaking
ingredient dropped 3.5 percent, missing analyst estimates, after
permitting shortages and operational constraints.  Iron-ore production declined to 67.5 million metric tons
from 70 million tons a year earlier, the Rio de Janeiro-based
company said in a  statement  today. Results were below the 68.3
million-ton average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg and contrasted with the 6 percent quarterly iron-ore
output increase achieved by rivals  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s largest mining companies, which are
expanding mines in  Australia .  “Production dropped on a year-on-year basis, this time
influenced by constraints related to permits and other
operational issues,” Vale said in the statement after the close
of regular trading hours. “Rainfall in our iron-ore mining
sites in  Brazil  was in line with its seasonal pattern, being
more concentrated on the coastal regions, raising challenges for
the operation of our maritime terminals.”  Nickel Rises  While output at Carajas, the world’s largest iron-ore
complex, declined 0.5 percent in the quarter, production at
Vale’s mines in southeastern Brazil, which account for about 37
percent of the company’s total, dropped 7.4 percent.  Vale, the world’s second-largest nickel producer, said
output for the metal rose 3.2 percent in the quarter to 65,000
tons, beating a 62,800-ton average forecast by seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Copper output gained 23 percent in the
first quarter to a record 90,000 tons while coal output
increased 17 percent to 1.75 million tons.  Vale  rose  0.7 percent to 30.99 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo  today, reducing a 12-month decline to 26 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  