-- Venezuelan Leader’s Taunts Won’t Provoke U.S., Diplomat Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-17T20:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/venezuelan-leader-s-taunts-won-t-provoke-u-s-diplomat-says-2-.html
The U.S. is unlikely to adopt a
more confrontational stance toward  Venezuela  even as President-
elect Nicolas Maduro ratchets up his rhetoric in the wake of his
narrow victory, the State Department’s top official for Latin
America said.  Echoing charges frequently levied by his political mentor,
the late President  Hugo Chavez , Maduro yesterday accused the
U.S. of trying to oust him by supporting opposition calls for a
recount of ballots in the April 14 election he won by about
270,000 votes. Today, he likened President  Barack Obama ’s policy
towards Venezuela to U.S. support for the overthrow of  Chile ’s
Salvador Allende in 1973.  Roberta Jacobson, assistant secretary of state for Western
Hemisphere affairs, said such rhetoric has become more
commonplace since Maduro took control of Venezuela’s troubled
economy following Chavez’s death from cancer last month. While
that makes it harder for relations to improve, the U.S. is
unlikely to respond in kind, she said.  “I don’t think there’s going to be a marked difference in
the way we respond to Maduro versus the way we responded to
Chavez,” Jacobson, a career diplomat, said in an interview from
the State Department in  Washington . “It still doesn’t make
sense to get in, you’ll excuse me, a pissing match with  Nicolas
Maduro  any more than it did with Chavez.”  While relations between the U.S. and Venezuela have long
been strained -- the two countries have gone without ambassadors
since 2010 -- former president  George W. Bush  in his second term
adopted a more conciliatory tone toward Chavez, which Obama
continued.  Other Cheek  At the heart of what Jacobson called a “turning of the
cheek” approach are strong commercial ties -- Venezuela was the
U.S.’s  fourth-biggest supplier  of oil last year -- and a sense
of political realism.  That means that while the U.S. won’t back away from
expressing its disappointment with the fairness of the election
and the lack of a recount, that shouldn’t lead relations to
deteriorate further, she said. While  Russia ,  China  and most of
 Latin America  has congratulated Maduro for his win, the U.S. and
European Union have held back support while seeking a recount to
address opposition claims of irregularities.  “If Friday Maduro is sworn in as president, I don’t think
that’s going to change very much from one day to the next our
positions,” said Jacobson, who has served as the U.S.’s top
diplomat to Latin America since 2011.  ‘Rush to Judgment’  Jacobson said the U.S. will continue to believe that the
way the election results were handled represent a “rush to
judgment” that won’t help Venezuela overcome deep political
divisions.  Still, Jacobson said she doesn’t harbor much hope that
relations will improve either, even after what she described as
Maduro’s favorable response to a U.S. outreach a few months ago.  In November, Jacobson said she called then-Foreign Minister
Maduro to discuss how to get relations back on track in a likely
post-Chavez government. High-level meetings between the two
governments were also held, though they lost momentum as
Chavez’s worsening health came to dominate the nation’s affairs,
she said.  Then, in the hours before Chavez’s death, Maduro suggested
the U.S. may have poisoned the socialist leader. During the
month-long campaign he continued to ramp up “exponentially”
his anti-American rhetoric, “making it much harder” today to
find any common ground, Jacobson said.  Long Harangue  Jacobson’s first encounter with Maduro, at the April 2012
Summit of the Americas in  Colombia , was also marked by
confrontation. In a private negotiating session attended by
foreign ministers, she said she was subjected to a “long, long
harangue” by Maduro, in which he accused the U.S. of
imperialism and starving communist Cuba with its half-century
trade embargo.  “There were many around that table who were acutely
uncomfortable with him yelling -- and he was yelling at this
point -- at a woman across the table,” she said. “Closing the
doors didn’t seem to make a difference.”  Then, less than two months later, at a meeting of the
 Organization of American States  in  Bolivia , the two traded
pleasantries while posing side-by-side for a group photo. Maduro
said he held no grudges against her or the U.S., according to
Jacobson.  “It’s very hard to read these signals,” she said. “Every
time we get to the point of actually working on substantive
stuff, we end up taking steps backward with accusations of
everything from killing Chavez with cancer to coups.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  