-- Wall Street Wowed by Ex-Chavez Ally as Sales Surge: Andes Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-04-17T20:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/wall-street-wowed-by-ex-chavez-ally-as-sales-surge-andes-credit.html
Wall Street ’s biggest banks are
turning  Peru  into the fastest-growing corporate  bond market  in
Latin America as they capitalize on debt investors seeking to
profit from the nation’s economic boom.  Sales from  Alicorp SA (ALICORC1) , the nation’s largest consumer goods
company, to miner Cia. Minera Milpo SA have helped push issuance
to $5.9 billion in the past year, almost doubling the amount of
dollar-denominated Peruvian corporate bonds outstanding to $12.3
billion. Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. have won the most mandates, arranging 72 percent of
offerings as average corporate borrowing costs fell 0.62
percentage point to 4.92 percent -- lower than  Brazil .  President  Ollanta Humala , a one-time ally of the late
Venezuelan leader  Hugo Chavez , is winning over Wall Street as he
contains public spending and lines up record investment in
mining and energy. Propelled by an economy projected to expand
6.2 percent this year, the fastest in  South America , Peru earned
its best-ever debt rating under Humala as its creditworthiness
in the swaps market rose to a five-year high.  “You have a country that has been doing very well, growing
very steadily, has good fundamentals, offers good value, and
investors are attracted to this,” Roberto D’Avola, the head of
Latin America debt capital markets at JPMorgan, the third-
biggest underwriter of Peruvian corporate debt in the past year,
said in a telephone interview. “There are a lot of good
companies just beginning to understand the benefits of accessing
capital markets, of tenor, of getting larger transactions
done.”  BofA Role  Bank of America has arranged 29 percent of Peru’s dollar-
denominated corporate bond offerings in the past year, followed
by Citigroup’s 23 percent and JPMorgan’s 20 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the
fourth-biggest underwriter, arranged 8 percent of the offerings.  “Peru has been a major focus for us lately,” Augusto Urmeneta, the head of debt capital markets for  Latin America  at
Bank of America, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“We’ve seen strong issuance out of the country due to low
borrowing costs and investors’ appreciation for the country’s
favorable economic position.”  Yields on Lima-based Alicorp’s $450 million of 10-year
bonds have dropped eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 3.81 percent since they were issued March 15. Milpo’s $350
million of securities due 2023 yield 4.58 percent, down five
basis points since they were sold on March 21.  Debut Issuers  “Peru is seen as a politically stable country with
elevated growth, one with a good long-term outlook,” Milpo’s
head of finance, Persio Morassutti, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. The offering “will allow us to execute our
liability management plan, ensure funding for a portion of
 capital expenditures  in 2013 and 2014, and guarantee us a
minimum cash balance supporting the liquidity objectives of the
company.”  Alicorp Vice President of Finance Diego Rosado didn’t
respond to e-mails and telephone calls seeking comment on the
company’s bond offering.  Gas Natural de  Lima  y Callao SA, Cementos Pacasmayo SA,
Pesquera Exalmar SA and Fondo Mivivienda SA joined Milpo and
Alicorp in selling bonds abroad for the first time this year.
 Banco de Credito del Peru (CREDITC1) , the country’s biggest lender, and
 BBVA Banco Continental SA (CONTINC1)  also returned to the market with new
offerings.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Peruvian government dollar bonds
against non-payment for five years with credit-default swaps
fell to the lowest level since 2008 on April 11. It dropped one
basis point to 89 basis points at 2:52 p.m. in Lima.  Peru, the world’s third-largest copper and zinc producer
and No. 1 in fishmeal, has lined up a record $53 billion in
mining investment commitments and $20 billion in energy projects
over the next decade, according to the Energy & Mines Ministry.  Since taking office in July 2011, Humala has met with
investors around the world to tout metal, energy and
transportation projects as he seeks to prolong an investment
boom that’s tripled the size of Peru’s economy in a decade to
about $200 billion last year.  While on the campaign trail in a failed run for the
presidency six years ago, Humala accused foreign companies of
looting the country, said he would renegotiate contracts and
proposed following Venezuela’s lead in increasing royalties and
taxes on oil output.  Moody’s Rating  Moody’s Investors Service boosted Peru’s rating to Baa2,
the second-lowest investment grade, in August. The country is
ranked BBB by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. More than $5
billion, or 86 percent of issuance from the country in the past
year, has been rated BBB- or above by Fitch, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “One of the factors that triggered increased interest from
local issuers into international  capital markets  has been rating
upgrades from international agencies,” Pedro Chirinos, the vice
president for corporate finance and capital markets at
Citigroup’s Peruvian unit, said in a telephone interview. “We
don’t see issuance slowing down. We expect some stabilization in
a few years, but before that we will continue to see new names
come to market.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries climbed three basis points to
131 basis points today, according to JPMorgan index data.  The yield on the Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 was little changed at 3.72
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sol
depreciated 0.2 percent to 2.5920 per dollar.  ‘Logical Progression’  “The country’s sovereign risk is low, and going forward,
Peru will continue to get upgraded,” Peter Lannigan, managing
director and head of emerging-market strategy at CRT Capital
Group LLC, said in a telephone interview from  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “I like the country. It is part of the logical
progression we’ve seen in the asset class a few times before.
You’ve had companies issuing bonds for a few years, but it’s
been mostly the large, well-known firms.”  Klaus Spielkamp, a fixed-income trader at Miami-based
brokerage Bulltick Capital, says the decline in yields of
Peruvian corporate bonds is starting to make the debt less
attractive to investors.  Brazil Yields  At 4.92 percent, the average yield on notes sold by
Peruvian companies is 52 basis points less than that of
Brazilian peers and the lowest in Latin America after those of
 Chile  and  Colombia , according to JPMorgan indexes. Peru’s
corporate notes yielded 0.8 percentage point more than Brazilian
company debt when Humala was elected president in June 2011.  “My clients want a better yield, so they don’t look at
countries like Chile, and they’re starting to look less at Peru
as well,” Spielkamp said in a telephone interview.  Transportadora de Gas del Peru SA hired Bank of America and
Morgan Stanley to arrange meetings with bond investors, said a
person familiar with the company’s plans who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The company may sell as
much as $850 million of notes, according to Fitch.  “Companies are ‘‘driven by the fact they can lock in low
financing costs and tenor,’’ JPMorgan’s D’Avola said. ‘‘This is
a phenomenon that we think is going to continue in the near
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  