-- Washington Gripped by Alarm as Ricin Poison Letters Found
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-04-17T18:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/washington-gripped-by-alarm-as-ricin-poison-letters-found.html
Washington went into terrorism
alert mode as authorities reported preliminary tests showed a
letter sent to President  Barack Obama  contained the poison ricin
and suspicious packages triggered a lockdown in parts of two
Senate office buildings.  With the capital already on edge following the  Boston 
Marathon bombing, alarm spread on both ends of Pennsylvania
Avenue as officials tried to determine the extent and nature of
the threats. There is “no indication” the ricin mail is
connected to the terrorist bombing in Boston, the FBI said in a
statement.  The letter addressed to Obama was quarantined at an off-
site mail center after an initial test indicated it contained
ricin, Secret Service spokesman Ed Donovan said in an e-mail.
The sample will require subsequent tests to confirm the
preliminary results.  There was no effect on White House operations, the FBI said
in a statement.  That letter was identified at a separate mail facility from
the one that sorts congressional mail, where a letter suspected
of being tainted with ricin and addressed to Senator Roger Wicker was discovered yesterday.  The letter to Wicker, a Mississippi Republican, was
postmarked from  Memphis ,  Tennessee , and initially tested
positive for ricin, Senate Sergeant-at-Arms Terrance Gainer said
in an e-mail. The Secret Service is working with the U.S.
Capitol Police and the FBI in an investigation into the
contaminated mail.  Suspicious Envelopes  Suspicious mail also was reported in the Washington offices
of Senators Richard Shelby, an Alabama Republican, and Senator
Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat. Manchin is a co-sponsor
of a compromise proposal to expand background checks for gun
purchasers, scheduled to receive a vote later today on the
Senate floor.  Hallways outside their offices were closed off for a time
while authorities arrived to investigate the packages.  Shennell Antrobus, the public information officer for the
Capitol Police, said the force is investigating two suspicious
envelopes in the Hart and Russell Senate buildings. He declined
to comment further as he addressed reporters in front of the
Hart building.  In addition, a hazardous-materials team was called to the
Saginaw, Michigan, office of Democratic Senator Carl Levin in
response to a suspicious envelope. It wasn’t opened and it
hasn’t been determined whether it contained any dangerous items,
according to the senator’s website.  Arizona  Senator Jeff Flake, a Republican, said that letters
to his office in Phoenix were being examined by a hazardous-
materials squad. The letters, which weren’t opened by his staff,
also had Tennessee postmarks, he said.  Ricin Poison  Manchin said as he left the Senate floor that Capitol
Police quarantined his office. Police were investigating a
suspicious package in front of his office, according to another
person familiar with the matter.  “If you’re going to be scared to do the right thing, you
shouldn’t be here,” he said, adding that he remains hopeful
that the gun bill’s supporters can win the additional votes
needed.  Ricin is a poison made from castor beans, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It is harmful and
potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, the CDC said on its
 website .  “It would take a deliberate act to make ricin and use it
to poison people,” according to the CDC.  Potential Charges  Someone sending a ricin letter to the president could face
federal charges including attempting to assassinate the
president.  “Without a doubt that would be a charge any prosecutor
would consider,” Roscoe Howard Jr, who was U.S. attorney in
 Washington  when letters containing anthrax were mailed to
lawmakers in 2001, said in a phone interview. “A logical
standpoint is why else mail ricin to the president.”  If ricin is confirmed in testing, the person who sent it
also could be charged with attempted murder, use of a weapon of
mass destruction and threatening the president, said Benton J.
Campbell, a partner at Latham & Watkins LLP in New York, who was
a Justice Department prosecutor for 16 years. From 2007 to 2010,
he was the interim U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New
York.  ‘Granular Substance’  The ricin alert began yesterday. The U.S. Capitol Police
were notified by a mail facility for Congress “that it received
an envelope containing a white granular substance,” spokesman
Antrobus said in a statement last night.  “The envelope was immediately quarantined” and
“preliminary tests indicate the substance found was ricin,”
Antrobus said.  An FBI laboratory will conduct the further tests needed to
determine the exact nature of the substance, according to Paul Bresson, an FBI spokesman. He said the initial field tests
produced “mixed results.” The agency said laboratory analysis
would take as long as 48 hours.  Investigators have identified a suspect in the Wicker
mailing, a person who “writes to a lot of members” of
Congress, Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, told
reporters.  The government constructed a new White House mail screening
facility in 2010 that isn’t on White House grounds, U.S. Secret
Service Director Mark Sullivan told Congress at the time.  In 2009, the Secret Service screened more than 3 million
pieces of mail and other parcels “for hazardous materials to
ensure the safety of those who live, work, and/or visit the
White House complex,” Sullivan told Congress in testimony in
April 2010. That was a three-fold increase over 1 million pieces
screened a year earlier, he said.  .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  