-- Weiner Runs Second Among Democrats in NYC Mayor Race, Poll Finds
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-04-17T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/weiner-runs-second-among-democrats-in-nyc-mayor-race-poll-finds.html
Anthony Weiner, the former U.S.
congressman who resigned in 2011 after engaging in lewd online
behavior, is running second among Democratic candidates for
mayor of  New York  even though he hasn’t entered the race, a
Marist College poll showed.  Weiner, 48, trailed City Council Speaker Christine Quinn by
26 percent to 15 percent, in a telephone survey of Democratic
voters conducted from April 11 to April 15. He said in a New
York Times magazine profile last week that he may re-enter
politics and join the race to replace  Michael Bloomberg ,  If Weiner enters, it would almost guarantee a Sept. 10
primary in which the top vote-getter fails to win 40 percent,
said  Lee Miringoff , director of the Marist College  Institute  for
 Public Opinion  in Poughkeepsie, New York. That would force a
runoff with the second-place finisher.  “The numbers show it’s a wide-open contest with no
candidate closing the sale,” Miringoff said in an interview.
“Weiner may have risen toward the top, but he faces huge
obstacles.”  Other Democratic candidates include Comptroller  John Liu ,
who came in third with 12 percent; Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, 11 percent; former Comptroller  William Thompson , 11
percent; and former City Councilman Sal Albanese, 2 percent.
Twenty-two percent of Democrats said they were undecided.
Democrats outnumber Republicans by 6-to-1 in  New York City .  ‘Long Way’  Half of Democrats surveyed say they wouldn’t consider
voting for Weiner, “so while some numbers make him appear
viable, he’s got a long way to go to establish credibility,”
Miringoff said.  The poll had a 4.2 percentage-point margin of error among
556 Democrats interviewed, the institute stated.  Weiner’s resignation came after he admitted that he engaged
in “inappropriate conversations” with six women over the
previous three years, including on Facebook, e-mail, Twitter and
on the phone with one of them.  He had publicly denied sending a racy photograph of himself
to a Seattle woman via Twitter, and said his account was hacked.
The photo showed a man from the waist down in gray underwear.  He retains  $4.3 million  in campaign funds from an aborted
2009 run for the Democratic mayoral nomination, according to the
city Campaign Finance Board.  Under city law, a candidate needs $250,000 in donations of
$175 or less to qualify for 6-to-1 matching funds. Weiner, who
has $248,710 in such claims, needs just $1,290 in contributions
to qualify for about $1.5 million in public funds, said Eric
Friedman, spokesman for the city Campaign Finance Board.  His deadline to be eligible for matching funds requires him
to run for local office this year, Friedman said.  Bloomberg, who is barred by law from seeking a fourth term,
is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  