-- Wells Fargo Asks Judge to Dismiss U.S. Mortgage Loans Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-17T23:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/wells-fargo-asks-judge-to-dismiss-u-s-mortgage-loans-suit.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  asked a judge to
dismiss a suit by the U.S. government claiming the bank made
reckless  mortgage loans  that caused losses for a federal
insurance program.  The U.S. suit alleges more than a decade of misconduct by
Wells Fargo in connection with a Federal Housing Administration
program. Wells Fargo argued that the government’s suit, which
was filed in October, should be dismissed because it fails to
adequately allege facts that would allow the case to go forward.  “The complaint tells a nice story, but they fail to
connect the dots,” William Johnson, a lawyer for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, told U.S. District Judge Jesse Furman in a
hearing today in  Manhattan  federal court.  The U.S. claims the FHA paid hundreds of millions of
dollars in insurance claims on defaulted mortgages in connection
with the  FHA’s Direct Endorsement Lender Program  as a result of
false certifications by Wells Fargo.  In the hearing today, Wells Fargo argued that the U.S.
released claims against it in a settlement last year. The bank
also said the government’s claims for conduct before June 25,
2006, were filed too late and that the U.S. failed to allege
specific facts showing the bank engaged in fraud.  The bank claimed the government is trying to misapply a
1989 law enacted in the wake of the savings and loan crisis, the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act.  ‘No Good’  “Wells Fargo knew these loans were no good, but submitted
the claims,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Oestericher argued
at the hearing. “And that is fraud.”  The lawsuit is part of a larger effort by the U.S.
government to recoup losses from defaulted mortgages that were
insured by the FHA.  The Department of Housing and Urban Development’s inspector
general has been reviewing loan origination practices since
January 2010. An audit released in 2011 found that half of loans
originated by 15 lenders didn’t meet FHA standards for verifying
borrowers’ income and other underwriting standards. The agency
has paid more than $37 billion in claims related to defaulted
mortgages since 2008.  “These are extremely complicated and convoluted issues,”
Furman told the lawyers. He didn’t say when he will rule on the
motion to dismiss.  The case is U.S. v. Wells Fargo Bank N.A., 12-cv-07527,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 