-- Why the World Is Right to Be Scared by Boston
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-04-17T13:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/why-the-world-is-right-to-be-scared-by-boston.html
Is the world overreacting to the
act of terrorism at the  Boston  Marathon? Judging from the
available research, what looks like a knee-jerk response might
actually be quite sensible.  U.S. authorities are not alone in stepping up security
after the Boston attack, which left three people dead and more
than 170 injured. British officials called for a review of the
security measures planned for the London Marathon, the next
major international event in the sport. In  France , security
patrols in public places have been reinforced.  It may seem ridiculous for governments to rush in police
reinforcements and make people take off their shoes in airports
after a successful terrorist attack. Their actions will not
bring back the victims, and succumbing to paranoia merely plays
into terrorists’ hands. The increased security always slackens
after a while, so why bother?  That logic, however, would hold only if terrorist attacks
were random. If one is merely tossing a coin, there is no point
buying insurance against the outcome of any particular toss. Yet
the attacks follow a different pattern than coin tosses. And
there is a statistical logic to boosting security after a highly
publicized attack and slackening it when it is clear that the
most recent burst is over and the “quiet” period has begun.  Power Law  The consensus among academics involved in “physics of
terrorism” research is that attacks are governed by a power law,
with a small percentage of major incidents accounting for an
outsized share of deaths. The distribution in terms of death
toll and frequency is similar in just about every country that
has an active rebel underground, and pretty much the same
globally. This statistical evidence  suggests  there is some kind
of underlying social mechanism to all modern terrorist warfare
that makes irrelevant specific considerations like the
perpetrators’ cause or the city they choose to victimize.  A seminal 2009  article  in Nature magazine described yet
another statistical pattern common to terrorism: its
“burstiness.” Prolonged quiet periods are followed by frantic
and deadly activity. The researchers suggested that this may be
the result of competition for media attention. Terrorism, after
all, is so called because its goal is to instill terror rather
than kill the maximum number of people or blow up the most
buildings. One group, or even a lone fanatic, gets terrorism
back into the media’s sights, and other groups or individuals
jump on the bandwagon to boost the effect.  As far as the physics of terrorism is concerned, Boston was
not a severe event. In a 2012  article , Aaron Clauset and Ryan
Woodard set the threshold at 10 casualties -- a category that
included about 8.3 percent of all terrorist attacks from 1998 to
2007. After correcting for Iraq and  Afghanistan , which have
caused a dramatic increase in the number of deadly events in
recent years, the share of severe events remains fairly constant
-- another sign that global terrorism obeys consistent
statistical laws.  If attacks come in bursts, it is conceivable that
insurgents could follow with larger acts, seeking to take
advantage of people’s frayed nerves after the Boston event.
According to Clauset and Woodard, there is a 19 percent to 46
percent chance of a “catastrophic” event on the Sept. 11 scale
occurring in 2012-2021. The forecast is as imprecise as any
estimate based on historical data. The point is that the
probability is too high to ignore.  It may be that the modern world’s universal connectedness
is part of the mechanism that assures the non-randomness of
terror. If the “burstiness” of attacks is a direct result of
media attention, then people who value their freedom of
information will have to put up with the inconveniences of
tightened security, particularly in the wake of any well-
publicized attack. The alternative would be to suppress
information, and that is definitely the greater evil.  (Leonid Bershidsky is an editor and novelist based in
Moscow. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article: Leonid Bershidsky at
 bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 