-- Why the G-20 Finance Ministers Are Wrong
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-17T22:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/why-the-g-20-finance-ministers-are-wrong.html
Finance ministers and central-bank
governors of the  Group of 20  major economies are in  Washington 
for their semi-annual discussion of the world’s dismal economic
prospects. The prediction for output and jobs, catalogued in
forecasts prepared for their meeting, is unacceptable. It’s also
avoidable, if leaders in the U.S. and especially the European
Union rethink their policies.  In its latest  forecast , the  International Monetary Fund 
says it expects the world economy to grow by a feeble 3.3
percent this year -- a cut of 0.2 percentage point from its
previous projection. It foresees weak performance in all the
advanced economies. Japan, where  policy  has just been radically
changed, is a partial exception.  Inured as we all are to economic disappointment, these
numbers still make depressing reading. With  unemployment 
remaining far too high at 7.6 percent, the U.S. is projected to
expand only 1.9 percent in 2013, down from 2.2 percent last
year.  In the euro area, things are much worse. Europe is facing
another year of contraction, with output falling 0.3 percent in
2013 following a decline of 0.6 percent last year.  Bright Spot  Japan , by these standards, is a bright spot. It’s just
adopted a new economic policy centered on unorthodox (and long
overdue) monetary stimulus that may improve its prospects: The
IMF expects growth of 1.6 percent this year, still low but an
improvement of 0.4 percentage point over the previous projection
-- and an expansion of 3.8 percent is predicted fourth quarter
on fourth quarter.  The point is, policy makes a difference. This global
recovery was always going to be slow by historical standards,
since it follows a crash brought on by a massive financial
breakdown -- a so-called balance-sheet recession. Consumers in
many economies still don’t want to spend; they’re busy paying
down mortgages and credit-card debt. While this deleveraging
proceeds, growth will be slow. But it doesn’t need to be as slow
as this.  Premature fiscal contraction is under way in the U.S. If
Congress and the White House could agree on a credible plan for
medium-term consolidation, fiscal policy could safely stay easy
in the short term.  The  Barack Obama  administration’s new  budget proposal 
implicitly recognizes this: It suggests a slight relaxing of the
short-term fiscal stance, relative to the plans being fitfully
debated on  Capitol Hill . Congress looks unwilling to go along,
and the prospects for restoring short-term fiscal stimulus seem
close to nil -- leaving the whole burden of providing support
for demand on an overstretched  Federal Reserve . The recovery
will be slower, unemployment will stay elevated and the risk of
future financial reverses will be higher as a result.  In the EU, fiscal policy is locked in severe-austerity
mode, especially in the weakest economies, because of the euro
area’s failure to pool its budgetary resources. The reluctance
of German and other northern European taxpayers to support the
struggling southerners is understandable. This reluctance,
however, is self-defeating, and northern governments are failing
in their duty to point this out. The weakest economies are
holding back the rest; the southern tier’s troubles could even
lead to new financial calamities. Forms of fiscal risk-sharing
to support demand in the weakest economies are indispensable --
yet they’re not even on  Europe ’s agenda.  Banking Union  An extreme instance of this fiscal paralysis is the recent
backsliding on plans for a  banking union . It’s almost
universally agreed that the euro area needs not just a single
banking supervisor but also a single authority that can wind
down troubled banks, backed by a common resolution fund. This
last component is a form of fiscal risk-sharing.  Germany  and its
allies are saying, in effect, no go. This obduracy maintains the
fatal link between bank insolvency and state insolvency, leaving
unfixed one of the euro area’s most fundamental weaknesses.  The U.S. can look to the Fed to make up for Washington’s
fiscal bungling. Europe has no such luck. The  European Central
Bank  continues to hold back from maximum monetary support. It’s
inhibited by a needlessly strict interpretation of its price
stability mandate -- which the bank’s governing council could
tweak at its own initiative -- and by legal constraints on
unorthodox measures such as quantitative easing, which
governments could relax if they chose. The result is crippling
recessions which, for many countries, show no sign of ending.  If the past is any guide, the message from the G-20 finance
ministers this weekend will be: We’re making slow but steady
progress, and promise to stay the course. The truth is, they’ve
set the wrong course, and millions of unemployed in the U.S and
Europe are bearing the consequences.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 