-- Twitter Expands Advertising Tools With Keyword-Based Ads
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-04-17T19:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/twitter-expands-advertising-tools-with-keyword-based-promotions.html
Twitter Inc. introduced a feature
that will let advertisers reach users based on keywords in their
postings, expanding the tools available to marketers on the
microblogging site.  Keyword targeting will make it easier for companies to
tailor promotions based on content, Twitter said in a  blog 
posting today. The service aims to boost the relevancy of ads,
rather than the number of promotions that appear alongside the
website’s 140-character status updates.  Closely held Twitter, which is targeting $1 billion in
revenue in 2014, is adding tools to help marketers tailor ads to
users of the social-networking site based on their interests.
The ability to promote products and services being discussed on
Twitter increases the likelihood of the ads leading to
purchases, said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst at New York-
based researcher EMarketer Inc.  “Twitter is where people go to get information in real
time,” Williamson said in an interview. “By allowing
advertisers to target keywords that people write in their
tweets, it puts advertisers closer to that moment of intent.”  Ads based on user postings can be many times more effective
than other forms of promotions on the site, said Kevin Weil,
senior director of product at Twitter.  Targeted Tweets  In a test, GoPro camera maker Woodman Labs Inc. ran an ad
triggered by tweets containing certain keywords which 11 percent
of users clicked on, favorited or retweeted, Weil said. Typical
ads on Twitter see a response from 1 to 3 percent of users who
see it.  The results “underscore the intent that is inherent in
users as they tweet publicly about what they are interested
in,” Weil said in an interview.  Twitter has also shown ads for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Walgreen
Co. (WAG)  targeted to user tweets. The system could be used to sell
concert tickets or an album to a user who posts about their
favorite band, Weil said.  The ads may also turn off some users if they are triggered
by a keyword with multiple meanings, or whose meaning changes in
light of a recent event, Williamson said.  “It would be unfortunate for people to see ads for travel
to  Boston  when they were tweeting about what they saw happen at
the marathon,” Williamson said.  Twitter is on track to generate more than $580 million in
sales this year, with the majority of that coming from mobile
ads, EMarketer estimates.  In February, the company said it would work with partners
such as  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  to sell ads
using software that taps into Twitter’s ad platform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  