-- Won Touches Two-Week High on Economic Outlook; Bonds Decline
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-17T01:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/won-touches-two-week-high-on-economic-outlook-bonds-decline.html
The won touched a two week high
after new-home construction climbed in the U.S., boosting
expectations the economy is improving in South Korea’s second-
biggest export market.  Government bonds  dropped.  Asian stocks rose for the first time in three days as U.S.
housing starts advanced in March to the highest level in almost
five years, according to Commerce Department  figures  released in
 Washington  yesterday. South Korea’s Kospi Index of shares gained
as much as 0.7 percent. The won has rebounded from an eight-
month low reached last week amid geopolitical tensions arising
from  North Korea ’s threat to attack the South and the U.S.  “U.S. economic data helped ease investor concerns, pushing
the won higher,” said Lee Dae Ho, analyst at Hyundai Futures
Corp. in Seoul. “Still, concerns about North Korea’s threats
are lingering, limiting gains, while foreign funds are selling
more stocks than they are buying.”  The won strengthened 0.1 percent to 1,113.53 per dollar as
of 10:24 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency touched 1,111.15, the highest since April 2. It has
rebounded from 1,144.82 on April 9, the weakest level since July
26, after the U.S. said it had agreed to work with China,  Japan 
and  South Korea  to try and draw North Korea back into nuclear
talks.  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 8.56
percent. Foreign investors sold a net $3.6 billion of South
Korean stocks this year through yesterday, exchange data show.  Korean shares  rose the most in nine months in New York
yesterday on speculation that threats from North Korea may be
waning after the totalitarian state said it doesn’t oppose
resuming talks with the U.S. The  Bank of New York Mellon Korea
ADR Index , which tracks American depositary receipts of South
Korean companies, rose 3.4 percent, the biggest gain since June
29.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due March
2018 climbed one basis point to 2.69 percent, according to
prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  