-- Yen Snaps Declines as Stocks Fall, Japanese Sold Foreign Debt
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-04-18T06:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/yen-remains-lower-amid-bets-japan-will-escape-g-20-criticism.html
The yen snapped a two-day decline
as Asian stocks slid, boosting the allure of the Japanese
currency as a haven.  Demand for the the yen was also bolstered after Japanese
 data  showed domestic investors sold foreign bonds for a fifth
week, casting doubt on whether monetary stimulus will continue
to weaken the currency.  “Stock declines are taking risk off the table, spurring
buying of the yen,” said Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The key to further yen
weakness is Japanese investors’ willingness to buy overseas
assets.”  The yen traded little changed at 98.08 per dollar as of
7:11 a.m. in London after losing 1.4 percent in the prior two
days. It was at 127.96 per euro from 127.87 yesterday, after
earlier falling 0.5 percent. The euro added 0.1 percent to
$1.3050.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares dropped 1.1 percent.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda unveiled a plan on
April 4 to double the central bank’s holdings of government debt
and stock funds in two years.  Japan ’s trade partners have
expressed concern over the move, with the  U.S. Treasury  saying
in its semi-annual currency report that Japan must “refrain
from competitive devaluation.”  The yen plunged 19 percent over the past six months, the
worst performance among 10 developed market currencies tracked
by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose
2.6 percent and the euro gained 2.5 percent.  G-20 Meeting  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers meet for
two days in Washington beginning today, before weekend talks at
the  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank . A draft
statement prepared for the group’s meeting maintains a February
pledge to “move more rapidly toward more market-determined
exchange rate systems and exchange-rate flexibility,” Bloomberg
BNA reported.  IMF Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said on April 16 that
the yen’s depreciation is a “logical consequence of  appropriate 
monetary policy” by the BOJ. At their last gathering in
February, the G-20 signaled that Japan may stimulate its
stagnant economy as long as policy makers refrain from publicly
advocating a sliding yen.  Japan’s investors reduced their  holdings  of foreign debt by
331.9 billion yen ($3.4 billion) in the week ended April 12,
according to data from the Asian nation’s Ministry of Finance.
That followed a net sale of 1.14 trillion yen the prior week,
the most in a year.  “This tremendous weakening in the yen has produced little
more than profit taking by the Japanese themselves,” said  Sean Callow , a senior foreign-exchange strategist in Sydney at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “It gives the impression that money is
not flowing out of Japan at all right now, so it’s at least
cause for investors to have a bit of a rethink” about the
effectiveness of BOJ policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  