-- Yuan’s Trading Band Seen Widening Further, China Daily Reports
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-04-17T04:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/yuan-s-trading-band-seen-widening-further-china-daily-reports.html
The next step in  China ’s exchange-
rate reform will be a further widening of the  yuan ’s trading
band,  China Daily  reported today, citing a central bank
official.  The People’s Bank of China will also free up trading in its
currency by allowing more market participants and lower
transaction costs, the state-run  newspaper  said, citing Wang Yu,
deputy director-general of the PBOC’s research bureau. The
report didn’t give details of how much the yuan’s band will
widen or when the change will be implemented.  The PBOC doubled the band a year ago to 1 percent on either
side of its daily  reference rate , which was set at 6.2342 per
dollar today. The yuan strengthened 0.16 percent to 6.1733 as of
12:20 p.m. in  Shanghai  and earlier touched a 19-year high of
6.1726, the upper limit of its permitted trading  range . It has
been within 0.1 percent of the ceiling most days since October
and tested the lower end in July 2012.  “I do believe that there will be a band widening sometime
in the second quarter,” said Sean Yokota, head of Asia strategy
at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB in  Singapore . “You do have
a political transition finishing and they do want to liberalize
the yuan” to cope with appreciation pressure from capital
inflows, he said.  Premier  Li Keqiang  took office a month ago and said he
would deepen exchange-rate reform and open the economy more to
market forces.  Yuan positions  at Chinese financial institutions
stemming from foreign-exchange transactions, a gauge of cross-
border capital flows, climbed 295 billion yuan ($47.7 billion)
in February, central bank data showed on April 10. Increases are
a sign of inflows and January’s 684 billion yuan gain was a
record.  ‘Appropriate’ Band  Of 20 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  in November, 12
forecast the yuan’s trading band would be widened in 2013 while
eight forecast such a move for 2014. Seventeen predicted the
next change would lead to the yuan being allowed to diverge from
the PBOC’s daily fixing by somewhere in the range of 1.5 percent
to 2 percent.  The existing 1 percent band is “appropriate,” PBOC Deputy
Governor Yi Gang said March 11 in Beijing. The central bank
reiterated April 3 it will keep the yuan’s exchange rate
“basically” stable and further reform the exchange-rate
mechanism.  “The trading band news added some excitement but it’s
already expected as part of a long-term market reform,” said
Irene Cheung, a currency strategist in Singapore at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  