-- Yuan Reaches 19-Year High on Record Fixing Before IMF, G-20 Meet
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-04-17T10:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/yuan-reaches-19-year-high-on-record-fixing-before-imf-g-20-meet.html
China ’s  yuan  rallied the most in
four months to reach a 19-year high after the central bank
raised the daily  reference rate  to a record and an official said
the currency’s trading band may be widened.  The currency closed at the upper limit of its 1 percent
trading band after the People’s Bank of China strengthened the
 fixing  by 0.11 percent to 6.2342 per dollar. The central bank
will broaden the permitted range in its next reforms, the China
Daily reported, citing Wang Yu, deputy director-general of the
PBOC’s research bureau. The gain reflects efforts to pre-empt
criticism from policy makers gathering for Group of 20 and
International Monetary Fund meetings in  Washington  this week,
according to  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   “China is making a case for its yuan policy by letting it
appreciate going into the meetings,” said Irene Cheung, a
currency strategist in  Singapore  at ANZ. “The trading band news
added some excitement but it’s already expected as part of long-
term market reform.”  The yuan strengthened 0.17 percent to 6.1723 per dollar in
 Shanghai , the biggest advance since Dec. 13, according to prices
from the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It’s also the
strongest level since the government unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The PBOC increased the yuan band to 1 percent from 0.5
percent on April 16 last year. The  China Daily  report didn’t
give details of how much the range will be widened by or when.  Undervalued Yuan  China has been criticized by some countries, particularly
the U.S., for what they say is an undervalued yuan that benefits
the Asian nation’s exporters.  The U.S. Treasury Department asked  Japan  to refrain from
devaluing the yen, while declining to name China as a currency
manipulator in a semi-annual report to Congress on April 12. The
G-20 nations meet in Washington on April 18-19, while the IMF
begins its three-day gathering on April 19.  The yuan is “moderately undervalued” and China needs to
widen the band in the medium term, Markus Rodlauer, the IMF’s
China mission chief, said in a March 21 Bloomberg TV interview.  The existing 1 percent band is “appropriate,” PBOC Deputy
Governor Yi Gang said March 11 in Beijing. The central bank
reiterated April 3 that it will keep the exchange rate
“basically” stable and pledged to further reform the foreign-
exchange mechanism.  Capital Inflows  “I do believe that there will be a band widening sometime
in the second quarter,” said Sean Yokota, head of Asia strategy
at  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  in Singapore. “You do have
a political transition finishing and they do want to liberalize
the yuan” to cope with appreciation pressure from capital
inflows, he said.  Yuan  positions  at Chinese financial institutions stemming
from foreign-exchange transactions, a gauge of cross-border
capital flows, climbed 295 billion yuan ($48 billion) in
February, central bank data showed on April 10. Increases are a
sign of inflows and January’s 684 billion yuan gain was a
record.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan advanced 0.13
percent to 6.1788 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.13 percent to
6.2490, a 1.2 percent discount to the spot rate in Shanghai.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.44
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  