-- Zimbabwe Withdraws UN Election Funding Request, Chinamasa Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-04-17T10:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-17/zimbabwe-withdraws-un-election-funding-request-chinamasa-says.html
Zimbabwe  will pay for its own
elections after the United Nations imposed funding conditions
the government deemed unacceptable, Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa said.  Zimbabwe needs about $132 million to pay for national
elections which must be held before Oct. 31. The state-run
 Herald  newspaper reported a UN assessment team’s visit was
blocked after the international body demanded to meet with civil
society groups uninvolved with the poll.  “The UN avenue for sourcing resources for our elections is
now closed,” Chinamasa told diplomats and journalists late
yesterday in the capital, Harare. “The UN team insisted on
coming on their terms. The ball is now back in our court.”  The southern African country is governed by a coalition
formed by President Robert Mugabe’s ruling Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front and Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change. Failed elections in
2008, which were marred by violence mainly against the then-
opposition MDC, compelled the 15-nation Southern African
Development Community to broker a power-sharing agreement.  The pact stipulated that new elections must be held this
year, after the approval of a revised constitution in March. The
vote will pit Zanu-PF against the MDC and a faction of it led by
Welshman Ncube.  Zimbabwe made a request for election funds in February,
according the UN.  “The UN will continue to engage with the Government of
Zimbabwe to determine if an agreement can be reached,” the UN
said, according to an e-mailed statement.  The southern African nation’s economy, expected to grow 5
percent this year, is recovering from a decade of hyper-
inflation that peaked at 500 billion percent in 2008, according
to the IMF. It dropped its currency in favor of the dollar the
following year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  