-- ‘Great God Pan’ Digs Into Heart of Memory: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-12-20T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/-great-god-pan-digs-into-heart-of-memory-jeremy-gerard.html
In the woods of suburban New Jersey,
two young men stare searchingly into one other’s eyes in the
opening seconds of Amy Herzog’s extraordinarily moving “The
Great God Pan.”  They haven’t spent time together in the quarter-century
since a childhood friendship abruptly ended at age 7. One has
come to share a terrible family secret. The other listens,
sympathetically at first, then uncomprehendingly.  Herzog, whose “ 4000 Miles ” was one of last year’s best
plays, is the Ann Beattie of her generation: A writer so finely
attuned to the conversational beats and syncopations of an era,
that communication flows with an insistent inevitability that’s
always trenchant and almost always heartbreaking.  Directed with delicacy and sensitivity by Carolyn Cantor,
“The Great God Pan” (the title is from Elizabeth Barrett
Browning) deals with child abuse and memory, and the myriad
defenses people are apt to marshal in absorbing their
consequences.  Frank (powerfully played by Keith Nobbs, sporting tattoos,
leather and hair gel) has asked for a reunion with Jamie (Jeremy
Strong, wide-eyed and gentle as the unsuspecting friend).  Evil Dad  First Frank explains that he is charging his father with
child abuse, who has affirmed the accusation.  Then he reveals that the father has admitted molesting
others, and specifically Jamie, whose parents sent him to stay
with the boy’s family when their marriage briefly was in
trouble. Jamie has no memory of any of it.  Herzog does not end there, however.  With devastating acuity she digs into the impact of Frank’s
revelation on Jamie’s relationships with Paige, his girlfriend
of six years (Sarah Goldberg, who’s terrific), his parents (the
superb veterans Peter Friedman and Becky Ann Baker) and the
boys’ now elderly babysitter (the wonderful Joyce Van Patten).  Completing the circle is a young anorectic woman (Erin
Wilhelmi) seeing Paige for counseling.  Nothing said or shared among these people is expected;
every conversation shivers with emotional truth and an author’s
empathy.  One-Act Plague  I only wish Herzog had as much empathy for her audience. I
doubt I’ve ever felt so strongly that an author has left us
hanging at exactly the point where a play should have taken us
much further.  There’s a plague of one-act plays -- and this is one --
that just seem to stop rather than resolve. At the end of “The
Great God Pan,” Jamie has reached a place that even Frank
realizes is a precipice. It’s a haunting Act I closer that
demands an Act II. It never comes, and what a shame.  Through Jan. 13 at Playwrights Horizons, 416 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com .
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 