-- Georgia Doctors Ask Judge to Halt Midterm Abortion Limits
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-12-20T16:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/aclu-asks-georgia-judge-to-block-midterm-abortion-limits.html
Three Georgia doctors asked a state
judge for an order blocking enforcement of laws limiting
availability of midterm abortions to emergencies and instances
where a pregnancy has been deemed “medically futile.”  Lawyers from the  American Civil Liberties Union  presented
the doctors’ arguments today before Judge Doris L. Downs in
Atlanta, saying the law violates the state constitution.  “It is unconstitutional on its face,” ACLU attorney Alexa
Kolbi-Molinas told the judge. “It is undisputed that plaintiffs
will suffer irreparable harm.”  The measures are part of an act signed into law May 1 by
first-term Republican Governor Nathan Deal, who said then that
the legislation gave additional protection to “unborn babies.”  “The act, which bans nearly all pre-viability abortions
after 20 weeks post-fertilization, infringes on the fundamental
right of a woman to decide whether and when to bear a child,”
and breaches rights enshrined in Georgia’s constitution, the
ACLU argued in a Nov. 30 complaint.  The New York-based ACLU is also seeking a finding that the
act is unconstitutional. Downs said today that she expects to
issue a ruling by next week on whether to stop the measure from
taking effect Jan. 1.  ‘About Abortion’  “This is a case about abortion,” the state said in
opposition papers filed Dec. 13. “It is not, however, a case
about the federal right to an abortion recognized by the United
States Supreme Court in decisions binding on all courts in this
state.”  The doctors’ lawyers are asking the court to find a right
to abortion in the state’s constitution that is separate and
distinct from that found in the federal document, Attorney
General Sam Olens argued in the filing.  “A careful review of the text and history of the  Georgia 
Constitution will reveal that such a right does not exist,” the
attorney general said.  Kolbi-Molinas of the ACLU today singled out the provision
of the law that allows prosecutors to obtain patients’ medical
records, which she said would violate their constitutional right
to privacy.  Nels Peterson, solicitor general for the Georgia attorney
general’s office, told Downs that judges could interpret the
state’s new abortion law as requiring a search warrant before
obtaining patient records, a safeguard that he said has been
ruled constitutional.  “The plaintiffs have not articulated any harm,” he told
the judge today.  The case is Lathrop v. Deal, 2012-cv-224423, Superior Court
of Fulton County, Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  