-- Advanced Plasma Expands Waste to Energy Plan in Asia
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-12-21T11:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/advanced-plasma-to-burn-trash-in-asia-as-urban-power-use-climbs.html
(Corrects headline to remove reference to burning. Story
originally moved Dec. 20.)  Advanced Plasma Power Ltd. , a U.K.
developer of waste-to-energy technology, plans to expand in
 Southeast Asia  as growing cities drive up electricity demand.  The region is a “good market” for power plants that use
waste from homes and businesses to generate electricity, Rolf Stein, chief executive officer of London-based Advanced Plasma,
said in a telephone interview. There’s also more of such trash
available as more people move to urban areas, he said.  “Governments in Southeast Asia are addressing these
challenges with necessary regulation, whilst recognizing the
potential employment opportunities that this sector brings,”
according to Stein, who said he won’t rule out opening a local
unit. “The region is also growing strongly economically.”  The company has seen an increase in inquiries in Southeast
Asia following a U.K. trade visit that it joined this month, and
is looking at countries including  South Korea ,  Malaysia ,
 Singapore  and the  Philippines . “We have made good contacts as a
result of this trade mission, which we expect will lead to new
opportunities,” the CEO said.  Biomass projects in Southeast Asia accounted for as much as
36 percent of the region’s 7.4 gigawatts of renewable-energy
capacity as of May, according to London-based researcher
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Thailand accounts for 70 percent
of the region’s biomass power market and the industry is
expected to boom in Malaysia, BNEF said.  Advanced Plasma also plans to build 10 projects in the U.K.
that use waste from homes and businesses to generate electricity
and heat. The company expects the plants to have 160 megawatts
of capacity and cost about 400 million pounds ($651 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  