-- Aflac to Boost Investment Staff in Wall Street Push
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-20T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/aflac-to-boost-investment-staff-in-wall-street-push.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest provider of
supplemental health insurance, is adding traders and analysts
from the biggest Wall Street firms as Chief Investment Officer
Eric Kirsch increases bets on U.S. corporate debt.  “On the surface, you might say that’s no big deal, all the
insurers do U.S. corporate investment-grade bonds,” Kirsch, 52,
said in an interview. “But Aflac didn’t.”  Kirsch, who headed insurance asset management at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  before Aflac hired him last year, said he may
add 15 to 30 people in 2013. Kirsch hired 26 this year as Wall
Street firms contract, among them Brad Dyslin, who worked with
Kirsch at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , and Timothy “Chip” Stevens who was
at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Issei Sasaki was added as CIO in  Japan .  “It’s a lot more risk and stress at some of the financial
institutions than at a place like an insurance company,” said
Paul Sorbera, president of Alliance Consulting, a New York-based
search firm. At insurers, “the opportunities are seen now as
being more enticing than they have been in the past, and also
less volatile and longer term.”  Financial firms have announced the elimination of 300,000
jobs in two years. Citigroup Inc. said this month it would cut
11,000 positions. Total pay for traders and investment bankers
is about half what it was in 2007, according to an October
report from Options Group, a New York-based recruitment firm.  Lincoln, XL  Lincoln National Corp., the Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
insurer, turned to Wall Street when it hired Ellen Cooper as
chief investment officer in July. Cooper had been global head of
insurance strategy at Goldman Sachs’s asset-management business.  XL Group Plc said this month it hired Craig Wenzel from
Deutsche Bank to become senior vice president of capital
markets.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  hired Adam Hodes from Credit Suisse Group
AG last year to oversee mergers and acquisitions, and American
International Group Inc. added Morgan Stanley banker Peter Juhas
as head of strategic planning in 2011.  Aflac, based in Columbus,  Georgia , opened an investment-
management office in  Manhattan  in May as Kirsch builds his
staff. He said he’s close to hiring a chief risk officer and is
looking to employees of Wall Street firms to fill additional
roles including macroeconomics analysis.  Dyslin, 47, was hired as Aflac’s global head of credit in
June. He had been head of research at insurer Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc.’s investment-management business and
previously directed U.S. credit research at Deutsche Bank’s
asset-management unit.  Stevens, 43, is Aflac’s global head of trading. He’s former
Americas chief of fixed-income trading at BlackRock’s
investment-management unit and was a trader at Deutsche Bank.  New Strategy  Aflac, which sells most of its  coverage in Japan , is
shifting strategies after it was burned by privately negotiated
investments in European banks that issued debt in yen.  “When I got here, I said, we’re done with that,” Kirsch
said. “We’ve got too much.”  The proportion of the insurer’s portfolio in privately
issued securities was 42 percent as of Sept. 30, down from 53
percent a year earlier, and 69 percent at the end of 2007. Aflac
said it had about $1 billion in bonds from Greek banks and $750
million from Portuguese lenders in April of 2010, as  Greece 
awaited word on a rescue package from the European Union.  About 92 percent to 94 percent of the portfolio, which was
$124 billion as of Sept. 30, may eventually be in investment-
grade bonds, Kirsch said, including a 30 percent to 40 percent
allocation to Japanese government debt. Bonds denominated in
dollars or other currencies will be hedged to the yen if they’re
backing Japanese obligations, Kirsch said.  High Yield  The rest may be invested in emerging-market debt, bank
loans, high-yield bonds, residential and commercial mortgage-
backed securities and hedge funds and private equity, he said.  The program is showing results. The yield on about $5.2
billion in new money invested to back Japanese obligations rose
to 2.76 percent in the third quarter from 1.97 percent three
months earlier, even as rates on Japanese and U.S. debt neared
record lows. Aflac invested about $2.5 billion in corporate
bonds and much of the rest in Japanese government debt. The
hedges cost about 41 basis points.  “That was a tremendous shot in the arm,” Kirsch said.
“From an investment standpoint, we went right down the
fairway.”  Japanese insurers are also investing overseas to boost the
income from their bond portfolios. Nippon Life Insurance Co.,
the nation’s biggest life insurer, is planning to add  non-
Japanese bonds hedged to yen in the six months through March.  Bond Yields  “Until domestic bond yields hit the bottom and rise again,
there is a certain amount we need to depend on investing in
foreign bonds with currency hedges,” Yosuke Matsunaga, general
manager of the insurer’s finance and investment planning
department, said in October.  Aflac’s  investment in dollar debt in the current quarter
may rise to about two thirds of its Japanese cash flow, Kirsch
said.  The insurer may hire outside firms to manage as much as 25
percent of its investments, and plans to add an external manager
for investment-grade bonds early next year, Kirsch said. Aflac
currently invests in bank loans via Octagon Credit Investors LLC
and Apollo Global Management LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  