-- African Development Bank Halts Congo Budget Support Over IMF Cut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-12-20T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/african-development-bank-halts-congo-budget-support-over-imf-cut.html
The  African Development Bank  halted
plans to consider offering the Democratic Republic of Congo $87
million in budget support after the  International Monetary Fund 
cut its loan program over the nation’s opaque mining deals.  The AfDB, based in Tunis, linked the assistance, which
refers to unrestricted funds given to a country to meet its
budgetary needs, to the existence of an IMF program in Congo,
said Valentin Zongo, the representative of the bank in the
Central African country. The bank will continue providing
financing to Congo through other, more restrictive, means, he
said in a phone interview from the capital, Kinshasa, Dec. 19.  “The African Development Bank hopes that a new IMF program
will be concluded in the beginning of next year or before the
end of the first trimester so we can involve ourselves in the
country with all our instruments including budget support,”
Zongo said.  The IMF stopped its loan program with Congo on Nov. 30 with
$225 million of disbursements outstanding after the government
failed to publish full details of a 2011 mining deal involving
state-owned miner Gecamines and a company linked to Israeli
billionaire Dan Gertler.  The deal was one of at least six sales of mining projects
by Congolese state-owned companies to Gertler last year. The IMF
and anti-corruption advocacy groups such as London-based  Global
Witness  questioned the deals because the government didn’t
officially announce the sales at the time of their conclusion or
account for all the revenue generated by the transactions.  New Program  The IMF has offered to start a new program with Congo,
according to Oscar Melhado, the IMF resident representative in
the country.  “We’re ready to reengage and we’re waiting for an
invitation by the government to discuss the main components of a
new program,” Melhado said in an interview yesterday in
Kinshasa.  Patrice Kitebi, the minister in charge of finance in Prime
Minister Matata Ponyo’s office, didn’t answer his phone when
called for comment yesterday.  Congo is the world’s largest source of cobalt and produces
about 3 percent of the world’s copper. It is also rich in tin
ore, gold and diamonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 