-- Airbus Set to Beat Targets as CEO Cautions on Challenges Ahead
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/airbus-set-to-beat-targets-as-ceo-cautions-on-challenges-ahead.html
Airbus SAS Chief Executive Officer
Fabrice Bregier told employees that the aircraft manufacturer
will beat its targets for orders and deliveries this year, even
as the company cedes the industry crown to rival  Boeing Co. (BA)   Airbus had set a goal for 580 aircraft deliveries in 2012
and orders of 650 units. By the end of last month, the French
company had handed over 516 airliners, predominantly single-
aisle jets that form the backbone of the industry.  In a letter to employees obtained by Bloomberg, Bregier
said the order target was “a real challenge” to achieve
because Airbus had enjoyed record demand for an upgraded variant
of its A320 single-aisle in the previous year.  The Airbus CEO is in his first year at the helm of the
Toulouse, France-based company, after moving up from chief
operating officer. Bregier said while there will be
“speculation about our performance against Boeing,” he is
pursuing his own goals, cautioning that 2013 will be rife with
challenges that Airbus needs to overcome.  In his review of Airbus’s progress on the A380 superjumbo,
Bregier conceded that the discovery of hairline cracks in the
wings “were a real crisis,” harming the plane’s reputation.  Airbus will face the “huge challenge” of having to
retrofit 11  Singapore Airlines (SIA)  Ltd. A380s in parallel with
regular, scheduled aircraft output, while the facility that
builds the wings imbeds a new design for routine production.  Airbus expects to deliver a total of 60 A380s over the
next two years, Bregier said. Airbus is scheduled to hand over
its 30th A380 for the year in the last week of December.  Achieving first test flights by mid 2013 for the long-range
A350 wide-body is the “key objective” for 2013, and Bregier
called results from engine tests “promising.” The first A350
after construction is on track for ground testing of mechanical,
electrical and avionics systems, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  