-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Drop Most in 2 Weeks on U.S. Budget Risk
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-12-20T08:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/taiwan-dollar-forwards-drop-most-in-2-weeks-on-u-s-budget-risk.html
Taiwan dollar forwards dropped the
most in almost two weeks as signs U.S. budget negotiations are
faltering damped demand for riskier assets.  Government bonds 
were little changed.  White House Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  said
President  Barack Obama  would veto a tax and spending proposal
presented by House Speaker  John Boehner  because it would put
“too big a burden on the middle class.” Democrats and
Republicans are trying to come up with a deal to avert more than
$600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases. The
 Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded an asset-purchase program today for the
third time in four months.  “The U.S. fiscal cliff is politics driven and today’s news
is hurting risk sentiment,” said Samson Tu, a Taipei-based  fund
manager  at Uni-President Assets Management Corp., which oversees
$700 million. “Japan’s monetary easing causes inflows in Taiwan,
the central bank will probably be extra alert on its effect on
the exchange rate.”  Three-month non-deliverable forwards weakened 0.1 percent
to NT$28.823 per dollar as of 4:13 p.m. in Taipei, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest drop since Dec. 7.
The contracts are at a 1 percent premium to the spot rate, which
slipped 0.06 percent to NT$29.120, based on Taipei Forex Inc.
prices. The  Taiwan dollar  has appreciated 4 percent this year,
poised for a fourth annual gain.  Intervention Mandate  Taiwan’s central bank has bought the greenback to counter
gains in the island’s currency on most days in the past eight
months, according to traders who asked not to be identified. The
monetary authority’s mandate is to keep relative exchange-rate
stability and to intervene in the event of abnormal moves,
Governor Perng Fai-nan said yesterday, when he and his board
kept the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 1.875 percent for
a sixth straight meeting.  Export orders rose 11.1 percent in November from a year
earlier, more than the median estimate of 3.85 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey and the previous month’s 3.2 percent
advance, official data showed today.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a
measure of expected moves in exchange rates used to price
options, rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
2.89 percent. It was 6.30 percent at the start of the year.  The yield on the government’s 1.125 percent bonds due
September 2022 was at 1.149 percent, little changed from
yesterday, according to Gretai Securities Market. The  overnight
interbank lending  rate was 0.386 percent, from 0.385 percent
yesterday, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  