-- Taiwanese Stocks Decline Most in Five Weeks on Growth Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-12-20T08:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/taiwanese-stocks-decline-most-in-five-weeks-on-growth-concern.html
Taiwanese  stocks  fell the most in
five weeks, led by technology and financial shares, after
comments from the central bank governor raised concerns over the
island’s economic recovery.  The  Taiex Index (TWSE)  sank 1.1 percent to 7,595.46, the biggest
drop since Nov. 13.  Taiwan  Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.,
which accounts for 12 percent of the benchmark gauge, sank 1.3
percent to a three-week low.  Cathay Financial Holding Co. (2882) 
slumped 2.8 percent, leading a gauge of financial stocks to the
lowest level in more than a week.  The central bank left  interest rates  unchanged for a sixth
straight meeting in an announcement made after stock markets
closed yesterday. The decision was predicted by all 23
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Economic growth will be
“steady and slow” next year as exports and private investment
recover, Governor Perng Fai-nan said.  Perng’s comments were taken to mean that “Taiwan’s economy
will recover at some point in time, but we don’t know when
that’s going to be,” Henry Miao, an assistant vice-president at
Hua Nan Securities Investment Management Co., said by phone from
Taipei. “That created concern among investors. Also, the U.S.
fiscal cliff issue seems to be unresolved. As the U.S. is one of
Taiwan’s major export destinations, we will get impacted too.”  Officials from U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration
told leaders of business and financial services groups that
negotiations with House Speaker  John Boehner  have deteriorated
in the past 24 hours, a person familiar with the meeting said.
The U.S. is Taiwan’s second-largest trading partner. Exports
make up 60 percent of the island’s gross domestic product.  The Taiex has gained 7.4 percent this year, poised for its
biggest annual advance since 2010. The gauge, which jumped 6.3
percent in the past month, trades for 18.3 times estimated
 profit , approaching the highest level since January 2010.  “We have risen quite a bit this year, so there’s some
sell-off,” Kevin Lee, a trader at KGI Securities Co., said by
phone in Taipei today.  To contact the reporter for this story: Darren Boey at
   dboey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 