-- Major Banks Under Renewed Cyber Attack Targeting Websites
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-12-20T22:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/major-banks-under-renewed-cyber-attack-targeting-websites.html
The websites of major U.S. banks are
facing a new round of cyber attacks linked to the same group
responsible for similar assaults earlier this year.  The latest attacks started last week and have hit  Bank of
America Corp. ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , U.S.
Bancorp,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. (PNC) , according to two executives at companies providing
security to some of the targeted banks, who asked for anonymity
because they weren’t authorized to discuss clients and didn’t
want their companies to become targets of computer assaults. PNC
was under attack today, the executives said.  A group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters
announced plans to attack banks in a Dec. 10  statement  posted on
the website pastebin.com. The same group claimed responsibility
for a series of distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks in
September and October that flooded bank websites with  Internet
traffic  and caused disruptions and slowdowns for online
customers.  “The purpose of it is to try to disrupt or stop online
banking access,” said  Bill Nelson , president of the Financial
Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center, which
disseminates cyber threat information to the financial services
industry. “There are some outages occasionally, but it hasn’t
prevented customers from transacting business.”  The Izz ad-Din group has said in Internet postings that the
cyber attacks are in response to a video uploaded to  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube ridiculing the  Prophet Muhammad  and offending
some Muslims.  Multiple Targets  The current attacks, which began last week, involve the
same tactics used in the earlier assault, harnessing commercial
servers to pump traffic at bank websites and attacking
applications including security devices such as firewalls or
intrusion-detection systems, said Carl Herberger, a vice
president at  Radware Ltd. (RDWR) , a Tel Aviv-based network security
provider that is working with some of the banks.  While the attackers targeted one bank per day in the
previous campaign, they are hitting multiple banks in a single
day this time, Herberger said.  PNC, in a statement posted on its website, said it’s aware
of the potential cyber threat, which could “make it difficult
for our customers to log onto online banking.”  “Please be assured that PNC’s website is protected by
sophisticated encryption strategies that shield customer
information and accounts,” the statement reads. “We have no
information regarding timing, duration or intensity of this
potential threat.”  Slow Access  Wells Fargo said its website was experiencing an unusually
high volume of traffic, creating slow or intermittent access for
some customers.  “The vast majority of customers are not impacted, but for
those who are, we encourage them to access their accounts
through our stores, ATMs or by phone as we work to resolve the
issue,” according to a statement e-mailed yesterday by Bridget
Braxton, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman.  Mark T. Pipitone, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment, as did  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for JPMorgan.  The attackers are changing their “signatures,” or
techniques, every 7 to 10 minutes, requiring constant
monitoring, said Scott Hammack, chief executive officer of
Prolexic Technologies, a Hollywood, Florida-based company that
provides protection from DDoS attacks.  DDoS Attacks  Denial-of-service attacks have long been a favored tactic
of hacker-activists, and software kits to mount such assaults
are available for purchase on the black market, Meaghan Molloy,
a senior threat analyst at Mandiant Corp., an Alexandria,
Virginia-based information-security firm, said in an e-mail.  While the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters group said
the attacks are in retaliation for the YouTube video, “it’s
worth noting” that the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  last
year warned that DDoS attacks were being used to deflect
attention from fraudulent wire transfers from compromised bank
accounts, Molloy said.  Banks targeted in the current attacks are working with
Internet-service providers and the U.S. government to share
information on the tactics and techniques of the attackers, said
Nelson, of the Financial Services Information Sharing and
Analysis Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  