-- Akerson Vows Never Again as New GM Awaits Final U.S. Sale
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/akerson-vows-never-again-as-new-gm-awaits-final-u-s-sale.html
With the U.S. government announcing
a plan to sell its stake in  General Motors Co. (GM)  yesterday, 2013
becomes the year GM sets its course for the future.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson will move closer to
remaking GM as a real company and not a ward of the government;
will introduce a slew of new models, replacing 70 percent of its
U.S. lineup over a year and a half; will continue reorganizing
GM in ways both large and small; and will try to build on its
string of quarterly profits.  “As today’s news travels around the world, the question
will be asked, ‘Did GM truly learn the lessons of the
bankruptcy?”’ Akerson told employees in a memo yesterday. “Our
results show that we are changing the company so we never go
down that path again.”  While the U.S. government’s $49.5 billion rescue of GM
helped the company quickly restructure to survive the worst
economy since the Great Depression, it left scars that have been
slow to fade. GM’s aid, the largest piece of President  Barack Obama ’s industry bailout that became the centerpiece of his
first term in office, left the automaker tagged as “Government
Motors,” a moniker executives are eager to shed.  GM yesterday announced plans to purchase 40 percent of the
U.S. Treasury’s  stake  in the company for $5.5 billion by year-
end. It’s part of a plan by the Treasury to sell the rest of its
stock in the Detroit-based company within 15 months, starting as
soon as next month.  Quick Deal  GM said it will buy 200 million shares for $27.50 each, a
7.9 percent premium over the previous day’s closing price. GM
rose 6.6 percent yesterday to $27.18 at the close in  New York .
The shares gained 26 percent this year through Dec. 18, when
they remained 23 percent below the company’s initial public
offering price of $33 a share.  The deal came together quickly, two people familiar with
the effort said. GM approached the Treasury about a buyback
within the last month, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks were private.  The first offer didn’t include a premium and was rejected,
a senior Treasury official said. GM came back with a new offer
and negotiations proceeded until a mutually acceptable price
emerged several days ago, the person said.  The deal was finalized Dec. 18 after the markets closed,
this person said. GM’s board approved the deal that evening,
said another person familiar with the situation.  Higher Break-Even  Treasury, balancing its desires to maximize returns and to
exit quickly, saw GM’s final offer as extremely attractive,
given that buyback prices often are at a discount, the agency
official said. With Treasury retaining 300 million shares, the
U.S. can also capture any share growth over the coming months.  GM shares hadn’t topped the $27.50 price since July 2011,
shortly after the government could begin selling shares after
the 2010 IPO.  The price still puts break-even further out of reach. The
Treasury has garnered about $23 billion through GM’s IPO, debt
repayment, repurchasing of preferred stock, and interest and
dividends. That means the U.S. would need almost $70 for each of
the remaining 300 million shares to recoup its investment, up
from about $53 before yesterday.  For other shareholders, yesterday’s deal will improve
earnings per share by reducing the number of shares outstanding,
said Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann. It also means there
will be less dilution of demand for the shares as the Treasury
sells 40 percent fewer shares on the open market than it would
have without the buyback.  Jim Flaherty ,  Canada ’s finance minister, said yesterday
that the government hasn’t decided when to sell its 140 million
shares.  ‘Important’ Buyback  Since exiting bankruptcy, GM’s turnaround has gained
momentum. The company posted a record full-year profit last year
of $9.19 billion and reclaimed, if only for a year, its title as
the world’s largest automaker. Since tumbling to $18.80 on July
25, the shares have rallied 45 percent. Through all of that, the
government’s ownership and uncertainty over its eventual exit
strategy remained as unanswered questions weighing on the shares.  “If any buyback could be described as fundamentally
important (if not transformational) this is the one,” Adam Jonas, an industry analyst with Morgan Stanley, said in a note
to investors. “GM has a clear path to shake the ‘Government
Motors’ moniker once and for all. While impossible to quantify,
we believe there is a genuine improvement in the commercial
value for GM’s products that can crystallize over time following
an ownership change.”  Shareholder Focus  GM’s share price should now be unleashed from the weight of
the government stake, said Jim Kee, president of South Texas
Money Management in  San Antonio , which purchased 500,000 GM
shares in February expecting a 30 percent to 50 percent gain on
the industrywide recovery.  Government ownership “put an uncertainty discount into the
stock price that was offsetting some of the positives of the
company,” Kee said in an interview. “But now that the
government plans to exit, that will mean that GM’s decisions are
GM’s and not driven by any other considerations that might not
be shareholder-focused.”  The buyback and government exit are another piece in
Akerson’s push to restructure GM. He’s building the foundation
for his vision of how the company should work internally. He’s
putting in new information-technology and financial-reporting
systems that will help in his efforts to manage GM on a global
basis by function and brands, and away from regional commands.  Governance Moves  While he named a global head for Cadillac in October, he
has said he hasn’t felt the same urgency to do so at Chevrolet.
Other changes have been less dramatic, such as the Dec. 17
filing that said the board added “senior vice president” to
the list of officer titles and removed “group vice president.”  The move was the sort of corporate-governance clean-up,
which would typically occur during bankruptcy, that didn’t at GM
because of the speed in which it emerged, a person familiar with
the company’s thinking said.  GM’s buyback deal with Treasury removes some of the
restrictions that have been placed on the automaker as
stipulations for receiving government money, Amman told
reporters yesterday in  Detroit .  The company no longer faces restrictions on using private
airplanes, he said. GM and Treasury continue to discuss pay
restrictions, which Ryan Brinkman, an industry analyst with
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote as the lead author in a note to
investors yesterday “continues to partly inhibit attracting
outside talent.”  ‘Materially Lift’  GM said it expects to record $400 million in costs this
quarter because of the transaction announced yesterday, which it
plans to close this year.  The bailouts of GM and Chrysler Group LLC by U.S. and
Canadian governments propped up an industry that has since
reported three straight years of at least 10 percent growth. GM
received $49.5 billion from the U.S. in 2008 and 2009 as part of
its restructuring, Treasury  said yesterday . Taxpayers still
owned  32 percent  of the company before the buyback.  “There’s been this nagging fear anytime the stock gets
closer to $27 or $28, where the chatter about the government
sell-down picks up again,”  Peter Nesvold , a Jefferies & Co.
analyst in New York, said in a phone interview. The government’s
exit of GM is “going to materially lift an overhang that’s been
over the stock,” he said.  For the automaker, the transaction is a way to move past
the political controversies.  New Pickup  GM executives were particularly eager for the government to
begin exiting as the company prepares to introduce a redesigned
pickup in the second quarter. GM’s market research has found
that the association with government ownership hinders some
sales, especially among truck buyers, a person familiar with the
figures said.  The redesigned Chevrolet Silverado pickup will be one of 13
new Chevys planned for next year as part of GM’s efforts to
update its product lineup following bankruptcy.  “It’s obviously good for the business in terms of
continuing to remove the perception of government involvement in
the company, which is going to be good for sales,” Ammann told
reporters at GM’s headquarters yesterday. “This is very
attractive to the company, to our shareholders. It obviously
brings some clarity and certainty to the U.S. Treasury exit.”  The transaction doesn’t affect GM’s creditworthiness,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement. The cash used is within
the automaker’s liquidity and Treasury’s eventual exit removes
uncertainty, S&P said.  Treasury Unwinding  The Treasury Department, which has been unwinding itself
from ownership stakes in other businesses helped with bailouts,
said in a statement that it was time to exit the GM stake.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated in October that
the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, which bailed out
companies including  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and GM, will cost taxpayers $24 billion, down from an
estimate of $109 billion in March 2010.  The  auto industry  represents most of the loss. The
Treasury’s most recent estimate of the cost to taxpayers for its
rescue of GM, Chrysler and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  was $24.3 billion
as of Sept. 30. The department updates the figure on a quarterly
basis.  “The auto industry rescue helped save more than a million
jobs during a severe economic crisis, but TARP was always meant
to be a temporary, emergency program,” Timothy Massad, an
assistant secretary, said in the statement. “The government
should not be in the business of owning stakes in private
companies for an indefinite period of time.”  The  U.S. economy  is better off for the bailout,  George Magliano , senior principal economist for IHS Automotive in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  “The recession would have been a lot deeper and a lot
worse, if you can imagine that, if this did not occur the way it
did,” he said. “Now, we’re finally seeing the light at the end
of the tunnel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  