-- Thales Names Former Vivendi CEO Levy to Succeed Vigneron as CEO
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-12-20T10:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/thales-names-former-vivendi-ceo-levy-to-succeed-vigneron-as-ceo.html
Thales SA (HO) ,  Europe ’s biggest defense
electronics maker, named  Jean-Bernard Levy  as chief executive
officer to succeed Luc Vigneron, who was ousted by the French
state and  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , the primary shareholders.  Vigneron resigned “after having acknowledged lack of
support of the company’s two main shareholders,” the company
said today in a statement.  Thales didn’t indicate why  France , with a  27 percent stake ,
and Dassault, with 26 percent, weren’t pleased with Vigneron’s
work. A former chief executive of state-owned tanks maker
Nexter, Vigneron was tapped by the two parties in 2009 amid a
reshuffling of the shareholder structure in which Alcatel-Lucent
SA divested its holding and Dassault boosted its investment.  The CEO change comes several months before France’s defense
ministry is set to publicize its Livre Blanc, or white paper,
setting out objectives for 2014 to 2019. A failed attempt this
year by European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. to merge with
 BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  has led military contractors and government
officials to re-examine prospects for combinations.  Levy was chief executive of Vivendi for seven years until
he was ousted in June after months of tension with Jean-Rene Fourtou, the chairman since 2002. The disagreements were said to
center on Levy’s resistance to turnaround scenarios.  Levy has experience in aerospace. From 1988 to 1993, he ran
the satellite communications business for Matra Espace, which
became Matra Marconi Space and is now part of EADS’s Astrium
unit. In 1993 and 1994, he ran the cabinet of Gerard Longuet,
industry minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  