-- Aman Exit Heralds Delhi Property Focus at DLF: Corporate India
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-12-21T04:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/aman-exit-heralds-delhi-property-focus-at-dlf-corporate-india.html
DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , India’s largest real
estate company, is planning “significant” property development
around  New Delhi  after selling a stake in the Aman luxury hotel
chain as it seeks to contain the industry’s biggest debt.  The company will accelerate projects around the nation’s
capital in the next three to four months, said Senior Executive
Director Sriram Khattar. DLF sold its stake in Silverlink
Resorts Ltd., the holding company for Aman Resorts, which runs
hotels such as Amanwana, made famous after late  Princess Diana 
visited the secluded property located close to the Tambora
volcano in  Indonesia ’s Sumbawa province.  DLF, controlled by billionaire Chairman Kushal Pal Singh,
81, is refocusing on real estate after running up 250.7 billion
rupees ($4.6 billion) of  debt  to fund his expansion into hotels,
wind farms and running export processing zones. The transaction
this week will help the company achieve its plan to cut debt by
26 percent and attract investors, said Aashiesh Agarwaal, an
analyst with Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai.  “With the hotels business by and large out of the fold,
the concentration is to look at growth and look at launches and
the exploitation of the real estate assets,” Khattar said in an
interview. As interest rates drop and sentiment improves “we
will be well positioned to benefit,” he said.  DLF is the third-worst performing stock in the  BSE Realty
Index. (BSEREAL)  The shares  rose  0.4 percent to 226.85 rupees at 10:08
a.m. in Mumbai and are trading 57 percent below its initial
public offering price.  Aman Founder  DLF raised 91.9 billion rupees in the initial share sale in
June 2007 selling shares at 525 rupees apiece. In November that
year the company, spent $400 million including $150 million of
debt, to partner Aman Resorts founder Adrian Zecha to buy a
controlling stake in the chain that has luxury properties from
the U.S. to Indonesia. It sold it for $300 million including
debt, according to an exchange filing.  Lee Hing Development Ltd., a Hong Kong real estate
developer, in 2007 sold its stake in the resort for $105 million
after purchasing a majority stake in 2000 for $102.1 million.
The chain was ranked among the top 10 Asian hotel brands,
according to a survey by the Brand Company.  Hilton Venture  Chairman Singh, who’s net worth is estimated to be $6.4
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , also set
up a venture with Hilton Hotels Corp. to build 75 hotels in the
South Asian nation.  In December 2011, DLF bought control of the venture with
Hilton and sold its hotel unit Adone Hotels and Hospitality Ltd.
for 5.67 billion rupees to a Kolkata-based group. Adone holds
land parcels in Chennai, Mysore, Kolkata and Thiruvananthapuram
in Kerala.  DLF may also raise 9 billion rupees selling its wind farms,
according to Agarwaal.  The company that’s developed upscale south Delhi localities
including Greater Kailash, Hauz Khas and South Extension,
reported its worst first-half sales volume in five years in the
six months ended Sept. 30, Mumbai-based Bhaskar Chakraborty, an
analyst at broker IIFL Ltd. said in a note to clients after its
earnings on Nov. 15. DLF sold less than 3 million square feet,
he said.  Gurgaon, India-based DLF has raised 50 billion rupees
selling assets it had acquired following its IPO. Cutting  debt 
that’s more than the combined obligations of its 13 nearest
rivals will help the New Delhi-based company prepare for an
increase in demand as borrowing costs fall.  India’s central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled
higher odds of an  interest rate  cut on Dec. 18 after keeping
rates on hold since April in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  High Value  The company, set up in 1946 as Delhi Land & Finance Pvt.,
plans to build homes and sell as much as 30 billion rupees of
realty by March 31, Ashok Tyagi, group chief financial officer,
said on a conference call with analysts on Nov. 14. Gurgaon,
south of New Delhi, will be the “sales engine,” he said.  “Over the past two years, DLF has focused on low-value
plot sales to combat inflationary risk and delay in government
approvals,” Param Desai, an analyst with Nirmal Bang
Institutional Equities said in a note to clients on Dec. 19.
“Going forward, the management has renewed its focus to launch
high-value projects which will ensue higher pre-sales.”  DLF’s turnaround is predicated on lower interest payments
after it achieves asset sales of 50 billion rupees in the year
ending March 31, IIFL’s Chakraborty said. Marquee developments
in Gurgaon would help create visibility of cash flows over the
next two years, he said.  “Important areas to watch out for in 2013 for residential
realty will be New Gurgaon and Manesar,” said Santhosh Kumar,
chief executive officer of operations at Jones Lang LaSalle
 India . “The increase in commercial developments and the
proposed connectivity via Metro rail and the expressway will put
this region on radar in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  