-- Americans Hacked Don’t Know Chamber Left Them Alone
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r ,   B e n   E l g i n ,   D u n e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-12-21T17:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/americans-hacked-don-t-know-commerce-chamber-left-them-all-alone.html
For years, fixing the software flaws
that left  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ’s customers prey to hackers simply
wasn’t a top company priority.  At Adobe, whose Acrobat and Reader programs for creating
and viewing PDF documents sit on most of the planet’s personal
computers, “security never made the list,” says Brad Arkin,
senior director of security for products and services at the San
Jose, California-based company.  Then, in 2009, what became known as the JBIG2 flaw created
an existential crisis for the company. For the first time,
hackers were found to be using a crack in the armor of Acrobat
and Reader to infiltrate major corporations and Adobe had no
available fix.  “That was the big wake-up call,” Arkin says. “We needed
to make some big changes to protect our users.”  The company realized it had to defend itself against a new,
sophisticated type of hacker-spy targeting the software’s
corporate users and their secrets, Arkin says.  In one instance, attackers used the JBIG2 defect to get
access to the computer of a  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  executive in  China 
through an infected Adobe PDF they e-mailed to her, according to
an internal Coca-Cola document obtained by Bloomberg. The
beverage maker was involved in what would have been the largest
foreign takeover of a Chinese company at the time.  After finding there were too many imperfections to fix,
Arkin says he instead erected a virtual wall around the
programs, and focused on keeping that defense intact.  Eschewing Vigilance  It might not be enough.  “Imagine a castle wall as long as the Great Wall of
China,” says Kyle Randolph, a former senior manager of product
security at Adobe, who worked there from 2008 until this year.
“All you need is one hole and the whole thing is compromised.”  Flaws  in the ubiquitous software on PCs, tablets and
smartphones have empowered cyber intruders and plagued
businesses, governments and political dissidents with sabotage,
theft and physical attacks, a year-long series by  Bloomberg News 
shows. In part, it is the legacy of companies that eschewed
vigilance, putting profit before safety.  That it took a series of attacks on corporate customers to
shock the U.S. software company into making security a priority
helps illustrate why today -- two decades after the Internet age
took off -- computer users are at risk whenever and wherever
they’re online.  Protective Walls  Products used on virtually all computers, from Adobe,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ,  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , consistently dominate
industry rankings of programs most vulnerable to attack. The
resulting Swiss cheese of imperfections has made every citizen a
potential crack in the security walls meant to protect their
governments, employers and anyone with whom they do business.  Across the industry, software makers say they are taking
security seriously and making improvements to address the
increasingly sophisticated hacker threat. For instance,
Microsoft and Adobe have made it easier for users to get updates
that patch defects, and Google Inc. fends off attacks by
encrypting traffic on its Gmail service.  Adobe’s Arkin says the company’s strategy makes the
software easier to defend by requiring it to safeguard about
8,000 lines of code that hackers could use to breach the
protective wall, instead of tens of millions of lines in the
underlying programs. While the programs won’t be perfect
forever, Adobe is working to keep ahead of the hackers by making
their jobs harder and more expensive, Arkin says. “Our end goal
is to protect users of our software,” he says.  Chamber Resistance  The flaws have nevertheless flourished in the absence of
industry standards or product liability.  Attempts to force the architects of the Internet to improve
the safety of users have so far failed, in part because the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce has pushed back on behalf of its business
members. It helped defeat a cyber security bill backed by the
White House this year that included regulation of the small
fraction of corporate computer systems that, if hacked, could
cause mass casualties or economic damage. Chamber lobbyists cast
the bill as unnecessary and overreaching, and said government
meddling would only make the problem worse.  In response to questions about its opposition to the bill,
the Chamber provided a letter it sent last month to the  U.S.
Senate , favoring a “workable” bill focused on information
sharing, and voicing “serious concerns” about government
interference with the private sector.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  invoked Pearl Harbor in
an Oct. 11 speech warning that extremist groups or a rival
nation might use cyber tools to attack.  Lagging Security  In America and the U.K., about 1-in-3 computer users had
contact with malicious software, just between July and September
this year, according to data Moscow-based anti-virus software
maker  Kaspersky Lab  collected from its customers.  The implications of lagging security go beyond PCs to
critical infrastructure and industry, such as power grids and
railroads, and to increasingly networked lives, including phone
systems and videoconferencing that run over the Internet.  “Sooner or later, the people who are exploiting these
security flaws will go from stealing information to breaking
systems -- because they can -- and then it’s going to be obvious
to everybody how bad things are,” says Stewart Baker, former
general counsel for the  National Security Agency , the U.S. spy
agency, which monitors foreign communications.  Global Abuses  Increasing the security of millions of lines of code
underlying some of the world’s most popular software would be
time-consuming and expensive. Behind closed doors, software
makers consistently argue that while consumers may appreciate
more security, there is little evidence they’d sacrifice
functionality, time-to-market or cost to get it, according to
three policy makers who regularly attend meetings with software
company chief executive officers. They asked not to be named
because the meetings were confidential.  In a series of stories that showed the global abuses and
costs of cyber weapons and espionage, Bloomberg News uncovered a
diverse array of attackers and targets: A hacker group linked by
U.S. intelligence to the Chinese military, according to a U.S.
diplomatic cable released by Wikileaks, stole U.S. corporate
secrets and pilfered bureaucrats’ e-mails in Brussels, while
commercial spyware made in Europe hit Persian Gulf activists;
and Syrians fought a cyber war via online chats and webmail with
rudimentary tools and deadly results.  Single Thread  As different as the examples are from each other, a single
thread runs through them all: flawed software or network design
enabled the hacks.  The March 2009 Coca-Cola hack, which was first reported by
Bloomberg News in November this year, used the Adobe JBIG2
vulnerability a month after Adobe alerted customers to the
problem.  Spyware identified as being from Milan-based HackingTeam,
which targeted activists in the United Arab Emirates and
 Morocco , used imperfections in Microsoft and Adobe software.  A commercial spy program sold to governments -- and
discovered by Bloomberg News to have been used in the
surveillance of Bahraini democracy activists -- had  advertised 
that it was able to gain control of computers through an Apple
iTunes flaw that was publicly known for three years before Apple
patched it in November 2011. The manufacturer of the  FinFisher 
software, U.K-based Gamma Group, pins the blame on Apple.  “They could have protected users,” says Martin J. Muench,
the managing director of Gamma’s German unit. “Security wasn’t
their highest priority.”  ‘Good Impact’  Apple spokesman  Bill Evans  said the iTunes security
problem has been fixed and declined to comment on Muench’s
statement.  Microsoft has taken steps to keep customers safer, says
Matt Thomlinson, general manager of product security at the
Redmond, Washington-based company. It ramped up the effort in
2002 with the establishment of its  Trustworthy Computing 
initiative, which deals with security and privacy issues. Since
2004, Microsoft has made automated updates a standard setting
for users of its  Windows operating system .  “We’ve had some really good impact on driving down attacks
through vulnerabilities, but that doesn’t mean the attackers are
going away,” he says.  “I don’t think you’re ever going to get to the point where
there are zero vulnerabilities,” says Thomlinson, who has been
with Microsoft since 1994. “We can remove vulnerabilities from
the code, and that’s what we’ve attempted to do.”  ‘Moving Target’  As companies such as Microsoft harden their defenses,
hackers find new ways to get in, improving their skills or going
after other products, says Steven M. Christey, principal
information security engineer at  MITRE Corp. , a non-profit group
based in Massachusetts and Virginia that tracks vulnerabilities.  “Software security is a rapidly moving target,” he says.
“The result is a perpetual arms race between the software
vendor and the attacker.”  In the continuous battle, an informal army of hackers,
security firms, academics and other bug hunters seeks out
imperfections in programs that an attacker can use to compromise
a computer. Some privately alert software makers to flaws they
find. Others devise methods for using those defects -- known as
exploits -- and then sell or publicize them as hacking tools.  Despite new priorities for security, some software makers
give hackers head starts by failing to fix the problems quickly.  This year, Oracle didn’t patch a bug in Java, its computing
platform for a range of games, trading and other programs, until
almost five months after researchers alerted it about the
vulnerability.  Alerting Hackers  On April 2, Polish firm  Security Explorations  told Oracle
it had discovered a defect in the product. Months went by with
no solutions from Oracle, the world’s largest supplier of
 database software .  That began to change on Aug. 26, when an alert went up on a
website that tracks software vulnerability. The site, run by the
security firm  FireEye Inc. , said that a new Java flaw had been
spotted in targeted  attacks .  The next day, computer code for using that flaw to invade
machines running Java was added to a hacking tool kit available
for free online, called Metasploit. Virtually any hacker could
now download the exploit and use it.  HD Moore, chief security officer at  Rapid7 , the Boston-
based company that runs Metasploit, says publishing exploits
forces companies to be accountable. “It’s hitting the vendor
over the head with a hammer,” he says. “When everybody has
access to it, they need to take it seriously.”  Most Targeted  On Aug. 28, Milpitas, California-based FireEye found
evidence of the “first indication of a large scale attack”
with the new exploit. AlienVault, a security firm, linked the
original attacks to China-based hackers.  Then, two days later, Oracle  issued  patches to protect
customers.  Hackers have piled on, making Java the most targeted
application during the third quarter of 2012, accounting for 56
percent of exploits blocked by  Kaspersky  Lab anti-virus
software. Adobe took second place, with 28 percent.  “This year, yes, Oracle has been the worst,” says Jaime
Blasco, head of the security lab at AlienVault.  Oracle spokeswoman  Deborah Hellinger  declined to comment on
the Java flaw identified by Polish researchers or its system for
patching vulnerabilities.  Arkin said the Kaspersky ranking catches many attacks aimed
at problems in older versions that have been fixed but which
haven’t been updated by users. “That’s the milk carton with last
year’s date on it,” he says. “We say, ’We hear you, we’ve
listened and here’s the solution.’”  Reducing Dangers  While hacking’s dangers can’t be eliminated, they can be
reduced, as the evolution of the  auto industry  has shown.  In 1965, consumer rights advocate  Ralph Nader  published
“Unsafe at Any Speed,” detailing how U.S. automakers, fearing
higher costs, resisted measures such as seat belts and ignored
crash-test findings. The book spawned congressional hearings and
modern safety requirements -- and since then the U.S. per-capita
death rate from auto accidents has been cut by more than half.
Cars still crash, but new ones come with air bags.  Almost a half century later, Nader says the government and
online service providers should do more to safeguard consumers
from the new threat. “It does seem they can’t keep up with the
genius nature of the hackers,” says Nader. “Basically it’s the
cost of doing business.”  Safety Crossroads  For the Internet, the current safety crossroads has roots
in the fine print that comes with most software licenses, which
largely absolve makers of the products underpinning the Internet
of liability.  Legal liability can wreck an industry or move it offshore,
Baker, the former NSA general counsel, says.  “Software security is uniquely resistant to the kind of
law making and standard setting that courts do,” he says.  Today the onus is on consumers to protect themselves so
they don’t become the conduit that lets attackers into their
businesses, utilities or governments. To help reduce those
risks, there are several steps technology companies can take to
add virtual seat belts and air bags to their products and give
customers safer choices.  In one simple solution already adopted by some suppliers,
software makers can automate the patches for flaws, rather than
depending on users to figure out how to do it themselves, says
Stefano Ortolani, a security researcher for Kaspersky Lab Italy.  Automated Patches  Even with the Java patch issued in August, for instance,
there was no automated update process for all users, so many had
to either deploy the fix themselves or disable Java to be
protected. Today about 65 percent of Java users lack the latest
version, which includes patches of security holes, according to
Rapid7.  Service providers and software makers can change the ways
people use computer programs by keeping applications off devices
altogether, and running them in a new network of remote
computers, known as the cloud. With word processing or
accounting programs in the cloud, rather than individual
machines, software makers can ensure security fixes are applied
for all users and are done more quickly, says Rob Rachwald,
director of security strategy at  Imperva Inc. , a Redwood Shores,
California-based web security company.  “You’re using it on the Web, not your desktop,” he says.  Roadmaps Deprived  Software makers could provide another fix that would
deprive hackers of the predictable roadmaps they use to navigate
peoples’ computers by purposely jumbling where programs and data
are stored in a machine’s memory. That defensive move doesn’t
stop hackers from getting in, but can keep them from taking
control, says Andy Chou, chief technology officer of San
Francisco-based Coverity Inc., which finds and fixes software
defects for clients.  Consumers themselves have options to mitigate risk, some
borrowed from the world of hacking, from encrypting their e-
mails to using special Web browsers that disguise their
identities.  Using sites whose addresses start with HTTPS -- an
encrypted version of HTTP -- adds a layer of protection. Most
webmail providers, such as Google’s Gmail, have made HTTPS
standard, while  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  until recently had held out. The San
Francisco-based  Electronic Frontier Foundation  has said Yahoo
puts users at risk, especially in repressive countries.  Shaming Yahoo!  “They deserve to be shamed loudly and at length,” EFF’s
International Freedom of Expression Coordinator Eva Galperin
said in a Nov. 28 e-mail.  In response to questions about EFF’s position, Yahoo said
that it has begun offering the technology behind HTTPS and will
continue to do so over the next few months, and that it is
developing and testing more secure platforms. “Yahoo! is
committed to protecting the security and privacy of our users,”
the statement said. The EFF’s Galperin said, “I am glad they
are finally getting started.”  To achieve the cyber equivalent of crash-testing, industry
standards for vetting programs would tip the balance toward
safety, says Sean Coyne, a Washington-based cyber-security
researcher who has worked for government and corporate clients.  “Nobody is holding the manufacturers’ feet to the fire,”
Coyne says.  Minimum security standards might lead software makers to
beef up the now paltry ranks of programmers dedicated to making
sure products are safe. It’s not unusual for software makers to
have one security person per every 500 to 1,000 developers, says
 Coverity ’s Chou.  Fixable Flaws  “Those 1,000 developers are writing code every day -- how
can that one poor guy keep up?” he says.  As corporate customers fend for themselves, they also can
do more to keep safe. Many of the hacks uncovered this year by
Bloomberg News showed basic -- and fixable -- flaws in internal
security.  In the 2009 Coca-Cola hack, an internal investigation found
that it was the work of state-backed hackers, and that the
company neglected to take several protective steps. Details in a
company document detailing the attack indicate the intruders
were part of a prolific China-based hacking group, according to
researchers interviewed by Bloomberg.  Coca-Cola needed to patch Adobe Reader vulnerabilities to
address immediate holes and, for the longer term, establish a
comprehensive program for managing fixes, according to the
report.  Fighting JBIG2  When inadequate records prevented them from reconstructing
the hack, investigators recommended the company implement
systems to perform centralized logging of what occurs on the
network. Coca-Cola spokesman  Kent Landers  declined to comment
when asked this week about any follow-up to the incident.  The story behind the Coca-Cola hack is also the tale of
Adobe’s fight against the JBIG2 bug. Adobe’s challenge, as told
by former and current employees, provides a window into the
tension between profit and safety that has shaped the Internet.  Tom Ferris, an Adobe researcher from 2006 to 2010, worked
finding security failures and triaging all the security
vulnerabilities streaming in. He recalls that when he started,
they’d find 10 to 15 flaws a week that needed a fix. “I told my
managers this was a big problem,” he says.  They ignored him, until the JBIG2 bug hit, he says. The
flaw causes the Adobe Reader and Acrobat applications to crash,
allowing an attacker to take control of the system.  “Everything changed,” Ferris says.  Hackers Pounce  The ordeal began on Feb. 19, 2009, when researchers at
Symantec Corp., the world’s biggest security-software maker,
said they’d  discovered  the bug, and alerted Adobe. That day,
Adobe issued a security warning, saying a fix wouldn’t be
available until the following month.  In China, and possibly elsewhere, hackers pounced. On March
3 and 4, 2009, U.S. defense contractor Lockheed Martin Corp.’s
incident response team  intercepted  intrusion attempts that used
the vulnerability in e-mails purporting to be about an
aeronautics conference and a meeting on U.S. missile defense,
according to a paper the company researchers wrote.  It took until March 10 for Adobe to come out with an
updated program that users could download to mitigate the flaw.  Three days later, hackers hit an executive in China for
Coca-Cola, which was awaiting approval for its $2.4 billion
acquisition of China Huiyuan Juice Group. It was one of several
hacks using different means that compromised company executives
at the time.  ‘Not Economical’  On March 18, 2009, the Chinese Ministry of Commerce
rejected Coca-Cola’s acquisition citing antitrust grounds.  Inside Adobe, the security push had just begun. Yet fixing
every line of the programs wasn’t in the cards because the
company wasn’t willing to take on the expense, says Ferris and
his former colleague, Randolph.  “It’s just not economical,” Randolph says. “They’re
still making money and they’re doing what’s best for their
shareholders.”  Arkin says the company heavily automated its process for
releasing a patch, reducing the time lag from weeks to an
average of five days. They turned off risky features, leaving it
to users to decide if they wanted them.  The best bet, Arkin says he decided, was to find a way to
quarantine programs. In the design, called sandboxing, a hacker
might manage to take over Adobe’s Reader, but would need to
escape the virtual sandbox to do further damage on a user’s
computer.  In November 2010, Adobe released Reader X, promoting the
sandbox as a way to better protect customers. “To date, we’re
not aware of any customer anywhere who is running Adobe Reader X
who has ever been attacked in the real world,” Arkin says.  That’s the kind of challenge hackers love.  For Related News and Information:
Bloomberg’s  Unsafe at Any Bitrate  series:
 http://topics.bloomberg.com/unsafe-at-any-bitrate/   To contact the reporters on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ; Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
   belgin@bloomberg.net ; Dune Lawrence in New York at
   dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ; and Michael Riley
in Washington at +1-202-624-1982 or  michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at +33-1-5365-5056 or  mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  