-- Manchester United to Face Real Madrid in Champions League
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-12-20T13:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/manchester-united-to-face-real-madrid-in-champions-league-2-.html
Real Madrid was drawn to play
 Manchester United  in the Champions League round of 16. Barcelona
will face AC Milan, while last season’s runner-up  Bayern Munich 
takes on Arsenal.  In the other matches, Celtic will play Juventus, Porto
faces tournament rookie Malaga and Paris Saint-Germain will vie
with Valencia. Galatasaray faces Schalke and  Shakhtar Donetsk 
plays  Borussia Dortmund .  The televised draw was made today in Nyon,  Switzerland ,
where European soccer ruling body UEFA is based. The two-part
match-ups are scheduled for between Feb. 12 and Feb. 20, and
between March 5 and March 13.  Record nine-time champion Real Madrid is seeking its first
elite European title since 2002. United is aiming to add to the
third one that it won in 2008.  “It’s a beautiful match-up for the fans,” Real Madrid
director Emilio Butragueno told Canal+ television. “To play
Manchester is an extra motivation.”  Portugal’s  Cristiano Ronaldo , who left United for Real in
2009 for a record 80 million pounds ($130 million) fee, will
return to Old Trafford for the contest, the first between the
teams in the competition since 2003.  That year, Brazil striker Ronaldo received a standing
ovation from United’s fans as he scored three times. Real Madrid
advanced 6-5 on aggregate.  Barca-Milan  United defender Rio Ferdinand welcomed today’s draw.  “Oh yes, Madrid!! What a great couple a games that’ll be!!
@Cristiano see u soon bro!!” he said on social networking site
Twitter.  Barcelona, which won three of its four European titles
since 2006, is having its best start to a Liga season with 15
wins and a draw in its opening 16 games. AC Milan is seventh in
Serie A after six defeats in 17 games.  “They’re not having their best moment but soccer changes
from one week to the next,” Barcelona vice-president Josep
Maria Bartomeu told Canal+.  Barcelona eliminated seven-time European champion AC Milan
3-1 over two games in last season’s quarterfinals.  Celtic, which inflicted Barcelona’s only loss in the group
phase, faces a “very, very tough” opponent in Italian champion
Juventus, coach Neil Lennon said. Celtic is seeking to reach the
quarterfinals for the first time since the current  Champions
League  format started in 1992.  Chelsea Out  “In terms of glamor it’s great,” Lennon told Sky Sports
News. Although Juventus have been “very consistent,” Lennon
said his squad “believes that with two games anything is
possible.”  Chelsea, which beat Bayern on penalty kicks in last
season’s final for its first title, was eliminated in the
opening group phase on Dec. 5 and will take part in the second-
tier Europa League, where it's drawn against  Sparta Prague 
in the round of 32.  The Champions League final is scheduled for May 25 at
 London ’s Wembley Stadium.  Today’s draw produced exactly the same games that came out
in a rehearsal yesterday. Bookmaker Coral said the odds of this
happening were about 1,000-1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  