-- Tanker Carrying Bakken Oil to Canadian Refinery Runs Aground
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-12-20T23:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/tanker-carrying-bakken-crude-to-canadian-refinery-runs-aground.html
The first oil tanker carrying Bakken
crude to Irving Oil Corp.’s refinery in  Canada  from  Albany ,  New
York , ran aground in the  Hudson River , delaying the first of
what is expected to be many voyages on the route.  No oil spilled from the Stena Primorsk, which was loaded
with about 11.7 million gallons (279,000 barrels) of crude, said
Petty Officer 2nd Class Erik Swanson, a spokesman for the U.S.
Coast Guard, updating an earlier estimate of 6 million gallons.
The accident occurred about 10 miles south of Albany at about 7
a.m., Swanson said.  U.S. crude output rose last week to the highest level since
January 1994, Energy Department data show. The gains have been
primarily light, low sulfur crude from Bakken and Eagle Ford
shale formations in North Dakota and southern Texas. Refiners
including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and Irving are seeking to use
less-expensive U.S. crude in eastern Canadian plants rather than
more expensive cargoes from across the Atlantic Ocean.  “Exports to Canada will probably pick up quite a bit in
the next year,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market analyst for
Energy Aspects Ltd. in London. “The repercussions will have
more to do with how much the U.S. continues to displace West
Africa. That’s the one that really competes with Brent.”  Bakken oil in Clearbrook,  Minnesota , was about $23 a barrel
less expensive today than North Sea Brent crude, the benchmark
for overseas imports, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil Glut  A glut of oil in the upper Midwest, where North Dakota
output has jumped 57 percent in the past year, has led producers
to ship oil out of the region to the East and West Coasts by
train.  Rail shipments  in the third quarter have jumped almost
fourfold from a year earlier, according to the  Association of
American Railroads .  The double-hulled vessel hit rocks after it left the
shipping channel when a mechanical failure knocked out its
steering, said Richard Hendrick, general manager of the Port of
Albany. A tugboat and barge could be on site by 10 p.m. to begin
lightering oil from the 600-foot (183-meter) tanker if the plan
is approved by the Coast Guard, Hendrick said.  “We’re going to make sure their hull is safe and secure
before we allow something like that,” Swanson said. He said the
hull assessment could take hours, and it could be hours or days
before the tanker can depart.  Vessel Destination  The vessel was en route to Irving’s St. John  refinery  in
 New Brunswick , Canada, Hendrick said. The ship was expected to
return to Albany every eight days, which would make the crude
shipment rate about 35,000 barrels a day.  “This is the first of a long string of planned shipments
from the Port of Albany to Irving,” Hendrick said.  Valero has received approval from the Commerce Department
to ship crude from the U.S. Gulf Coast to its Quebec City
refinery,  Bill Day , a company spokesman in  San Antonio , said in
an e-mail.  At 131 feet across, the Stena Primorsk is somewhat wider
than other Hudson River-going vessels, said Ian Corcoran, vice
president of the Hudson River Pilots Association.  “I haven’t spoken to the pilot yet, but if the ship loses
the ability to steer, the width doesn’t really matter,”
Corcoran said. He called it an unfortunate coincidence that the
first tanker shipload of Bakken from Albany ran aground.  Buckeye Partners LP (BPL)  said in October it reached a multi-year
agreement with Irving to  provide crude services at its Albany
terminal. Buckeye has 1.8 million barrels of storage there, and
is making modifications to increase its rail capacity to 135,000
barrels a day.  Hendrick said Buckeye and another terminal run by  Global
Partners LP (GLP)  receive more than one unit train a day of crude from
 North Dakota  at the port.  Spokesmen from Irving and Buckeye didn’t respond to an e-
mailed request for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  