-- Apple Appeals After Failing to Block Samsung Devices
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-21T00:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/apple-appeals-after-failing-to-block-samsung-devices.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPhone and
iPad, appealed a federal judge’s decision to turn down its
request for a U.S. sales ban on 26  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
devices after winning a patent-infringement lawsuit.  Apple is seeking a review of the ruling from a federal
appeals court in Washington, according to a filing yesterday in
U.S. District Court in San Jose, California.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh said Dec. 17 that while a
jury found that Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung infringed six
Apple patents, the infringing elements were such a limited part
of Samsung’s device that a sales ban wasn’t warranted. Apple
hadn’t shown that consumer demand for Samsung products was
driven by technology it stole, Koh said in her ruling.  The jury awarded $1.05 billion to Cupertino, California-
based Apple in August. Koh, who presided over the trial, hasn’t
yet ruled on whether the award should be reduced or increased.  Koh also refused Samsung’s request for a new trial. The
company said Dec. 17 it would review the decision before
deciding its next move.  Nam Kiyung, a spokesman for Samsung in  Seoul , declined to
comment when contacted by phone today.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have each scored victories in their patent disputes
fought over four continents since Apple accused Asia’s biggest
electronics maker of “slavishly copying” its devices. The
companies are competing for dominance of a global mobile-device
market estimated by  Yankee Group  at $346 billion this year.  Samsung  fell  2.1 percent to 1,471,200 won as of 9:19 a.m.
in Seoul trading, while South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index was
little changed. The stock has gained 39 percent this year. Apple
fell 0.9 percent in New York yesterday.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  