-- Swan Says Australia Budget Surplus Unlikely This Fiscal Year
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-12-20T06:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/australia-s-swan-says-budget-surplus-return-unlikely-this-year.html
Australia ’s government said it’s
unlikely to deliver a pledged budget surplus this fiscal year as
weaker growth and a strong local currency curb tax receipts, a
setback for Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  before an election due
in late-2013.  “What we’ve seen is a sledge hammer hit our revenues,”
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said during a news conference today in
Canberra. Rather than find spending cuts that further slow the
economy, Swan said the government would try to support job
growth.  Gillard, Australia’s first female prime minister, staked
her economic credibility partly on delivering the first surplus
since the 2009 global recession. Threatening that commitment is
a weaker international outlook, lower prices of commodity
exports and a high local dollar that’s hurting non-resource
industries such as tourism and manufacturing.  “It’s a pragmatic move but it’s fraught with political
danger,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a lecturer at the School of
Political and Social Inquiry at Melbourne’s  Monash University .
“It’s going to make the opposition’s job to attack them that
much easier.”  The government, in a midyear review released in October,
forecast a budget surplus of A$1.08 billion ($1.13 billion) in
the 12 months ending June 30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit
last fiscal year.  Revenue Crunch  Since the midyear budget revisions, conditions have
deteriorated. “In just four months we have already seen the
full hit to revenue that we were expecting for the full year,”
Swan said.  The Australian dollar bought $1.0489 at 5:10 p.m. in
Sydney, compared with $1.0474 before Swan’s announcement. Two-
year government yields fell as much as six basis points to 2.68
percent, the lowest level in more than a week.  Standard & Poor’s  said the country’s stable AAA debt rating
is not immediately affected. The ratings company said in a
statement today from  Singapore  that it sees the government
running a balanced budget over the medium term and public sector
debt remaining low.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott , speaking to reporters in
Sydney, said Gillard’s retreat from the surplus goal is the
latest in a series of broken promises from her administration.  “You just can’t trust this government to manage the
economy and you just can’t trust this government to tell the
truth,” Abbott said, calling Swan’s announcement “humiliating,
embarrassing.”  Gillard’s Popularity  The ruling  Labor party ’s primary vote fell four percentage
points to 32 percent with Abbott’s Liberal-National opposition
rising three points to 46 percent from a poll two weeks earlier,
according to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper Dec. 11.  Australia’s gross domestic product advanced 3.1 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, slowing from a 3.8
percent year-on-year gain in the prior quarter, a Bureau of
Statistics report released Dec. 5 showed. Growth was 0.5 percent
from the previous three months, the weakest quarterly gain since
January-March 2011, the data showed.  To counter the slowdown, the central bank cut  interest
rates  six times since Nov. 1, 2011, including a reduction
earlier this month to 3 percent. Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s
statement cited “constrained” public spending in his
explanation for the cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  