-- Australian Open Boosts Prizes for Champions, Early Losers
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-20T14:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/australian-open-boosts-pay-for-champions-early-losers.html
The  Australian Open  will pay its
2013 men’s and women’s singles champions a record A$2.43 million
($2.55 million) each, with early losers at the season-opening
tennis Grand Slam getting the biggest raise.  Next month’s event in  Melbourne  will pay more prize money
per round than any other tournament as organizer Tennis
 Australia  responded to player demands for a more even
distribution of prize money at the sport’s four majors.  The largest increases are in the first three rounds, which
all had at least a 30 percent rise from 2012, Tennis Australia
 said today . First-round losers will receive A$27,600, up from
A$20,800 in 2012, while prize money for reaching the round of
16, quarterfinals and semifinals has gone up almost 15 percent.  “Our motivation is to make a major contribution toward
helping ensure professional tennis players can make a decent
living,” Tournament Director Craig Tiley said in a statement.
“It is a real issue and needs to be urgently addressed
throughout the sport.”  Second-round losers in the men’s and women’s singles will
pocket a check for A$45,500, a 36.6 percent increase, with those
exiting in the third round picking up A$71,000, a 30 percent
increase from the A$54,625 this year. The singles champions’
prize money rises 5.7 percent.  Greater Share  “ Tennis Australia  continues to show great leadership with
their significant, long-term commitment to increased and fair
compensation for the athletes of our sport,” the women’s WTA
tour said in an e-mailed statement today. “Tennis Australia’s
commitment to equal prize money and vision to raise the bar for
the athletes and fans of the game is to be applauded.”  The ATP World Tour, which runs the men’s circuit, has been
in negotiations with the four Grand Slams regarding a more even
distribution of prize money that it says would benefit players
across all levels of the tour. The ATP has also been fighting
for a greater share of the revenue generated at the majors.  Tiley said the increases, which also included more prize
money for the qualifying rounds and opening doubles round,
rewarded the lower-ranked players for making it to a major.  “To just reach the main draw of a Slam, a professional
tennis player has to be among the top 100 in what is one of, if
not the most, competitive professional sport in the world,”
Tiley said.  U.S. Prize Money  The tournament, which follows similar early-round increases
at  Roland Garros  and Wimbledon earlier this season, starts Jan.
14 at Melbourne Park.  The  U.S. Open  last week announced it would boost its total
prize money for 2013 by $4 million to $29.5 million with
distribution determined at a later date.  The ATP World Tour earlier this week said the prize money
increase at the U.S. Open didn’t fully reflect discussions it’s
had with the tournament in the past nine months regarding a
greater share of revenue.  The ATP didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls by
 Bloomberg News  seeking comment today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  