-- Australia State Budget Outlooks Worsen as Mining Boom Peak Nears
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-12-20T02:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/australia-state-budget-outlooks-worsen-as-mining-boom-peak-nears.html
New South Wales and Queensland,
Australian states that account for about half the nation’s
economy, today forecast worsening budgets as weaker commodity
prices cut mining royalties.  New South Wales  projected  a A$423 million ($443 million)
deficit in the fiscal year starting July 1 compared with a A$289
million surplus projected in a budget release in June.
Queensland said its deficit will be A$11.2 billion this fiscal
year versus a September estimate of a A$10.8 billion shortfall.  Mining and other resource companies that have propelled
 Australia ’s economy to 21 years of recession-free growth are
scaling back projects and shipments as the global economy
decelerates. The Reserve Bank of Australia this week said the
nation’s terms of trade, a measure of export prices relative to
import prices, were likely to be about 15 percent lower this
quarter than their 2011 peak.  “The economic outlook for Australia and New South Wales
over the next two years is weaker than at Budget time, largely
reflecting further downgrades to the global outlook,” according
to the mid-year fiscal review released by the country’s most
populous state. “A fall in non-rural commodity prices since the
budget lowers forecast state revenues from coal royalties.”  Separately today, South Australia said its deficit this
year will be A$1.17 billion compared with a prior forecast for
an A$867 million shortfall.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest miner, in August decided to delay approval of an
estimated $33 billion expansion of the Olympic Dam copper,
uranium and gold mine in the state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  