-- Banks’ Loan-Loss Reserves Seen Jumping 50% in FASB Proposal
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-12-20T21:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/banks-loan-loss-reserves-seen-jumping-50-under-fasb-proposal.html
Banks’ loan-loss reserves may jump
about 50 percent under a proposed U.S. accounting-rule change
that redefines how quickly firms must recognize bad debts,
standard-setters said.  “Speaking with many of the larger financial institutions
in the U.S., they’ve told us -- again without the rigor of a
complete adoption of the proposal -- that they’re estimating
that their losses might increase in the range of let’s say 50
percent,” said Leslie Seidman, chairman of the  Financial
Accounting Standards Board , in a conference call today.  The proposed rule, revising a February draft, pushes banks
to start recognizing losses on loans, debt securities and other
financial receivables when firms see early signs of potential
loss. The policy would move from an “incurred loss” model to
an “expected loss” model, similar to changes under
consideration by the  International Accounting Standards Board ,
which sets the rules used in most nations outside the U.S.  FASB’s estimate shows banks probably would need to boost
reserves by billions of dollars if the new rule is implemented.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, had $24
billion in its allowance for credit losses at the end of
September.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp. , ranked No. 2, had $26 billion.  There is likely to be “plenty of pushback from the
industry,” said  Glenn Schorr , an analyst with Nomura Holdings
Inc. Banks may stop cutting loan-loss reserves in anticipation
of rule changes, he said. Reserve releases have buoyed profits
in the last two years.  Comment Period  “The new guidance would require higher initial recognition
of credit losses as new loans are originated,” Schorr wrote in
a report after the proposal’s release.  Spokesmen for Bank of America, New York-based JPMorgan and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank, declined to
comment.  The FASB draft is open for comment until April 30. Even if
the final proposal is adopted next year, it probably won’t take
effect before 2015, according to a person with knowledge of the
plans, who requested anonymity because the timing wasn’t
announced. The effective date was left blank in today’s draft.  The accounting board is looking to change how reserves and
asset values are measured after the financial crisis forced
lenders to devote capital to losses, leaving some of the world’s
largest banks struggling to meet regulatory thresholds and
remain solvent. Last year, FASB proposed rules that would have
made lenders mark deposits and loans to market values, as they
already do for traded securities. It later backed off that plan.  Pushing Firms  U.S. banking regulators have been pushing the firms
recently to recognize more losses on their housing-related
lending. In October JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  said they
took almost $1.4 billion in charge-offs on home-equity loans and
other mortgages after being prompted by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. The OCC said in a report today that
it expected increased losses from home-equity loans in coming
years as most of those originated from 2003 to 2007 come due.  FASB’s proposed change to accounting standards complements
OCC and other regulators’ efforts to get banks to recognize
potential loan losses more quickly and to stop releasing
reserves, said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners
LLC in  New York . Peabody has been predicting since September
that loan-loss provisions could double in 2013 at the largest
banks.  “Regulators are getting help from the accountants to
justify a higher level of charge-offs,” Peabody said in a
telephone interview. “FASB is going to give them the
intellectual and accounting rationale.”  Three Buckets  In a previous version of today’s proposal, FASB, like the
IASB, envisioned three separate “buckets” of loans with
expected losses. After the U.S. regulator received opposition
from companies and investors, it abandoned the buckets, Seidman
said. The three-bucket option would actually lower the reserves
banks now hold for loan losses, she said.  Lenders currently need to show evidence of a loss before
writing down the asset. The new rules would require banks to
make provisions much earlier, booking expected losses through
the income statement and on the balance sheet.  “We think taken together these changes from U.S. GAAP will
address the concerns that we’ve heard that today’s GAAP results
in losses being recognized ‘too little, too late,’” Seidman
said.  The IASB’s approach bases loss estimates on expectations
for the coming 12 months. The FASB proposal doesn’t have any
such time limit, Seidman said.  It’s key that firms “contemplate the losses that are
expected based on all available information,” she said.
“Unlike current GAAP, you would not wait for observable
deterioration and we would not limit the estimate to losses that
are expected in the near term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  