-- BankIslami Seeks 50% Profit Jump After Adding Branches
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-01-03T05:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/bankislami-seeks-50-profit-jump-in-2013-after-doubling-branches.html
(Corrects to remove size of lender in 10th paragraph of
story published on Dec. 20.)  BankIslami Pakistan Ltd. (BIPL) , the
nation’s second-biggest Islamic bank, is targeting a 50 percent
profit increase next year as it doubles its branches to meet
demand for Shariah-compliant services.  BankIslami will expand its network of outlets to about 200
in as many as 90 locations by the end of 2013, Chief Executive
Officer Hasan Aziz Bilgrami said in an interview. The lender as
of December last year operated 102 branches in 49 cities.  Pakistan’s central bank aims to almost double Islamic
banking to 15 percent of the industry’s assets by 2017 after
exempting Shariah lenders from paying the minimum rate of return
on deposits last month. Banks in the world’s second-most
populous Muslim nation face tighter loan margins after the
government cut  interest rates  to a five-year low to stimulate an
economy battered by blackouts and war on its Afghan border.  “If the economy is not doing well you need to be big to
sustain the peaks and troughs,” Bilgrami, 49, said in Karachi
yesterday. “In a country this size, you need 300 to 500
branches to be viable. Islamic banking has so much potential.”  BankIslami  net income  rose nine-fold to a record 405.9
million rupees in last year, compared with 41 million rupees a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Islamic financial assets in Pakistan were valued at more
than 711 billion rupees ($1.8 billion) at the end of June and
accounted for 8 percent of total banking assets, according to
the central bank. Pakistan, which has a population of more than
196 million people, is the second-most populous Islamic nation
after  Indonesia .  Islamic Finance  BankIslami shares rose as much as 1.6 percent to 9.30
rupees at 11:57 a.m. local time. They have almost tripled this
year, beating the benchmark KSE 100 index’s 52 percent gain.  Islamic institutions typically employ panels of scholars
who pass rulings, or fatwas, to determine whether products
comply with Shariah principles. Panel members are experts on the
Koran, commercial law and finance, as Shariah law bans
investments in businesses involving, tobacco, alcohol, pork,
prostitution and entertainment establishments deemed unethical.
Islamic law also bans the payment and receipt of interest.  “Islamic banks are at a relatively higher growth
trajectory than commercial banks because it was an untapped
market and awareness was low,” said Umer Pervez, research head
at Shajar Capital  Pakistan  (Pvt.) Ltd. in Karachi.  Dubai Bank PJSC, a unit of Emirates NBD PJSC, owns 25
percent of BankIslami.  Rate Cuts  The State Bank of Pakistan last week reduced the country’s
discount rate by 50 basis points to 9.5 percent adding to 2
percentage points of easing since August.  Rate reductions that started last year and raising minimum
deposit payouts are likely to take a toll on Pakistani bank
profits this year, Faizan Mitha, Deutsche Bank’s managing
director said in Oct. 16. The central bank increased the minimum
rate that non-Islamic lenders must pay on savings deposits to 6
percent from 5 percent in May.  Pakistan’s economy will probably expand 3.5 percent in the
12 months through June, the International Monetary Fund forecast
Nov. 29, less than the 4.3 percent predicted by the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  