-- Barge Traffic Delayed Near Mississippi River Low-Water Point
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-12-20T18:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/barge-traffic-delayed-near-mississippi-river-low-water-point.html
Barge traffic is being delayed near
a stretch of the  Mississippi River  where workers are excavating
submerged rocks to make the nation’s busiest waterway more
navigable, according to the  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers .  “There is a short queue of tows left from last night,”
Mike Petersen, a St. Louis-based Corps spokesman, said today in
an e-mail. Four northbound boats, as well as four southbound
vessels, were awaiting passage this morning near the town of
Thebes in southern  Illinois , he said.  Contractors there are using a giant aquatic jackhammer to
remove the rock “pinnacles” in the  Mississippi  River, which
threaten to impede barge traffic as the water recedes because of
the worst drought since the 1930s. Barges owned by companies
including Ingram Barge Co. and AEP River Operations LLC may find
it difficult to navigate if the water level drops to nine feet,
a level projected within a month.  River traffic is being halted from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. local
time to allow the contractors to work. The trip from  New Orleans 
to St. Louis now takes 16 days instead of 10, Debra Colbert,
senior vice president of the Waterways Council Inc., an
Arlington, Virginia-based industry group, said in an e-mail.
Barges also are carrying only about 60 percent to 70 percent of
normal loads to cope with the low water levels.  Lock Repair  The delay at Thebes is compounded by repair-work on a lock
north of St. Louis, where traffic is backed up by 24 hours, she
said.  “We are still looking at a potential effective shutdown
mid-January,” absent more rain, snow melt or additional water
flows from reservoirs or tributaries, she said.  The  National Weather Service  projects a 70 percent chance
of rain and snow today for  St. Louis , upstream from Thebes.  “We do see the forecasts improving, and every little bit
helps,” Petersen said. “Right now we’re making progress quick
enough to stay ahead of the river levels.”  Yesterday, Gregory Page, the chief executive officer of
Minneapolis-based grain shipper Cargill Inc., said the Corps’
efforts, along with an improved weather forecast and release of
water from the Kaskaskia River, may keep the Mississippi open
through the winter.  “The greatest catastrophe, the actual closing of the
river, seems to have been averted,” Page said at a U.S. Chamber
of Commerce forum in Washington.  “It looks like we’ll be able
to soldier through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  