-- BBC Chief’s $730,000 Payoff Unacceptable, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-12-20T09:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/bbc-chief-s-730-000-payoff-unacceptable-lawmakers-say.html
George Entwistle, who resigned as
director general of the British Broadcasting Corp. on Nov. 10
over its coverage of sex-abuse allegations, was given an
“unacceptable” payoff, a panel of lawmakers said.  Entwistle was paid 450,000 pounds ($730,000), twice his
contracted entitlement, when he quit after a report on  BBC  2
television’s “Newsnight” program falsely linked former
Conservative Party Treasurer Robert McAlpine to allegations of
pedophilia. The House of Commons Public Accounts Committee said
in a report published in London today that the payment and
attached benefits were excessive.  “Public servants should not be rewarded for failure,” the
committee’s chairwoman, opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker
 Margaret Hodge , said in an e-mailed statement. “This cavalier
use of public money is out of line with public expectations and
what is considered acceptable elsewhere in the public sector.”  Entwistle resigned after 54 days in the job and received a
year’s salary in compensation as the BBC Trust, the
broadcaster’s governing body, sought to avoid a drawn-out legal
dispute. Trustees had raised concerns that Entwistle, a former
editor of “Newsnight,” had shown “a lack of grip and
direction” in his handling of the defamation of McAlpine and
the scandal over sex-abuse allegations against a dead BBC
presenter, Jimmy Savile.  ‘Bit Shabby’  Chris Patten , chairman of the BBC Trust, said Hodge’s
committee hadn’t taken into account that fighting an unfair
dismissal suit from Entwistle would have cost more. “I do think
the treatment we’ve had from them is a bit shabby,” he told BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” program. “I don’t think they’ve been fair
because they don’t look at our legal arguments at all.”  The BBC said yesterday it will replace the senior
“Newsnight” editorial team after they “fell short of what was
expected,” first in canceling a probe into the claims against
Savile and then over the McAlpine report. The shakeup came after
a two-month inquiry, led by a former  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc (BSY)  head of news, Nick Pollard, that found problems with
the BBC’s “rigid” management structure contributed to a
breakdown in decision making.  The broadcaster apologized to McAlpine in court on Dec. 18
and agreed to pay him 185,000 pounds in compensation for the
“Newsnight” report.  The former director general also left with 12 months
private medical cover, a contribution to his legal fees and
“professional communications support” of as much as 10,000
pounds.  Entwistle Defense  The BBC probe “makes it clear I played no part whatever in
‘Newsnight”s decision not to broadcast the original Savile
investigation -- just as I was not personally to blame in any
way for the journalistic failures on ‘Newsnight’ when it
broadcast its erroneous report” about McAlpine, Entwistle said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The generosity of the payoff was not an isolated incident,
the Public Accounts Committee report said.  “Since 2010, over 4 million pounds in total has been made
in severance payments to 10 other departing senior managers,”
Hodge said. “The BBC is also providing 422 senior managers with
private medical cover as part of their remuneration packages.”  The BBC should have allowed immediate examination of the
payoff by the independent  National Audit Office  and its head,
Amyas Morse, the committee said.  “By choosing to defer an audit examination of the
severance package by the comptroller and auditor general, the
BBC Trust delayed a timely independent examination of value for
money and hindered parliamentary scrutiny,” the report said.
“Where its own use of license payers’ money is in question, the
BBC Trust should not inhibit the comptroller and auditor
general’s ability to decide when an audit should be carried
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  