-- Beating Billionaire ‘Pirates’ Triggers Steepest Debt Gain
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-12-20T21:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/beating-billionaire-pirates-triggers-steepest-debt-gain.html
Argentina ’s victories against
billionaire  Paul Singer  in courts from  Manhattan  to Hamburg are
propelling the nation’s bonds to the biggest return in emerging
markets.  Argentine dollar debt has gained 10.2 percent on average
this month, 18 times the advance for 59  developing countries 
tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index. The notes
have surged since Argentina persuaded a U.S. appeals court in
 New York  to delay a ruling that would have forced it to pay
Singer and other so-called holdout creditors from its $95
billion default or risk defaulting on its current bondholders.  The setback for Singer, whose Elliott Management Corp. has
led a decade-long effort to recover the full value of the unpaid
debt, is assuaging concern Argentina would opt to default after
the hedge fund won a string of legal decisions in the past two
months. Last week, a United Nations court in Hamburg ordered the
release of an Argentine navy ship that Singer seized in October.
That prompted Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino to hail the
ruling as a win over “financial pirates.”  “Every headline out of October was a win for Elliott and a
loss for Argentina, and you’ve certainly seen a reversal of
tides in that respect,” Ray Zucaro, who helps manage about $240
million of emerging-market debt at SW Asset Management LLC, said
by telephone from  Newport Beach ,  California . “Now, it’s a
little bit more balanced.”  Set Sail  Peter Truell , a spokesman for New York-based Elliott, and
Norma Madeo, a spokeswoman at the Economy Ministry, declined to
comment on bond-market trading.  ARA Libertad, the three-mast frigate, left the port of Tema
yesterday, Lawrence Atumbine, a spokesman for Ghana Ports and
Harbours Authority, said in a telephone interview. NML Capital
Ltd., the unit of Elliott that won the court order to seize the
ship, had asked for a $20 million bond to release it, according
to legal correspondence obtained by Bloomberg.  Argentina will “keep defending itself from the financial
pirates,” Lorenzino said in comments posted on his  Twitter
account  on Dec. 15, minutes after the UN ruling was announced.  The ship will arrive on Jan. 9 in Mar del Plata port in
Argentina, where it will stay for tourists to visit, President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said on Dec. 18.  The Ghanian port lost $7.6 million in revenue in the 76
days the ship occupied prime berth, Jacob Adorkor, acting port
director, told Accra-based newspaper Daily Graphic.  Legal Umbrella  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar debt instead of Treasuries narrowed eight
basis points to 991 basis points at 4:00 p.m. in New York,
according to JPMorgan. The spread fell yesterday to 1,000 basis
points, the narrowest since Oct. 26.  The dollar bond rally was triggered after a U.S. appeals
court delayed a ruling on Nov. 28 requiring Argentina pay $1.33
billion to the holdouts this month. The next day,  government
bonds  sold under New York law, which were most at risk from the
court case, rebounded 12 percent on average, the biggest-ever
single-day gain, according to JPMorgan data.  The appeals court will hear oral arguments on Feb. 27.  While Argentine dollar bonds due 2017 have yet to recover
their price of 100 cents on the dollar before the appeals court
upheld Griesa’s ruling on Oct. 26, the notes have rebounded to
87.28 cents from a low of 68.25 cents.  The New York law bond yields 0.2 percentage point less than
similar-maturity notes sold under Argentine law. The gap was as
wide as 5.33 percentage points on June 13, a signal to Buenos
Aires-based brokerage Puente Hermanos Sociedad de Bolsa SA that
there’s still more room for the notes to appreciate.  Harshest Deal  The  Economy Ministry  said Nov. 26 that a payment formula
offering holdout creditors the same terms as investors who
accepted a debt swap in 2010, rather than 100 cents on the
dollar as Griesa had ruled, would be a “remedy” that’s
consistent with Argentine law, according to a court filing.  “A good bet today could be to go for New York law bonds,
which still have a ways to go in recovering,” Brian Joseph, the
head of trading at Puente Hermanos, said in a telephone
interview. “Argentina has demonstrated interest in complying
with the court and reopening the exchange, which we think could
lead to a favorable decision.”  Singer’s NML filed its first lawsuit against Argentina in
2003, two years before  Nestor Kirchner , Fernandez’s husband and
predecessor, offered investors 30 cents on the dollar for the
defaulted bonds in the harshest government debt restructuring
since World War II. Singer rejected the exchange, as well as the
second one in 2010.  ‘Goes Rogue’  “Those of us who don’t choose to pursue that route
recognize the value of having somebody who will intervene when a
country goes rogue,” Hans Humes, president of Greylock Capital
Management LLC, said in a Dec. 18 interview with Deirdre Bolton
on Bloomberg Television’s “Money Moves.” “Contractually, he’s
due the money. He got a judgment. They have the full rights to
$1.3 billion under U.S. law.”  The bond gains have given investors an opportunity to cash
out before the appeals court convenes in February, when the risk
of an Argentine default could resurface, according to Jorge Piedrahita, chief executive officer at Torino Capital LLC.  “I would definitely be underweight,” Piedrahita said in a
telephone interview from New York. “Griesa’s ruling is far from
over -- you just took a break, a three months break, but come
February everyone’s going to be focused on that again.”  The cost of protecting $10 million of Argentine government
debt against default for five years, including an upfront
payment demanded by sellers of the insurance, remains the
highest in the world.  Default Protection  The credit-default swaps fell 19 basis points to 1,377 at
9:00 p.m. in  London , according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  Warrants tied to economic growth rose 0.25 cent to 7.25
cents today. The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 4.8990 per dollar.  The appeals court decision to delay Griesa’s orders has
enabled the Argentine government to make more than $3.5 billion
of interest payments to investors this month.  With yields that are more than  double the average  4.53
percent in  emerging markets , Argentina’s bonds are still a buy
to Joseph at Puente Hermanos.  “The prices for Argentine assets are extremely
attractive,” he said. “We don’t think they’ll recover their
total value until after the definitive final ruling, but these
yields are too appealing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  