-- Beijing Suspends Sale of Site That’s Set to Fetch Record Price
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-20T03:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/beijing-suspends-sale-of-site-that-s-set-to-fetch-record-price.html
Beijing halted the sale of a
residential site yesterday in an area close to embassies that
could have set a record price for the capital city, said broker
Bacic & 5i5j Group.  The plot in the Chaoyang District would “no doubt become a
land king,” the city’s second-biggest real estate agent said in
an e-mailed statement, using a term referring to sites that
fetch record prices. The parcel’s starting price of 33,800  yuan 
($5,426) per square meter (10.76 square feet) would have been 40
percent higher than a site in July, which was sold at a record
of 42,876 yuan per square meter, according to Bacic & 5i5j.  Beijing suspended auctions for 10 local land parcels in
September after a recovery in home sales fueled expectations
among buyers that housing prices will surge again. The
government, which introduced new curbs over the past two years,
will keep land supply stable and seeks to avoid the occurrence
of “land kings,” according to a Dec. 18 briefing transcript on
the website of the  Ministry of Land and Resources .  “Given the market condition at the moment, the appearance
of any ‘land king’ or excessive premium in auctions would more
or less affect price expectations in the neighborhood and
undermine the effect of property controls,” Hu Jinghui, vice
president of Bacic & 5i5j, said in the statement.  Beijing’s land reserve center announced the land suspension
yesterday, without citing a reason. The official Xinhua News
Agency said it may be related to the government’s remarks on
improving land management, citing an unidentified person. Phone
calls to the land reserve center went unanswered.  China ’s new home prices rose in the majority of cities the
government tracks in November as property curbs slowed
construction, reducing the supply available for sale.  Prices climbed in 53 of the 70 cities from the previous
month, compared with 35 in October, according to data from the
National Bureau of Statistics Dec. 18. That was the most in 18
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  