-- Biden Vows Quick Action on Gun Violence in First Meeting
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-12-20T22:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/biden-meets-law-officers-on-obama-s-plans-to-curb-gun-violence.html
Vice President Joe Biden promised
the Obama administration will act quickly to reduce gun violence
as he opened the first meeting of a group that’s tackling the
issue after the massacre at a  Connecticut  elementary school.  “The president is absolutely committed to keeping his
promise that we will act,” Biden said at the meeting, which
included law enforcement officials. “We’re going to need your
help.”  President  Barack Obama  put Biden in charge of the task
force, which will be reviewing options including reinstating a
ban on military-style assault weapons that expired in 2004,
closing loopholes that allow gun buyers to escape background
checks and limiting use of high-capacity ammunition clips.  Beyond firearms restrictions, Biden’s panel will examine
ways to boost mental health programs in schools and steps to
alter a culture in the U.S. that glamorizes guns and violence.  Obama gave the group until the end of January to submit
recommendations.  The Dec. 14 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown, Connecticut, left 20 children and six adults dead. The
gunman, who fatally shot his mother before going to the school,
committed suicide. His main weapon at the school was a semi-
automatic rifle with multiple high-capacity magazines, according
to police.  Obama’s Vow  “This time, the words need to lead to action,” Obama said
at a White House news conference yesterday. He said “this is
not some Washington commission” that publishes a report “that
gets read and then pushed aside.”  Joining Biden at the first session were Attorney General
Eric Holder, Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, Secretary of
Homeland Security Janet Napolitano and Secretary of Health and
Human Services Kathleen Sebelius.  Holder left afterward for Newtown, to meet with law
enforcement officials investigating the shooting.  Biden said law enforcement officials will be valuable in
developing a strategy and getting any changes to the law pushed
through Congress.  “For anything to get done, we’re going to need your
advocacy,” Biden said.  Obama promised to make abating gun violence a priority in
his second-term agenda, and he said he wants recommendations for
legislative action and executive orders. The topic will be part
of his  State of the Union  address in late January.  Gun Fatalities  About 85 Americans are fatally shot daily -- 53 of them
suicides, according to figures from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  Gun control restrictions have faced resistance in Congress
for decades, though conditions may be changing.  The National Rifle Association, a lobbying group for gun
owners and manufacturers that has fought restrictions on
firearms, has scheduled a news conference for tomorrow. It has
pledged to “offer meaningful contributions” to the debate
about how to cut gun violence.  Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the second-ranking
Democrat in the House, said on MSNBC today that a ban on assault
weapons or guns with large-capacity magazines might be able to
pass the Republican-controlled House.  “I think it is doable,” Hoyer said. “That’s what the
American people think is a reasonable step to take.”  Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, said
legislative strategy to curb gun violence must focus on the
broader issues, such as mental illness and violence in general.  In talks with pro-gun Senate Republicans in recent days,
Schumer said, “they stress that over and over again.”  The message, he said, should be: “We’re not going to take
away your gun if you’re a law-abiding citizen. The Second
Amendment is as important as the First, but you have to admit no
amendment is absolute.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  