-- Billionaire Arnault’s Belgian Citizenship Application Hits Snag
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-20T13:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/billionaire-arnault-s-belgian-citizenship-application-hits-snag.html
French billionaire  Bernard Arnault ’s
effort to become a Belgian citizen may have hit a snag after the
country’s immigration office deemed he hasn’t lived in the
country long enough.  The  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  chief executive
officer hasn’t had his primary residence in  Belgium  for the
requisite three years, the immigration affairs service wrote
three weeks ago to the parliamentary committee handling such
requests, Belgian newspaper  De Morgen  said today.  The public prosecutor’s office and security services will
also submit opinions on the application to the committee, which
must issue a unanimous decision. While the outcome isn’t bound
by the recommendations -- meaning the application isn’t doomed
by negative reports -- De Morgen said it’s unlikely Arnault will
get quick approval.  The 63-year-old Frenchman said in September that he applied
to become a Belgian national this year for “personal” reasons.
While he denied he was going to be a fiscal exile, saying he’ll
continue to pay taxes in France, his move sparked criticism from
Socialist President  Francois Hollande  and his government.  Hollande called on his “patriotism” and the newspaper
Liberation ran a front-page headline that read: “Get lost, rich
bastard.”  Depardieu’s Move  The firestorm was renewed last week with actor  Gerard Depardieu  also deciding to move to Belgium, saying his  tax rate 
had hit 85 percent. The cover of Belgian magazine  Trends-
Tendances  this week reads “Merci, Francois Hollande” with an
image of Depardieu making an obscene gesture and sporting cuff-
links with the Belgian flag on them.  A spokesman for LVMH declined to comment on the application
process or De Morgen report. The Belgian immigration office
didn’t immediately respond to calls for comment.  The Belgian naturalization process changes on Jan. 1,
allowing famous people to seek nationality based on their
ability to enhance Belgium’s international standing,  De Morgen 
said.  Belgium “is in need of” Arnault, who would invest in the
country and create jobs there, Belgian lawmaker Theo Francken
said, according to Flemish language broadcaster VRT, adding “he
is somebody with tremendous added value for our country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  