-- Bissett Fund Post Best Return on Takeover Bets
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-12-20T23:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/bissett-fund-post-best-return-on-takeover-bets.html
Money-making bets on takeover
targets such as Flint Energy Services Ltd. and  TMX Group Inc. (X) 
are pushing gains in the  Bissett Canadian Equity Fund (BISCNEQ)  ahead of
all competitors this year.  Calgary-based managers Garey Aitken and Tim Caulfield of
Bissett Investment Management returned 14.4 percent in 2012, the
most among 33 Canadian equity mutual funds overseeing C$1
billion ($1.01 billion) or more, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg as of Dec. 18. The advance  compares  with a 6.1 percent
increase for the Standard & Poor’s/Toronto Stock Exchange
Composite Index, including dividends.  Aitken and Caulfield are finding winners in the world’s
second-worst performing developed equity market by looking past
industries to pinpoint companies trading for less than they are
worth. The strategy steered them away from commodity producers,
the year’s  worst  stocks. The  S&P/TSX Energy (STENRS)  and Materials
indexes are the worst-performing industries this year, falling
3.9 percent and 9.7 percent respectively as of the market close
on Dec. 20.  “Our approach is well-suited to take advantage of frequent
mispricing of equities,” Caulfield said. “We are always
looking to own businesses trading at a discount, and that may
mean they then get acquired and the share price converges with
the intrinsic value.”  TMX Deal  Merger values increased in  Canada  this year, with 2,288
announced and completed transactions for a total of $207.44
billion as of Dec. 19, the highest since 2007. Flint has
returned 96 percent for the Bissett fund, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg as of Dec. 18. The Calgary-based oilfield
services company was acquired by  URS Corp. (URS)  in a C$1.34 billion
deal completed in May.  Caulfield and Aitken earned a 20 percent return from their
investment in TMX Group. The operator of the Toronto Stock
Exchange was acquired by a group of banks and financial services
companies in a C$3.73 billion deal that closed in September.  Celtic Exploration Ltd., which has oil and gas properties
in the Montney and Duvernay shale regions of  Alberta ,
contributed a 14 percent return when it agreed to be sold to
Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s largest energy company, for C$2.9
billion.  Another holding that benefited from takeover speculation is
 Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN) , owner of the second-biggest  copper mine 
under construction. The Toronto-based company has surged 38
percent since Nov. 27, the day before it disclosed an
unsolicited offer from First Quantum Minerals Ltd., a producer
of copper in  Africa , that is now valued at C$5.2 billion.  Underweight Commodities  Inmet was trading at a discount of as much as 47 percent to
the S&P/TSX Materials index in October, a month before the
announced offer.  “Our performance this year has been about being in the
right sectors, such as being overweight financials and
underweight materials, specifically gold,” Caulfield said.
“And M&A was a hot topic this year.”  Materials stocks accounted for 8.4 percent of the fund’s
portfolio, compared with a  weighting  of about 18 percent for the
benchmark S&P/TSX. About 23 percent of the fund is in energy
stocks, underweight compared with the industry’s 24 percent
position in the index.  Weaker growth in  China , the world’s second-largest economy
and one of the biggest consumers of raw materials, has
restrained the Canadian equity market, which gets about 42
percent of its value from energy and commodity producers. The
Chinese economy has  slowed  for seven straight quarters and
dropped to a three-year low of 7.4 percent growth in the third
quarter.  Oil Down  Crude oil, Canada’s top export with C$68.3 billion in
overseas sales in 2011,  according  to  Statistics Canada , has
fallen 8.8 percent in New York this year.  The fund has also had a longstanding bias against gold
mining companies, Caulfield said.  “It’s not a top-down call on  gold prices , but rather we’ve
struggled historically to find businesses in the gold space with
the required valuation to add them,” he said.  The S&P/TSX Composite Gold  subindex  has lost 18 percent
this year, while its valuation is 14 percent higher than the
S&P/TSX Composite, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund was also helped by shares of  Dollarama Inc. (DOL)  and
 Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , both added this year. Dollarama
has  jumped  31 percent in 2012 to become North America’s top-
performing mass-market retail stock, beating retailers from Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. to Target Corp. by dominating the dollar-store
segment in Canada, according to Bloomberg data.  Underwear Gains  CP surged 36 percent since  Hunter Harrison  took over as
chief executive officer in June with help from activist investor
 Bill Ackman , founder of hedge fund Pershing Square Group LLC. In
October, CP posted its best operating ratio, a measure of
efficiency, in two years.  Caulfield is betting on more gains in 2013 from  Gildan
Activewear Inc. (GIL) , a Montreal-based underwear and apparel maker
that was the second-best performer for the fund this year, with
a total return of 86 percent as of Dec. 18. The company will
continue to expand its retail and wholesale businesses,
Caulfield said.  “Gildan’s a quintessential Bissett-type investment, where
over the years we have seen periods of weakness in many cases
due to factors outside their control,” he said. “But they are
very well-positioned competitively, a great Canadian success
story, and we expect growth continuing.”  While the fund has existed since 1983, Aitken took over
management in 2003 and Caulfield joined him in 2011. Bissett,
based in Calgary, manages C$14 billion and is a division of
 Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) , a global investment firm and manager of
the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  