-- BofA’s Moynihan Said to Kill Proposal to Cut Pay for Brokers
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-12-20T12:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/bofa-s-moynihan-said-to-kill-proposal-to-cut-payouts-for-brokers.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  blocked a proposal to cut
the main component of most brokers’ pay for 2013, said a person
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The plan would have reduced the so-called grid payout for
Merrill Lynch financial advisers by two percentage points, the
person said, requesting anonymity because it wasn’t made public.
The changes, which would have affected advisers generating less
than $1 million in commissions, were seen as a way to cushion
the costs of new bonuses, the person said.  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender, proceeded
with introducing the new awards for advisers who steer clients
to use more of the bank’s products. In the month before that
incentive was unveiled internally last week, Moynihan decided to
overrule  John Thiel , head of the Merrill Lynch brokerage, and
prevent changes to the grid, the person said.  “If any one firm steps significantly out of the pack, and
two percentage points is significant, that becomes a deal-
killer,” said Mindy Diamond, president of Diamond Consultants
LLC, a Chester, New Jersey-based executive-search firm.  Moynihan, 53, was concerned that the changes would damage
Bank of America’s ability to retain employees and lure other
firms’ brokers, the person said. The changes would have affected
about two-thirds of the brokerage, known as the “Thundering
Herd” because of the firm’s bull logo. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company had 17,533 advisers as of Sept. 30.  Strategic Growth  The grid is a sliding scale that determines the percentage
of gross revenue a broker retains as compensation. Advisers earn
a higher percentage as they produce more revenue.  David Walker ,
a Bank of America spokesman, declined to comment on proposed
changes. Thiel didn’t respond to a message seeking comment.  Moynihan has stressed the importance of the Merrill Lynch
brokerage for U.S. profit growth and opportunities to sell
existing clients more bank products. The division, overseen by
co-chief operating officer David Darnell, saw profit rise 50
percent to $542 million in the third quarter as expenses fell
and deposits rose.  Bank of America, which purchased Merrill Lynch in 2009, has
sought to improve profit without angering its brokerage corps by
crimping compensation. Morgan Stanley, the brokerage with the
most financial advisers, also introduced new incentives for 2013
while leaving the grid unchanged.  Fund Flow  Bank of America advisers who increase the flow of funds by
at least 10 percent are eligible for so-called strategic-growth
awards starting next year, Thiel said last week in a
presentation. An increase of at least $5 million to $25 million
in funds including deposits, investment services, bank loans,
mutual-funds and alternative investments is needed to qualify.  The first $10 million in funds growth at Merrill Lynch
triggers a bonus worth 5 basis points, or 0.05 percent of that
amount, according to the presentation. That swells to 10 basis
points for $10 million to $50 million in new funds. Anything
exceeding $50 million earns 3 basis points.  The lender also boosted the cash payout for retiring
financial advisers to 100 percent to 160 percent of their annual
production over four years from 70 percent to 80 percent,
according to the presentation. Merrill Lynch offers the awards
to retiring advisers in an effort to retain their clients.  Thiel started at Merrill Lynch as a financial adviser in
Tampa,  Florida , in 1989 and held several management jobs before
being named brokerage head in April 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  