-- BOJ Member Deposit Plan Would Unleash $373 Billion
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K a z u m i   M i u r a
-- 2012-12-21T03:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/boj-member-deposit-plan-would-unleash-373-billion-japan-credit.html
The proposal by a  Bank of Japan (8301) 
board member to scrap interest paid on lenders’ deposits raises
the prospect of a flood of cash into a  bond market  where yields
are near a nine-year low.  While Koji Ishida’s plan to abolish the 0.1 percent payment
was rejected by a majority vote when a two-day meeting ended
yesterday, incoming prime minister Shinzo Abe has called for
unlimited easing until 2 percent inflation is achieved. The 10-
year note  yield  slid for a second day to 0.765 percent today,
third only to  Switzerland  and  Hong Kong  among the world’s lowest
rates, as the BOJ expanded its asset-purchase program and held
its separate overnight interbank  lending rate  at between zero
and 0.1 percent.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has rejected proposals to
cut the rate, which is now paid on $373 billion in deposits held
in custody at the central bank, about equivalent to  Taiwan ’s
economic output. Shirakawa, set to step down on April 8, said
yesterday that Abe’s request for a higher price goal would be
discussed at the next policy meeting and he “strongly expects”
the government to play a role in defeating deflation.  “The market had already taken account of the possibility
that the deposit rate may be scrapped after April, and such a
chance has become more realistic,” said  Makoto Yamashita , chief
Japan interest rates strategist in Tokyo at Deutsche Securities
Inc., one of the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at government
debt sales. Scrapping the rate would mean that short-term note
yields “have more room to fall.”  Fund Increased  Yields on Japanese  government securities  maturing in one to
three years have all collapsed to about 0.1 percent as the BOJ
bought up the notes with its asset-purchase fund. The central
bank yesterday added 10 trillion yen ($119 billion) to the 66
trillion-yen fund that buys assets, including government and
corporate debt, to lower borrowing costs.  Japan’s 30-year bonds led gains today, with the yield
falling three basis points to 1.935 percent. The 10-year rate
reached 0.685 percent on Dec. 6, the least since June 2003 when
all-time lows were set.  The central bank is under pressure to end deflation, which
damps economic growth as it compels consumers to delay
purchases. The nation’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food
have fallen at an average of 0.2 percent every month in the past
decade.  The world’s third-largest economy is projected to shrink
0.45 percent in the three months ending Dec. 31, following the
two quarters of contraction that meet the technical definition
of a recession.  Lending Push  Abe, whose  Liberal Democratic Party  won a landslide victory
in elections for the lower house of parliament on Dec. 16, has
pledged to set an accord with the BOJ to aim for 2 percent
inflation. The party also targets a 3 percent nominal economic
growth. The BOJ set its 1 percent inflation goal in February.  “A lot of people want to cut the rate of the facility to
accelerate bank lending,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist
at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which manages the
equivalent of $122 billion, referring to the deposit rate.
“Some staff members of the BOJ think that the policy would be
useless in accelerating bank lending and the economy, but other
members don’t agree.”  Elsewhere in the domestic credit markets, Ricoh Leasing
Co., a supplier of industrial machinery, registered to sell as
much as 100 billion yen of bonds, according to a filing with
Japan’s Ministry of Finance yesterday. The registration, which
allows for note sales without obligating the company to borrow,
takes effect on Dec. 28 and is valid for two years.  Bond Issuance  Japanese companies have raised 8.2 trillion yen in bond
offerings this year, little changed from the same period in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of
Samurais, yen-denominated bonds by overseas borrowers, dropped 7
percent to 2 trillion yen in the period, the data show.  Corporate bonds in  Japan  have returned 1.3 percent this
year, compared with the 1.9 percent gain for the nation’s
sovereign debt and 4.8 percent for Samurais, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Company notes worldwide have
returned 10 percent.  Five-year credit-default swaps that insure Japan’s
sovereign debt were at 80.2 basis points on Dec. 20, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. The index was down 63 basis points from the start of
2012, the data show. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  Yen Effect  The yen climbed 0.5 percent to 83.94 per dollar as of 12:48
p.m. today. While the Japanese currency touched 84.62 on Dec.
19, the weakest since April 2011, it was still stronger than the
five-year average of 89.02.  Ishida wanted to lower the 0.1 deposit rate to affect the
 exchange rate , Shirakawa told reporters after the meeting.
Currency appreciation makes Japanese-made products more
expensive overseas and erodes exporters’ earnings.  The  outstanding balance  of accounts that can receive the
0.1 percent interest was at 31.3 trillion yen last month after
climbing to a record 34.8 trillion yen in September, according
to BOJ figures.  “The proposal of scrapping the deposit rate to zero was
rejected but lowering the rate might have been approved,” said
Takuma Sugawara, a senior JGB strategist in Tokyo at Societe
Generale SA, another primary dealer. “Five or 10 basis points
are big numbers in the bond market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kazumi Miura in Tokyo at 
 kmiura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  