-- BOJ Loosens With Pledge to Review Inflation Objectives: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-12-20T08:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/boj-adds-stimulus-as-abe-is-set-to-push-more-aggressive-easing.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its
asset-purchase program for the third time in four months, and
will reconsider its objectives for inflation as incoming Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe urges more action to end price declines.  The central bank increased the asset-purchase fund to 76
trillion yen ($906 billion) from 66 trillion yen, according to a
statement released in  Tokyo  today. The BOJ kept its credit
lending program unchanged at 25 trillion yen.  The expanded purchases failed to halt gains in the yen,
which reversed three days of declines today as investors sought
a haven amid concerns at a stalemate in U.S. budget talks. Abe,
whose party swept to victory in this week’s election, will have
a chance to reshape the BOJ early next year when the terms of
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his two deputies expire. He’s
pressing for a 2 percent inflation target, compared with an
existing 1 percent goal.  “The BOJ showed caution by failing to respond to Abe’s
request immediately,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at
Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo and a former central
bank official. “The bank has been clear that it can’t beat
deflation on its own. It’s still unclear how it will respond to
the government’s requests.”  The yen was up 0.6 percent at 83.90 per dollar as of 4:54
pm. in Tokyo. Investors may have wanted more details on the
inflation target, said  Masafumi Yamamoto , Tokyo-based chief
foreign-exchange strategist at Barclays Plc. The Nikkei 225
stock Average closed down 1.2 percent.  ‘Little Impact’  “Today’s action will have little impact on economic
activity in the next quarter as demand to borrow funds provided
by the central bank remains weak,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief
economist at RBS Securities  Japan  Ltd. and a former BOJ
official.  The BOJ board will discuss “medium- to long-term  price
stability ” at its next meeting on Jan. 21-22, the statement
said, indicating that the bank may consider revising its
inflation goal. Shirakawa has asked BOJ staff to examine
“issues for discussion” and report back to the board, the
statement said.  Abe welcomed the bank’s decision today, saying at a Liberal
Democratic Party policy meeting that his campaign pledges are
being realized “one-by-one.”  Shirakawa told reporters today that Abe’s request for a
higher price goal was one factor behind the decision to discuss
inflation at the next policy meeting, adding that he “strongly
expects” the government to play a role in defeating deflation.  Seventeen of 21 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
expected further easing measures today with the rest forecasting
action next month.  Economic Contraction  Japan’s economy shrank an annualized 3.5 percent last
quarter after a 0.1 percent decline in the previous three-month
period, meeting the textbook definition of a recession. The
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News is for a
0.5 percent contraction this quarter and a 1.4 percent expansion
in the first three months of 2013.  The central bank adopted its 1 percent price goal in
February, and has expanded its asset purchase program five times
this year. The BOJ today kept its  key interest rate  unchanged
between zero and 0.1 percent and monthly purchases of  government
bonds  at 1.8 trillion yen.  The Abe-led coalition secured a two-third majority in the
lower house of parliament. Abe said on Dec. 17 his mission is to
stimulate a recovery, end more than a decade of  deflation  and
correct the strong currency.  “In the election I repeatedly said I wanted an accord
between the government and the BOJ including an inflation target
of 2 percent,” Abe told Shirakawa in a meeting on Dec. 18.  More Stimulus  “One reason for the LDP’s big win lies in their emphasis
on further monetary easing,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief
economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. and a former central
bank official. “The BOJ can’t ignore the voice of voters. The
chance for back-to-back stimulus in December and January is
rising.”  Analysts including Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Masayuki Kichikawa say it’s hard for the BOJ to resist political pressure
especially before a leadership change early in 2013. Shirakawa
will step down on April 8, with the two deputy governors terms
ending on March 19.  At today’s meeting, board member Koji Ishida proposed
cutting the  interest rate  paid to commercial banks on their
deposits at the BOJ to zero from 0.1 percent, the statement
showed. The proposal was voted down by the other eight board
members.  Lending Program  The BOJ also unveiled details of its “unlimited” lending
program. The fund is scheduled to start in June 2013 for about
15 months, and is expected to disburse more than 15 trillion
yen, the bank said in a statement. Shirakawa told reporters that
the program could help to weaken the yen.  The central bank said in a separate statement that it
extended its currency-swap agreements with five major central
banks including the  Federal Reserve  through Feb. 1, 2014.  Machinery orders, an indicator of  capital spending , rose
for the first time in three months in October while factory
output rose the most this year. Sentiment of big manufacturers
is forecast to rise in the next quarter after falling to an
almost three year low in December, according to the central
bank’s quarterly survey last week. Exports, a key driver of
growth, fell for a sixth month in November, a government report
showed yesterday.  “The Japanese public and companies are trying hard in a
grim situation,” said  Akio Toyoda , the chairman of Japan
Automobile Manufacturers Association. “We don’t have time to
waste as urgent matters such as the strong yen, deflation,
social security and diplomatic problems are piling up” Toyoda,
also president of Toyota Motor Corp, said in a statement on the
JAMA website on Dec. 17.  China Rebound  A leading indicator for  China  rose at a slower pace in
November, indicating that the nation’s economic rebound remains
fragile, The Conference Board said today.  New Zealand  reported a
slower-than-estimated 0.2 percent economic expansion in the
third quarter from the second.  In the U.S., sales of previously owned homes probably rose
in November to a three-year high, according to economists’
median forecast before a report from the National Association of
Realtors today. U.S. economic growth for last quarter may be
revised up to 2.8 percent from 2.7 percent, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index will give the latest
reading on U.S. confidence, while a measure of sentiment in the
euro region is also due today.  Brazil  releases an inflation
report, while the U.K. and  Italy  give retail-sales numbers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  