-- Bombardier Rises on Second Boost for CSeries Jet
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-12-20T21:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/bombardier-rises-on-second-boost-for-cseries-jet-montreal-mover.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  rose the most in
almost three weeks after the aircraft maker announced its second
sale agreement for the CSeries jet in two days.  Bombardier’s widely traded Class B  stock  advanced 3.1
percent to C$3.68 at the close in Toronto today for its biggest
gain since Nov. 30. It’s declined 9.4 percent this year.  AirBaltic AS agreed to buy 10 CS300 airliners in a deal
with a value of about $764 million that may rise to $1.57
billion if purchase rights are exercised for 10 more jets,
Montreal-based Bombardier said today in a statement. The company
said yesterday an unnamed carrier signed a letter of intent to
buy 12 of the smaller CS100 models, which have a list value of
about $870 million, with options to buy 18 more jets.  Bombardier last month delayed the maiden flight of the
CSeries to June after unspecified issues with suppliers.
Analysts including National Bank Financial’s  Cameron Doerksen  in
Montreal had said orders would be scarce until the jet flew
because the postponement raised credibility questions about the
plane.  “While not large fleet replacement or expansion orders, we
believe these orders are a major win for Bombardier’s CSeries
fleet, which we believe is gaining momentum as first flight
approaches,”  Nick Heymann , an analyst at William Blair & Co. in
 New York , said in a note today. “Bombardier’s fundamental
resurgence will be accompanied by additional significant order
activity once the CSeries flies over the next couple of
quarters,” said Heymann, who rates the shares outperform or
buy.  Progressing Smoothly  Assembly of the first flight-test aircraft is progressing
smoothly and the wings are being joined to the fuselage at the
company’s factory in Mirabel,  Quebec , Bombardier said yesterday.  Bombardier had booked 138 firm orders and 214 commitments
through Sept. 30 for the CSeries, which will break the duopoly
shared by Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  when it enters service in
2014.  The orders announced today and yesterday would be in
keeping with the pattern of CSeries purchases in smaller batches
than those for Airbus’s A320 and Boeing’s 737. The larger
companies’ single-aisle models have routinely sold by the dozens
or even hundreds of aircraft at a time.  Republic Airways
Holdings Inc. (RJET)  is the biggest buyer of the new Bombardier plane,
with an order for 40.  “Customers are keeping options open ahead of certification
and achievement of performance targets,” said Turan Quettawala,
an analyst at Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets in Toronto,
referring to the development of the CSeries. Quettawala, who
made the comments in a note to clients yesterday, has a sector
perform rating on Bombardier, the equivalent of hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  