-- Brazil to Auction Rio Airport Amid World Cup Build-Out Rush
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-12-20T13:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/brazil-to-auction-rio-airport-amid-upgrade-rush-before-world-cup.html
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff’s
government announced plans to auction control of Rio de
Janeiro’s international airport as it rushes to upgrade aging
terminals in time for the 2014 World Cup.  By ceding management of Rio’s Antonio Carlos Jobim airport,
the country’s second busiest, and Confins airport in Belo
Horizonte, the government aims to attract 11.4 billion reais
($5.5 billion) in investment, Wagner Bittencourt, the civil
aviation minister, said at an event today in Brasilia.  Investments in  Brazil ’s aging airports have struggled to
keep pace with air travel that has doubled in the past decade as
incomes in Latin America’s biggest economy have risen. Last
year, as the world’s fifth-biggest country by land mass trailed
only the U.S. and China in volume of domestic air travel, 1 of
20 flights were canceled compared with 1 in 50 in the U.S.  Rousseff, in a bid to speed up airport investments, went
against her Workers’ Party’s decades-old resistance to
privatization and sold control in February of three airports
accounting for a third of Brazil’s 179 million passengers last
year. Still, the auction failed to attract the world’s biggest
airport operators, as the government insisted on maintaining a
49 percent stake in each consortium and lax auction rules drew
investors with less experience, pushing up bidding prices.  “We learned a lot” from the previous bidding round,
Rousseff said at the event today. “We believe it’s extremely
important to have a partnership between Brazilian investors and
operators of major international airports.”  Stricter Rules  In recent months, government officials have visited
companies including Fraport AG, Flughafen Munchen GmbH and
 Aeroports de Paris  to explain the new investment plans. They
include a requirement that companies with experience managing at
least 35 million passengers a year retain a minimum 25 percent
stake in the winning consortium.  In February, Brazil’s government sold operating licenses
for Guarulhos airport outside Sao Paulo, the country’s busiest,
and two others in Brasilia and Campinas for 24 billion reais.  Argentina ’s Corporacion America, Paris-based Egis Avia and
Johannesburg-based Airports Co. South Africa, the winners of the
previous auction, wouldn’t qualify for the new licenses because
they lack the experience required under the new bidding rules.  The auction of Jobim airport, named for Brazil’s legendary
bossa nova composer, and Confins will take place in September,
said Bittencourt. The state-run airport management company known
as Infraero will keep a 49 percent stake in the consortiums.  ‘Prosperous’ 2013  Rousseff today said that the airport auction plan is part
of the government’s yearlong drive to remove bottlenecks in the
economy and boost competitiveness, an effort that should bear
fruit in 2013.  “2013 will be a very prosperous year,” she said.  Inadequate roadways, rail transport and airport
infrastructure has limited Brazil’s  growth  potential as the
country prepares to host the World Cup soccer tournament and the
2016 Olympic Games.  Economists surveyed by the central bank forecast gross
domestic product will expand 1 percent this year, less than the
U.S. and all other major  emerging markets . Even though consumer
demand in Brazil remains robust, underpinned by near-record low
unemployment, investment in the third quarter fell for the fifth
straight period.  The government also plans to invest 7.3 billion reais for
the expansion of hundreds of regional and private airports with
money raised from the auctions, Bittencourt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  