-- Brazil Real Gains as Hamilton Says Depreciation Stokes Inflation
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2012-12-20T20:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/brazil-swap-rates-fall-on-slower-inflation-outlook-real-rises.html
Brazil ’s real rose to a one-month
high after a central bank official said a weaker  exchange rate 
has contributed to inflation.  Policy makers aren’t comfortable with a 5 percent annual
rate of price increases, Carlos Hamilton, the bank’s director
for economic policy, told reporters in Brasilia today. Brazil
sees an exchange rate of 2.05 per dollar as more “adequate”
when creating its economic forecasts than 2.10, Hamilton said.  The real advanced for a third day, appreciating 0.1 percent
to 2.0693 per  U.S. dollar  at the close in  Sao Paulo , the
strongest level Nov. 14. Swap rates on contracts due in January
2015 increased 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to
7.82 percent, erasing a drop of three basis points.  “The central bank is concerned that the exchange rate
could increase inflationary risks,”  Roberto Padovani , the chief
economist at Votorantim Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview.  Financial institutions  are required to collect  reserve
requirements  on short dollar positions above $3 billion starting
today instead of the previous $1 billion level, the central bank
announced Dec. 18 in a move to boost the local currency. A short
is a bet an asset will lose value.  Swap rates climbed a day after Finance Minister Guido
Mantega said Brazil will allow gasoline prices to rise in 2013,
spurring speculation that the central bank will boost borrowing
costs to contain inflation.  Currency Gain  The real has risen 1.4 percent this week, paring its drop
in 2012 to 9.3 percent, still the worst performance among 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Policy makers have swung this year between selling currency
swaps to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar. The central bank has
sold $3.7 billion in currency swaps in November and December.  The central bank auctioned dollar credit lines for a fourth
straight day to stimulate liquidity. The credit lines help boost
the supply of U.S. currency as Brazilian companies send dollars
abroad to balance their books at year-end.  December was headed for the biggest net outflow of dollars
in two years as the central bank reported $4.2 billion this
month through Dec. 14, compared with $4.3 billion in June 2010.  “In past years there were more inflows for investments in
assets, and now there is less coming in with lower  interest
rates  and less interest in the stock exchange,” said Ures Folchini, the head of fixed income at Banco WestLB do Brasil, in
a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “And there’s a bit of that
story of  Mexico  being attractive, which has led to less
resources flowing to Brazil.”  Gasoline Prices  Swap rates erased an earlier drop on concern the central
bank’s quarterly inflation report today didn’t take into account
gasoline price increases next year.  Inflation will slow to 4.8 percent in 2013 under the
reference scenario in which the target lending rate holds
steady, compared with a 4.9 percent forecast in the September
report, the central bank said today. It cut the 2012 growth
forecast to 1 percent from 1.6 percent in its September
quarterly report.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday that Brazil will “certainly” raise gasoline prices
in 2013 and state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  will
announce the increase at the right time. Mantega is the
company’s chairman.  Inflation View  “If we throw gas price hikes into the central bank’s
projection, we would have 2013 inflation near 5.5 percent,”
Fernando Genta, the chief economist at MCM Consultores in Sao
Paulo, said in a phone interview.  Brazil’s annual rate of consumer price increases as
measured by the benchmark IPCA index has exceeded the 4.5
percent midpoint of the central bank’s target range for 27
consecutive months. Annual inflation unexpectedly accelerated to
5.53 percent in November from 5.45 percent the month before, the
statistics agency reported Dec. 7.  Policy makers left the  target lending rate  at a record low
7.25 percent last month following 10 straight reductions.
Traders use  interest-rate swaps  to bet on the direction of
borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  