-- Brazil Central Bank Says Lower Rates Won’t Affect Inflation
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-12-20T16:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/brazil-central-bank-lowers-2013-inflation-forecast-to-4-8-.html
Brazil ’s central bank lowered its
forecast for price increases in 2013, insisting that a recovery
in economic growth and a record-low  interest rates  won’t
compromise its goal of bringing inflation back to target.  Policy makers, in their quarterly inflation report today,
said inflation will slow to 4.8 percent in 2013, according to
its reference scenario where the benchmark rate stays at its
current 7.25 percent. In September, the bank said prices would
rise 4.9 percent next year. Analysts surveyed by the bank are
less optimistic, forecasting prices will jump 5.42 percent in
2013 as the Selic rate stays at record low levels.  President  Dilma Rousseff  has stepped up efforts to spur
growth even as inflation is forecast to remain above the bank’s
4.5 percent target for a third year in 2013. Policy makers last
month ended a yearlong easing cycle that saw interest rates fall
more than any Group of 20 nation amid signs that still-strong
domestic demand and a weakening currency could fuel a rebound in
inflation once the stimulus works its way through the economy.  “We are expecting growth rates that will not cause
unbalance in the economy, particularly in terms of inflation,”
the central bank’s director for economic policy, Carlos Hamilton, told reporters in Brasilia today.  Gasoline Prices  Yesterday’s announcement that  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  will
raise gasoline prices next year will make it more difficult for
policy makers to fight inflation, said Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves, chief economist at Banco Fator SA.  “Seeing inflation slow below 5 percent is tough,”
Goncalves said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Brazil’s central bank may update its inflation scenarios
when gasoline prices go up, Hamilton said. There is still a
possibility that inflation could slow to the bank’s target next
year, Hamilton added.  ‘Prolonged’ Pause  Policy makers, in today’s report, repeated bank President
Alexandre Tombini’s commitment to keep monetary conditions
stable for a “prolonged” period, saying it’s the most-adequate
strategy for guaranteeing inflation falls to target amid a
challenging global economic outlook. Pressures on food and
beverage prices, which rose 10 percent over the past year due to
bad weather, are beginning to ease, the bank said.  Fiscal expansion and a weaker  exchange rate  also fueled
2012 inflation, Hamilton said. Brazil’s real is more stable now
than in the past 12-15 months, and the central bank sees an
exchange rate of 2.05 reais per dollar as a more “adequate”
scenario for its economic forecasts, Hamilton added.  The bank said today that it sees the economy expanding 1
percent this year and 3.3 percent in the year through the third
quarter of 2013. Prices will rise 4.9 percent in 2014, according
to its reference scenario. In the so-called market scenario,
prices will rise 4.9 percent next year and 4.8 percent in 2014.  Tax Breaks  Authorities said yesterday they will extend tax breaks on
the purchase of cars and home appliances set to expire this year
to drive demand while avoiding price increases.  Since August 2011, the government has also lowered bank
 reserve requirements  and announced plans to lure billions of
reais in infrastructure investments.  Still, the world’s second-largest emerging market  expanded 
0.6 percent in the third quarter, half the pace forecast by
economists, as investment shrank for a fifth straight quarter.
Analysts surveyed weekly by the central bank have reduced both
2012 and 2013 growth forecasts five weeks in a row, to 1 percent
and 3.4 percent, respectively.  More recent statistics indicate that Brazil’s economic
slump may be bottoming-out.  Consumer default rates in November fell for the first time
in five months, while the central bank’s  economic activity
index , a proxy for gross domestic product, rebounded more than
analysts forecast in October. The government said last week that
retail sales in October grew at the fastest pace since July,
driving the stock of consumer goods maker  Hypermarcas (HYPE3)  to near a
two-month high and online retailer  B2W (BTOW3)  to an 18-month high.  The pace of inflation has continued to increase even as
Brazil’s economic recovery remains unbalanced. Consumer prices
as measured by the IPCA-15 index jumped 0.69 percent in the
month through mid-December, the most in 19 months, while
inflation accelerated to 5.78 percent. Inflation is the central
bank’s “biggest daily concern,” Tombini said Dec. 11.  A policy concern is the real, which has weakened 9.5
percent this year, more than any major currency tracked by
Bloomberg. The central bank in recent days has stepped up
efforts to slow the currency’s slide by easing reserve
requirements on bets against the dollar and  loosening  capital
controls  to attract more foreign investment.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014, the most
traded in Sao Paulo today, rose three basis points to 7.11 at
2:43 p.m. local time. The real rose 0.5 percent to 2.0617 per
 U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  