-- Britain’s Gold Medal Winning Horses May Be Lost for Rio
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/britain-s-gold-medal-winning-horses-may-be-lost-for-rio.html
Four months on from Britain’s first
Olympic gold medal in dressage, two of the country’s leading
horses may be lost for the  2016 Rio Games .  Uthopia, a Dutch-bred stallion that helped to win team gold
at the  London  games, performed for a final time two days ago
with his rider  Carl Hester , finishing sixth at a World Cup
dressage event at the  Olympia Horse Show  in London. Hester, who
owns half of Uthopia, will put the horse up for sale once legal
issues surrounding the ownership of the remaining 50 percent
stake are resolved, he said in an interview.  “If I had a choice, the horses wouldn’t be sold,” said
Hester, who trained 11-year-old Uthopia up to Olympic level from
the age of four. “But it’s time to move on really, and try and
get ahead with my mortgage and things like that. I am not 20-
something anymore and I haven’t got that many years left as a
competitor. It’s just nature.”  Hester, 45, also owns half of Valegro, a Dutch-bred 10-
year-old gelding that won Olympic team and individual gold with
 Charlotte Dujardin . Hester is mentor and coach to Dujardin, whom
he hired as a stable-hand six years ago. The pair are trying to
find investors to buy the remaining 50 percent of Valegro so the
horse can stay at their yard.  Top dressage horses can achieve prices of up to 15 million
euros ($20 million), although Hester declined to say how much
Uthopia and Valegro would be worth. They could compete for
another country in Rio if they’re sold abroad, or fail to
qualify altogether if they don’t establish a rapport with new
riders.  World Record  Dujardin, 27, competed with Valegro for the first time
since the London games two days ago, setting a world record
score of 84.45 percent to win the World Cup dressage freestyle-
to-music event ahead of former Olympic champion Isabell Werth of
Germany on her horse  Don Johnson .  Valegro’s performance, to “Land of Hope and Glory” and
the bell chimes of Big Ben in front of a sellout crowd at
Olympia, may go some way to keeping him in Britain, Hester said.  “The whole idea was that Olympia would be another
launchpad for people to see him,” said Hester, who learned to
ride on a donkey when he was growing up in the  Channel Islands .
“Several people have said ‘Let’s talk.’ There is no hurry,
there is no desperate need. I own him, and  Charlotte  has worked
for me for six years and we are friends. We’re going to try and
sort it out between us.”  Britain wouldn’t be the first country to lose its best
Olympic horses to cash-rich buyers.  Dutch Protest  In 2010, dressage fans in the Netherlands mounted an online
protest after former German Olympic showjumper  Paul
Schockemoehle  bought record-breaking stallion Totilas from Kees
Visser. Schockemoehle paid a record 15 million euros, Dutch
broadcaster NOS reported at the time. Totilas didn’t enjoy the
same success with his new rider, Matthias Rath, who withdrew
from the London Olympics with glandular fever.  Hester says he has two other talented young horses that may
make it to Rio.  At the London Olympics, Britain’s dressage team beat
 Germany , which had won every Olympic team gold in dressage since
1976 apart from the 1980 boycott year in Moscow. The home team’s
performance was rewarded with more funding this week.  UK Sport, the country’s elite-sport funding agency, boosted
equestrianism’s cash by a third to 17.9 million pounds ($29
million) in the next four years to the Rio Games.  The extra money is “a huge shot in the arm,” for the
sport, Hester said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  