-- California Republicans Target Top U.S. Public-Worker Pay
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/california-republicans-target-top-u-s-public-worker-pay.html
Republicans in the  California  Senate
are drafting legislation targeting state worker compensation
that exceeds pay levels for public employees elsewhere in
virtually all wage categories and job descriptions.  Payroll data compiled by Bloomberg on 1.4 million public
workers in the 12 most populous states show how managers and
employees throughout California government ignore limits on
accrual of paid vacation and other leave, leading to lump
severance payouts of as much as $609,000 to one state employee
last year. The state’s obligation for accumulated time off grew
to  $3.9 billion  last year from $1.4 billion in 2003.  “The Bloomberg series highlighted some shocking abuses and
problems in California,” said state Senator Ted Gaines, a
Republican from Rocklin who serves on the Public Employment and
Retirement Committee. “I am working on legislation for this
session that attacks these issues, protects taxpayers and
restores some sanity to our state.”  The series demonstrated how accumulation of vacation hours
accelerated in California from 2005 through 2010, fueled by
state policy initiated by former Republican Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and continued by current Democratic Governor
Jerry Brown, forcing workers to take unpaid time off, or
furloughs, before using paid leave. A state rule limits accrued
leave for California employees to 640 hours, or 16 weeks, yet
many go beyond that boundary and cash out the time when they
leave state service, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  State Consequence  The consequence is $1.4 billion in lump-sum payments to
departing employees from 2005 through 2011, according to the
data compiled by Bloomberg. Last year, no other state among the
country’s 12 largest paid a worker more than $200,000 for
accrued leave, while 17 people got such payments in California.
There were 240 employees who received at least $100,000 in
California, compared with 42 in the other 11 states, data show.  California also leads the 12 largest states in overtime
expenses, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg. Last
year, it paid $964 million in overtime to 110,000 workers, an
average of $8,741 per employee. That was more than twice the
$415 million New York paid in overtime to 80,000 staff members,
for an average of $5,199, and almost as much as all the other
states in the database combined. In  Georgia , total overtime for
8,935 workers last year was $12.3 million, an average $1,378.  Republican Legislation  Aides said Gaines’s bill, to be introduced when the
California Legislature returns to session in January, may
address both the lump-sum pay and overtime disparities between
California and other states, among other steps. Republicans are
the minority party in both houses of California government.  “The governor will closely review any legislation that
reaches his desk,” said Elizabeth Ashford, a spokeswoman for
Brown.  “It’s very difficult and very complex to fix -- these
costs are baked in,” said David Crane, a public-policy lecturer
at Stanford University and a Democrat who worked as an economic
adviser to Schwarzenegger. “The only answer is to cut the
benefits that are not yet accrued for those employees and to
reduce salaries for certain employees.”  “The only people that haven’t had to suffer yet -- and it
isn’t their fault because they didn’t cause this, the
politicians did -- are the existing employees and the existing
retirees,” Crane said.  Accumulated Leave  Brown hasn’t curbed overtime expenses or limited payments
for accumulated leave. The 74-year-old Democrat reaped $400
million in short-term savings to help balance the state budget
last year by continuing a policy initiated by Schwarzenegger
that requires workers to take an unpaid day off each month. That
could lead to additional leave accruals and costs for the state
in the future, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Last year, Brown
waived a cap on accrued leave for prison guards while granting
them additional paid days off.  “Furloughs were never meant to solve the state’s
structural budget problem or save money in the long run,”
Schwarzenegger said in an e-mailed response to questions for a
six-part Bloomberg series on state pay. “We had to do what was
necessary to keep paying the bills and keep the lights on.”  In an interview before publication of the Bloomberg series,
California Labor Secretary Marty Morgenstern said the accrual of
leave documented by Bloomberg isn’t permitted under state rules.  “Those payouts are payouts of accumulated salary that it’s
against the rules to allow people to accumulate, and it
shouldn’t have been done, and shouldn’t be done,” said
Morgenstern, a member of Brown’s cabinet whose Labor & Workforce
Development Agency oversees labor relations, employment and
unemployment.  ‘Absolutely Inappropriate’  “I think some of our rules were negligent, and I think
people were allowed to build up overtime pay who shouldn’t have
been, who accumulated leave time and furlough time,”
Morgenstern said. “Those kind of payments are absolutely
inappropriate and we’re doing everything we can to see that does
not recur.”  In an e-mailed statement responding to findings of the
Bloomberg series before its publication, Gareth Lacy, a
spokesman for the governor, said many of the costs highlighted
by the data are the result of policies set by governors who
preceded Brown in office.  “Governor Brown is busy fixing the many problems that he
inherited from past administrations,” Lacy said. “California’s
$26 billion budget deficit, and the decades-old structural
imbalance, was eliminated in large part by cutting waste and
slashing costs. The governor also achieved historic reforms to
public pensions and workers’ compensation that will save the
state billions of dollars.”  $608,821 Payment  Topping the list of severance payments to California
workers last year was $608,821 paid to psychiatrist Gertrudis
Agcaoili, who retired from the Napa state mental hospital after
a 30-year career. Agcaoili said in a telephone interview that it
was her right to take the payment.  Among other findings of the data compiled by Bloomberg was
that another psychiatrist, Mohammad Safi, collected $822,302
last year, up from $90,682 for six months of work in 2006, the
data show. Safi was placed on administrative leave in July and
is under investigation by the Department of State Hospitals,
formerly the Department of Mental Health.  Safi and other psychiatrists employed by the state
benefited from what amounted to a 2007 bidding war between
California’s prisons and mental health departments, after a
series of federal court orders forced the state to improve its
inmate care. Higher pay in the prison system was matched by
mental health, and as psychiatrists followed larger salaries,
the state’s cost to provide the care soared.  17 Hours  Last year, 16 psychiatrists on California’s payroll,
including Safi, made more than $400,000. Only one did in any
other state in the data compiled by Bloomberg, a doctor in
 Texas . Safi earned more than twice as much as any state
psychiatrist elsewhere, the data show.  Safi was paid for an average of almost 17 hours each day,
including on-call time and Saturdays and Sundays, although he
did take time off, said David O’Brien, a spokesman for the
department. In a brief interview outside his home in  Newark ,
California, Safi said he’d been placed on leave for working too
many hours and declined to comment further. An increase in the
number of beds at the facility where Safi worked forced him to
cover more shifts, and he was allowed to do some of the work
from home, said his lawyer, Ed Caden.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Yap in Los Angeles at 
 ryap@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  