-- Cameron Says ‘One Step at a Time’ on Mitchell
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-12-21T10:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/cameron-says-one-step-at-a-time-on-mitchell-following-arrests.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
remained cautious about any move to reinstate former Chief Whip
Andrew Mitchell to a government job after police made two
arrests in a probe linked to the events that sparked his
resignation.  “One step at a time, let’s get to the truth about what
happened,” Cameron told reporters on a visit to U.K. troops at
Camp Bastion in Afghanistan yesterday. “I think there is
sympathy for Andrew” among Conservative Party lawmakers.  London ’s Metropolitan Police are investigating an officer’s
allegation that Mitchell, who was in charge of Tory party
discipline, called officers “plebs” outside Cameron’s Downing
Street residence in September in an incident that led him to
step down a month later.  A  report by Channel 4 News  televised Dec. 18 said a police
officer had posed as a member of the public and falsely claimed
to have witnessed the events in an e-mail to his lawmaker.
Cameron may restore Mitchell to office if the new evidence
exonerates him, a person familiar with the premier’s thinking
said the same day.  “It has been an extraordinary development, frankly, to
find a police officer apparently posing as a member of the
public, pretending to have been outside Downing Street at the
time, and then trying to blacken the name of a Cabinet
minister,” Cameron said.  Mitchell Meeting  The prime minister told reporters that he met with Mitchell
at Downing Street four days ago.  “He was calm and rational but feels obviously disturbed by
what seems to have happened and is keen to get to the bottom of
it,” Cameron said. “I thought his mood was pretty calm and
reasonable given what are pretty extraordinary revelations.”  Police arrested a 23-year-old man two days ago on suspicion
of “intentionally encouraging or assisting the commission of an
indictable offense on or around Dec. 14,” the  Metropolitan
force  said in a statement. The unidentified man is not a police
officer or member of police staff, according to the statement.  The Sun newspaper reported Sept. 21 that Mitchell abused
police officers, saying they should “learn their place,”
because they refused to let him cycle through the main gate of
Downing Street.  A Diplomatic Protection Squad officer was arrested on Dec.
15 by police investigating how national newspapers were able to
publish their records of the incident. Mitchell denied using the
word “plebs,” while admitting he lost his temper and swore at
officers.  Police have widened the investigation amid accusations by
Conservative lawmakers of a politically motivated campaign to
damage Mitchell. About 30 officers are working on the inquiry,
overseen by the  Independent Police Complaints Commission .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  Afghanistan  at  sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  