-- Cameron Says Afghan Withdrawal May Go ‘a Little Faster’
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-12-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/cameron-says-afghan-troop-pullout-is-for-good-military-reasons-.html
Prime Minister David Cameron said
the U.K. may be able to withdraw its combat troops from
 Afghanistan  “a little faster” than in plans he announced two
days ago.  The prime minister’s told the House of Commons on Dec. 19
that Britain will bring home 3,800 troops from Afghanistan next
year, almost half the current strength serving in Helmand
province, as it hands over security to local forces. Numbers
will fall to about 5,200 after the end of next year before
combat operations in the country finish by the end of 2014.  “So far things have surprised on the upside in terms of
the capability of the Afghan national forces, so it may well be
that we may be able to move a little faster, but let’s see,”
Cameron told reporters in Afghanistan today during a pre-
Christmas visit to British forces. “Of course there’s always
flexibility with any plan.”  Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said Dec. 19 he expects
the number of British troops in Afghanistan to be reduced in
April 2013 and again during September and October. Fewer units
will be deployed to the country to replace those returning home,
he said.  Afghan forces are getting the “capability” to control
their own nation, even though the country remains “deeply
challenged,” Cameron told reporters yesterday on a visit to
Camp Bastion, the main U.K. military base in Helmand in southern
Afghanistan. “This is withdrawal, this is drawdown based on
success, not on failure.”  The British government is “confident it can be done while
making sure Afghanistan does not return to become a haven of
terrorism, which is of course why we came here in the first
place,” Cameron said yesterday. Afghanistan is a “far better
place than it was when we came here in 2001.”  All North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led operations in
the country are due to finish by the end of 2014. The U.K.
remains committed to supporting Afghanistan beyond next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Afghanistan at  sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  