-- Canada Dollar Strengthens on Better-Than-Forecast Data
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-12-20T22:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/canadian-dollar-touches-2-week-low-before-u-s-data.html
The Canadian currency gained against
its U.S. counterpart as better-than-forecast economic data from
both countries boosted the appeal of higher-yielding assets.  Canada ’s dollar earlier touched the lowest level in almost
two weeks on concern a budget impasse may plunge the U.S. back
into recession. The so-called loonie erased losses as Canadian
retail sales increased a fourth month, topping economist
forecasts on gains in automobile and gasoline purchases, and
gross domestic product in the U.S. beat projections. The
Canadian dollar weakened yesterday after the International
Monetary Fund said the Bank of Canada shouldn’t raise interest
rates until the end of next year to help fuel growth.  “The strong retail sales number this morning combined with
the better third reading of the U.S. GDP were both positive for
the Canadian dollar,” Greg Moore, currency strategist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , said by telephone from Toronto.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to 98.77
cents per dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched 98.97, lowest
level since Dec. 7. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0127.  Canada’s dollar has gained 0.7 percent this month, paring
its quarterly loss to 0.4 percent.  Government bonds were little changed, with benchmark 10-
year bond yields at 1.84 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent
notes maturing in June 2022 declined 6 cents to C$107.87.  Economic Reports  The U.S. economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, exceeding the highest projection in a Bloomberg
survey and compared with a previously estimated 2.7 percent
gain, according to Commerce Department figures released today in
 Washington . The U.S. is Canada’s largest trading partner.  A separate report showed sales of previously owned homes
climbed 5.9 percent to a 5.04 million annual rate, the most
since November 2009, according to the National Association of
Realtors in Washington. The median forecast of 82 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 4.9 million rate.  “It’s always nice to have your southern cousin, which is
the predominance of your trade market, doing better,” said Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-
based Concannon Wealth Management, which oversees about $250
million.  Canadian  retail sales  rose 0.7 percent to C$39.4 billion
($39.9 billion) in October, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 0.2
percent increase, based on the median of 24 projections.  Fiscal Cliff  “Decent print in the headline in terms of nominal
numbers,”  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said by phone from Toronto.
“You’ll find attention focusing back on fiscal-cliff
discussions in the U.S., and if those turn out to be less
optimistic, I wouldn’t be surprised to see some of that strength
in the dollar fade.”  House Republicans are planning a vote today on a deficit
reduction plan that President  Barack Obama  has criticized for
not seeking enough new revenue through tax increases and has
promised to veto. The standoff comes as U.S. politicians seek a
compromise on deficit reduction to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff of more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts set to start in January.  Canada’s currency has gained 0.2 percent this year versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 3.5 percent and the
yen has been the biggest loser, tumbling 13 percent. Norway’s
krone leads gainers, up 4.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  