-- Cathay Union Accepts Deal Averting Christmas Protests
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-12-20T08:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/cathay-pacific-cabin-crew-sets-noon-deadline-in-dispute.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s
biggest international carrier, and its flight attendants union
agreed on a  labor  deal, averting the threat of possible
industrial action over the Christmas travel period.  The accord includes changes in flight patterns and working
conditions, Dora Lai, the union’s chairwoman, told reporters in
Hong Kong today. The group had set a noon deadline for Cathay to
respond to a proposal following two days of talks with
management and government mediators.  The agreement means Hong Kong-based Cathay and its
passengers won’t have to contend with flight attendants working-
to-rule during the year-end rush. The union had also said it
could stage a strike next year if no agreement was reached.  “This is the best possible outcome for our customers, who
have always been at the forefront of this issue for us,” Chief
Executive Officer John Slosar said in an e-mailed statement.
“They can now look forward to their holiday travel plans with
confidence.”  The carrier also agreed to keep overseas attendants within
15 percent of total crew staffing in the two years starting Jan.
1, Liza Ng, Cathay’s cabin crew general manager said. All
destinations will remain available to  Hong Kong  based crew, she
said.  Pay Increase  The dispute, which intensified after the carrier announced
Nov. 30 a pay increase of about 2 percent against the union’s 5
percent demand, mainly focused on Cathay’s use of cabin crew
based outside of Hong Kong, some of whom receive less pay than
staff living in the city.  Coupled with the airline cutting long-haul  flights  because
of slower demand, Hong Kong-based flight attendants faced
potentially fewer flight hours, lower take-home pay, and reduced
opportunities for promotion, according to the labor group.  Union members had authorized leaders to initiate industrial
action in a vote earlier this month. The group represents more
than 5,800 of Cathay’s 9,000 cabin crew.  “We were worried that more jobs may go to overseas,” Lai
said. “Now we are satisfied because it gives us some guarantee
of local positions.”  The  carrier  fell 0.3 percent to HK$14.08 at the close in
Hong Kong trading. It has risen 5.7 percent this year, compared
with a 23 percent gain for the city’s  Hang Seng Index .  Cathay flight attendants haven’t gone on strike since the
Lunar New Year holiday in 1993, when about 1,000 walked out for
17 days, according to Tsang Kwok-fung, a spokesman for the
union. Since then, there have been smaller actions such as
working to rule, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  