-- CEZ Drops From Three-Week High on Albania Dispute: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-12-20T11:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/cez-drops-from-three-week-high-on-albania-dispute-prague-mover.html
CEZ AS (CEZ)  fell from a three-week high
after an escalation of a dispute with the Albanian government
threatened to deepen the Czech utility’s losses in the country.  The stock, the second-most traded in the  PX (PX)  index today,
slid 0.2 percent to 659 koruna by 12:18 p.m. in Prague. It rose
2.4 percent in the previous two days to the highest since Nov.
28 after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the shares.  CEZ seeks to sell its unit in Albania after a dispute with
the government there over taxes and power prices to “minimize
potential losses,” Chief Executive Officer Daniel Benes told
Hospodarske Noviny newspaper yesterday. The Balkan country is
“firmly opposing” the plan, the administration said yesterday
in a statement, adding CEZ owes it about $1 billion in damages.  “The damages allegation doesn’t seem logical and we don’t
expect CEZ to pay the sum, but the likelihood that the company
will soon find a buyer for its unprofitable Albanian unit is
near zero after this news,”  Josef Nemy , an analyst at  Komercni
Banka AS (KOMB)  in Prague, wrote in a report today. “The risk of more
losses from power distribution in the country is hence rising.”  CEZ has asked potential investors to submit bids for CEZ
Shperndarje, of which it controls 76 percent, spokeswoman
Barbora Pulpanova said in an e-mailed statement. The company
“repeatedly” discussed the sale with representatives of the
Albanian government, she said.  “The Albanian side has not explained what’s included in
the $1 billion sum, but we suppose they are trying to extract
damages,” Pulpanova said. “This only shows that the whole
problem is getting seriously politicized in the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  