-- Chavez Fights Respiratory Infection as His Health Stabilizes
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-12-21T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/chavez-continues-to-fight-respiratory-infection-maduro-says-1-.html
 Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is
continuing to fight a respiratory infection after cancer surgery
in Cuba while his health stabilizes, Vice President Nicolas Maduro said.  “Chavez is good, he’s conscious,” Maduro said yesterday
on state television. “The respiratory infection that was
diagnosed is continuing to be treated and controlled by the
medical team in a rigorous manner.”  The self-professed socialist is in a period of “absolute
rest” and being visited by his brother Adan Chavez, his
daughters, grandchildren and government officials including
Technology Minister Jorge Arreaza and state lawyer Cilia Flores,
Maduro said. National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello and
Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez are traveling on a regular basis to
Cuba, he said.  Maduro said Dec. 18 that Chavez was fighting a respiratory
infection and in stable condition after his fourth cancer
surgery in 18 months resulted in complications including
bleeding. Top Venezuelan officials have left open the
possibility that Chavez, 58, may not have to be sworn-in Jan. 10
to start a new six-year term, as stipulated in the country’s
constitution.  “For any issue that needs to be settled, we’ve got the
Constitutional Court, which has a great capacity to interpret
the constitution,” Maduro said Dec. 19. “If needed, the
court is a judicial and moral reserve of the republic.”  High Court  The country’s high court is open to any constitutional
questions that might emerge if Chavez is not able to be sworn in
for a new six-year term Jan. 10, Supreme Court President Luisa Estella Morales said yesterday on state television.  “For now, there is nothing to interpret because no doubts
have been submitted to the court,” she said. “The swearing in
of a president and continuity of government are constitutional
issues, and the court is in condition to rule on any question
that is brought up.”  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez steps down before Jan. 10,
Maduro would see out the rest of the current term and then hand
over power to Cabello, who must call for an election within 30
days. If Chavez is unable to start his new term Jan. 10 but does
not step down, the National Assembly president must determine if
the absence is temporary or absolute.  “If the absence is absolute, he must call an election and
take office in that period,” Jorge Pabon, a constitutional
lawyer and former dean of the law school at the Central
University of  Venezuela , said Dec. 19 in a telephone interview.  Great Battle  Cabello told reporters Dec. 18 that there are precedents
for delaying inaugurations in Venezuela, El Nacional reported.  Chavez has been sending instructions back to Venezuela and
was happy with the results of regional elections held on Dec.
16, Maduro said.  “He’s fighting a great battle with discipline and faith,”
Maduro said yesterday. “We are going to keep praying to bring
all of our energy to the president. The happy day of having him
here in Venezuela again with his image, strength and message
will arrive.”  The former paratrooper first told Venezuelans he had cancer
in June 2011 after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an
abscess from his pelvic area during which he said doctors
discovered a baseball-sized tumor in the same area.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  