-- Chilean Peso Volatility Tumbles as Growth Offsets Drop in Copper
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-12-20T17:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/chilean-peso-volatility-tumbles-as-growth-offsets-drop-in-copper.html
Fluctuations in  Chile ’s peso touched
the lowest level on record as the nation’s accelerating economic
growth offset a plunge in copper.  Implied volatility on one-month options for the Chilean
peso versus the dollar fell to 7.15 percent today, the lowest
intraday level since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 2010,
before it was unchanged at 7.16 percent. The currency was little
changed at 475.02 per dollar at the close in Santiago. The peso
has traded in a range of 473 to 476 per dollar since Dec. 10.
International investors in the peso forwards market had a $5
billion short position on Dec. 18, the lowest since March 5.  Expectations for rising interest rates have also helped
slowed depreciation while speculation the central bank may
intervene to weaken the currency has prevented it from rallying.
Falling volatility in the peso means that options for exporters
and others to hedge against changes in the price of the currency
become cheaper.  “Volatility has been very low in the past two weeks,”
said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito &
Inversiones in Santiago. “There’s more consensus about where
the exchange rate should be. The central bank has a floor below
470 and as the peso appreciates toward that level enthusiasm
flags, but economic growth and rates set a ceiling.”  Chile’s economic activity expanded 6.7 percent in October
from a year earlier, the fastest pace this year, a Dec. 5 report
showed. The median forecast of 16 analysts polled by Bloomberg
was a 6.2 percent increase.  The central bank indicated on Dec. 18 that the target
lending rate will remain at 5 percent after policy makers
reduced their inflation forecasts and raised growth estimates.  Copper for March delivery dropped as much as 2.3 percent
today to a December intraday low. The metal makes up more than
half Chile’s exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  