-- China Wealth Growth Shifts Inland, Boston Consulting Study Finds
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-12-20T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/china-wealth-growth-shifts-inland-boston-consulting-study-finds.html
China ’s inland region is seeing
faster growth in the number of millionaires than Beijing and the
coastal regions where wealth has been concentrated, according to
 Boston Consulting Group  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)   The number of high net worth households in Anhui, Gansu and
Hunan provinces will increase by more than 30 percent in 2012,
BCG and the lender’s private banking unit said today in a
report. Nationwide the figure will grow by 17 percent to 1.74
million, slower than last year’s 30 percent pace.  China is seeking to expand the economies of the western
region faster than the country’s average in the five years
through 2015, using policy incentives and investing in projects
ranging from high-speed rail to eco-tourism. Private companies
are shifting production inland to take advantage of lower costs.  The “economic growth engine in China will shift to
central-western inland regions,” according to the report.
“Provinces with large populations and sizable private wealth
will represent significant growth potential, such as Anhui,
Hunan, Hubei, Sichuan, Shandong and Shaanxi.”  The number of wealthy households in Beijing and  Shanghai 
will grow more slowly than the 17 percent national average and
the pace in Guangdong, the southern province that borders  Hong
Kong , is below 10 percent, the report showed.  Investable assets held by Chinese wealthy individuals, who
are predominantly business owners, may increase by 14 percent to
73 trillion yuan ($11.7 trillion) in 2012, Construction Bank and
BCG predict.  China’s 16 private banks may lose market share to
securities and trust companies in the next few years, according
to the report. Preferential government policies and large
customer bases will help the banks’ competitors, the report
said.  BCG and Construction Bank interviewed 1,912 high net worth
individuals in China for the report. Most had more than 6
million  yuan  of investable assets, while the rest held at least
3 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  