-- Chinese College Dropout Turns Market Blog Into Pundits’ Favorite
-- B y   L a u r e n   H i l g e r s
-- 2012-12-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/chinese-college-dropout-turns-market-blog-into-pundits-favorite.html
When Hu Bin started his blog in
early 2008, he was a skinny 22-year-old college dropout with a
perpetually skeptical look on his face and little doubt he’d
soon be a household name.  The previous year, the  Shanghai  Stock Exchange had been
flooded by speculators. For a brief period, it was the second-
busiest exchange in the world. It was also beginning a dramatic
fall ushered in by the global financial crisis. Hu says he
considered the market, considered his audience, and sensed it
was time to make his mark.  “It really started when Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced a 4
trillion  renminbi  rescue plan for the economy,” Hu says. “I
knew I just needed to be clever and use this chance of high
liquidity in the market to make myself famous.”  Now 26, Hu is  China ’s most popular online market
commentator, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Dec. 24
edition. His blog has gotten more than 400 million visits. His
posts are equal parts outlandish and thoughtful, and employ
liberal use of bolded, multicolored text and exclamation points.  Hu writes under the name Yerongtian, a character from a
real estate-themed Hong Kong soap opera, and has been known to
pick fights with other commentators, whom he says suffer from a
“lack of emotion.” He has posted at least one picture of cats,
and multiple pictures of himself wearing sunglasses to help
illustrate his opinions.  ‘Eccentric Behavior’  In 2009, the state-run newspaper  China Daily  listed him,
under his alias, among the 10 people in the nation with the most
influence on China’s stock market.  “Back then,” Hu says of 2008, “any eccentric behavior
would attract people’s attention. If you understood this vital
point, you could control people’s minds.”  Hu grew up in Kunming, a southwestern city of 6.4 million
that’s far from China’s centers of finance. He learned about the
stock market by watching his mother invest in her spare time, he
says. She put money into the market in the 1990s, early days for
Chinese investment, and lost it all. “Now she invests her money
in gold,” Hu says.  He started at Kunming University, intending to study
philosophy and Marxism, however quit, thinking he would take up
investing himself.  “I was interested in psychology,” he says. “I wanted to
know why everyone wanted to bet their future on an
uncontrollable thing.”  Commander in Chief  Hu says that in the early days of his blog, his knowledge
of the market was thinner than it is now. He has always, however,
understood his audience and how to keep it interested.  Hu’s approach to his blog is purposefully bombastic,
earning him vocal critics along with followers. In 2009, he got
into a spat with another stock commentator, Hou Ning. Hou, at
least according to Chinese news reports from the time, holds the
record for the longest nickname of any stock commentator in
history: Commander in Chief of the Stock Market Army.  The two made a 1 million yuan ($160,500) bet on the future
of the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , with Hu wagering it would reach
4,000 by the end of the year. It didn’t, and Hu didn’t pay,
though he got what he wanted out of the rivalry.  “Who would have paid attention to me if I had said
3,000?” he asks. “Everyone already knew it would reach
3,000.” In 2010, he promised to throw himself off one of
Shanghai’s tallest buildings if the benchmark Shanghai Composite
didn’t reach 5,800 by the end of the year. It didn’t: Hu is
still with us.  ‘Weather Vane’  Stunts aside, Hu has spent the last four years working
through his thinking on the ups and downs of  China’s economy  in
public, slipping thoughtful essays in between bouts of hyperbole.  He spent his early days predicting the rise of the  Shanghai
Stock Exchange  and now foresees its continuing decline. One
recent headline: “Doomsday Runs Wild, the Stock Market will
likely drop 200 points!!” In another post, he explains that a
drop in the market may not be bad. It could give the authorities
some space to make reforms without worrying about overheating,
and help to attract more foreign investment.  “The stock market is not only an economic weather vane,”
he writes. “It is a political weather vane.”  Hu says he is not a financial rabble-rouser. Most laypeople
should stay away from investing in individual stocks, he says.
The people who read his blog, however, are generally not
professionals; retail investors make up the majority of the
volume of trading in the Chinese market. There are about 72
million retail investors in China, accounting for three-quarters
of the trading on domestic exchanges, according to the China
Securities Regulatory Commission.  Retail Investors  The majority of these investors have less than 1 million
 yuan  in the market, according to China’s state media. It’s a
group of people Hu says he understands well, even if it means
giving sometimes conflicting advice. He may advise them to stay
out of the market, however he knows the irresistible pull of
equities on the newly wealthy, particularly in a country where
there are few opportunities for investment. In effect, he’s
giving advice to people he knows probably shouldn’t be in the
market but are going to invest anyway.  “The stock market in the  United States  is managed by
regulations,” Hu says. “The Chinese market is managed by
humans. Chinese investors aren’t as mature as American investors,
and I write to meet their immediate needs.”  Inside Information  Hu’s interest in the human story behind the market sets him
apart from other bloggers, at least in his eyes. “They regard
their blogs as livelihood, while I take my blog as my friend and
pour my emotions and love into it. The emotion is what connects
me to the readers, they feel more attached to my words.”  The connection is important in part because Chinese
investors have been taught that networking can solve anything,
he says.  Even in the stock market, relationships are the deciding
factor. “When it comes to stock investment, Chinese people
always try to get inside information from someone within their
social network,” he says. “Americans like to read through
financial statements, but Chinese people like to believe that
their stocks go up because they have more inside
information than anyone else.”  Nickname Batman  Today, Hu spends most of his time in Beijing, where he
moved in 2009. On a recent Sunday, he is drinking tea at one of
Beijing’s most expensive hotels, wearing a tie and a tan Calvin
Klein puffy jacket that he does not take off. Instead, he stuffs
his hands in his jacket pockets while he talks, looking exactly
like what he is: a blogger who’s hit it big, though he’s coy
about, financially, how big. His sense of humor is also just
slightly out of step with the tie. When asked about online
nicknames, he says he’s not aware of any and then, unblinking
and serious, says: “I prefer the nickname Batman.”  For all his success, Hu still considers blogging a hobby,
not a career. “Fame is vanity, while investment asks for real
competence,” he says.  He’s now in the process of raising money for a private-
equity fund that, over the next few decades, he hopes to build
into something like  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. He
won’t say how much he’s raised.  Although his blog posts are currently predicting dark times,
Hu has faith that the Chinese market will recover, and he’s
optimistic about the market and the future in general.  “New Chinese leaders are going to take over, which will
offer China economic opportunity in the following 10 years,” he
says. China’s new leader,  Xi Jinping , has promised the country
will push forward with reforms, something that Hu is excited
about.  He’s also upbeat about China’s recent leadership transition.
Political stability, he says, is a market good. “The
opportunity will be mainly in China’s capital market, because
it’s still in an initial stage,” he says. “I need to take
advantage of this initial stage before everyone realizes there’s
a gold mine when the market matures.” 