-- China Urges U.S. to End ‘Political’ Vetting of Its Firms
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-12-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/china-urges-u-s-to-end-political-vetting-of-its-firms.html
China  wants the U.S. to end its
“political background check” of Chinese companies seeking to
do business in America, the nation’s vice premier said as
economic talks between the two nations concluded.  “Our two countries have to strengthen our economic
relationship,” Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said through a
translator at a dinner in his honor yesterday after the annual
U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade meetings in
Washington.  Wang said Chinese companies want to ensure that they
receive fair treatment in the U.S., regardless of their links to
the Communist Party, while acknowledging that checks for
national security concerns should continue. He said U.S.-based
businesses operating in China also want to ensure that they
receive treatment on par with domestic competitors.  Economic tensions between the U.S. and China, the world’s
two largest economies, are high amid trade disputes over solar
cells, clean-energy programs, autos, rare-earth elements and
electronic-payment services. In October, a U.S. House
intelligence committee report accused Chinese phone-equipment
makers Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (763)  of providing
opportunities for the country’s government to spy on the U.S.
industry. Huawei said at the time the report’s outcome was pre-
determined, and ZTE said it was too narrow in scope.  China’s biggest concern in its economic relations with the
U.S. is ensuring that the country receives “fair and equal
treatment,” Chen Deming, the country’s commerce minister, said
at a news conference earlier yesterday.  Intellectual Property  U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk and Acting Commerce
Secretary Rebecca Blank, co-hosts of the economic summit, said
at a separate news conference that the U.S. welcomes foreign
direct investment from China and other nations.  China agreed to increase its enforcement of intellectual
property laws, with an emphasis on ensuring that government-
owned companies use legal versions of software and not pirated
copies, Blank told reporters.  The talks took place after China’s ruling Communist Party
concluded a once-a-decade leadership change and President  Barack Obama  was elected to a second term.  “We’re entering a unique moment in which we can work
together” because of the political situation in both countries,
Blank said.  Wang said at the dinner that recovery from the global
economic crisis is still ongoing, and growth may be sluggish for
the next three to five years.  Duties Raised  The economic discussions were held a day after Blank’s
agency raised import duties on wind towers from Chinese
producers and exporters, increasing tariffs announced earlier
this year for companies including Chengxi Shipyard Co.,  Titan
Wind Energy Suzhou Co. (002531)  and the Chinese unit of CS Wind Corp.,
based in South Korea.  A U.S. industry complaint last year triggered the
department’s action, the latest example of a dispute between the
U.S. and China over government support for clean energy.  Kirk said the talks this week are important to improving
trade relations between the two nations.  “When we solve problems, that’s what leads to this
explosive growth in our trade,” he said at the dinner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  