-- China’s Coal Imports Poised to Jump as Coke Export Tax Scrapped
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-20T03:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/china-s-coal-imports-poised-to-jump-as-coke-export-tax-scrapped.html
The “silent” removal of a 40
percent tax on  China ’s coke exports, coming after the  World
Trade Organization  ruled against the practice, will drive up
production and boost the nation’s coal imports, analysts said.  Exports of coke, used to make steel in blast furnaces, will
jump next year, leading to more demand for the coal used to make
the product in coking ovens in China, UOB Kay-Hian Ltd. analyst
 Helen Lau  and researcher Custeel.com’s Mu Wenxin said.  China’s coke exports plunged to about 1 million metric tons
this year amid the curbs, from an annual average of 15 million
tons between 2000 and 2007. Should exports rebound to that
average, demand for coking coal may rise by 20 million tons,
benefiting suppliers including  Mongolian Mining Corp. (975)  and
 Winsway Coking Coal Holding Ltd. (1733) , Lau said.  China didn’t include coke on the official list of export
taxes for next year  announced  this week by the Ministry of
Finance. Three calls by  Bloomberg News  to the ministry’s press
office for comment on the removal weren’t answered.  “The tax was removed silently because the nation doesn’t
encourage exports of resources,” Mu said, citing his talks with
government agencies on the issue.  The export taxes prompted complaints from the U.S. and the
European Union. The WTO on Jan. 30 rejected China’s appeal of a
ruling that found restrictions on exports of nine raw materials
including coke, zinc and bauxite break trade rules and give the
country’s manufacturers an unfair edge over competitors.  Who Benefits  “Coking coal producers in Mongolia and China itself are
likely to benefit more than the Australian and U.S. exporters
from the tax removal, because those mines are closer to coking
ovens in inland provinces like Shanxi and  Inner Mongolia ,” Lau
said by phone.  Mongolia Mining, also known as MMC, traded 1.3 percent
lower at HK$3.71 at 11:26 a.m. in  Hong Kong  today. Winsway,
which processes and moves coal to China from Mongolia, fell 1.5
percent to HK$1.28. The price of coke shipped from China’s
Tianjin port may drop to $285 a ton from the current $401,
making it affordable for Japanese users, Lau estimated.  China, which began limiting coke shipments in 2004, also
has an export-license and quota system to help safeguard
supplies for its domestic steelmakers and protect the
environment. Coke is made from coking coal in a process that
releases chemicals including benzopyrene, which can cause
cancer. The nation may also scrap the export quota starting from
next year, Custeel’s Mu said.  China’s coke exports plunged 70 percent to 960,000 metric
tons in the first 11 months of this year from a year earlier,
according to the General Customs bureau.  Coking coal imports 
totaled 40.2 million tons in the first 10 months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  