-- China Leading Indicator Signals Fragile Rebound Heading Into ’13
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-20T02:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/china-leading-indicator-signals-fragile-rebound-heading-into-13.html
A leading index for  China’s economy 
rose at a slower pace in November, signaling limits on a  growth 
rebound in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The gauge rose 1.1 percent from October to 248.5, the
Conference Board, a New York-based research group, said in a
statement today, citing a preliminary reading. That compared
with a revised 1.6 percent gain the previous month.  A sustained pickup in growth may give more room for a new
Communist Party leadership headed by  Xi Jinping  to step up
market-driven changes to boost domestic demand and reduce the
economy’s reliance on exports and investment spending. China’s
industrial production and retail sales rose last month at the
fastest pace since March, boosting the recovery from a seven-
quarter slowdown.  “The sustainability of a broad based economic rebound
still appears fragile heading into 2013,” said  Andrew Polk, an
economist with the Conference Board in Beijing.  China’s gross domestic product growth decelerated to 7.4
percent in the July-September period from a year earlier. GDP
may expand 7.8 percent in the three months through December,
based on the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News Dec. 13-18.  First published in May 2010, the Conference Board’s Leading
Economic Index has successfully captured turning points in
 China ’s economic cycles if plotted back to 1986, according to
the group.  The index’s components, which include loans, a gauge of
raw-material supplies, export orders, consumer expectations and
floor space started, use data from the central bank and the
National Bureau of Statistics.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  