-- Clinton Pulled Into Benghazi Debate After Having Low Profile
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-12-20T13:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/clinton-pulled-into-benghazi-debate-after-keeping-low-profile.html
The debate following the deadly
attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,  Libya  unfolded for three
months without entangling Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.  That is likely to change.  An independent panel concluded that Clinton’s State
Department showed “a lack of proactive leadership and
management ability” leading up to the Sept. 11 attack that
killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.  Republicans on  Capitol Hill  demanded yesterday that
Clinton, who has been mostly silent publicly about Benghazi,
testify and answer what Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of
the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, called
“the hard questions” about security failures preceding the
attack.  Clinton intends to testify to Congress next month, Senate
Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts
Democrat who may be nominated as the departing Clinton’s
successor, said today at a hearing on the report.  In letters transmitting the panel’s report to Congress on
Dec. 18, Clinton said she took responsibility for the safety of
every State Department employee without acknowledging personal
blame for any lapses and without assigning it to any other
official.  “You can’t say that everyone is responsible, therefore no
one is responsible,” Rogers of Michigan said in a telephone
interview.  Official Resigns  Last night, the State Department said that an assistant
secretary in charge of diplomatic security resigned and three
other officials were placed on administrative leave “pending
further action” after the review panel cited them as partly
responsible for lax security at the Benghazi mission.  The department accepted the resignation of Eric Boswell,
the assistant secretary for diplomatic security, effective
immediately, spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in a statement.
The other three officials, whom she didn’t name, have been
relieved of their current duties, she said.  The leaders of the panel that reviewed the attack, former
Ambassador Thomas Pickering and retired Admiral  Michael Mullen ,
the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a
briefing yesterday that in their view, the responsibility inside
the department rested at the assistant secretary of state level.
Mullen said it is “not reasonable” to conclude that Clinton
had “a specific level of knowledge” about the lapses before
the attack.  Presidential Contender  The pressure comes as Clinton prepares to leave the
nation’s top diplomatic post at the start of President  Barack Obama ’s second term. It raises the prospect that the attack will
become a blemish on the resume of a popular secretary of state
who may be Democrats’ strongest presidential contender for 2016
should she decide to run.  A State Department spokesman didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Obama, who didn’t comment on the report, praised Clinton at
a State Department holiday reception last night as “tireless
and extraordinary.”  He added, “We can’t wait to have her
back.”  Clinton has been recovering at home this week after
developing a stomach virus that left her severely dehydrated,
causing her to faint and suffer a concussion, according to the
State Department.  Asked for one word to describe Clinton’s public dealings
with the Benghazi issue before yesterday, Stephen J. Wayne, a
Georgetown University professor and scholar of the American
presidency, concluded, “I would say, ’Distance.’”  Rice’s Comments  U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice , rather
than Clinton. gave the administration’s initial public account
of the attack -- and paid the price politically after a revision
of the intelligence community’s assessment that led her to say
the attack grew out of a “spontaneous” protest. Rice spoke on
Sunday television news programs after the secretary had just
returned from exhausting foreign travel.  Rice withdrew from consideration as a possible successor to
Clinton amid Republican criticism of the account she gave.  In October, Clinton said “I take responsibility” for her
department’s performance in Benghazi without offering specifics,
pending completion of the review. Today, Deputy Secretaries
 William Burns  and Thomas Nides are testifying before
congressional committees today in her place because of her
illness, the State Department announced.  ‘Very Effective’  “It’s imperative that she testify in an open setting prior
to a change in regime,” Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , who is
in line to become the top Republican on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee in January, said yesterday after a
classified, closed-door briefing on the review board’s findings.  Senator  Richard Burr , a North Carolina Republican, said
Congress should look at “what involvement Secretary Clinton had
in the decisions, what kind of review process did they go
through.”  Senator  John Thune  of  South Dakota , the third-ranking
Republican leader in the chamber, said Clinton has “been viewed
as a very effective secretary of state, by and large, but
certainly wouldn’t want to go out without bringing closure to
this chapter of her tenure.”  One question is whether Americans would expect Clinton to
be engaged in department issues such as security and staffing
that would have affected the Benghazi mission’s vulnerability to
attack.  Not ‘Hands-On’  “My sense of Mrs. Clinton’s position as secretary of state
is, she’s been a very effective out-front person and diplomat as
opposed to a hands-on manager of the State Department,” said
Wayne, the scholar at Georgetown in  Washington .  “I don’t view this is as a skillful attempt to evade her
responsibility because it’s going to come out in 2016 -- I just
don’t see that,” he said.  Jamie Chandler, a political scientist at  Hunter College  in
 New York , said Clinton has “definitely been hands-off on a
public sense.”  “She was not out in front in the initial phase,” he said.
“Look at Susan Rice’s role. It really should have been  Hillary
Clinton  out there speaking.”  Chandler said it’s not clear to him whether Clinton held
back to protect her own image or at the administration’s
request.  ‘Ultimate Responsibility’  “The ultimate responsibility for how the State Department
manages itself rests with the secretary of state,” he said. At
the same time, “I don’t think four years from now the public is
really going to be remembering this so much. The immediate-term
impact is on the president being able to push his agenda next
year.”  The report of the panel led by Pickering and Mullen faults
the State Department for producing a “security posture that was
inadequate for Benghazi and grossly inadequate to deal with the
attack that took place.”  In her letters to the chairmen of the House and Senate
foreign relations committees accompanying a classified version
of the report, Clinton used the words “responsible” or
“responsibility” 11 times without directly taking any share of
responsibility for what happened or for failings at that led up
to the tragedy.  Aaron David Miller  of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, a Washington policy group, said now that
the panel has released its findings, Clinton may seek to
publicly clarify her view of her role and responsibility.  “I don’t think anyone really has a good sense of how this
is going to play” until the panel’s report is absorbed and
hearings are held, he said.  “I don’t think it’s necessary for her to do anything right
now other than to let this play out,” Miller said. “I don’t
see this as any willful effort to evade anything. I think it’s a
careful deliberative effort to watch how things play out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  