-- Colombia GDP Grows at Slowest Pace Since 2008 on Building
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-12-20T16:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/colombia-gdp-grows-at-slowest-pace-since-2008-on-building-1-.html
Colombia’s economy expanded at its
slowest pace since 2008 in the third quarter from the year
earlier, as construction activity slumped.  Growth eased to 2.1 percent from 4.9 percent in the
previous three months, the national statistics agency said
today. The growth rate was the slowest in the Andean region, and
trailed all 28 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey, whose median
estimate was for growth of 3.9 percent.  Colombia’s central bank has cut interest rates at three of
its last five policy meetings to try to shore up growth amid the
weakening global economy. Policy makers will hold the benchmark
rate at 4.5 percent at their board meeting tomorrow, according
to 28 of 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, while three analysts
predict another quarter point cut.  “It was a big surprise, we weren’t expecting anything
close to that number,” said Rafael Neira, a financial risk
analyst with GNB Sudameris, in a telephone interview from
Bogota. “Tomorrow, in the board’s meeting for the policy rate,
there will surely be a discussion about this GDP number and
about the economy cooling. There will likely be a couple of
votes in favor of a cut.”  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
securities due in July 2024 fell 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 5.84 percent at 11:17 a.m. in Bogota,
according to the central bank.  Quarterly Contraction  Today’s report also showed that gross domestic product
contracted 0.7 percent from the previous quarter, when it grew
1.6 percent. From last year, construction contracted 12.3
percent.  The economy has the potential to grow between 4.2 percent
and 5.3 percent without fueling inflation, central bank Governor
Jose Dario Uribe said in a Dec. 13 interview.  With little risk of inflation taking off, the central bank
should try to ensure that the economy expands at an annual rate
of between 4.8 percent and 5 percent, central bank co-director
Carlos Gustavo Cano said in a Dec. 7 interview. Colombia is the
only major economy in the Americas apart from  Brazil  to have
lowered borrowing costs in the past six months.  Annual inflation slowed to 2.77 percent in November, its
lowest rate since 2010, and three measures of  “core
inflation” tracked by the central bank also eased. Colombia
targets price growth of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage
point.  Industrial output grew 1.2 percent in October from a year
earlier, after contracting in August and September, according to
a statistics agency report published yesterday. Manufacturers
have been hit by the weak world economy, and by a 8.3 percent
rally in the peso this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 