-- Connecticut Lawmakers Lost Nerve on Ban When Gun Lobby Mobilized
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-12-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/connecticut-lawmakers-lost-nerve-on-ban-when-gun-lobby-mobilized.html
When 300 opponents showed up at a
 Connecticut  legislative hearing on a ban on high-capacity gun
magazines, Representative Mae Flexer said she got the message.  So did her fellow lawmakers on the Judiciary Committee.
After the packed March 23, 2011, meeting, the committee never
brought the bill up for a vote. One week ago, a gunman used such
magazines to feed bullets into the semiautomatic rifle that
killed 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary in
Newtown, Connecticut.  “I don’t know how any of us will be able to sleep,” said
Flexer, a 32-year-old Democrat on the legislature’s judiciary
committee, which considered the measure. “I’ve been tearing
myself apart over the last couple days about that bill.”  What unfolded last year shows how the  National Rifle
Association  and other gun-rights supporters use their muscle.
Its sudden and swift campaign swayed lawmakers in a place whose
laws are fifth-strictest among states, according to the
Washington-based Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, which
describes itself as the country’s largest gun-control lobby.  Most lawmakers on the joint House-Senate judiciary panel
initially supported the proposal, backing down after thousands
of gun-rights supporters, including NRA members, sent letters,
and opponents swarmed the hearing, said Senator Eric Coleman and
Representative Gerald Fox, the Democratic co-chairmen.  ‘Political Aspirations’  Both Coleman and Fox declined to say which committee
members switched votes after the hearing. Some lawmakers saw
strong turnout from the opposition as a political threat,
Coleman said.  “There was concern that people would be motivated to
organize and campaign against them,” Coleman said. “Some of
them concluded that it wouldn’t have been necessary to take
action on that bill and fight unnecessary opposition to their
political aspirations.”  The shooter at Sandy Hook Elementary, Adam Lanza, 20, used
as his main weapon a Bushmaster AR-15 rifle with magazines
containing 30 bullets, said Connecticut State Police Lieutenant
Paul Vance at a Dec. 16 news conference.  It was the latest mass murder in the U.S. in which the
gunman’s arsenal included a high-capacity magazine.
Connecticut’s bill was written in response to an attack last
year in Tuscon,  Arizona , that killed six and injured U.S.
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords . Jared Lee Loughner was
sentenced to life in prison for the shootings in which he used a
33-round magazine in a Glock 19.  The Connecticut ban would have made it a felony to possess
magazines holding more than 10 bullets and required owners to
surrender them to  law enforcement  or remove them from the state.
Lawmakers say they will reconsider it next year.  Arriving Unready  At least 52 people testified against the bill at the
hearing. Just two spoke in support, including Ron Pinciaro,
director of Connecticut Against Gun Violence. Pinciaro said he
miscalculated the size of the opposition and hadn’t seen a
reason to recruit more supporters to testify. Lawmakers never
held a vote on the legislation, citing a lack of support.  “I got a little bit blindsided,” Pinciaro said. “I have
regrets. A lot of people should have regrets about that time.”  Twenty-eight of the 45 members on the committee didn’t
return phone calls and messages seeking comment, including 15 of
the 18 lawmakers endorsed by the NRA, the Fairfax, Virginia
membership group that describes itself as the nation’s foremost
defender of the Second Amendment right to bear arms.  Some Democrats who at first supported the measure changed
their minds after hearing from opponents, said Senator Edward
Meyer, the Democrat assistant majority leader and member of the
judiciary panel. Meyer said he didn’t know who changed position,
and that the legislation wasn’t a priority for the party, which
controls both chambers.  “The anti-gun supporters underestimated the opposition,”
Meyer said. “It was very effective.”  Another Chance  Informal vote counts showed there wasn’t enough support to
get the measure approved by the committee, Coleman said.  Republican Representative Arthur O’Neill said he was
“dubious” about the bill last year and now believes it
“certainly deserves another hearing.”  “If we had passed that piece of legislation and we hadn’t
had a 30-round magazine, then exactly what happened in Newtown
could not have happened,” O’Neill said. “It might have led to
a lower death toll.”  Representative DebraLee Hovey, a Republican whose district
includes part of Newtown, said she didn’t remember the bill. She
said she may support it now.  “I don’t know why anyone would need massive quantities of
ammunition with the immediacy except for people who are in the
military and public safety,” said Hovey, who was endorsed by
the NRA. It gave her an A- grade.  Stuffed Mailboxes  Opponents sent thousands of letters and e-mails to
lawmakers, said Robert Crook, head of the Hartford-based
Coalition of Connecticut Sportsman, which opposed the bill.
Dozens more opponents submitted written testimony, including
chief executives of gunmakers: James Debney of Springfield,
Massachusetts-based  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC) , and Michael Fifer of Sturm, Ruger & Co., which is in Southport, Connecticut.  Debney, Fifer and others told lawmakers, who faced a $3.2
billion deficit and a 9.1 percent unemployment rate, that the
bill would cost jobs.  “While the Connecticut state budget has the noose around
our necks, you waste time on laws that would affect law-abiding
citizens, not the criminals,” Gina Veser, of Somers, told
lawmakers at the hearing.  Governor Dannel Malloy, a Democrat, said at a Dec. 17 news
conference that he didn’t know about the bill last year.
Malloy’s appointed public safety commissioner, Reuben Bradford,
now supports the ban, said Steven Spellman, Bradford’s chief of
staff.  Trifling Matter  Spellman attended the hearing last year to testify on a
separate issue. The agency didn’t take a position on the
proposed ban.  “It didn’t rise to the level where we allocated resources
to file testimony,” Spellman said.  Opposition was organized by the NRA and pro-gun activists,
including the sportsmen coalition and the Groton-based
Connecticut Citizen’s Defense League. None made extraordinary
efforts to turn out opponents, said Crook and Leonard Benedetto,
vice-president of the defense league.  Andrew Arulanandam, an NRA spokesman, didn’t return
telephone calls or e-mails seeking comment about the group’s
role turning out opponents.  Crook said he sent an e-mail to more than 1,800 members
saying the proposal could “ban your magazines and turn your
guns into paper weights.”  Relenting View  Crook said he will fight the measure again.  “This wasn’t just a technical bill,” Crook said in an
interview. “It was taking something away from someone, and when
you do that, we get very concerned.”  One of those gun owners was Danny Bryant, a 70-year-old
retiree in Cromwell, who opposed the bill because “once they
start taking something away, they keep on taking.”  “Things have changed” after the shootings, Bryant said.
“After what I saw happened, I don’t think those types of guns
and magazines should be allowed anymore.”  Senator Beth Bye, a Democratic member of the judiciary
panel, said she wants to vote on the measure next year.  “This could have made a difference,” Bye said. “There
were certainly some brave teachers there that if he had to keep
reloading, a little break might have been enough to do something
and led to fewer deaths.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Hartford, Connecticut at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  