-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Climbs to an Eight-Month High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-20T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-climbs-to-an-eight-month-high.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
climbed last week to the highest level in eight months as
Americans’ views on the economy improved.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 31.9 in
the period ended Dec. 16, from minus 34.5 in the prior week. The
gauge is within a half point of a four-year high reached in
April. Concerns about the future were evident in the monthly
economic  expectations gauge , also released today, which fell to
zero in December from a nine-month high of 4 in November.  Gains in employment, a rebound in housing that’s boosting
 home equity , and lower gasoline prices are giving households
reason to be upbeat during the holiday-shopping season. At the
same time, an impending rise in taxes and cuts in  government
spending  threaten to set back consumer optimism as the world’s
largest economy enters 2013.  “Consumer sentiment, along with the economy, has
stabilized at low levels likely reflecting improved labor and
housing markets,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York. A decline in after-tax income in 2013
“will likely weigh heavily on consumer sentiment going forward
if policy is not changed.”  Other reports today showed the economy grew more than
previously reported, and applications for jobless benefits rose.
Gross domestic product expanded at a 3.1 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, reflecting the first gain in state and local
government spending in three years, more consumer purchases and
a smaller  trade gap , according to Commerce Department figures.
The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments climbed to 361,000 in the week
ended Dec. 15, the Labor Department reported.  Stocks were little changed after the figures. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbed less than 0.1 percent to 1,436.33 at
9:35 a.m. in  New York .  Comfort Components  All three components of the Bloomberg comfort index gained
last week. The personal finances gauge rose to minus 0.8 from
minus 4.6 the prior week, and the buying climate index climbed
to minus 35.1 from minus 36.2.  The barometer measuring Americans’ views on the state of
the economy advanced to minus 59.8 last week from minus 62.6.
Thirty-three percent of respondents said the economy is in
“poor” shape, the smallest share in almost five years.  The overall index was 13.1 points better than it was during
the same period last year. In 2012, the gauge has averaged minus
38.4 and is on pace for its best annual showing in five years.  CEO Outlook  Scotts Miracle-Gro Co. (SMG) , the largest marketer of branded
lawn-care products, is among companies closely monitoring swings
in the consumers’ moods in this “low-growth environment,”
according to Chief Executive Officer James Hagedorn.  “What we see right now is an extremely fragile consumer,”
Hagedorn said in a Dec. 14 presentation to analysts. “When
things line up right, consumer confidence improves and they open
their wallets.” At the same time, “when consumers get stressed
today, they shut down.”  Today’s figures showed confidence among those earning
$50,000 to $75,000 jumped last week to minus 12.6, a five-year
high, from minus 27.7 the prior week. Sentiment among Americans
with annual income of $100,000 or more climbed to 8.9, remaining
positive for a seventh consecutive week.  Growth in employment is underpinning consumers’ perceptions
that the economy is improving. Payrolls increased by 146,000
workers in November, the most since August.  Housing Recovery  In a sign the housing-market recovery will extend into
2013, the number of building applications issued in November
rose to a four-year high, data showed yesterday. Permits, a
proxy for future construction, climbed 3.6 percent to an 899,000
annual rate, the most since July 2008.  Cheaper fuel also is bringing relief. A gallon of regular
gasoline  dropped  to $3.23 on Dec. 18, the cheapest this year,
figures from the American Automobile Association showed.  Improving confidence bodes well for the holiday season, the
busiest time of the year for retailers.  Retail sales  climbed 0.3
percent in November, with 10 of 13 major categories showing
gains, according to Commerce Department data released Dec. 13.  Today’s report contrasts with some other measures of
confidence. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary consumer  sentiment index  decreased to 74.5 this
month from 82.7 in November, figures showed Dec. 7.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  