-- Newark Mayor Booker Exploring Run for U.S Senate Seat
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-12-21T00:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/cory-booker-chooses-senate-run-over-christie-challenge.html
Cory Booker , mayor of Newark, New
Jersey, and a rising Democratic star, has chosen a 2014  U.S.
Senate  run over a challenge to Governor  Chris Christie .  Booker, 43, said today in a video that he formed a
committee to explore a run for the seat held by Senator  Frank Lautenberg , an 88-year-old Democrat in his fifth term.  “It would be a privilege and honor to continue his legacy
of service,” Booker said in the video posted on his website,
referring to Lautenberg. “There are challenges in our city, in
our state and in our nation.”  Christie, a 50-year-old Republican, is enjoying record
approval ratings for his response to  Hurricane Sandy . Booker,
who spoke at his party’s national convention this year, had led
the field of potential challengers to the governor, and several
Democrats said he was their best hope for ousting Christie. He
would be the state’s first black senator.  “He’d be a great U.S. senator because he’s intelligent and
he really knows how to identify the issues,” said Assemblyman
Al Coutinho, a Democrat from Newark who is close to Booker.
“That’s where his skill set is. That’s where he can best serve
the city of Newark and this state.”  Urgent Issues  In the video, Booker said he wants to “bring urgency” to
fixing public education, legalizing same-sex marriage and
mending an immigration system he said is broken. He also said he
wants to “bring sanity” to U.S. gun laws.  The mayor didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call
seeking comment on his announcement.  Lautenberg has been working on a disaster-relief bill after
Sandy, the worst Atlantic storm on record, hit the New Jersey
coast Oct. 29, costing the state about $36.9 billion, by
Christie’s estimate. The senator also has been “addressing
America’s broken gun laws” after Adam Lanza, 20, slaughtered 27
people, including 20 children and his mother, before killing
himself in a Newtown,  Connecticut , school Dec. 14, according to
a statement issued by Caley Gray, a spokesman for the senator.  “This is not the time for political distractions and the
senator will address politics next year,” Gray said in the
statement.  Newark has received national attention since Booker and
Christie appeared on Oprah Winfrey’s television show in
September 2010 to announce a $100 million donation from Facebook
Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  for improving Newark’s schools.
Winfrey contributed to Booker’s mayoral campaign.  Records Lawsuit  The donation led to a lawsuit against Newark by the
Secondary Parent Council, a group of grandparents and other
caregivers to school-age children, for public records that may
contain information about the gift. Superior Court Judge Rachel
Davidson, sitting in Essex County, yesterday ordered the city to
give 36 e-mails to the group, which was seeking details of the
donation’s terms. The court didn’t set a deadline.  Booker has said the e-mails are of no substance.  Among Wall Streeters who have backed Booker are Pershing
Square Capital Management LP founder  Bill Ackman , retired hedge
fund manager  Julian Robertson  and Omega Advisors Inc.’s  Leon Cooperman .  Cooperman, who lived for 40 years in the Newark suburb of
 Short Hills  and gave more than $5 million to renovate 13 city
parks, said today by e-mail that he resides in  Florida  now and
declined to comment on Booker’s plans.  Fire Rescue  Booker, a  Stanford University  and Yale Law School graduate,
is a frequent Twitter user with 1.3 million followers. He has
sent more than 23,000 messages about everything from responding
to residents’ complaints about garbage to sending inspirational
quotes about being a leader.  He gained national attention for rushing into a burning
building to rescue his next-door neighbor in April, and living
on  food stamps  for a week this month to show the difficulty of
relying on the U.S. supplemental nutrition assistance program.  Now, he’ll have to persuade Lautenberg, who hasn’t said
whether he plans to run again or retire, to step aside.  Lautenberg is “not going away,” said Julie Roginsky, a
Democratic strategist and former aide to Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine . The senator is a tough fighter and, even at his age,
will prove a formidable foe, she said.  Politician’s Peril  “A generation of politicians have forgotten that at their
own peril,” she said before Booker’s announcement.  A November survey from  Quinnipiac University  shows Booker’s
statewide appeal. He would dominate a hypothetical Democratic
primary for governor with 41 percent of the vote, followed by
former acting Governor Richard Codey with 12 percent, according
to the poll. No other candidate topped 4 percent.  Democrats had hoped with Booker in the race against
Christie, the party would rally around a marquee politician who
would head off a competitive primary and provide coattails for
candidates in local races. The governor has said he’ll seek re-
election next year.  Booker trailed Christie by 18 percentage points in a
potential match-up, according to the poll from Quinnipiac in
Hamden, Connecticut. Before Sandy, the governor bested Booker by
4 percentage points in a similar head-to-head survey.  “I am disappointed that Mayor Booker has chosen not to
seek the nomination for  New Jersey  governor,” John Wisniewski,
a Sayreville assemblyman and chairman of the Democratic State
Committee, said in a statement.  Potential Challengers  The poll’s list of potential Democratic challengers also
included Barbara Buono, a senator from Metuchen who was the
first to declare her candidacy; Assembly Majority Leader Louis Greenwald of Cherry Hill; and Wisniewski, who said Dec. 8 that
he won’t run.  Greenwald said in an interview that he’s leaning toward
remaining in the Assembly. Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a
Democrat from West Deptford, said before the mayor’s
announcement that he was considering a run if Booker passed. He
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  Booker said today he plans to consult with Lautenberg in
the process of starting the run.  Lautenberg had retired from politics in 2000 and Democrats
brought him back in 2002 after Democratic U.S. Senator Robert Torricelli abandoned his campaign amid ethics complaints.  If Booker gets the Senate nomination, he’ll win, said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute for New Jersey
Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville.  “We elect Republican governors all the time,” he said.
“We don’t elect Republican U.S. senators.”  Booker, a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University in  England ,
took over in 2006 from former Mayor Sharpe James, a Democrat who
held the office for 20 years. James later went to federal prison
for helping a woman profit off city land deals.  Booker served as co-chairman of the platform committee for
the Democratic National Convention in September. He was the
choice of more than half, 59 percent, of party primary voters to
replace Lautenberg, according to a Nov. 29  survey  released by
Public Policy Polling in Raleigh,  North Carolina . Only 36
percent of that group said Lautenberg should seek re-election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  