-- Cow Vanishes Like Artist Klee in Abstract Show at MoMA
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/cow-vanishes-like-artist-klee-in-abstract-show-at-moma.html
In one series of drawings we can
watch a cow transform -- almost cinematically -- from
recognizable bovine into a purely abstract construction of lines
and rectangular planes. Distilled into the essential forms and
dynamics of its architecture, the animal completely disappears.  The series was created by Dutch artist Theo van Doesburg,
and comes midway through the  Museum of Modern Art ’s mammoth
exhibition “Inventing Abstraction, 1910-1925,” which opens to
the public on Dec. 23.  Also on view: Robert Delaunay’s beautiful, transformative
paintings of “Windows” (1912), in which the French artist,
looking toward the Eiffel Tower, dispensed altogether with
perspectival illusionism. Dividing his rectangle into a flat,
translucent grid of vibrant, layered movements and counter-
movements, he dissolved Renaissance-old notions of near and far,
here and there, three-dimensional space and linear time.  Alongside Robert’s paintings is a rare, lavish grouping of
Sonia Delaunay’s revolutionary advances in abstract painting and
graphic design. These include the first abstract book covers and
the original oil and watercolor studies for “Prose of the
Trans-Siberian and of Little Joan of  France ” by Blaise
Cendrars.  Pure Sensation  Nearby is Kandinsky’s landscape “Impression III” (1911),
the Russian painter’s visual response to Arnold Schoenberg’s
music, piped into MoMA’s galleries. Kandinsky’s landscape is
awash in encroaching flat fields of yellow and black. Pure
sensations are expressed by pure colors.  In the same gallery is Kandinsky’s large masterpiece
“Composition V,” a landscape-based abstraction in which
whiplashing line and untethered color are set free from
recognizable objects.  These pioneering works are the focus of MoMA’s global
exhibition celebrating the centennial of abstraction’s birth.
The show comprises more than 350 works, including paintings,
drawings, prints, books, sculptures, films, photographs,
recordings, musical scores and dance pieces.  Sexualized Flowers  The show is crowded and muddled, notable for its
problematic inclusions and glaring omissions. Whole sections are
devoted to Cubist artists such as Fernand Leger and Cubist
movements such as Futurism, as well as to the Dadaist Duchamp
and to the blown-up, semi-abstract sexualized flowers of Georgia
O’Keeffe.  The Kandinskys are diluted by the mediocre work of Czech
painter Frantisek Kupka, who, it turns out, was neck-and-neck
with Kandinsky, Malevich and the Delaunays in the race toward
abstract art.  Unthinkably,  Paul Klee , the most profound, influential,
poetically rigorous and mercurial abstractionist of the period,
is left out completely. This is like mounting a comprehensive
show about the Italian Renaissance and leaving out Leonardo.  There are high points here, such as a wall of paintings by
Malevich, a collection of works by Jean Arp and Sophie Taeuber-
Arp, the jewel box Delaunay installation and the reconstruction
of Vladimir Tatlin’s large, rotating model for “Monument to the
Third International.”  “Inventing Abstraction” has plenty of variety and scope
to keep viewers engaged during repeat visits. But this is also
its Achilles’ heel.  The interdisciplinary exhibition seems more concerned with
demonstrating abstraction’s diversity and cross-pollination than
establishing the lasting genius of its founders.  It operates more in the margins than at the heart of its
subject.  “Inventing Abstraction, 1910-1225” runs through Apr. 14
at the Museum of  Modern Art , 11 W. 53rd St. Information: +1-212-
708-9400;  http://www.moma.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 