-- Criminal Prosecution of Bank CEOs Sought by Lawmakers After UBS
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-12-20T17:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/criminal-prosecution-of-bank-ceos-sought-by-lawmakers-after-ubs.html
Senior U.S. lawmakers from both
parties are seeking more criminal prosecutions for executives
tied to financial-industry wrongdoing as the government reaches
billion-dollar settlements with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat and
co-writer of the 2010 regulation overhaul that bears his name,
said in a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder this week
that the Justice Department must increase prosecution of
individuals to ensure the “integrity of our financial system.”  “If you don’t have some CEO sitting in prison it doesn’t
send any signals,” Senator Charles Grassley of  Iowa  told Lee Pacchia in an interview for a “Behind the Headlines” episode
on Bloomberg Law Multimedia. “It sends the signal that it’s
business as usual and with serious crimes like this you can’t
have business as usual. You’ve got to have prosecution and there
hasn’t been prosecution.”  Grassley, the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, said the $1.92 billion HSBC agreed to pay last week
to settle U.S. money-laundering probes was merely a “spit in
the ocean” for  Europe ’s biggest bank. His comments came after
UBS agreed yesterday to pay $1.5 billion over claims that the
bank tried to rig global interest rates in a case that involved
criminal charges against two traders.  The UBS settlement is the second in the investigation of
attempts to manipulate interest-rate benchmarks including the
London interbank offered rate after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to pay
290 million pounds in June. Regulators have sought information
from more than a dozen banks that set rates in the U.S., Europe
and  Japan  that underpin more than $300 trillion in contracts.  Justice Consultations  The letter to Holder from Frank, who is retiring from
Congress two years after passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, called
on the Justice Department and bank regulators to begin a series
of consultations with the goal of increasing prosecutions. The
letter, dated Dec. 18, didn’t mention UBS or HSBC.  “It is, of course, the case that no corporation can have
engaged in wrongdoing without the active decision of individual
officers of that entity,” he wrote. “I believe it is also the
case that prosecuting individuals has more of a deterrent effect
than prosecuting corporations.”  Civil penalties for banks are minor compared to the
institutions’ earnings or even what they made as a result of the
wrongdoing, Grassley said in the Bloomberg Law interview.  “So why no criminal prosecutions ever?” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  