-- Croatian GDP Declines for 4th Quarter on Consumption
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-12-20T10:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/croatian-gdp-declines-for-4th-quarter-on-consumption.html
Croatia’s economy contracted for a
fourth quarter as personal consumption, investment and
industrial production declined amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Gross domestic product fell 1.9 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the  statistics office  in Zagreb
said today, matching its preliminary estimate. GDP declined 2.2
percent from the three months through June.  “Personal consumption continues to decline as a result of
growing unemployment and increased caution by consumers,” Alen
Kovac, a chief economist at Erste Banka d.d. in Zagreb, a unit
of  Austria ’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , said by e-mail before the
report.  The Adriatic Sea nation, which is set to become the
European Union’s 28th member in July 2013, is struggling to
emerge from a renewed recession. Industrial output declined 5.8
percent in October from a year ago, after falling 7.7 percent in
September. Retail trade contracted 6 percent in October.  The Finance Ministry yesterday reduced its 2012 economic
forecast for a contraction of as deep as 2 percent, compared to
a Nov. 19 prediction of a 1.1 percent decline, citing a fall in
public and personal consumption.  Production Drop  “Industrial production also continues to slide and public
investment has not materialized, so we expect this trend to
continue in the fourth quarter,” Kovac said. He predicts the
economy will decline 2 percent for the whole year.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Nov. 13 said  Croatia ’s
economy will shrink 1.5 percent this year, urging the government
to remove barriers to investment and employment in order to
return to growth in 2013. The European Commission said on Nov. 7
the economy will contract 1.9 percent in 2012.  Standard & Poor’s  on Dec. 14 cut Croatia’s sovereign debt
rating to junk, saying the  government ’s structural and fiscal
overhaul isn’t enough to spur growth and render public finances
sustainable. S&P said the economy will contract 2 percent this
year and stagnate in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  