-- Cyprus Debt Writedowns Would Hit Banks Hard, IIF’s Tran Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-12-20T17:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/cyprus-debt-writedowns-would-hit-banks-hard-iif-s-tran-says.html
Writedowns on Cypriot government
debt like those forced on Greek bondholders would leave banks in
Cyprus “decimated” and make it harder for other euro-area
nations to borrow, said Hung Tran, first deputy managing
director of the  Institute of International Finance .  “Economic dislocations would be severe and the cure might
end up being worse than the disease,” Tran said in a telephone
interview today.  Germany ’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported today
that the  International Monetary Fund  is pushing for debt
writedowns as a condition of any rescue package for Cyprus.  The Washington-based IIF coordinated the private-sector
process that shaved more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion)
off  Greece ’s debt earlier this year. European Union leaders have
said Greece was a special case that required an “exceptional
and unique solution.”  “If the leaders agree Cyprus should go through the PSI
exercise, that would be undermining their own credibility and
clearly raise the credit risk on other program countries in the
euro area,” Tran said.  Cypriot banks, already reeling from the effects of the
Greek writedown, hold most of the nation’s 15 billion euros in
central government debt, and the island’s banking system would
be “decimated” by moves to restructure that debt, Tran said.
Cypriot banks lost more than 4 billion euros in Greece’s debt
restructuring.  Cyprus has been bogged down in negotiations with the IMF
and European authorities since June, when it became the fifth
euro-area nation to request assistance. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said on Dec. 14 that finding a solution for Cyprus is a top
priority for him because the situation is “more serious than
Greece” and needs immediate attention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  