-- Czech Cabinet Risks Collapse After Pary Pulls Out
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-12-21T14:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/czech-government-risks-collapse-after-party-pulls-out.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas’s
junior partner said it will quit the coalition by Jan. 10 after
its leader was dismissed as defense minister, threatening to
topple his government.  “This is the factual end of the government,” Deputy
Premier Karolina Peake, head of the LIDEM party, said on Czech
Television yesterday after Necas ordered her removal just eight
days into the job. Peake made “unreasonable” personnel changes
at the ministry, Necas told reporters in  Prague .  Peake’s tiny LIDEM party had provided vital support to the
Cabinet in the 200-seat parliament, where Necas is struggling to
muster a ruling majority. The premier, who’s raised taxes and
cut investment to meet European Union deficit goals, is trying
to avoid the fate of leaders from  Spain  to  Romania  who were
ousted from power after imposing austerity measures.  Peake, 37, removed a group of top officials from the
Defense Ministry after she had publicly pledged not to make any
major personnel changes. The move was criticized by Necas and
President Vaclav Klaus, who removed her from the post yesterday
after being asked to do so by the prime minister.  Men’s Game  “If some men thought that some other men will oversee the
new girl at the ministry, and I didn’t act according to their
plans, then they should have told me about that beforehand,”
Peake, who had headed the government’s anti-corruption drive
before becoming defense minister, said on Czech Television.  Necas said he lost trust in Peake at the top defense job
after her personnel moves, even as he offered to keep her on as
deputy premier. In a news conference preceding Peake’s briefing
with reporters, Necas called on LIDEM to act in a “politically
responsible way.” His term ends in 2014.  Necas, speaking to reporters in Prague today, said he’s
ready for talks with LIDEM on the future of the coalition and
he’d like to see the formation continue to exist. Klaus asked
the premier to temporarily take over the  Defense Ministry  before
a replacement is found.  Peake declined to say whether LIDEM will oppose the
government in the event of a confidence vote. She said LIDEM
expects to join the opposition.  Lubomir Zaoralek, deputy head of the opposition Social
Democrats, called on Necas to step down. The premier “failed”
by appointing Peake who was “unprepared” for the defense job,
Zaoralek told reporters in Prague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  