-- Det Norske Veritas, Germanischer Lloyd to Merge Amid Fuel Boom
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-12-20T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/det-norske-veritas-germanischer-lloyd-to-merge-amid-fuel-boom.html
Det Norske Veritas and Germanischer
Lloyd AG will merge to create the third-largest certification,
inspection and testing business for industries such as shipping,
oil and gas, and renewable energy as fuel developments boom.  DNV GL Group targets 2013 sales of about 20 billion kroner
($3.6 billion), an increase of as much as 10 percent from the
companies’ combined sales this year, DNV Chief Executive Officer
for Maritime and Oil & Gas Remi Eriksen said in an interview.
The combined group is expected to raise sales at the same rate
through 2015 on growing spending by fuel developers, he said.  Henrik Madsen will be CEO of the merged group, DNV told
reporters today. The company will be based in Hoevik near Oslo
and held 63.5 percent by the DNV foundation and 36.5 percent by
Mayfair Asset Management, the respective owners of DNV and GL.  Demand for their services has grown after accidents like BP
Plc’s Macondo well explosion in the  Gulf of Mexico  brought
stricter safety rules in the oil industry, and as resources
become harder to retrieve. Exploration and production companies’
spending will grow 7 percent to a record $644 billion in 2013 on
high  oil prices ,  Barclays Capital  said in a Dec. 4 note.  Oil-company spending may climb as much as 9 percent a year
in the next five years, Oslo-based consultant Rystad Energy
said. “Replacing falling production will require more and more
effort,” said Partner Per Magnus Nysveen. “A lot of the new
production is based on unconventional recovery and deep water.”  Merger Effective  The merger may be effective by the second quarter, Eriksen
said, and have about 17,000 workers in more than 100 countries.  It will create the third-largest certification, inspection
and testing operation after those of SGS SA-REG and Bureau
Veritas SA, according to a DNV presentation.  “On the oil and gas side, we have an ambition of more than
15 percent growth over the next five years,” Eriksen said.
“Fields that are being developed today are more demanding, from
deeper water and with more complicated reservoirs, so more
costly. Then we have unconventional resources, which are complex
and technologically demanding projects.”  The oil and gas division will make up 35 percent to 40
percent of the company by 2016, up from about 30 percent now,
DNV Chief Financial Officer Thomas Vogth-Eriksen said. While
Maritime services will keep growing, they will make up less than
the current 30 percent of sales in four years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  