-- Deutsche Telekom CEO Rene Obermann to Step Down End 2013
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-12-20T17:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/deutsche-telekom-ceo-rene-obermann-to-step-down-end-of-ne.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  announced the
surprise departure of Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  at
the end of 2013, capping a seven-year tenure at the helm of
 Germany ’s largest telephone company.  Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges, 50, will assume
the additional role of deputy CEO in January and fully take over
from Obermann in 2014, the Bonn-based company said today after a
meeting of its supervisory board. Obermann, 49, requested to
step aside so he can return to entrepreneurial pursuits, the
company said.  The decision came less than three months after Deutsche
Telekom agreed to merge  T-Mobile USA , a unit Obermann previously
oversaw, with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  In Europe, a three-
year debt crisis has left Deutsche Telekom struggling to return
revenue to growth and this month forced the carrier to follow
peers such as  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  France Telecom  SA to cut its
dividend.  “At some point, you have to let go: It’s part of the
cultural change at this company that such a process is not
carried out with a great splash but rather in an orderly
manner,” Obermann said on a conference call. “I’m not sick of
my job, I still got a year here and you can only do that if
you’re fully committed to the job.”  Worst Performers  Deutsche Telekom shares gained 0.5 percent to close at 8.63
euros in  Frankfurt . They have lost 2.7 percent this year and
fallen about a third since Obermann took over from Kai-Uwe Ricke
in November 2006. The company, whose  biggest shareholder  is the
German government with a 32 percent stake, has a market value of
37.3 billion euros ($49.4 billion).  Telecommunications stocks were the  worst-performing
industry  group in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index this year. Phone
companies have to spend billions of dollars to upgrade networks
while regulations in the region make it more difficult for
carriers make money from users of smartphones and Internet
services.  Explaining his decision to the supervisory board today,
Obermann cited his frustration with efforts to get regulators to
rethink the rules for the industry, said a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be named because the meeting was
private.  Hoettges’ Role  By the time Obermann departs, he will have been with the
Deutsche Telekom for 16 years, 11 of those as a management board
member. The change will allow Obermann, whose current contract
runs out in 2016, to “move closer to operational activities
than would otherwise be possible for the CEO of an international
corporate group and take on even more entrepreneurial
activities,” Deutsche Telekom said.  Hoettges has been with Deutsche Telekom since 2000 and was
credited for halting a slide in market share for the Internet
business as head of the German fixed-line division.  He became the CFO in March 2009 and in that role, he was
involved in the creation of the U.K. wireless venture with
 France Telecom (FTE) , resolving a shareholders’ dispute over its
Polish unit, and most recently in negotiating a sale of T-Mobile
USA to  AT&T Inc. (T)  -- which was opposed by regulators -- and then
the October merger with MetroPCS.  Obermann and Hoettges pledged this month, at an investor
conference in Bonn, to return Deutsche Telekom to sales and
profit growth by the end of 2014. That plan comes at the cost of
30 billion euros of network spending over the next three years,
and a 29 percent cut in dividend over the period.  In the U.S., T-Mobile wants to return to growth by 2015, a
challenge which will mean outselling  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and
nabbing customers from market leaders  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T.  Cable Rivalry  At home, Deutsche Telekom is trying to defend its fixed-
line market share against cable providers including Liberty
Global Inc.’s Unitymedia KabelBW. The carrier this week
submitted a plan to Germany’s network regulator that would allow
it to speed up existing lines and trim the pace of costly
optical-fiber construction.  “I’m surprised as Obermann presented the company’s
strategy on Dec. 6 and he’s now preparing to exit the company,”
said Frederic Boulan, a London-based analyst at Nomura
International. “But at the same time he’s been at the company
for a long time and managing Deutsche Telekom is a tiring and
demanding job. It will be a very smooth transition and I don’t
think the overall strategy will change.”  ABC Telecom  Obermann joined Deutsche Telekom in 1998 and became a board
member as well as head of T-Mobile in 2002. While he built the
U.S. mobile division into Deutsche Telekom’s fastest-growing
unit in the early years by offering e-mail devices such as the
BlackBerry, the division is now struggling to halt customer
losses to AT&T and Verizon Wireless.  Obermann’s career began when he co-founded ABC Telekom, a
retailer of answering and fax machines, as a 23-year-old student
at the University of Muenster in Germany. He ran the company
from his apartment and later rented a 60-square-meter office
with a double garage. At the time, ABC had several retail
outlets and about 20 franchise retailers.  Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa (13)  Ltd.
bought ABC in 1991, after the company had grown to 20 million
deutsche marks ($13 million) in annual revenue and 60 employees.  “The German business back then wasn’t that big and
glamorous, but he was a real fighter,” Canning Fok, Hutchison’s
managing director since 1993, said of Obermann in a 2005
interview.  When Obermann took over as Deutsche Telekom chief in 2006
at age 43, he was the youngest among the 30 CEOs of companies on
Germany’s benchmark DAX Index. His total compensation last year
was 3.27 million euros, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “I want to be closer to the basics, closer to the engine
room, if you will,” Obermann told reporters today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  