-- Dexia Winding-Down Set for EU Approval Dec. 28, Almunia Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-20T14:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/dexia-winding-down-belfius-restructuring-to-be-approved-by-eu.html
The plan by  France  and Belgium to
wind down most of  Dexia SA (DEXB) , which has received two government
rescues, will be approved by European Union regulators on Dec.
28, the EU’s antitrust chief said.  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said Belfius
Bank NV, the nationalized Belgian retail bank, will cut all ties
with the Dexia group as part of the restructuring plan to be
approved next week. Dexia Municipal Agency will be sold to a
consortium and become a lender to French local governments, he
said.  “The orderly resolution plan avoids disorderly liquidation
which would have had  substantial effects  on financial
stability,” Almunia said at a press conference in Brussels
today. “It allows for the controlled winding-down of the
largest bad bank in the EU with assets of over 300 billion euros
($399 billion.)”  Belgium  and France agreed on Nov. 8 on an additional 5.5
billion-euro recapitalization of the bank and will charge the
bank less for its government funding backstops. The bank, whose
shares have lost almost all their value, reported a loss for the
third quarter of 1.23 billion euros. Dexia shareholders meet
tomorrow in Brussels to approve the government transaction.  Moniek Delvou, a spokeswoman for Belfius in Brussels,
declined to comment, saying the bank would wait for the EU’s
decision next week. Representatives of Dexia didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  State Guarantee  Almunia said he would approve a  state guarantee  of 85
billion euros as part of his decision next week. The most
difficult issue was negotiating with the governments and the
management on how Dexia would be split and which parts would be
wound down, he told reporters.  “We could not authorize the granting of 85 billion euros
of state guarantee remunerated at a very low rate for an entity
which would remain on the market,” he said. “This whole
question of the separation between the bad bank and the good
bank gave rise to all sorts of meetings, exchanges of views,
arguments” among regulators, the governments and the group’s
management, he said.  Dexia, which was rescued with taxpayer funds a first time in
2008, said on Dec. 4 that it was in talks to sell its asset-
management business to GCS Capital for an undisclosed sum. The
transaction is one of the last disposals as part of the planned
breakup announced in October 2011 after the lender lost access
to short-term funding. Dexia sold banking units in Turkey and
Luxembourg earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 