-- Dexus Sells U.S. Warehouses for $561 Million as It Exits Market
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-12-20T00:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/dexus-sells-u-s-warehouses-for-561-million-as-it-exits-market.html
Dexus Property Group (DXS)  has agreed to
sell 26 of its U.S. industrial properties for $561 million as it
winds down its business in the country by April.  Dexus sold 25 assets to a group advised by Heitman LLC for
$543 million, a 13 percent premium to book value, the Sydney-
based company said in a statement to the Australian stock
exchange, without identifying the buyer. Dexus also sold an
asset in Ontario,  California , to another buyer at a price that’s
17 percent higher than its book value, it said.  The sale is one of the last steps in Dexus’s exit from the
U.S. as it cements its position as  Australia ’s biggest office
landlord. It’s shifting its focus back home after the National
Pension Service agreed in August to co-invest A$360 million
($377 million) in 13 of its Australian industrial properties.  “Our clear intention is to reinvest the proceeds from this
sale back into our core Australian central business district
office markets,” Darren Steinberg, chief executive officer of
Dexus, said in the filing. “We have exposure to a number of
potential acquisitions but we are also comfortable with a
position of reduced gearing and quality earnings from our
existing Australian portfolio.”  Dexus was in talks to sell the assets to  South Korea ’s
National Pension Service, a person briefed on the transaction
said last week. David Yates, a Sydney-based Dexus spokesman,
declined to comment on the deal.  The company has one remaining U.S. property with 28 tenants
in  Los Angeles  valued at $58 million, it said. The closing of
its U.S. office by April is expected to result in annual savings
of about A$5 million, it said.  Dexus  shares  rose 1.5 percent to A$1.03 as of 10:57 a.m. in
Sydney, bringing this year’s gains to 24 percent.  Dexus will use the proceeds after A$61 million of costs to
pay down debt, reducing the ratio of debt to total assets to 24
percent from 29 percent, it said. The sale will help boost net
tangible assets by 0.8 Australian cents a share, it said.  The company sold 65 industrial properties for $770 million
to Blackstone Group LP in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  