-- Yen, Dollar Advance as U.S. House Delay Boosts Demand
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-12-21T22:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/dollar-is-set-for-second-weekly-loss-versus-euro.html
The yen and the dollar strengthened
as investors sought perceived safety on concern U.S. deficit-
reduction talks will fail to avert the so-called fiscal cliff
that threatens to push the economy into a recession.  The 17-nation euro pared a weekly advance versus the
greenback after House Republican leaders canceled a scheduled
vote on Speaker John Boehner’s plan to allow higher tax rates
for annual incomes above $1 million. The shared currency
declined the most in two weeks as Italian Prime Minister Mario
Monti resigned, clearing the way for elections that will focus
on his crisis-fighting austerity policies. The New Zealand
dollar led declines in higher-yielding currencies.  “Investors are still nervous about the fiscal cliff and
what the outcome will be,” said Brian Daingerfield, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “That the plan couldn’t pass the
house was kind of a reminder to the market that we’re not at a
solution yet.”  The yen strengthened against all its major counterparts,
appreciating 0.6 percent to 111.08 per euro at 5 p.m. New York
time. The dollar added 0.4 percent to $1.3188 per euro. It
weakened 0.2 percent to 84.24 yen.  Futures Bets  Futures traders cuts bets that the euro  will decline 
against the dollar to the least since September 2011, figures
from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. Net shorts
were 9,736 on Dec. 18, compared with net shorts of 31,623 a week
earlier.  Bets the yen  will decline  against dollar decreased from the
most since 2007. Future traders pared net-short yen positions to
89,163 contracts on Dec. 18 from 94,401 the previous week.  The South African rand leads all major currencies this
month against the greenback, appreciating 3.7 percent. The yen
has fallen the most out of 16 counterparts versus the dollar,
decreasing 2.1 percent.  South Korea’s won has appreciated more than all of its
peers versus the dollar this quarter, adding 3.5 percent. The
Norwegian krone has been the second-biggest gainer, increasing
2.7 percent.  The Brazilian real has lost 10.2 percent versus the dollar
in 2012, while the yen has declined 8.7 percent. The Mexican
peso leads all 16 of the dollar’s biggest peers with a gain of
7.8 percent.  Price Swings  Implied volatility, which signals the expected pace of
currency swings, for the currencies of Group of Seven nations
was at 7.79 percent, after reaching 7.09 percent on Dec. 17, its
lowest closing level since July 2007, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  index . Lower volatility makes investments in
currencies with higher benchmark lending rates more attractive
because the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase
profit.  Political leaders in  Washington  are debating how to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff, the more than $600 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect
in January unless Congress acts.  Boehner, an  Ohio  Republican, said in a statement yesterday
his tax measure “did not have sufficient support from our
members to pass.” A House leadership announcement said the
chamber will hold no more votes until after the Christmas
holiday and will return “when needed.”  Budget Talks  The speaker said he will call President  Barack Obama ,
according to Representative Steven LaTourette of Ohio.  Australia ’s currency slid as much as 0.8 percent to the
least since Dec. 3, while New Zealand’s dropped 1.3 percent to
82.27 U.S. cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.9 percent.  “We’ve seen the more sensitive risk currencies get hit,”
Dan Dorrow, head of research in Stamford, Connecticut, at Faros
Trading LLC, said in a telephone interview. “To actually get an
agreement with the Democrats and Obama is going to take more
time and add more uncertainty around the fiscal cliff.”  Ending a 13-month tenure, Monti submitted his resignation
to Italian President Giorgio Napolitano, according to a
statement from the president’s office. Monti stepped down after
lawmakers passed a 2013 budget law. The president has suggested
Feb. 24 as the date for elections.  Italy Watch  “His departure is something that’s going to weigh on the
euro,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain
Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“He’s done a good job as prime minister in terms of trying to
implement austerity measures and get the fiscal house in order
there.”  Even as the U.S. budget talks stall, the yen is still
headed for a weekly decline against most of its 16 major peers.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  yesterday increased its asset-purchase
fund to 76 trillion yen ($900 billion) from 66 trillion yen and
kept its inflation target at 1 percent, while saying it will
discuss “medium- to long-term price stability” at its meeting
in January.  Incoming Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called for
a doubling of the central bank’s inflation goal to 2 percent and
unlimited easing to revive growth.  “Yen selling has been picking up in a short period of
time,” said Yoshitsugu Fujita, assistant vice president of
global markets at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. in New York.
“In the medium term, Abe’s ability to deliver his pledge on
monetary and fiscal stimulus will remain a focus for markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  