-- Dominion, Caiman Form $1.5 Billion Utica Shale Joint Venture
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-12-20T21:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/dominion-caiman-form-1-5-billion-utica-shale-joint-venture-1-.html
Dominion Resources Inc. (D) , owner of
Virginia’s largest utility, and closely held Caiman Energy II
LLC announced a $1.5 billion joint venture to provide pipelines
and processing to natural gas producers in the Utica Shale of
 Ohio  and  Pennsylvania .  Blue Racer Midstream LLC will be an equal partnership
between the two, with Dominion providing assets and Caiman
contributing capital, according to a joint statement today.
 Williams Partners LP (WPZ) , holder of a 48 percent stake in Caiman,
said it will spend $380 million through 2014 on the projects.  The venture combines Caiman’s and Dominion’s previously
announced plans to collect raw gas and extract valuable liquids
such as ethane and propane produced from drilling in the Utica.
Producers aim to replicate the shale-oil bonanzas of North
Dakota’s Bakken formation and the Eagle Ford shale of  Texas .  “The joint venture allows Dominion to capture the value of
our assets in the Utica region,” Dominion Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Farrell said in the statement.  For producers, the joint venture will provide “a smooth
line from the wellhead to sales,” Caiman Chief Executive
Officer Jack Lafield said in an interview.  “You can sit down with a producer and he knows the fees
he’s paying, and the method of getting it from his well to the
cash register is well-defined,” Lafield said.  Ohio Drilling  Williams Partners, controlled by Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
pipeline operator  Williams Cos. (WMB) , agreed to invest as much as
$800 million in Caiman Energy II LLC in July, joining private-
equity firms EnCap Flatrock Midstream of San Antonio and
Highstar Capital of New York.  The joint venture may look to ship gas liquids out of Ohio
on a long-haul pipeline that Williams is developing, Lafield
said.  The project may also help spur drilling in Ohio, since
producers will know they have access to transportation, Billy
Lemmons, managing partner at EnCap Flatrock.  “Sometimes the development kind of lags because of a lack
of infrastructure,” he said in an interview.  EnCap Flatrock’s Fund I has been involved in $3.6 billion
in projects that have closed this year, including the sale of
Caiman Eastern Midstream LLC to Williams for $2.5 billion,
Lemmons said. Some of those projects had funds from other
sources.  Gas Pipelines  Dominion will contribute pipelines that gather gas from
wells, a gas processing plant under construction in West
Virginia and a pipeline linking the plant to Dominion’s gas
network, according to today’s statement from the Richmond,
Virginia-based company.  Dominion rose 0.8 percent to $52.20 at the close in New
York. Williams gained 1 percent to $32.85 and Williams Partners
increased 1.6 percent to $49.33.  UBS AG (UBSN)  served as Dominion’s adviser and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  advised Caiman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  