-- Drought 0ver 62 Percent of Lower 48 States Is Worst Since 1930s
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-12-20T18:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/drought-0ver-62-percent-of-lower-48-states-is-worst-since-1930s.html
The drought that covers almost 62
percent of the contiguous U.S. states is second in size only to
the Dust Bowl of the 1930s and may continue into 2013 in the
southern Great Plains, government climatologists said.  Forecast models suggest an area from parts of western
 Kansas  south into  Texas  and west to New Mexico will probably see
the drought continue until at least March, said David Unger, a
meteorologist at the U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  in College
Park, Maryland.  “The climate models have been quite consistent for below-
normal precipitation amounts,” Unger said today in a conference
call with reporters. He said he wasn’t confident about what will
happen in other parts of the country, though there may be some
relief in the Ohio Valley.  The drought reduced the corn harvest to the smallest in six
years and sent prices up as much as 68 percent since June. The
dry conditions also lowered the waters of the Ohio,  Missouri  and
Mississippi rivers, shrinking shipping channels and crimping the
flow of goods along the nation’s largest inland waterway, which
carries more than 14.5 million tons of agriculture products,
chemicals and coal.  Dryness is expected to persist through March from  Nevada  to
western Missouri and from southern North Dakota to Texas,
according to the prediction center.  Drought Extent  Drought conditions now cover 61.79 percent of the 48
contiguous U.S. states and 51.7 percent of the entire country,
including Puerto Rico, according to the  U.S. Drought Monitor  in
Lincoln, Nebraska.  There is a chance the Ohio River valley will have above-
average levels of rain and snow this winter, alleviating dryness
in the soil before spring arrives, Unger said.  The drought is one of 11 natural disasters that cost more
than $1 billion in 2012, said  Adam Smith , an applied
climatologist at the  National Climatic Data Center  in Asheville,
 North Carolina .  The total cost of the events, which also included  Hurricane
Sandy , will probably exceed the $60 billion caused by 14 such
disasters last year, Smith said. The amount will be released in
early 2013 because the center is reviewing the methodology it
uses to classify the occurrences.  “Sandy and the drought were the two drivers this year,”
Smith said on the conference call.  The worst year since 1980 was 2005, which included
 Hurricane Katrina  and caused about $187.2 billion in 2012
adjusted dollars, he said.  “ Climate change  had a role in these events but it’s too
hard to tell how much it has had,” said Jake Crouch, a
climatologist at the Climatic Data Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  