-- The Fed’s Century of Power Started With a Fateful Meeting
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-20T17:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/the-fed-s-century-of-power-started-with-a-fateful-meeting.html
On Dec. 26, 1912, Representative
Carter Glass visited New Jersey Governor  Woodrow Wilson  at his
home in Princeton. The snows were piled high, and Wilson, the
president-elect, was in bed with a cold.  Although he had canceled other appointments, Wilson
insisted on seeing Glass -- who, he knew, was bringing a
legislative proposal for a new system of coordinating bank
reserves. Then as now, the U.S. had recently experienced a
financial panic, and many argued that the monetary system was
largely to blame.  Unlike every nation in  Europe , the U.S. lacked a central
bank, a legacy of the country’s fierce mistrust of large
financial institutions. Only a week earlier, America’s most
prominent banker, J.P. Morgan, had been hauled before a
congressional committee -- much like the Dimons and Blankfeins
in our time -- and grilled over his supposed control of the
financial system. Suspicion of big banks was especially
prevalent in the rural South and West, as it had been since the
time of President  Andrew Jackson .  Concentrated Power  Glass, who represented a Virginia farm district, was heir
to that mistrust. Reared during Reconstruction, Glass had a
sectional aversion to Wall Street and embraced the Democratic
Party view that banking was too concentrated and too powerful.
Wall Street, begging to differ, favored the creation of a body
that would further concentrate the nation’s credit and make it
available during a crisis.  Each side had a point. Although the Gilded Age had
witnessed ferocious development of railroads and manufacturing,
American banking was still primitive, better suited to the era
of the Pony Express. Put simply, the U.S. had thousands of banks
but no banking system. Rural banks placed their surplus cash
with city banks, and city banks stored their cash in vaults in
 New York . The New York banks, lacking a good alternative, loaned
their money on call to the stock market.  The result was predictable. At the first sign of trouble,
the entire chain buckled. When farmers needed cash, telegraph
wires vibrated with news of rural distress, and city banks
called their loans. Even a whiff of such disquiet in the
hinterland was enough to incite panic in the stock market, whose
own credit was perched on the most precarious link in the chain.
In the Panic of 1907, the banks had gone to Morgan for a rescue,
but the economy was growing beyond the powers of an individual
private banker.  Glass, a pugnacious redhead (and later author of the Glass-
Steagall Act) was intent on ending the practice under which the
country’s cash was deposited with New York bankers. This form of
centralization, popularly (if misleadingly) dubbed the “money
monopoly” or the “money trust,” was his primary villain. As his
train steamed into Princeton -- the track had been cleared by a
horse-drawn plow -- Glass focused on how he could persuade
Wilson to reform the system without establishing a “central
bank.”  Glass was accompanied by H. Parker Willis, a journalist
moonlighting as his legislative aide. The two traveled by
carriage from the station to a little house on Cleveland Lane,
where an aged butler answered their knock and escorted them past
a blazing fire to Wilson’s chamber. The gaunt, square-jawed
Wilson -- not the most robust of men even when in good health --
was propped on pillows.  Receptive Hearing  Wilson had been governor for only two years, previous to
which he had been an eminent scholar and the president of
 Princeton University . He was anything but a financial expert,
and on the campaign trail he had echoed his party’s anti-banking
chorus, declaring, “The money trust is no myth; it is no
imaginary thing.” Like other Americans, Wilson was upset by the
rush of big companies to merge into giant trusts. Financial
conglomerates were the most complex, and thus the most
frightening, of all. Although he and Glass were barely
acquainted, Wilson was a fellow Virginian, and Glass had reason
to expect a receptive hearing.  Wilson’s identification with banking critics was a recent
thing, however, and his views were still evolving. He had, in
fact, been drafted into politics by businessmen who hoped he
might present a moderate, pro-business counterweight to the
Populists, who were then dominant in the  Democratic Party .
Moreover, as the author of a popular history of the U.S., Wilson
had written sympathetically of America’s two earlier, short-
lived central banks. “The supporters of the Second Bank,” Wilson
had written, “were in a measure justified in claiming that for
such a purpose the very government itself had been set up.”  The plan that Glass and Willis presented to Wilson was a
model of decentralization. It envisioned local reserve banks
spread about the country -- perhaps 20 or more. These would each
be entrusted with the cash reserves of the banks in their
territory, and would be expected to lend to them in times of
distress. The reserve banks would report to the U.S. Comptroller
of the Currency, but they would essentially be independent
organs -- owned by private banks and managed by private bankers.  When Wilson’s visitors were done, the president-elect was
silent for a moment. Then he spoke. “It needs a capstone,”
Wilson said -- an “altruistic” body that would sit above the
reserve banks, supervise their activities, and direct policy.
Wilson hadn’t worked out the details, but he sensed that Glass’s
collection of independent banks was inconsistent with the
constitutional premise of checks and balances. No single
official could manage such a vast banking network.  ‘Keep Quiet’  That Glass was unhappy with Wilson’s suggestion may be
deduced from the letter he wrote days later to Willis, in which
he voiced his suspicion that Wilson had been lobbied by bankers
pushing a “dangerous centralization.” Glass was correct;  Wall
Street  had lobbied Wilson. Judging that Wilson might yet bend,
Glass wrote, “We shall have to keep quiet on this point for the
present.”  To this astonishing suggestion that they work around the
designs of the future president, Willis replied, more
thoughtfully, that Wilson’s idea of a “capstone” ultimately
raised “the problem of whether this mechanism should be simply a
mechanism of ‘control’ or ‘oversight’ or whether it shall be an
actual means of doing business.”  Where would the power to set  interest rates , intervene in
markets and affect policy reside -- with the reserve banks or
with the capstone in  Washington ?  In 1912, prejudice against central banks sparked a bitter
legislative debate, which threatened to doom the entire project.
But on Dec. 23, 1913, a year after the two Virginians met,
Glass’s proposal was enacted as the Federal Reserve Act.
Although the Fed was initially hampered by its regional
character, Wilson’s “capstone” -- the Federal Reserve Board --
in time would evolve into a full-blown and forceful central
bank. However, fear of the Fed’s authority would re-emerge in
each generation, often promoted by demagogues and girded by the
most fantastic of conspiracy theories.  A century after that fateful meeting, the power of Glass’s
regional banks has atrophied, while Wilson’s capstone, thanks to
its central structure and authority, has sufficient command of
reserves to backstop the financial system. Its leadership, over
time, has been variously competent or flawed, but at least until
the arrival of the next J.P. Morgan, it is the necessary lender
of last resort.  ( Roger Lowenstein  is the author of “When Genius Failed: The
Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management” and is writing a
book about the origins of the Federal Reserve system. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Roger Lowenstein at
 elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  