-- The Tragic History of Robert Bork’s Last Name
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-12-20T18:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/the-tragic-history-of-robert-bork-s-last-name.html
Robert Bork , who  died yesterday , may
be the only American of the last half-century whose name became
a verb.  Others have offered appreciations and evaluations of his
stellar yet controversial career.  I myself  have  written  many
times  about  the stormy 1987 Senate hearings on his failed
nomination to the Supreme Court, and the egregiousness of much
of the opposition. Whatever one thinks of Bork’s views -- I
disagreed with them, often -- his writing betrayed true craft.
Thus an appropriate tribute might be an appreciation not of the
judge or the scholar, but of the verb that he quite unwillingly
bequeathed to the language.  “To bork” has become firmly embedded in our political
vocabulary. How firmly? So firmly that nobody has to ask what it
means. But if you do, the transitive verb “bork” (lowercase) is
right there in the Oxford English Dictionary: “To defame or
vilify (a person) systematically, esp. in the mass media,
usually with the aim of preventing his or her appointment to
public office; to obstruct or thwart (a person) in this way.”  The Dictionary of American Slang offers a subtly different
definition: “To mount an intense campaign against a political
appointee.” Unlike the OED, it avoids any intimation that the
campaign in question must be aimed at vilification to qualify.
History shows that the OED has the better of the lexicographic
dispute.  Personal Attacks  The OED refers to the word “bork” as “U.S. political slang”
derived from his confirmation hearings. The proceedings swiftly
veered off course from discussion of judicial philosophy to
personal attacks on the nominee. We had been through that sort
of thing before. Thurgood Marshall, 20 years earlier, had it
every bit as bad, if not worse, but his hearings weren’t
televised. Bork’s were -- and if we’d had our wits about us, we
might have stopped the practice then and there.  Actually the nastiness of the hearings shouldn’t have come
as a surprise. Modern confirmation hearings were invented to be
nasty. They didn’t begin until the  Supreme Court   struck down 
school segregation in 1954. After that, the Southern Democrats
who ran the Senate demanded that all future nominees come before
the Judiciary Committee to answer questions about their views.
The questioning was often ugly. Liberals of the day took the
view (correctly, I think) that asking potential justices about
their likely votes violated the constitutional separation of
powers.  Still, it wasn’t Bork’s defeat that led to the creation of
the new verb. Goodness knows, Supreme Court nominees of both
parties had been rejected before. Since World War II,  almost a
quarter  have gone down to defeat or been withdrawn. What was
different was the manner of the attacks.  Television led to grandstanding, both by many of the
senators on both sides, and by activists who filled the screen
with invective. Focus groups were used to aid opponents in
crafting a message for advertisements and talk shows. The result
was predictable. The hearings made wonderful theater, but poor
deliberation. There might have been good reasons to vote against
the nomination, but it was difficult to discern them beneath all
the silliness. Thus was “borking” born.  It has been an equal-opportunity verb. In an analysis a few
years ago, the liberal watchdog group Media Matters,
unsurprisingly but also unconvincingly, offered a more  partisan
etymology : “‘Borking’ is a conservative term popularized in the
late 1980s by the right-wing Wall Street Journal editorial page
in defense of defeated Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork. Since
then, conservatives have pushed the term into the lexicon
whenever a conservative nominee comes under unwelcome scrutiny.”  Fomenting Fear  This bizarre understanding of the word would come as a
surprise to commentators such as  Andrew Sullivan , who in 2010
 referred to  controversy over Elena Kagan, President  Barack Obama ’s second Supreme Court nominee, as “the borking of Kagan.”
The Media Matters approach presupposes that anyone who was upset
about the way Bork was treated must agree with his views. This
is simplistic nonsense. Laurence Tribe, a Harvard law professor
and one of Bork’s principal antagonists at the hearings, later
described efforts by many in the opposition as “attempts to stir
up fear about him as a person, which I tried not to do and
regret that others did.”  Stirring up fear is the point of borking. It personalizes
policy. The nominee is not merely wrong but dangerous; not
merely mistaken but evil. Conservatives still complain about the
borking of their nominees, even of prospective nominees. So do
liberals. The unfortunate result is a long trail of nominees
who, as Jeffrey Rosen  points out , “seem to have measured every
word since law school in an eerily prescient effort to avoid
being Borked.”  Who first used “bork” as a verb? Writing more than a decade
ago in the  New York  Times, legendary wordsmith William Safire
 traced  the earliest use to an article in the Atlanta Journal-
Constitution in August 1987 that referred to “borked” as
“synonymous with ‘maligned.’” Since the article was published
before the hearings began, it’s unlikely that an earlier
citation will turn up. (It’s worth noting, however, that a
column in the  Chicago Tribune  a month later reported that
exhausted journalists adopted “the verb ‘to Bork,’ which is used
to describe one’s tenure on the Bork story, as in ‘I’ve been
Borking for two weeks.’” That usage didn’t last; or, as the OED
would say, is now obs.)  Bork was a brilliant scholar, a successful teacher and a
man of impeccable manners. He wouldn’t have wanted his legacy to
be a controversial verb. On the other hand, Bork himself in
interviews later endorsed the usage. Perhaps he realized that he
was stuck by then with his biography. The OED drolly notes that
Bork was “a judge whose nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court in
1987 was rejected following a large amount of unfavourable
publicity for his allegedly illiberal and extreme views.”  “Unfavorable publicity” -- or “unfavourable” as our British
cousins would have it -- is the principal point. The idea of
borking is to stir up public opposition. And we’re likely to see
a lot of it over the next four years if, as seems likely, Obama
has the opportunity during his second term to appoint one or two
additional justices to the Supreme Court. Given that Obama
already made two appointments during his first term, it can
fairly be said that his choices will shape the interpretation of
the Constitution for decades to come.  It has been 40 years since any president has had the
opportunity to name four new justices to the Supreme Court. Will
conservative activists sit back and allow Obama’s nominees to
waltz home? Of course not. The borking will begin again, in
earnest because, in the end, everybody does it. Public
vilification isn’t really the best way to run democratic debate.
But we’ll keep doing it because the sad lesson of the past
quarter-century is that it works.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 