-- Leading Economic Indicators Index in U.S. Fell 0.2% in November
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2012-12-20T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/leading-economic-indicators-index-in-u-s-fell-0-2-in-november.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
fell in November, pointing to a slowdown in the economy early
next year as companies curb investment and global growth cools.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months dropped 0.2 percent after a revised 0.3
percent gain in October that was larger than initially reported,
the New York-based group said today. The November drop matched
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The threat to the economy from more than $600 billion in
automatic government spending cuts and higher taxes next year
has prompted companies to pare  equipment orders . At the same
time, household purchases are being sustained and cheaper
borrowing costs are boosting housing, helping underpin the
expansion.  “We’re moving sideways in this economy,”  Russell Price ,
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said
before the report. “There’s a lot of uncertainty about the
fiscal cliff. The fourth quarter is likely to be pretty weak.”  Estimates of 48 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a decline of 0.5 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent.  U.S. Economy  In another report today, the Commerce Department said
the  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, more than previously reported. The Labor Department
said the number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments rose for the first time in five
weeks, a sign further improvement in the jobs market depends on
faster economic growth.  Five of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the decrease, led by unemployment claims, stock prices and
factory orders.  “The indicators reflect an economy that remains weak in
the face of strong domestic and international headwinds, as it
faces a looming fiscal cliff,”  Ken Goldstein , an economist at
the Conference Board, said in a statement. “Growth will likely
be slow through the early months of 2013.”  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent after
a 0.1 percent gain in the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the National Bureau of
 Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  Lagging Indicators  The gauge of lagging indicators rose 0.4 percent in
November after a 0.3 advance the prior month.  Earlier this month, a report showed manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted in November for the fourth month in the
last six as factory managers grew more concerned about the
budget impasse. A gauge of new orders dropped to a three-month
low.  Seven of 12 Federal Reserve districts reported “either
slowing or outright contraction in manufacturing,” the central
bank said last month in its Beige Book business survey.  The economic outlook for next year will be influenced by
how lawmakers resolve the budget and chart a course for  deficit
reduction , according to Kurt McNeil, vice president of sales
operations at  General Motors Co. (GM)   General Motors  The last three months of 2012 “will be the ninth
consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in the light
vehicle selling rate even though business sentiment has been
stagnating as the year-end deadline for automatic fiscal
tightening approaches,” McNeil said on a Dec. 3 conference
call. “Exactly how much growth we can expect next year will
depend in part on how Congress and the president resolve the
fiscal cliff issue. I will say that markets and consumers hate
the uncertainty.”  “So an agreement on ways to reduce long-term  federal
budget  deficits could remove an impediment to growth,” McNeil
said. “Until we see some resolution, we’re going to be
conservative and wait to issue a formal sales forecast for
2013.”  Meantime, housing is providing some support for economy,
and home-improvement retailer Lowe’s Cos. is among those who are
optimistic about the recent gains even as the economy faces
hurdles.  “We are encouraged by recent trends in new and existing
home sales and the appreciation in  home prices ,”  Robert Niblock , chairman and chief executive officer at Mooresville,
North Carolina-based Lowe’s, said Dec. 5 at an investor
conference. “However, stagnant employment, low income growth
and the looming fiscal cliff remain as headwind. Therefore, our
outlook assumes modest growth in the home improvement market.”  Housing Starts  A report yesterday from the Commerce Department showed the
average rate of housing starts from September through November
was the strongest since the three months ended August 2008.  The Conference Board in January announced changes in the
components of the leading index, the first such move since 1996.
The group developed its own Leading Credit Index, which
aggregates measures of the yield curve,  interest-rate swaps  and
the Fed’s senior loan officer survey. Other changes include
revamped measures of new orders and consumer expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  