-- Ecuador Central Bank Head Quits After Admitting Fake Diploma
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-12-20T20:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/ecuador-central-bank-head-quits-after-admitting-fake-diploma-1-.html
Ecuador central bank head Pedro Delgado, a cousin of President Rafael Correa, resigned yesterday
after admitting he used a fake college degree to apply to
business school more than two decades ago.  Delgado acknowledged the lie at a news conference
yesterday, saying “I committed an extremely grave error 22
years ago, I made the wrong decision to achieve an academic
objective and I made a mistake that today is costing me
dearly.” Correa on his Twitter account last night said Delgado
used the false degree in economics to apply to the Central
American Institute of Business Administration, or INCAE, which
has campuses in  Nicaragua  and Costa Rica.  It’s been an “extremely hard day,” Correa, 49, who is
running for a second term in February’s national elections, said
on Twitter last night. “He’s done a great harm to the
revolution.”  Correa, a self-declared socialist revolutionary who has
sparred with banks since taking office in 2007, has adopted
policies that are similar to those of Argentine President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner . Both have sought to boost
liquidity and limit capital outflows after defaults limited
access to overseas credit markets.  Correa is expected to name economist Rosa Matilde Guerrero
to replace Delgado, the Wall Street Journal reported today,
citing a person familiar with the leader’s plans.  No Degree  “I presented a document with no value that certified I had
a degree which I didn’t hold,” Delgado said, apologizing to his
family and the Ecuadorean people.  The resignation’s impact on markets will probably be
minimal because Ecuador uses the U.S. dollar as its currency and
has only one international bond, the 9.375 percent note due in
2015, said  Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin America fixed-
income strategy at Jefferies Group Inc. Yields on the bonds fell
22 basis points today, or 0.22 percentage point, to 8.68
percent, the biggest decline since August.  “It’s a dollarized economy, so the role of the central
bank is marginal,” Morden said in a telephone interview from
New York.  Ecuador’s inflation slowed to 4.77 percent in November
after peaking at 6.12 percent in March.  On the resignation of Delgado, who Correa appointed last
year, “you can look at it positively,” Morden said. “At least
if he didn’t have the degree they let him go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 