-- EFG-Hermes Said to Join Credit Suisse in U.A.E. Job Cuts
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-20T13:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/efg-hermes-said-to-join-credit-suisse-in-u-a-e-job-cuts.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (EFGD) , the biggest
publicly traded Arab investment bank, is joining larger banks
such as  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in cutting jobs in the United
Arab Emirates amid a drop in volumes and share sales.  Dubai’s top ranking brokerage is letting at least seven
people go at its U.A.E. brokerage as part of measures to cut
costs, according to three people familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because the plans haven’t been made
public. Seif Fikry, Chief Executive Officer of the lower Gulf
Cooperation Council at EFG-Hermes, declined to comment.  Brokerages in the U.A.E. have been struggling to make ends
meet as Dubai trading volumes remain near a six-year low, with
the number of active businesses slumping to 49 from 98 at the
end of 2008. Nine of the top 10 brokerages by value traded on
the DFM, including EFG’s, posted losses in the third quarter,
according to financial statements on the regulator’s website.
Credit Suisse is cutting its investment banking business in
Dubai to focus on  Qatar  and Saudi Arabia, a person familiar with
the matter said this week.  Dubai’s benchmark DFM General Index, the best-performing
stock market in the Persian Gulf year-to-date, rose 0.6 percent
today to 1,601.39. The index is still 81 percent below a peak of
8,484.63 in 2005. About 149 million shares were traded in Dubai
today, down from a peak of 835 million shares in March.  Al Habtoor Group LLC, controlled by billionaire Khalaf Al Habtoor, this week delayed an initial share sale in Dubai as
trading volumes fail to rebound. Shuaa Securities, the oldest
brokerage in Dubai, is transferring retail clients to another
company as it shutters operations amid losses at its parent
two people familiar with the matter said last week.  Cairo-based EFG-Hermes is also forming a joint venture with
QInvest LLC in which the  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK)  unit will control 60
percent. EFG Brokerage UAE LLC was ranked the top brokerage in
Dubai by value traded in November, according to the Dubai
Financial Market’s website. The brokerage posted a loss of
358,300 dirhams in the quarter ending Sept. 30, after a profit
of around 9,000 dirhams in the year earlier period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  