-- Elliott Offers to Acquire Compuware for $2.3 Billion
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-12-20T21:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/elliott-offers-to-acquire-compuware-for-2-3-billion.html
Compuware Corp. (CPWR)  hired  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Allen & Co. to review the $2.3 billion takeover
bid it received this week by Elliott Management Corp., said
people familiar with situation.  The company also hired  Skadden Arps  Slate Meagher & Flom
LLP as legal adviser on the strategic review, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the decision
hasn’t been made public.  Elliott, the New York-based hedge fund that forced Novell
Inc. to sell itself to Attachmate Corp. last year, offered $11 a
share for Compuware on Dec. 17. The Detroit-based software
company acknowledged the offer in a statement the same day,
saying its board “will review all aspects of the proposal in
consultation with its financial and legal advisers in due
course.”  A spokesman for Goldman Sachs declined to comment.
Representatives for Compuware, Allen & Co. and Skadden Arps
didn’t respond to requests for comment.  In a Dec. 17 letter to Compuware, Elliott said it holds an
8 percent stake in the  software company  whose “execution,
profitability and growth have meaningfully underperformed.”
Elliott said it’s prepared to meet with Compuware immediately to
discuss a transaction and that it is “confident” that it can
obtain financing for the deal.  The  stock , which has climbed 30 percent this year, closed
at $10.85 today in New York, almost unchanged.  Elliott’s Investments  Elliott made an unsolicited $2 billion offer for Novell
Inc. in 2010 after building an 8.5 percent stake in the Linux
software developer. Novell was bought last year by Attachmate
Corp. for $2.2 billion.  More recently, Elliott pressed BMC Software Inc. for
several months to consider a sale, resulting in a $1 billion
share buyback announced Oct. 31.  Sales at Compuware are projected to fall about 2.7 percent
to $982.1 million in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s products include mainframe
applications, collaboration technology, project management
tools, and application performance management services for cloud
and mobile applications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  