-- Emerging Stocks Drop From Eight-Month High on U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-20T22:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/emerging-stocks-drop-from-eight-month-high-on-u-s-budget-talks.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell,
spurring the benchmark index’s retreat from an eight-month high, as
the U.S. budget impasse weighed on the outlook for developing-
nation exports and dragged down technology stocks.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. Ltd. (2330)  slid to a
three-week low, while  NHN Corp. (035420) , South Korea’s biggest Internet
search-engine operator, fell to a 10-month low.  Adani
Enterprises Ltd. (ADE) , India’s biggest coal importer, tumbled 7.1
percent in Mumbai ahead of a share sale by the company’s
founders. LLX Logistica SA led gains in Sao Paulo after reaching
a deal to lease space at its Acu port to Vallourec SA.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed at
1,052.68 in New York, as 405 stocks dropped and 360 gained, and
has risen 15 percent this year. While U.S. stocks rose as House
Speaker John Boehner said he expects to keep working on a budget
plan with President  Barack Obama , concern that the Dec. 31 deadline
is approaching as lawmakers leave Washington for the Christmas
holiday sent developing-nation shares lower.  “The fiscal cliff is front and center and will continue to
remain a principle driver until a deal is secure,” Aryam Vazquez, global emerging markets economist at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in New York, said by phone. “You still have these concerns over
the fiscal cliff, and the market is practically ignoring other
issues.”  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. on average, data
compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  ‘Remain Cautious’  U.S. lawmakers are seeking to avert more than $600 billion
in tax increases and spending cuts set to start on Jan. 1. The
 House of Representatives  will vote today on Speaker  John Boehner ’s Plan B -- tax increases on annual income over $1
million -- and a separate spending-cut bill. The White House has
said it would veto the plan, and Boehner said he expects to keep
working on a budget deal with President Barack Obama, sending
the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index up 0.5 percent.  “The U.S. budget negotiations are on top of everybody’s
mind and that will have a bearing on the near-term outlook for
equities,” Aneesh Srivastava, who oversees $470 million as the
chief investment officer at IDBI Federal Life Insurance Co. in
Mumbai, said by phone. “A deal would definitely be reached. But
until such time, investors are going to remain cautious.”  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, added 0.6
percent to $43.77. The ETF has added 15 percent this year. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, slipped 1.2 percent to 20.03.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index rose 0.5 percent. LLX Logistica, the
Brazilian port operator headed by billionaire  Eike Batista , rose
5.4 percent after agreeing to lease space at its Acu complex to
the local unit of French steel-pipe-maker Vallourec.  Colombia’s  IGBC General Index (IGBC)  dropped 0.5 percent, the most
since Nov. 26. Oil company Petrominerales Ltd. dropped  1.3
percent after announcing a $36.9 million acquisition to expand
into Brazil amid declining production.  Russia, Turkey  Russia’s Micex Index closed at a two-month high as OAO
Novatek, the non-state gas producer, increased 0.5 percent.
Russia’s Energy, Finance and Natural Resources ministries and
the Federal Antimonopoly Service support Novatek’s bid to end
Gazprom’s liquefied natural gas export monopoly, Kommersant
said, citing an unidentified person in the government.  Alarko Holding (ALARK) , a Turkish diversified group of companies,
rose 3.9 percent, the highest close since April 2006. The
company said yesterday its unit Alsim Alarko won a $633 million
contract in Kazakhstan.  The Czech Republic’s PX Index fell 0.7 percent, snapping
the longest rally since 2009. Stocks in Poland’s benchmark gauge
declined 0.5 percent after four days of gains.  The BSE India Sensitive Index slid from a two-week high
amid concern gains may have outpaced the outlook for company
earnings. The rupee weakened against the dollar. Adani posted
the steepest decline in the MSCI developing-nation gauge.  Technology Shares  The MSCI Emerging Markets /Information Technology Index
fell 0.8 percent, the most among the 10 industry groups in the
 emerging-markets  gauge. The broader measure is beating the 14
percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries.
The emerging-markets gauge trades at 12.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with the MSCI World’s 13.9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was narrowed 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 263 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Gold futures fell to the lowest since August after a report
showed the  U.S. economy  grew more than forecast last quarter,
damping expectations that the  Federal Reserve  will expand
monetary stimulus. Initial jobless claims in the U.S. rose for
the first time in five weeks.  Election Victory  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  slid 1.1 percent, leading declines
among major emerging markets. Taiwan Semiconductor, which has
the biggest weighting on the Taiex, retreated 1.3 percent in
Taipei.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  rose 0.3 percent after Park Geun Hye became the first woman to lead the nation. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong
Kong  dropped 0.3 percent while Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite
Index (JCI)  slumped 0.5 percent to its lowest level since Oct. 3.  Dongbu Insurance Co. Ltd. (005830)  surged 6.3 percent in Seoul, its
biggest gain since September 2011 on speculation the industry
will benefit from the election of the ruling party’s Park as
president. Park beat rival Moon Jae In, whose policies may have
dragged on insurers’ earnings.  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. Ltd., South Korea’s
largest builder, jumped 4 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc said
the government is likely to support the economy through the
expansion of public housing.  “While some individual sectors could get a short-term
boost from the elections, the overall reaction is muted,” Chung Yun Sik, chief investment officer for equities at ING Investment
Management Korea Ltd., which oversees about $20 billion, said by
phone today. “There are ongoing concerns over U.S. budget
negotiations and the Kospi at the 2,000 level is prompting some
investors to take profits.”  Regulation Speculation  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.3 percent to its
highest close since Aug. 10, as brokerages rallied on
speculation financial industry reforms and economic growth will
boost profit.  NCsoft Corp. (036570)  led South Korean gamemaker shares lower in
Seoul on speculation the government will continue to regulate
the industry. NCsoft, a producer of online games, slumped 6.1
percent, its steepest drop since Dec. 5. NHN declined 6.3
percent to the lowest price since Feb. 20.  “Investors are betting the current government’s regulatory
pressure on the  game industry  will continue after Park’s
victory,” Choi Hoon, an analyst at KB Investment & Securities
Co., said by phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  