-- BNP to Sell Egyptian Unit to Dubai Bank in $500 Million Deal
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-12-20T12:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/emirates-nbd-to-buy-bnp-paribas-egypt-unit-in-500-million-deal.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s biggest
bank, agreed to sell its Egyptian unit to Dubai-based  Emirates
NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  in a $500 million deal, the second French lender to
dispose of assets in the North African nation this month.  Emirates NBD will buy Paris-based BNP Paribas’ 95.2 percent
stake in BNP Paribas Egypt SAE and offer to acquire the
remaining 4.8 percent stake from minority shareholders at the
same price, the Dubai bank said in a statement to the bourse
today. The deal values the Egyptian unit at $500 million, or 1.6
times its book value at the end of September, it said.  The United Arab Emirates’ largest bank by assets follows
 Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  into Egypt after the Doha-based lender
this month agreed to pay $1.97 billion for  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s
77.2 percent stake in Cairo-based  National Societe Generale Bank
SAE (NSGB) , twice its book value at end-September. Emirates NBD is
expanding abroad to beat slower loan growth at home.  “Emirates NBD is getting into a higher growth market where
loan growth and return on equity are stronger than in the
U.A.E.,” Shabbir Malik, a Dubai-based analyst at Egyptian
investment bank  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , said today by phone.  The takeover of the Cairo-based bank, which owns a network
of 69 branches, should close by the end of March, pending
regulatory approvals, Emirates NBD said. The Dubai lender’s
 shares  rose 0.7 percent to close at 2.85 dirhams in Dubai today,
trimming this year’s drop to 3.1 percent, compared with an 18
percent advance in Dubai’s index.  ‘Growth Market’  Emirates NBD, 56 percent owned by the Dubai government, is
aiming to boost revenue from international operations to 20
percent of the total over the next three to five years, from 5
percent now, Giel-Jan Van Der Tol, the bank’s general manager
for wholesale banking, said in an interview last month.  “ Egypt  is very much a growth market and this bank has been
growing at an average of 15 percent in the last few years,”
Kevin Flannery, Emirates NBD’s general manager international,
said by phone today. “That growth statistic will continue, if
not rise, as things settle in Egypt.”  BNP Paribas Egypt’s 2011 revenue reached 731 million
Egyptian pounds ($119 million) while profit was 222 million
pounds, according to today’s statement. Egyptian bank credit
surged 20 percent in the year to October to 1.15 trillion
pounds, according to central bank data. Annual U.A.E. loan
growth was 2.6 percent in September to 1.1 trillion dirhams
($300 billion), central bank data show.  Asia, Turkey  Qatar National Bank has also outlined growth ambitions to
more than double the ratio of profit it derives from global
operations by 2017 to offset limited retail growth potential in
its domestic market of 1.8 million. The U.A.E. is home to 8.3
million people, compared with Egypt’s 83 million.  U.A.E. credit growth has slowed since the 2008 global
financial crisis triggered a real estate crash and a climb in
bad loans. Emirates NBD was downgraded by one level at Moody’s
Investors Service on Dec. 7 to Baa1, its third-lowest investment
grade, because it hasn’t done enough to address non-performing
loans, which amount to 17.8 percent of the total.  Emirates NBD is keen to expand in the  Middle East , North
Africa, Turkey and Islamic nations in South East  Asia  and south
Asia, Flannery said. It already has retail and investment
banking licenses in  Saudi Arabia , as well as operations in
London and  Singapore , and offices in Qatar, China and  India .
“If the right assets were to come up in Turkey, yes, we would
be looking at Turkey as well,” Flannery said.  Asset Disposals  The opportunity to enter Egypt comes as  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered credit ratings of three French lenders, BNP Paribas
among them, in October on concern it may be hurt by  Europe ’s
protracted economic weakness and a potential housing slump in
France as the euro-zone debt crisis enters its fourth year.  The funding situation at French banks, the biggest foreign
holders of debt in the euro-area’s problem economies including
 Greece , is stabilizing after 1 trillion euros ($1.32 trillion)
in long-term loans by the  European Central Bank . BNP Paribas has
boosted capital with retained earnings and asset disposals.  Emirates NBD will pay for BNP Egypt with its own cash and
doesn’t need to inject new capital into the unit, whose capital
adequacy ratio is about 17 percent, Neeraj Makin, vice president
for strategic acquisitions, said by phone today. The bank had
cash and near cash items of $8.1 billion at the end of
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit Boost  The deal, which boosts assets by as much as 3 percent, will
add about 7 percent to profit and 5 percent to revenue
immediately, Flannery said. Assets of the bank, formed in 2007
when the government ordered the merger of Emirates Bank
International PJSC and  National Bank of Dubai PJSC , were 305
billion dirhams ($83 billion) in the third quarter.  In Egypt, BNP and Emirates NBD plans to cooperate in areas
including trade finance, cash management, and corporate and
investment banking, the Dubai bank said.  BNP Paribas was advised by BNP Paribas Corporate Finance
for this transaction, while Allen & Overy LLP acted as its legal
counsel. Perella Weinberg Partners and HC Securities and
Investment advised Emirates NBD. Emirates NBD also retained
Deloitte LLP to carry out accounting and tax due diligence while
McKinsey & Co helped with commercial due diligence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  