-- Merck Won’t Seek U.S. Approval for Drug After Trial Fails
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-20T21:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/merck-won-t-seek-u-s-approval-for-drug-after-trial-fails.html
Merck (MRK)  & Co. won’t seek U.S.
marketing approval for its good cholesterol drug Tredaptive
after a key study showed it ineffective and potentially harmful.  The therapy, sold in 70 countries, combines the vitamin
niacin and the experimental medicine laropiprant, added to
reduce a face-flushing effect of the drug. Tredaptive was
designed to raise levels of HDL, or “good” cholesterol.  The findings call into question the benefits of raising
good cholesterol, one of the main methods pharmaceutical
companies including  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based Merck are pursuing in their efforts to develop
heart drugs. The pill, which generated less than $20 million in
2012, could have hit sales of $1.1 billion in 2020, said  Tim Anderson , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York. He
removed all sales expectations for the drug from his model.  “There are millions of people taking this drug, niacin,”
said  Steven Nissen , chairman of cardiology at the  Cleveland
Clinic  in  Ohio . “Those people are going to be calling their
doctors today. This result certainly undermines the likelihood
that any benefit from niacin will ultimately be proven.”  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  sells an extended-release form of
niacin called Niaspan, which generates about $900 million a
year, Anderson wrote today in a note. Niaspan failed to prevent
heart attacks and may have boosted stroke risk in a U.S.
government-funded study last year.  In a statement today, Merck said no one should start taking
Tredaptive, though the company stopped short of telling people
not to use it.  Other Approaches  Nissen said he would wait until the full results of the
study were available before recommending any change to how
patients are treated. He also said that other approaches to
raising good cholesterol may still be effective, since they work
differently. He is leading a study of Indianapolis-based Lilly’s
evacetrapib, from a new class of experimental cholesterol
medications that includes Merck’s anacetrapib. The drugs are
designed to boost good cholesterol that sweeps fatty lipids out
of the arteries.  Merck fell 3.4 percent to $42.16 at 4:03 p.m. in  New York 
trading. The shares have gained 14 percent in the past 12
months.  In the study of 25,673 patients, Tredaptive failed to cut
heart attacks, strokes, the need for artery-clearing procedures
or death from cardiovascular disease more than cholesterol-
lowering statin drugs. Patients given Tredaptive plus statin
drugs alone or with Zocor were more likely to develop serious,
though not life-threatening, side effects, the company said.  Additional Information  Additional information on the side effects won’t be
available until after the study’s full results are analyzed,
Pamela Eisele, a Merck spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. The trial was from the third and final stage of
testing typically needed for U.S. marketing approval. The full
results will be presented in the first quarter of 2013.  “We are disappointed in these results,” said Peter Kim,
president of Merck Research Laboratories. The company will work
with regulators to figure out next steps for the drug, Kim said
in the statement.  Doctors shouldn’t extrapolate the findings with Tredaptive
to patients who are taking niacin alone, said Garret FitzGerald,
director of the University of Pennsylvania’s Institute for
Translational Medicine & Therapeutics. A study led by FitzGerald
published in April suggested that adding laropiprant may
undermine the benefits of niacin or carry its own health risk.  Careful Assessment  “Given the information we have at the moment, we have to
be cautious,” he said in a telephone interview. “The absence
of a control group with niacin alone, even with all the
information, will make it difficult for us to know how to
generalize the results of this trial to patients taking
niacin.”  Merck originally filed for U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval of the medicine based on its similarity
to niacin, which has been on the market for decades. The
experimental drug laropiprant is used to reduce levels of
flushing, a known side effect of niacin. It wasn’t thought to
have any interaction with the cardiovascular system.  The drug, previously named Cordaptive, was given a “non-
approvable” letter in 2008 and regulators insisted the company
conduct larger and longer studies to determine whether the
combination drug was safe and offered clear health benefits.  The agency also rejected the proposed trade name of
Cordaptive for the drug. The company renamed it Tredaptive, the
brand name in  Europe .  Questions Abound  The study called HPS2-Thrive was designed to look only at
the combination drug and leaves other questions unanswered, said
Allen Taylor, chief of cardiology at Georgetown University
Hospital. Bundling together niacin and laropiprant makes it
difficult to evaluate the risks and benefits of each, he said.  “This is a shame,” said Taylor, who is a consultant for
 Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott. “I am open to the
hypothesis that niacin doesn’t work, but you have to have a
clean trial to answer the question.”  The study was also conducted mostly overseas, he said. It’s
not clear how relevant the results would be to Americans and
their unique cardiovascular risk, he said in a telephone
interview.  “The trial design is such that we are going to be left
with some questions,” he said. “If the results were positive,
you would have had the same problem. Fortunately, it’s not a
drug on the U.S. market right now. It probably has little
relevance in the U.S., except the potential to cause some
confusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  