-- Erste Pulls Out of Ukraine Bank With Final $201 Million Loss
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-12-20T16:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/erste-pulls-out-of-ukraine-bank-with-final-201-million-loss.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s third-biggest western lender, agreed to sell its bank
in Ukraine, booking a final 151 million-euro ($201 million) loss
on its only unit in the former Soviet Union.  Erste will sell Erste Bank Ukraine for $83 million to the
owners of Fidobank, a group of companies controlled by Aleksandr Adarich, the bank said in a statement today. That’s below the
unit’s book value, causing a 71 million-euro loss this quarter.
Another 80.4 million-euro loss caused by devaluation of the
Ukrainian hryvnia will be booked when the deal is closed,
according to the statement.  The sale “is consistent with Erste Group’s focus on
customer business in the eastern part of the European Union,”
the Vienna-based lender said in the statement, adding that it
expects the closing in 2013.  Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl flagged a possible
sale of the Ukraine business when he told shareholders in May
that the business was in “a grave situation” and finding a
solution was high on his agenda. The deal concludes a costly
experiment for Erste, which owns the biggest banks in the Czech
and Slovak republics and in  Romania , and the second-biggest in
 Hungary .  Erste lost money in Ukraine since it bought the lender,
then named Bank Prestige, for $104 million in a two-stage deal
completed 2007. Including the net loss in the first nine months
of 2012, losses totaled 217.5 million euros, according to
Bloomberg News calculations based on Erste’s annual reports.  Erste’s Austrian peer  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  owns
Ukraine’s fourth-biggest lender, Bank Aval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  