-- European Stocks Close Little Changed at 19-Month High
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-12-20T17:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/european-stock-futures-drop-as-u-s-budget-talks-falter.html
European stocks  closed little
changed at a 19-month high as investors awaited developments in
U.S. negotiations to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of
automatic tax increases and spending cuts.  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO)  soared the most in at least 23 years after
seeking to settle a dispute with Talisman Energy Inc. Ericsson
AB lost 1.8 percent after taking an 8 billion-krona ($1.2
billion) charge related to its wireless-chip venture with
 STMicroelectronics NV. (STM)  UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank,
dropped 1.1 percent as it faces scrutiny in Hong Kong for
possible misconduct linked to the city’s interbank rates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  increased less than 0.1 percent
to 281.81 at the close of trading, the highest level since May
2011. The benchmark measure is heading for a seventh straight
month of gains and has  rallied 15 percent  this year as the
 European Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-buying program
and the  Federal Reserve  began a third round of asset purchases.  “Investors won’t be taking any big positions from now
until year end,” said Matthieu Giuliani, a  fund manager  at
Banque Palatine SA in Paris, which oversees $5.3 billion. “As
for the fiscal cliff, it’s in the best interest of both parties
to find a solution. It’s normal that the opposition asserts its
power to prolong things, but in the end they will reach an
agreement.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 and Germany’s DAX added less
than 0.1 percent, while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  declined less than
0.1 percent.  Volume Increase  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 14 percent greater than the 30-day average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Officials from President  Barack Obama ’s administration told
leaders of U.S. business and financial-services groups that
negotiations with House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, have
deteriorated in the last 24 hours, according to a person
familiar with the meeting.  The officials told the group of eight industry
representatives at the White House that Republican plans to move
forward with Boehner’s alternative proposal on taxes and
spending risks pushing the government past the deadline, said
the person, who asked for anonymity to discuss the private
talks. If lawmakers don’t reach an agreement by the end of the
year, a package of more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts, will come into force in January.  U.S. Economy  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, more than previously reported, reflecting the
first gain in state and local government spending in three
years, more consumer purchases and a smaller  trade gap ,
according to a report today.  Data also showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
unexpectedly expanded in December, while sales of previously
owned U.S. houses rose more than forecast in November.  SBM Offshore climbed 19 percent to 10.97 euros, the biggest
jump since at least October 1989, as the world’s largest maker
of floating oil and gas output platforms sought to settle a
dispute with Talisman and wrote off the value of a related
operation. The company will sell a 9.95 percent stake to HAL
Investments BV for $193 million to restore its balance sheet and
meet banking covenants.  Ericsson fell 1.8 percent to 65.15 kronor as the world’s
largest maker of mobile-phone networks took the charge for
writing down the value of ST-Ericsson. The company said it won’t
buy a full majority of the unit after Geneva-based
STMicroelectronics said it will exit the venture.  UBS Probe  UBS (UBSN)  slipped 1.1 percent to 15.03 Swiss francs. The Hong
Kong Monetary Authority has started an investigation to see if
there was wrongdoing by the bank in its submission of data for
setting the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate, according to a
statement from the de-facto central bank.  Cap Gemini SA (CAP) , a French computer-services company, slid 2.7
percent to 33.56 euros. Accenture Plc, the world’s second-
largest technology-consulting company, reported a decline in
first-quarter revenue from its consulting business.  Areva SA (AREVA)  lost 3 percent to 13.02 euros. The maker of
nuclear reactors, offshore wind turbines and biomass plants cut
its  earnings forecast  for 2013, citing financing delays at
unspecified renewable energy projects carried out by clients.  Immofinanz AG (IIA)  slid 4.5 percent to 3.26 euros. The Austrian
real-estate company said first-half net income declined to 103.3
million euros from 265.1 million euros a year ago.  Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s largest cruise-line operator,
tumbled 6.1 percent to 2,391 pence for the worst performance on
the Stoxx 600. The company said it sees 2013 adjusted earnings
per share in the range of $2.20 to $2.40, lower than the
estimate of $2.46.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  added 2.8 percent to 1,863 pence as the
largest provider of pumps to mining companies agreed to buy
Mathena Inc. for as much as $385 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  