-- Facebook Tests Service Letting Users Pay for E-Mails
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-12-20T21:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/facebook-tests-service-letting-users-pay-for-e-mail-delivery-1-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is testing a tool that
will let users pay to send an e-mail message to another member,
even if they aren’t connected as friends on the world’s largest
social network.  Facebook said the test will start with a “small number of
people” and will charge an unspecified fee to ensure a message
gets sent to the main inbox -- rather than a lower-priority
queue -- of another user, even a stranger. Facebook will test
different fees, starting initially at about $1 per e-mail,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who asked
not to be identified because pricing is private.  “Several commentators and researchers have noted that
imposing a financial cost on the sender may be the most
effective way to discourage unwanted messages and facilitate
delivery of messages that are relevant and useful,” the  Menlo
Park , California-based company  said  on its website.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is looking for new
sources of revenue amid a stock drop of 28 percent since
Facebook’s initial public offering in May. The messaging feature
takes a cue from  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the business-focused social-
media company that gives premium-paying users added flexibility
in sending messages to people outside their network.  The pay-for-e-mail trial program will only work between
individuals in the U.S., Facebook said.  The company also announced other changes to its messaging
service, adding filters that let users control how they can be
contacted by friends or those outside their network.  Facebook shares fell less than 1 percent to $27.36 at the
close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  