-- Fiat to Spend $1.33 Billion on SUVs to Boost Capacity Use
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-12-20T12:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/fiat-to-spend-1-33-billion-on-suvs-to-boost-capacity-use.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker which
controls Chrysler Group LLC, will invest more than 1 billion
euros ($1.33 billion) to build two compact sport-utility
vehicles at an Italian factory as part of a program to boost
capacity usage and end losses in Europe.  “It is not an hazardous strategy,” Chief Executive
Officer Sergio Marchionne said today at the Melfi plant where
the models will be assembled. “We decided to shift away from
mass carmaking and compete in the upscale market.”  Marchionne plans to boost sales of more expensive models to
turn around Fiat’s European operations, which are forecast to
post 700 million euros in losses this year and led the
manufacturer to cut its 2014 trading-profit goal by 31 percent
to 5.2 billion euros. The CEO intends to introduce 19 Italy-
produced models through 2016, including nine Alfa Romeo-badged
vehicles and six Maseratis.  The carmaker plans to increase production of Fiat and
Chrysler cars in  Europe  to 2 million cars a year in 2016 from
1.25 million this year. Marchionne said today he aims to hit
break-even in the region in the next three to four years and to
reach full Italian plant capacity by then as well.  The Italywide plan, which will use 15 percent of Fiat’s
capacity in the country for exports, may cost around 3 billion
euros a year through 2014, according a chart in a Dec. 7
presentation on the automaker’s website.  Compact SUVs  One of the compact SUVs will carry the Fiat badge and the
other will be a Jeep model, with assembly starting in Melfi in
2014. Fiat, which is negotiating tax breaks with Prime Minister
Mario Monti’s cabinet to make the vehicles more cost
competitive, plans to export the models, including to the U.S.  “Going upscale is the only way to grant a future to the
automotive sector in  Italy ,” said Giuseppe Berta, who teaches
business at Bocconi University in Milan. “These will, on the
other hand, mark the end of mass-market production in the
country.”  The expansion of luxury vehicles contrasts with delays in
bread-and-butter models. Marchionne postponed the introduction
of a new version of the Fiat Punto hatchback, which is produced
at the Melfi facility, because of the lack of prospects to
recoup the investment amid stiffer competition in Europe’s
volume car market.  Marchionne opted to boost Fiat’s offerings of upscale
models instead of shutting additional plants after closing one
in Sicily last year. Fiat estimates that shutting a factory
would cost around 600 million euros, have a negative impact on
the Italian market and cause strike actions, according to the
Dec. 7 presentation.  Upscale Climb  Fiat isn’t the only volume carmaker in Europe pushing
upscale vehicles. Demand in the segment is typically more
resilient during economic swings than mass-market models.
 Renault SA (RNO)  plans to revive the Alpine sports-car brand and is
considering building its Initiale Paris insignia into a full-
fledged luxury brand, while  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  is expanding the
Citroen DS line.  Fiat said Dec. 7 that it plans to eliminate 1,500 jobs in
 Poland  to reduce production as the European auto market is on
track to hit a 17-year low in 2012. The carmaker last year moved
production of the new Panda from Poland to Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  