-- Finansbank Seen as Target for QNB Seeking Top Turkey Bank
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-12-21T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/finansbank-seen-as-target-for-qnb-seeking-top-10-turkish-bank.html
Finansbank AS (FINBN) , owned by  National
Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , will probably be a target for  Qatar National
Bank SAQ (QNBK)  as the Middle East’s biggest lender studies buying one
of  Turkey ’s top 10 banks, analysts said. The share surged.  “QNB wants a controlling stake in Turkey and there’s no
other bank than Finansbank at the moment where it could get
that,” Ovunc Gursoy, analyst at Yapi Kredi Yatirim Menkul
Degerler, a broker owned by  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said by
telephone from Istanbul yesterday. “NBG could sell a majority
stake due to its capital needs.”  Qatar National is expanding outside the Gulf to widen its
margins, agreeing to pay $1.97 billion for a majority stake in
the Egyptian unit of  France ’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  this month.
Greek banks face shortfalls in capital after sustaining losses
on their holdings of government bonds in the country’s debt
swap, the biggest sovereign restructuring in history.  Finansbank, Turkey’s eighth-biggest bank, surged as much as
11 percent in Istanbul, the most since Dec. 5. The shares, 0.2
percent of which are traded on the  exchange , rose 7.2 percent to
3.57 liras at the close, valuing Finansbank at 9.6 billion liras
($5.4 billion). The price to book ratio, used by potential
buyers as a guide to a company’s worth, is 1.36 compared with an
average 1.62 for  Turkey’s listed banks .  Expansion Plans  QNB wants a presence in Turkey and may target stakes in its
major banks, Ramzi Mari, the group’s chief financial officer,
said on Dec. 13. NBG might sell a minority stake in Finansbank
to help strengthen its capital position, chief executive officer
Apostolos Tamvakakis said in April.  National Bank’s investor relations department in  Athens 
declined to comment on any plan to sell Finansbank in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Foreign lenders are seeking to boost their presence in
Turkey with acquisitions and licenses, attracted by rising
profit and growth in loans. Net income across the industry
expanded 17 percent annually to 17.1 billion liras in the first
nine months. Loans increased 14 percent to 787 billion liras in
the year to Dec. 7, banking regulator data showed.  Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Japan ’s  Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsibushi UFJ Ltd.  are in the late stages of their license
applications, the industry regulator in Ankara said last week.
Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  bought a 25 percent
stake in  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the largest bank by market
value, for $5.8 billion last year.  ‘Good Offer’  “Finansbank is a lender QNB would be interested in,”
Cagdas Dogan, analyst at TEB Investment, part-owned by France’s
BNP Paribas SA, said in a phone interview. “It looks like the
owners would think about selling in the event of a good offer.
QNB would use the situation to pull the price down and buy a
majority stake.”  OAO Sberbank (SBER) ,  Russia ’s biggest lender, defeated QNB in a
bid for Turkey’s  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  in June, paying owner  Dexia SA (DEXB) 
6.47 billion liras. Denizbank is ranked 10th among Turkish banks
in terms of its assets, according to data from the Banks’
Association of Turkey.  Dubai-based  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , which agreed to buy the
Egyptian unit of France’s  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  for $500 million
yesterday, is another Middle East-based bank expressing an
interest in Turkey.  “If the right assets were to come up, yes, we would be
looking at Turkey as well,” Kevin Flannery, Emirates NBD’s
general manager for international business, said by telephone
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  