-- Fireman Pension Forces City to Lose Its Water Money: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/fireman-pension-forces-city-to-lose-its-water-money-muni-credit.html
A firefighter in Allentown,
 Pennsylvania , which plans to lease its water system to meet
retirement costs, left last year with an annual pension of
$99,289, more than double what state law says was due.  Most municipalities in the state, home to a quarter of U.S.
public pension plans, show similar disregard for local statutes,
said James McAneny, executive director of Pennsylvania’s Public
Employee Retirement Commission. They’re paying the price. The
liability for the extra payments may approach $1 billion, said
Rick Dreyfuss, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for
Policy Research and the Commonwealth Foundation.  “There is a severe penalty to the taxpayer,” said Jack Wagner, the state’s auditor general, who’s based in Harrisburg.
“If you’re offering something you can’t afford, the taxpayer is
going to pay more.”  The unauthorized benefits, which some cities resort to
partly because they prefer pension perks over raises, add to
financial burdens lingering from the recession that ended in
2009. Localities in the sixth-most-populous state face $8.5
billion in unfunded pension liabilities, according to the
retirement commission.  Yield Buffer  With municipal yields near 47-year lows, bond buyers have
yet to punish the state for the excess payouts. Investors
demanded 0.28 percentage point of  extra yield  yesterday to own
debt of Pennsylvania and its localities instead of benchmark
securities, the least since October 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  For communities ignoring the laws, the only sanction the
state can impose is withholding pension aid. That step doesn’t
apply in most cases, and the auditor general, which disburses
the assistance, doesn’t track costs when flagging violations in
audits. In 2012, the auditor general distributed about $230
million in such aid.  In Pennsylvania, most cities aren’t permitted to pad
pension payments to police and firefighters by including
overtime. Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Scranton are the
exceptions. The law also bars consideration of accumulated
unused vacation and sick leave. Boroughs and townships employing
three or more police officers may also be subject to such
regulations.  Knowledge Lacking  Yet some municipal officials don’t realize the added perks
are illegal, said McAneny, who’s based in Harrisburg. And when
violations are flagged, they prove difficult to remove.  Courts are “reluctant to take away benefits,” said Ryan
Cassidy, a partner at Eckert Seamans Cherin & Mellott LLC in
Philadelphia who represents local governments in labor issues.  Some communities have been unable to negotiate them out of
contracts.  Altoona, 98 miles (158 kilometers) east of Pittsburgh, has
been told it’s been giving firefighters illegal benefits since
at least 2006, said Joseph Weakland, the city manager. The
community of 46,300 in May became the latest to enter the
state’s program for distressed localities.  Every time the contract is up for renewal, city officials
unsuccessfully try to remove a provision giving retirees an
additional $100 monthly, Weakland said. That costs Altoona
$1,900 a month, according to an  audit  issued in December 2010.
Meanwhile, Altoona has only 76 cents for each dollar of pension
liabilities, according to the retirement commission.  Coveted Perk  “The firemen just don’t want to give it up,” Weakland
said. Bryson Peterman, the Altoona fire union president, didn’t
immediately return a call.  In most cases, officials won’t face consequences. If
illegal benefits result in extra state aid, that amount could be
withheld. Since most municipalities already get the maximum sum
even without the cost of illegal benefits, nothing happens,
McAneny said.  There is no comprehensive tally of illegal benefits granted
by Pennsylvania’s 3,228 municipal pension plans, of which 68
percent cover no more than 10 active members. The latest audits
for many were for fiscal 2008, and when they note violations,
they don’t always state the cost.  It’s up to local governments to negotiate their contracts
and to use “common sense,” said Wagner, the auditor general.  26 Percent  Audits of Pennsylvania cities that fall under pension
restrictions show that 26 percent have given illegal benefits.  One such municipality was Allentown, a city of 119,000
whose plans are 64 percent funded, according to the retirement
commission.  Police and fire contracts inherited by current Mayor Ed Pawlowski have had a “devastating” budgetary impact, said Gary
Strathearn, finance director for the city about 60 miles north
of Philadelphia.  In agreements struck in 2004, police and firefighters were
allowed to retire early and select the period to use as the
basis of their pension benefits, which “artificially inflated”
them, said an  audit  from 2011.  John Stribula, president of the fire union, said members
asked for overtime to be applied to their pensions since police
officers had that provision. It’s Pawlowski’s fault that
overtime became extensively used in fire operations, according
to Stribula, who said there are now 123 firefighters, down from
140 in 2006.  Taxpayers’ Irritation  “We share in the irritation” of the public about
firefighters receiving annual pensions that exceed their
salaries, he said. “I’m a city taxpayer myself.”  Stribula retired as a lieutenant last year and receives a
yearly pension of $57,017.  Tony Alsleben, president of the police union, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail or call.  Gregory Scheirer, the fireman who retired last year with
the $99,289 pension, left at 52 after 26 years of service and
receiving a leadership award. His is the biggest pension among
police and fire personnel in Allentown, said Mike Moore, a city
spokesman. His annual payment was 29 percent greater than his
salary, and the payout should’ve been $38,491 under state law,
according to Strathearn.  The former battalion chief didn’t immediately return a call
yesterday to his home in Catasauqua, Pennsylvania.  Contracts in place now cap overtime for pension benefits
for some Allentown public-safety workers.  Yet the damage has been done to the city’s finances. In
2005, its annual pension payment required by state law was $3.83
million; that will jump to $13.6 million next year, according to
 projections  by its actuary.  Sewer Lease  Pawlowski plans to bolster pensions by leasing the city’s
water and sewer system for 50 years. The move may be worth at
least $135 million, according to the Pennsylvania Economy
League.  The utility generated more than $14.8 million of operating
revenue in 2011, according to a city  request  for qualified
firms. The transaction may close in the first half of next year,
and the upfront payment would reduce annual pension
contributions, Strathearn said.  Moody’s Investors Service in October cut Allentown’s rating
one step to A3, its seventh-highest grade, citing budget
deficits.  “If we don’t solve this problem, our financial health is
seriously impacted,” Strathearn said.  In municipal-debt trading yesterday, yields rose across all
maturities. The  interest rate  on AAA munis due in 10 years
reached  1.79 percent , the highest since August, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Following is a pending sale:  ORANGE COUNTY,  California , plans to sell $268.5 million of
pension-obligation bonds the week of Jan. 7, according to  Fitch
Ratings . (Added Dec. 20)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  