-- Foxconn Sees Strategic Boost From GoPro Camera-Maker Investment
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-12-20T06:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/foxconn-sees-strategic-boost-from-gopro-camera-maker-investment.html
Foxconn Technology Group plans to
leverage its $200 million investment in Woodman Labs Inc., the
U.S. maker of  GoPro  rugged waterproof cameras, to boost its own
product portfolio.  “We need image-capture technology which would complement
our existing display technology,” Simon Hsing, a spokesman for
Foxconn’s flagship  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , said by phone
today. “We fully expect to participate in their strategy and
future development.”  Hon Hai, the Taipei-based maker of Apple Inc. iPads and
 Sony Corp. (6758)  PlayStations, bought 11.7 million shares in closely-
held Woodman Labs for $17.08 each, giving it a 10.7 percent
stake, it said in an exchange  statement  yesterday. Founded by
Nicholas Woodman, the  San Mateo , California-based company makes
GoPro cameras used by surfers, snowboarders and skydivers.  Woodman Labs is profitable and Foxconn expects it will have
the opportunity to become a supplier for its GoPro equipment,
Hsing said. In addition to waterproof and rugged cameras, GoPro
sells accessories including batteries, remote controls, head
straps and bicycle mounts to fit its devices.  Foxconn’s purchase, via Hon Hai’s wholly owned Cayman
Islands unit Foxteq Holdings Inc., was listed in the filing as a
“long term investment,” without elaboration.  Nicholas Woodman built a following for his wearable cameras
when family and friends helped him persuade surf, bike and ski
shops to carry the devices in the mid-2000s. Woodman Labs’ 2012
sales will approach $600 million,  Bloomberg News  reported in
October, citing three people with knowledge of its finances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at  pburrows@bloomberg.net 
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 