-- Gay-Marriage Activists Split on Next Move After Victories
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/gay-marriage-activits-split-on-next-move-after-victories.html
Gay-marriage approval by voters in
 Washington ,  Maryland  and  Maine  last month led Democratic New
Jersey Assemblyman Reed Gusciora to plot a new strategy around
the veto power of Republican Governor  Chris Christie .  Gusciora, sponsor of a bill allowing same-sex nuptials that
passed the legislature this year and was rejected by Christie,
introduced a bill on Dec. 13 to put such rights on the ballot.
He found himself minus support from Garden State Equality, a
gay-advocacy group that earlier this year called him a
“pioneer” with “tenacity that’s truly inspirational.”  “A majority does not vote on the rights of a minority,”
said Steven Goldstein, 50, founder and chairman of the
Montclair-based organization, which has 124,850 members and has
been lobbying for equal rights since 2004.  The rift between Goldstein and Gusciora, one of two openly
gay lawmakers, mirrors national splintering, as some activists
question the no-ballot stance endorsed by the Washington-based
Human Rights Campaign and New York-based Freedom to Marry, the
biggest financial backers of gay-marriage measures.  “It’s like saying, ’I refuse to get married unless I can
do it in a Vera Wang wedding dress,’” said Jay Lassiter, 40, a
gay Democratic political consultant from  Cherry Hill , New
Jersey. “If you really want it, you’ll get married in a burlap
bag. Hanging on to yesterday’s consensus is retrograde.”  Decade of Defeat  November marked the first time that same-sex unions have
been endorsed at the ballot box in the U.S. The votes in
Maryland, Maine and Washington put an end to more than a decade
of defeat for advocates of gay marriage, which had been rejected
by voters in every state where it appeared.  Massachusetts in 2004 became the first state to allow same-
sex weddings as a result of a ruling by its highest court. It
has since been legalized in  Iowa ,  New York ,  Connecticut ,  New
Hampshire  and  Vermont , and the  District of Columbia , because of
court rulings or decisions by elected officials.  Next year, the U.S. Supreme Court will take up the issue
for the first time as it weighs appeals on a California ballot
measure banning the practice and a federal law defining marriage
as solely an opposite-sex union.  FreedomOhio, a Columbus-based volunteer group, is
petitioning for a ballot question to overturn a 2004
constitutional amendment defining marriage as between a man and
a woman, another example of a split from the national advocates.  ‘Last Resort’  “Without question we waited in  Ohio  for someone to do
something about marriage equality,” said FreedomOhio co-founder
Ian James, 46, a Democratic political consultant. “When that
wasn’t happening we decided it was time to take matters into our
own hands.”  Freedom to Marry has been trying to persuade FreedomOhio to
wait until it’s more sure of victory. Ballot measures should be
a “last resort,” said  Evan Wolfson , president of the national
gay-rights group.  FreedomOhio’s decision to go it alone signals a “potential
for breakdown” nationally, said Brian Brown, president of the
Washington-based National Organization for Marriage, which
lobbies state governments to limit marriage to heterosexuals.  His group was among those that raised $11 million, he said,
for the ballot fight in three states plus  Minnesota , whose
voters defeated a a heterosexuals-only amendment.  Christie Veto  Gay-advocacy groups raised $34 million, according to
Michael Cole-Schwartz, a spokesman for the Human Rights
Campaign. Still, that group, Freedom to Marry and Garden State
Equality consider ballot measures “offensive to the rights of
minorities and hold unspeakable potential for divisiveness,”
according to a joint statement they released Dec. 12.  Gusciora, 52, from Trenton,  New Jersey ’s capital, sponsored
a same-sex marriage measure that passed the Democratic-
controlled legislature in February. Christie vetoed the bill,
saying he believes that marriage should be between a man and a
woman, and that the issue should be decided by voters.  Democratic leaders in the state rejected the option of a
referendum on gay marriage, saying civil-rights matters
shouldn’t be left to popular opinion.  “It’s become civil rights delayed is civil rights
denied,” Gusciora said. “It’s not right to rule out what has
been a successful path in other states.”  Override Effort  Senate President Steve Sweeney, the state’s highest-ranking
Democratic lawmaker, says Gusciora’s bill will go nowhere. He
said he expects the legislature will override Christie’s veto by
January 2014, the end of the session.  The gay-marriage bill passed 24-16 in the Senate and 42-33
in the Assembly. An override would require 27 votes in the
Senate, where Democrats rule 24-16, and 54 in the Assembly,
where they dominate 48-32.  The override votes will be “hard to muster” in the lower
house, says Assemblyman Tim Eustace, a Democrat who lives with
his gay partner in Maywood. He said he was “very fearful”
about putting a civil-rights decision in the hands of voters,
though he called Gusciora’s proposal “absolutely right”
because of the momentum of support in other states.  “Everyone is trying to reach the same goals,” said
Eustace, 55. “It’s the perfect environment to place the
referendum on the ballot.”  2013 Election  Goldstein said that based on e-mails and phone calls to his
organization, Gusciora’s approach is favored “by about 10 to 20
percent, tops” among the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
community.  He said he fears that a public question in 2013, when
Christie is running for a second term and all legislative seats
are open, would draw millions of dollars from out-of-state
Republicans who disagree with same-sex marriage.  “Opponents of marriage equality probably pray every day
that there is a referendum on marriage equality, not only
because they believe we could lose, but because they rightfully
believe it would bring their conservative base to the polls and
imperil Democratic legislators,” Goldstein said.  Jon Holden Galluccio, who met Michael Galluccio in 1982 and
legally married him in  California  in 2008, now lives in North
Haledon, New Jersey, with two of their three children. Until
recently, he was a vice chairman of Garden State Equality. He
declined to say why he had resigned.  Like Gusciora and Eustace, Jon Galluccio said he’s no
longer insisting that only lawmakers or the courts have the
authority to weigh in.  “I would not want to see a referendum,” Galluccio, 49,
said by phone Dec. 18. “But it would be naïve of us to throw
everything off the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  