-- Germans Stand Alone in Fretting About Debt, EU Survey Shows
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-12-20T13:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/germans-stand-alone-in-fretting-about-debt-eu-survey-shows.html
Germans are alone in the European
Union in calling government debt the most pressing economic
problem, contrasting with more relaxed attitudes toward red ink
even in traditionally tight-budget countries, a poll showed.  With the  euro zone  in  recession , 34 percent of Germans
labeled debt as the “most important issue,” according to an
 EU-sponsored survey  released in Brussels today. Debt didn’t make
the list of top priorities in  Finland  and the Netherlands,
 Germany ’s closest crisis-fighting allies.  “Perceptions of the national economic situation remain
very gloomy, continuing a trend that began in 2007,” the
 European Commission  said. “Germany is the only member state
where government debt is the main worry.”  Grassroots German sentiment underlies Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s handling of the debt crisis, limiting her room for
concessions as she campaigns for re-election in 2013. While
Germany, the biggest source of bailout funds, eased up on
deficit-cutting demands this year, debt relief for countries
like Greece remains taboo.  Joblessness is the dominant preoccupation in 18 countries,
including the four -- Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain --
tapping financial aid. Overall, 48 percent of EU citizens ranked
unemployment as the main concern, followed by 37 percent citing
the “economic situation” and 24 percent mentioning inflation.  The semi-annual survey provided fresh evidence of  Europe ’s
north-south economic divide, with 75 percent in Germany and
Sweden calling the national economic situation “good.” Only 2
percent in  Spain  and 1 percent in Greece shared that view.  Euro Endorsed  German bullishness on the economy carried over into an
endorsement of staying with the euro. The proportion of Germans
in favor of the single currency rose by 4 percentage points to
69 percent from the previous survey in May.  While attitudes toward the euro ebbed in aid-reliant
economies, the currency scored favorability ratings above 60
percent in 14 of the 17 countries using it. It fell short of
majority appeal only in Cyprus, the next aid candidate, where 48
percent were in favor.  The Eurobarometer polled 500 to 1,500 people in each of the
27 EU countries between Nov. 3-18. The margin of error for
national results ranged from 1.9 percent to 4.4 percent, a chart
indicated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  