-- German Stocks Little Changed as U.S. Budget Talks Falter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-20T16:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/german-stocks-little-changed-as-u-s-budget-talks-falter.html
German stocks  were little changed at
their highest in nearly four years, amid concern that U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and Republicans won’t agree a budget
before the end of the year.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  fell 1.8 percent as state-owned railway
Deutsche Bahn AG filed a lawsuit against a group including the
steelmaker. Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second-largest lender,
retreated 0.8 percent.  TUI AG (TUI1)  rose 1.4 percent.  The DAX added 0.1 percent to 7,672.1 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , its highest level since January 2008. The
gauge has  rallied 29 percent  from its low on June 5 as central
banks announced asset-purchase programs, and speculation grew
that U.S. lawmakers would agree a budget to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
totalling $607 billion due to come into effect next year. The
broader HDAX Index was little changed today.  “We see a slightly negative market today, following the
U.S. close due to the tactical statements on the fiscal cliff
negotiations.” Guillermo Hernandez Sampere, head of trading at
Fpm Frankfurt Performance Mgmt AG, who helps manage about 500
million euros ($659 million), wrote in a message. “We see
rather low volumes, which is quite normal for this time of
year.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the  DAX (DAX)  was 20
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Talks Deteriorate  Officials from President Barack Obama’s administration told
leaders of business and financial services groups that
negotiations with House Speaker John Boehner have deteriorated,
according to a person familiar with the meeting.  The officials told the group of industry representatives at
the White House that Republican plans to move forward with
Boehner’s alternative proposal on taxes and spending risk
pushing the government past the deadline, said the person, who
asked for anonymity to discuss the private talks.  The U.S. economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, more than previously reported. The revised gross
domestic product reading exceeded the highest projection in a
Bloomberg survey and compared with a previously estimated 2.7
percent gain, according to Commerce Department figures released
today in  Washington . The median estimate of economists called
for a 2.8 percent advance.  U.S. Jobless  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments rose for the first time in five
weeks. Applications for  jobless benefits  increased by 17,000 to
361,000 in the week ended Dec. 15, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 360,000 claims, according to
the Bloomberg survey median.  ThyssenKrupp dropped 1.8 percent to 18.24 euros. Germany’s
largest steelmaker, Vossloh AG and Moravia Steel were sued for
damages by Deutsche Bahn for fixing the prices for rails.  Deutsche Bahn filed a suit at the Frankfurt Regional Court
after settlement talks failed, the railway said in an e-mailed
statement today. The court confirmed the suit and said Deutsche
Bahn valued the claims at 550 million euros ($730 million).  ThyssenKrupp hasn’t yet received the complaint, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. It’s still in talks with Deutsche
Bahn over the issue and there was no need to file a suit, it
said.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest lender, slid 0.8
percent to 1.49 euros. Deutsche Bank, the biggest, fell 0.5
percent to 33.54 euros.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
semiconductor manufacturer, lost 1.2 percent to 6.19 euros. A
gauge of technology stocks fell the second most of the 19
industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Kloeckner & Co. SE, Europe’s largest independent steel
trader, advanced 2.8 percent to 9.29 euros.  TUI, the owner of Europe’s largest travel company, rose 1.4
percent to 8.06 euros as a measure of travel and leisure stocks
climbed on the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  