-- Germany to Cut 2013 Bond Sales Closer to Pre-Crisis Level
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-12-20T16:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/germany-to-cut-2013-bond-sales-closer-to-pre-crisis-level.html
Germany and  France  are trimming
borrowings next year as  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government
attempts to return debt sales to pre-crisis levels and President
Francois Hollande reins in his country’s budget deficit.  Germany will sell 250 billion euros ($331 billion) in bonds
in 2013, 5 billion euros less than this year, the  Federal
Finance Agency  said today. France will cut borrowings by 9
billion euros to 169 billion euros, Agence France Tresor said.  The euro-area’s two largest economies are restricting bond
sales as they brace for slower growth in the currency union.
France’s plan marks the third consecutive reduction following a
debt issuance peak of 188 billion euros in 2010, reflecting
Hollande’s pledge to cut the deficit to 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year. The German economy may contract this
quarter, according to Bundesbank forecasts, pushing up rates
after investors showed a willingness to accept record-low yields
on new German bonds this year.  “This is a good sign that perhaps we have seen the worst
in terms of fiscal stress in the region,” said  Michael Leister ,
a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “The
reduction in issuance will be positive for the market and we
hope the trend will continue. Weak growth is the biggest risk
facing the region as it may derail fiscal reforms and push up
borrowing needs again.”  Record Sale  Germany sold a record 334 billion euros of debt in 2009, up
from 220 billion euros a year earlier, as the economy sagged
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Europe ’s largest economy will issue 173 billion euros in
bonds and 77 billion euros in bills in 2013, the agency said. In
the first quarter it will sell 44 billion euros in bonds and 21
billion euros in bills. The Federal Finance Agency plans to
redeem 215 billion euros in maturing bonds in 2013.  Germany  will issue as much as 12 billion euros in
inflation-linked bonds next year, test a novel debt instrument
dubbed Deutschland bonds in combination with the country’s
states, and stamp all new debt issuance from January with
collective action clauses in line with policy adopted by all
euro-area states.  Germany’s 10-year bond yields fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.41 percent at 4:02 p.m. London time.
Inflation-protected bonds rose, pushing the yield on 10-year
securities down two basis points to minus 0.30 percent. Yields
on 10-year French securities dropped three basis points to 1.99
percent.  5-Year Segment  Selling fewer bonds in 2013 and focusing more on the 5-year
segment where the agency can expect to pay lower interest is
“good for Germany and the wider market,”  Ciaran O’Hagan , head
of European interest-rate strategy at Societe Generale SA in
Paris, said in an interview.  Merkel last month agreed to free  Greece  from paying
interest worth 2.74 billion euros to Germany on bonds bought by
the European Central Bank. This year, the government re-opened
the budget to raise 6 billion euros in temporary new credit for
installments to the euro-area’s permanent rescue fund. In total,
Germany has guaranteed 142 billion euros in bilateral or fund-
linked loans in the crisis, the Finance Ministry  said .  Incorporating the burden in its assessment, Moody’s
Investors Service on July 23 placed Germany’s outlook on
negative and two days later put 6 German states on the same
negative from stable. On Dec. 1, the company downgraded both of
the euro’s rescue funds in which Germany holds the biggest
stakes, citing a “high correlation in credit risk.”  Inflation-Linked Bonds  The finance agency expects interest paid on its sovereign
debt portfolio of about 1.1 trillion euros to rise in average
terms from the 3.6 percent paid this year. The agency said today
that average yields on new bonds were 0.56 percent this year, a
record low.  The agency will sell inflation-linked bonds next year every
month bar August and December, expanding its current outstanding
securities of five- and 10-year debt to more than 55 billion
euros. Germany hasn’t ruled out a possible sale of a 30-year
index-linked bond for the first time although the agency didn’t
refer to them today.  German bonds returned 3.7 percent this year while the
country’s index-linked securities gained 4.2 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The federal government and states that choose to
participate will sell a joint bond -- dubbed the Deutschland
Bond -- in 2013, the agency said, without being more specific.
Liability will be limited to each participant’s share of the
nominal value of the bond, the agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  