-- Get Realistic on What We Can Do About Guns: Paul Barrett
-- B y   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/get-realistic-on-what-we-can-do-about-guns-paul-barrett.html
In September 1994, President  Bill Clinton  signed an assault weapons ban into law. Some in the gun
industry were distraught. “We’re finished,” Ron Whitaker, then
the chief executive of Colt, told several other members of a
firearm trade association. Colt made substantial profits from
the AR-15, the quintessential assault rifle. Whitaker, it turned
out, was wrong. The AR-15 was not finished. It was just getting
going.  In the face of a ban that turned out to be laughably easy
to evade, the industry kept making civilian versions of military
rifles. The prohibition actually helped transform what had been
a marginal product for most manufacturers into a gun-rights
poster child, celebrated by the  National Rifle Association  and
sought-after by a much bigger share of the gun-buying public.
The law was written to last just 10 years, and in 2004 this
porous excuse for gun regulation expired.  Now, in the wake of the elementary school massacre in
Newtown,  Connecticut , President Obama and congressional
Democrats are calling for a renewed ban on assault weapons.
Proponents of the legislation vow they will do a better job this
time. No loopholes, they promise. Skepticism is warranted.
Senator  Dianne Feinstein , author of the 1994 law, has conceded
the bill she plans to introduce early next year will
“grandfather in” weapons legally possessed on the date of
enactment. Moreover, the California Democrat has said the
legislation will exempt 900 weapons used for hunting and
sporting purposes.  Opening Bid  There you have the Democrats’ opening bid: Nine hundred
exemptions, and millions of pre-ban weapons to remain in private
hands. The legislative fight hasn’t even begun, and gun-control
advocates are surrendering the all-important fine print.  While politicians in  Washington  are clearing their throats,
the marketplace has responded.  Dick’s Sporting Goods (DKS) , a national
chain, suspended sales of a handful of semiautomatic rifles
similar to the one used in the Connecticut rampage. Cerberus
Capital Management, a $20 billion private equity firm, announced
that, as result of investor pressure, it will sell its
controlling interest in Freedom Group, a North Carolina-based
conglomerate of gun and ammunition makers. Hollywood, for the
moment, is backing away from some gun- and death-themed
television reality shows.  Coffin Catalyst  Maybe this time is different -— different from Columbine,
 Virginia Tech , Tucson, and Aurora, all of which were followed by
calls for new restrictions on guns, and none of which led to
any. Perhaps 20 tiny coffins will prove a catalyst for
compromise previously beyond the reach of our polarized
politics. Sounding uncharacteristically conciliatory, the NRA
scheduled a press conference for tomorrow, saying it would make
“meaningful contributions” to avert another Newtown.  Like abortion, guns evoke irreconcilable ideological
cleavages. We live in a big country. Our conflicting values
cannot all be neatly squared. And if history provides a guide,
the latest carnage could provide little more than an occasion
for renewed culture war.  That would be a shame, because there are steps that a
majority of Americans ought to be able to agree to, even without
resolving our deep-seated societal conflict over whether
firearms represent self-reliance or a threat to children (or
both). The Newtown tragedy is a chance for opposing sides to
focus on potential consensus and enact reforms that would do
what everyone says they want: keep guns out of the hands of
criminals and psychotics.  Gun Culture  This sad occasion is not, however, going to change the
fundamental reality that the U.S., for better or worse, is a gun
culture. Nearly half of American households have one or more
firearms, according to Gallup. The hard truth for gun foes is
that firearms are out there, and they’re not going away.  The defunct 1994 ban on assault weapons offers an
instructive place to begin any serious conversation, if for no
other reason than Democrats are placing so much emphasis on
reviving it. Among its many flaws was a focus on particular
rifle models and cosmetic features, such as whether the guns had
a bayonet mount or flash suppressor. This emphasis on form over
function allowed manufacturers quite easily to “sportify” the
prohibited models, and voilà: A banned weapon became unbanned.  An even more fundamental weakness was that the law created
confusion over just what makes a weapon an “assault weapon.”
As the term has come to be used, it denotes a military-style
rifle that fires one round for each pull of the trigger. These
rifles are called semiautomatic because with each shot fired,
they eject the empty shell case and load a new round into the
firing chamber.  Assault Weapons  Fully automatic machine guns, by contrast, fire
continuously as long as the trigger is held. They generally
aren’t available for sale to civilians. Although they may have a
tough military look, semiautomatic assault weapons, shot-for-
shot, are no more lethal than Grandpa’s Remington wooden-stock
deer-hunting rifle. Arguing about whether a particular rifle is
an assault weapon makes no sense. Worse, it creates the
impression among firearm advocates that  gun-control  proponents
either don’t know what they’re talking about or that a ban on
assault weapons is actually a precursor to broader prohibition.
By labeling her forthcoming legislation an “updated assault-
weapons bill” and hearkening to the misbegotten 1994 law,
Feinstein undercut her credibility right out of the box.  Ammunition Capacity  The sole characteristic of a semiautomatic rifle that makes
it especially deadly is ammunition capacity. The Newtown killer
used multiple 30-round magazines to fire scores of times in a
matter of minutes, according to police officials. Magazines are
the spring-loaded containers of bullets that snap into the
bottom of a rifle or the grip of a pistol. If a shooter couldn’t
obtain large mags, he’d have to reload more often, possibly
limiting bloodshed.  Feinstein says her bill will ban the manufacture, sale, or
transfer of magazines holding more than 10 rounds. If she’s
smart, she’ll streamline the legislation to focus strictly on
magazine capacity, rather than inviting another confusing fracas
over what qualifies as an assault weapon.  Even if the bill does zero in on magazines, though, to make
such a limitation meaningful, Congress would have to ban the
possession of large magazines, not just the sale of new ones.
Otherwise, the tens of millions of big magazines already on the
market will provide an ample supply to future mass killers. Are
lawmakers prepared to send sheriffs and police out to take away
privately owned magazines exceeding 10 rounds? In the 1990s the
answer was no. It’s doubtful that’s changed. (Imagine being the
Texas or Florida cop given that assignment.)  Gun Lobby  That’s why a more promising response to Newtown would be
one that stresses keeping guns out of the hands of criminals and
the dangerous mentally ill. These are goals that the NRA cannot
credibly oppose. Which does not mean the NRA will cooperate. The
gun lobby thrives on controversy, not compromise. It needs
enemies to raise money. Legislation framed as crime control,
rather than gun control, stands a better chance of winning over
firearm owners and Republican politicians.  Tightening the faulty federal background-check system ought
to be the top priority on  Capitol Hill . No serious person
objects to the FBI-coordinated computerized record checks that
prevent sales of firearms to felons, domestic-violence
misdemeanants, and those formally deemed mentally ill.  Appealing Pitch  But the background check applies only to sales by federally
licensed firearm dealers. Nonlicensed “private collectors” may
sell to strangers, no questions asked. By some estimates, 40
percent of all gun transfers take place without background
checks: an invitation to criminals if ever there was one. If
Democrats lined up a battalion of police chiefs to demand
universal application of background checks as a way to deter
crime, they’d have an appealing pitch to the American public.  Would enactment of such a reform stop the determined school
shooter, or even the violent career criminal, from obtaining
weapons on the black market? No. The passage in the 1990s of the
background-check and assault-weapons laws had negligible effects
on crime, according to Mark Kleiman, a professor of public
policy at the  University of California  at  Los Angeles  and one of
the country’s most independent-minded criminologists.  An improved background-check system would not have
prevented the Newtown shooter from getting hold of his mother’s
legally acquired guns. Mass killers tend to be young men who,
despite deranged minds and evil hearts, prepare carefully. Some
have clean records before going berserk. Others obtain their
weaponry from relatives or friends.  Worth Doing  Fixing background checks is still worth doing. It might
deter some criminals, and the imposition on Second Amendment
rights would be slight. To sell a gun to a neighbor, the owner
could be required to conduct the transaction via a local
licensed dealer, who, for a modest fee, would run the
computerized check.  To make a universal record check more effective, lawmakers
could begin what would be an arduous process of reviewing and
reforming how we deal with serious mental illness in the U.S.  Some steps seem embarrassingly obvious. At both the federal
and state level, there are numerous agencies with mental health
information that has not been entered into the background-check
system. The president could remedy that with executive orders
and additional financial incentives for states to comply. Then
there is the much more daunting challenge of what to do about
the unintended legacy of deinstitutionalizing the dangerous
mentally ill.  Mentally Ill  In the 1970s and 1980s, the U.S. emptied many state mental
hospitals because they provided dreadful care or none at all. We
didn’t follow through on the promised community-based treatment.
As a result, we created a de-facto policy of waiting until
seriously mentally ill people commit crimes and then consigning
them to prison. Over the past half-century, the number of
psychiatric beds in the U.S. has decreased to 43,000 from
559,000, even as the overall population increased, according to
the Treatment Advocacy Center in Arlington, Virginia.  Other important research suggests that more effective
treatment of the mentally ill can contribute to lower homicide
rates. Steven Segal, a social work professor at the University
of California at Berkeley, published a paper in November 2011 in
the journal Social Psychiatry & Psychiatric Epidemiology showing
that increased access to inpatient psychiatric care, better-
performing mental health systems, and more flexible criteria for
involuntary civil commitment account for 17 percent of the
state-to-state variation in homicide rates.  Troubling Observation  One of the most troubling observations I’ve encountered
since Newtown came from Dr. Carl Bell, a psychiatrist and
professor at the  University of Illinois  at  Chicago . Shortly
after the massacre, Bell and I appeared as guests on the
National Public Radio program Tell Me More. The soft-spoken
academic interrupted the conversation about the nuances of gun
control to point out that random mass shootings are typically
suicides augmented with multiple murders as a way of dramatizing
the shooter’s pain and self-hatred. Copious amounts of research
show that media publicity of suicides leads to copy-cat crimes.  “It seems to me,” the professor politely interjected,
“that the more we report that this sort of assault weapon was
used, that this person had this kind of bulletproof vest, that
this person entered the school this way -— that gives other
people who are depressed and suicidal and want to take a whole
bunch of people with them the knowledge on how to pull it off.”
The media, Bell said, should self-censor their sensational,
detailed coverage of mass shootings.  That’s not going to happen -- for the same reason that the
inevitable commissions and hearings on violence in films and
video games will conclude that there’s little for government to
do about bloodshed in entertainment. The First Amendment
protects a robust right to expression. A parallel exists with
the Second Amendment, another emblem of freedom, forged in the
18th century yet still hallowed generations later. These
uniquely American rights come with tremendous responsibilities -
— and haunting costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Barrett in  New York  at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  