-- Peugeot Reaches EU11.5 Billion Refinance Deal With Banks
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-12-20T16:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/gm-peugeot-plan-models-as-joint-parts-limited-to-europe.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,   Europe ’s
second-largest carmaker, reached an 11.5 billion-euro ($15.2
billion) refinancing agreement to rescue its bank unit as the
region’s auto sales drop to the lowest in almost two decades.  The agreement was concluded this week with a pool of about
20 banks, and all that remains is the legal documentation, which
should be completed by early January, Chief Financial Officer
Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said in a telephone interview today.  The French company is taking steps to sustain the Banque
PSA Finance division as Moody’s Investors Service considers
whether to cut the unit’s credit rating to junk because of the
manufacturing business’s troubles. A non-investment rating would
push up borrowing costs for buyers of Paris-based Peugeot’s
vehicles. The carmaker’s stock, which touched a 27-year  low  in
November, rose following the CFO’s comments.  “It’s a relief,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler in  Frankfurt . “The share price is so depressed
because people just have doubts about the survival of this
company. Otherwise, you couldn’t justify such a low market
value.”  The loans are part of a broader effort to shore up the
automaker’s finances that also includes 7 billion euros in bond
guarantees from the French state, asset sales and a strategic
partnership with Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM)  The two
automakers announced definitive agreements today to build three
compact vehicles together and jointly purchase parts in Europe.  Shares Gain  Peugeot  gained  as much as 5.1 percent to 5.88 euros and was
trading up 0.7 percent at 4:58 p.m. in Paris trading. The stock
has plunged 47 percent this year, valuing the company at 2
billion euros.  The French automaker said in July that it was burning
through cash at a rate of 200 million euros a month as the
European auto market heads for a 17-year low. Chatillon
reiterated today that the automaker plans to cut its monthly
cash burn in half by next year.  Peugeot deliveries in the region fell 13 percent through
November, and its market share narrowed to 11.7 percent from
12.5 percent a year earlier. The European carmaking lobby, ACEA,
said earlier this month that 11-month registrations in European
Union countries alone were at the lowest since 1993.  Loan Terms  As part of the 11.5 billion-euro cash facility, Peugeot’s
bank unit is seeking a 4 billion-euro syndicated loan to
refinance debt, two people with direct knowledge of the proposal
said earlier this month. Chatillon declined today to comment on
the details of the deal.  French Economy Minister  Pierre Moscovici  received clearance
from parliament late yesterday to provide the financial
guarantee on the banking unit’s new bonds. The guarantee, which
Peugeot sought two months ago, may start as soon as Jan. 1, and
is approved through the end of 2016, according to a 2012 budget
revision passed by the National Assembly yesterday.  The French aid is “market priced,” Chatillon said. “It
will represent several hundreds million euros over the period of
the guarantee.”  The government assistance is likely to be reviewed by the
European Commission, the regulatory arm of the EU. David McAllister, the prime minister of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s German home
state of  Lower Saxony , said in an October interview that he may
seek to challenge the support.  Commisioner’s Comment  “We had seen this as being relevant only to the financing
side of vehicle purchasing,” European Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  told reporters today. “That was the initial
idea, but now we’re coming around to seeing that it’s
restructuring aid for an entity. Therefore we need to get a
proper notification in order to know how to deal with that.”  Chatillon, who said Peugeot is already holding discussions
with the EU, reiterated that he sees no particular difficulties
in getting the assistance approved.  “The commission will first provide a temporary
authorization, which we’ll get early next year, and then a
definitive authorization, once all the items will be documented
on the legal side,” he said.  The French state and Peugeot’s labor unions each won a seat
on Peugeot’s board in exchange of the government’s aid.  Louis Gallois , a former head of planemaker Airbus owner  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , will represent the government.  Peugeot has also issued 1.5 billion euros in asset-backed
securities since last summer to shore up finances, Chatillon
said.  GM Cooperation  Peugeot and GM, which owns the Opel and Vauxhall nameplates
in Europe, said today that the models they plan to produce in
common will be “highly differentiated” to maintain their
brands’ identities. Additional projects are being considered in
 Latin America  and other growth markets, they said.  The plans are a scaled-back version of projects the
manufacturers outlined in October, when they said cooperation
would include work on a fourth platform for a mid-sized car.
Peugeot Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin reiterated today
that the alliance, announced in February, will bring about a
total $2 billion for the partners in annual cost savings and
sales improvement over five years.  Peugeot said on Oct. 24 that net debt at the end of 2012
will widen to 3 billion euros, from a July target of 2.5 billion
euros. The carmaker’s first-half net loss amounted to 819
million euros.  The French manufacturer said Dec. 12 that it will eliminate
an additional 1,500 jobs by 2014, on top of 8,000 announced in
July. Peugeot is also closing a car factory on the outskirts of
Paris and  selling  non-manufacturing assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  