-- Goldman Sachs-Backed BackOffice Buys Out Founders as IPO Planned
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-12-20T19:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/goldman-sachs-backed-backoffice-buys-out-founders-as-ipo-planned.html
BackOffice Associates LLC, a
provider of data-management software and services, bought out
its founders today as an early step toward holding an initial
public offering, said Chief Executive Officer David Booth.  The South Harwich, Massachusetts-based company, which is
backed by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , bought out founders Tom and
Patricia Kennedy today for an undisclosed sum, obtained through
a loan from  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Booth said in an
interview. The buyback leaves Goldman Sachs with controlling
interest in the company, which is also owned by management and
employees, he said.  The buyout brings BackOffice closer to its goal of going
public in 12 to 18 months, according to Booth. Web-data analysis
provider  Splunk Inc. (SPLK)  has surged 73 percent since it went public
in April, while  Workday Inc. (WDAY) , a maker of human resource
applications, has almost doubled since its October debut,
reflecting robust investor demand for software companies that
cater to business.  “The market is not as vibrant as it was two years ago, but
there’s still a lot of interest in quality firms,” Booth said.
“We now have a simplified ownership structure. It will help
accelerate the continued move toward going public.”  BackOffice is discussing hiring Goldman Sachs, as well as
other banks, to handle its IPO, Booth said. The company plans to
use proceeds to pay back the new loan, as well as to expand
globally, particularly by adding staff in  Latin America , Booth
said.  The global market for  data management software  will grow 21
percent to $1.9 billion this year, according to estimates by
researcher Gartner Inc. Other companies competing for this
market include  Informatica Corp. (INFA) , Talend Inc., Utopia Inc. and
International Business Machines Corp. BackOffice  recently  added
to its lineup by becoming a reseller for products from software
maker SAP AG.  BackOffice is “highly” profitable, and has annual sales
of $100 million to $200 million, Booth said in May. Revenue
growth is in double-digits, he said then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  