-- Goldman Boosts WTI-Brent Spread Forecast by $10
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2013-02-08T11:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/goldman-boosts-wti-brent-spread-forecast-by-10.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said global
oil markets will remain “tight” this quarter because of
surprisingly robust fuel demand in emerging economies.  Prices may exceed the bank’s forecasts, which for North Sea
Brent futures are at $110 a barrel over the next three-to-six
months, and at $105 in 12 months. For the U.S. benchmark, West
Texas Intermediate, the bank projects a level of $102.50 in
three months, $105 in six and $97 in 12 months. Brent traded
near $118 today, and WTI close to $96.  “We expect the global market to remain tight throughout
the first quarter, and the risks to our forecast have shifted to
the upside over the past weeks,”  Jeff Currie , the bank’s head
of commodities research in New York, wrote in a report dated
yesterday. “The recent rally has been driven by improving
fundamentals rather than by an increasing risk premium.”  Rising global demand, coupled with disruptions in Canadian
oil supply growth, a reduction in  Saudi Arabian  production and
constraints on Iranian exports, are limiting world supplies,
according to Goldman Sachs. Still, unless there are further
output losses prices probably won’t repeat the surges of 2011
and 2012, the bank said.  China’s  crude imports  rose to the highest level in eight
months in January as refineries boosted runs amid signs of an
economic recovery. The nation bought 24.87 million metric tons
of crude more than it exported last month, according to  figures 
released on the website of the Beijing-based General
Administration of Customs today.  The bank’s forecasts indicate that WTI’s discount to Brent
will narrow to $5 a barrel in six months, compared with about
$21 today.  Goldman Sachs maintained a recommendation to hold a long
position in the  S&P GSCI Brent Total Return Index , as the
backwardated structure of Brent contracts rewards investors
rolling a position in the grade from one month to the next.
Backwardation signifies that short-term prices are more
expensive than later deliveries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  