-- Gun-Control Support Modest Even After School Shooting
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-12-20T20:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/gun-control-support-modest-even-after-school-shooting.html
Support for  gun control  in the wake
of last week’s mass shooting at an elementary school in
 Connecticut  remains far below the peak seen at the turn of the
century, according to a  survey  released today.  The poll by the  Pew Research Center for the People & the
Press , taken after the killing of 20 children and seven adults
in Newtown, reflects only a modest change in attitudes, the
Washington-based organization said. The survey found 49 percent
of people believe it’s more important to control gun ownership
than to protect Americans’ right to own guns, while 42 percent
placed a higher priority on the right to possess firearms.  In 2000, the height of recent gun-control support as
measured by the Pew survey, two-thirds of Americans supported
new restrictions. The latest numbers reflect the difficult
climate facing President  Barack Obama  and legislative allies who
have vowed to toughen gun laws after the Newtown shooting.  “There is only a modest tilt toward gun control following
Newtown, not a sea change,”  Michael Dimock , associate research
director for the Pew project, said in an e-mail. “Levels of
support for gun control still fall far short of where they were
as recently as 2008.”  Support for gun control dropped dramatically in the year
after Obama was elected, falling to 49 percent in April 2009
from 58 percent one year earlier, Pew found.  About 47 percent of people surveyed said the Newtown
massacre and other mass killings were “isolated acts of
troubled individuals,” while 44 percent said they indicated
broader problems in American society. More than 300 million
firearms are owned by Americans, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Gun Protection  Dimock said the moderate change in opinions likely is due
to the finding that most Americans say the protection afforded
by gun ownership outweighs the risk to other people. He said
opinions also are slow to change because 8 in 10 Americans said
they feel strongly about the issue.  Two-thirds of Americans said assault-type weapons make the
country more dangerous, while only 21 percent said they make
people safer. Even so, 49 percent oppose a ban on the weapons,
while 44 percent said they’d support such a measure, according
to the poll of 1,219 adults taken Dec. 17-19. Its margin of
error was plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  Two-thirds of people polled opposed banning civilian
possession of handguns. Fifty-six percent of people surveyed
said they’d support a ban on “cop-killer” bullets capable of
penetrating bullet-proof vests, and 53 percent said high-
capacity ammunition clips should be outlawed.  Gender Difference  Pew researchers found majorities of women, blacks,
Democrats and people who live in the Northeast put a higher
priority on gun control. Men, whites and Republicans were more
likely to support gun rights.  Neither political party has an advantage on gun control,
with 27 percent of respondents saying Republicans better reflect
their views on the issue and 28 percent saying Democrats.  About 37 percent said the  National Rifle Association , the
largest gun-rights organization in the U.S., has too much
influence over gun-control laws; 18 percent said it has too
little influence, and 27 percent said the Fairfax, Virginia-
based lobby has an appropriate amount of input.  Opposition to the NRA was somewhat higher 12 years ago,
when 42 percent of respondents said the group had too much
power, while those holding other views were about the same.  In a statement released earlier this week, the NRA said it
was “shocked, saddened and heartbroken” by the Newtown
killings. The association has declined comment until a news
conference scheduled for tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in  New York  at   fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark McQuillan in Washington at
   mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  