-- Li Keqiang Calls for Income Growth, Freer Investment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-20T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/li-keqiang-calls-for-income-growth-freer-investment.html
China ’s rapid GDP growth must
translate into higher income for ordinary people, Vice Premier
Li Keqiang said, as the incoming leadership signals a shift in
priorities for the world’s second-largest economy.  Li, No. 2 in the Politburo standing committee, said China
will lower barriers to private investment and delegate more
power to local governments to approve projects, the People’s
Daily, the mouthpiece of China’s ruling communist party,
 reported on its website  yesterday. Li was appointed last month
and is set to become premier next year.  Li’s comments at a meeting with local officials in Beijing
on Dec. 19 came after new leaders said they will seek higher
“quality and efficiency” of growth next year. China has set an
initial target for 2013 expansion of 7.5 percent, two bank
executives and a regulatory official briefed on the matter told
Bloomberg earlier this week.  “They are talking about reform quite loudly, and I believe
they are serious,” said Shen Jianguang, Hong Kong-based chief
Asia economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “Li is expected
to make changes on many fronts, including relaxing the household
registration system and breaking the state monopoly in certain
industries.”  Housing, Wages  China will use more land sale revenue and public housing
funds to develop affordable housing in 2013, and will restrict
wages in monopoly industries, the  Ministry of Finance  said in a
statement yesterday.  “If our GDP growth does not help income growth of the
people, it will be a meaningless exercise no matter how high the
rate is,” Li was quoted by the People’s Daily as saying. “It’s
not favorable for development, or for stability.”  Li said China must rely on urbanization for sustainable
growth, and the government should step back from running
businesses.  “What the government has to do is to look after macro
issues,” Li said, as cited by the newspaper. “Investment
profits or losses in a given area should be left to private
investors.”  The State Council, China’s Cabinet, has dispatched teams
across the country to ensure local authorities are following the
central government’s guidelines for treating private investors
fairly, state radio reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  