-- IBM Judge Questions SEC on Foreign Bribe Settlement
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-12-21T14:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/ibm-judge-questions-sec-posture-on-foreign-bribe-settlement-1-.html
A federal judge said he won’t
“rubber stamp” the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
settlement of foreign bribery allegations brought last year
against  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   U.S. District Judge Richard Leon, during a hearing
yesterday in  Washington , criticized the SEC and IBM for opposing
his proposed reporting requirements for the company. He said IBM
and the SEC need to prove statistically that his disclosure
obligations are too burdensome.  “I’m not just going to roll over like the SEC has,” Leon
told IBM’s lawyer, Peter Barbur, during the 25-minute hearing.
“You’re going to need data to satisfy me.”  The heart of the dispute is that Leon, who has had the case
under review for 22 months, wants reporting on a broader range
of possible wrongdoing than the company is willing to turn over.
Leon said there is a growing awareness among federal judges of
the need for more rigorous review of corporate settlement
agreements.  Leon, who spoke loudly and angrily, asked why the regulator
would agree to limit such requirements for a company with a
history of books-and-records violations. He also threatened to
hold Barbur, of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, in contempt for
talking over him.  Barbur didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
yesterday’s hearing.  ‘Reasonable Resolution’  IBM and the SEC submitted a “reasonable resolution” and
“both parties continue to urge the court to approve the
settlement,” Robert Weber, IBM’s general counsel, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The parties have previously told the court
that they are opposed to certain reporting provisions that are
unrelated to the allegations in the complaint.”  IBM, based in Armonk,  New York , said in March 2011 that it
had settled with U.S. regulators over allegations that it bribed
Chinese and South Korean officials to win at least $54 million
in government contracts.  The company, without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
agreed in 2011 to pay $10 million in disgorgement and penalties
to settle alleged violations of the books-and-records and
internal-control provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act.  Of 35 foreign bribery settlements with companies reached by
the SEC since 2010, only one other failed to win judicial sign-
off in less than three months.  Open Court  Yesterday’s hearing was the first one Leon held in open
court. At least three private meetings with the parties took
place in his chambers without a court reporter present,
according the case file and court stenographers.  Leon yesterday referenced conversations he has had with the
parties since the case was filed, saying that he and the parties
were at an impasse. He said it was his responsibility to ensure
that the public’s interest was protected in the deal.  The judge said he wanted annual reports regarding the
company’s FCPA compliance, specifically telling him about all
possible accounting violations. He said that IBM balked at
supplying such information beyond specific bribe allegations, a
position supported by the SEC.  Under questioning from Leon, Barbur claimed he didn’t know
how many possible accounting violations the company had in a
given year. “As a practical matter it would be impossible to
track,” Barbur said.  Narrow Scope  SEC lawyer Kyle DeYoung said the commission never asked IBM
to quantify that information. He defended the narrow scope of
compliance reporting the agency is seeking because it “should
be tailored to conduct that gave rise to the complaint.”  Leon said that IBM has at least one employee dedicated to
monitoring company litigation and FCPA compliance. The judge
said he didn’t understand “why, for one of the largest
companies in the world, this is too burdensome.” IBM
accountants may be called to testify in his courtroom to back up
the company’s position, he said.  “I guess you want that $10 million judgment on your list
of achievements this year,” Leon told DeYoung. “Well, it’s not
going to happen.”  He scheduled a hearing for Feb. 4.  The alleged payments, which occurred from 1998 through
2009, were made by employees at three subsidiaries of IBM, as
well as LG IBM PC Co., a joint venture with  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,
according to the SEC’s complaint.  The SEC said cash payments to South Korean officials from
1998 to 2003 totaled $207,000 and were connected to contracts
worth almost $54 million. Some of the money was delivered in
shopping bags.  ‘Slush Fund’  In  China , the IBM employees created “slush funds” at
local travel agencies that were used to pay for overseas
excursions by government officials, the SEC said. IBM employees
also gave gifts, such as cameras and  laptop computers , to
Chinese officials, according to the complaint.  The SEC didn’t say what IBM received in return from those
officials.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 