-- Icahn Target Greenbrier Falls as Investors Doubt Deal
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-20T21:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/icahn-target-greenbrier-falls-as-investors-doubt-deal.html
Greenbrier Cos., the target of  Carl Icahn ’s  American Railcar Industries Inc. (ARII)  takeover offer, dropped
the most in seven weeks amid investor concern a sweetened bid
for the railcar maker may fall through.  Greenbrier sank 12 percent to $18.16 at the close in  New
York , the steepest one-day drop since Nov. 1. American Railcar
fell 8 percent to $33.11, the biggest decline since March 12.  American Railcar, which is 56 percent owned by Icahn,
increased its bid to $22 a share from $20 and gave Greenbrier
until tomorrow at 2 p.m. to accept or reject the offer.
Greenbrier called the first bid “grossly” undervalued.  “The primary risk to owning the shares at this time is the
possibility of a rejection of the offer by Greenbrier’s board
followed by Icahn walking away,” Michael Baudendistel, an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a note today in
which he cut his rating on Greenbrier to hold from buy.  Icahn, who disclosed a 9.99 percent stake in Greenbrier
last month, is reviving a takeover bid for the Lake Oswego-based
railcar producer that he made and then called off four years
ago. By combining Greenbrier and American Railcar, he would
create the largest U.S. railroad-car maker, surpassing  Trinity
Industries Inc. (TRN)   Before today, Greenbrier’s shares had jumped 48 percent
since Nov. 12, the day before Icahn disclosed his stake in the
company. Even with that gain, the shares had lost 15 percent
this year through Dec. 19.  Greenbrier’s ‘Missteps’  Greenbrier’s shares have stumbled because the company gave
a “conservative outlook” for next year and has had some
“operational glitches” that affected profit margins, JB Groh,
an analyst with D.A. Davidson & Co., said in an interview
yesterday.  “They’ve had a couple missteps on the margin front and I
think that’s frustrated people,” he said. “The peak earnings
are still a couple of years away.”  If American Railcar’s $22 offer is rejected, it’s unlikely
there will be another bidder, Baudendistel, the Stifel analyst,
said.  “Yesterday’s offer price represents a full and fair value
for the company’s shares,” Baudendistel wrote in the note.
“Icahn walking away from this deal would certainly not be
unprecedented.”  American Railcar said it was told by Greenbrier’s
investment banker before the initial offer that $20 to $22 was
an acceptable price. Greenbrier said in a statement on Dec. 18
that the $20-a-share offer “grossly undervalues” the company.  Banker’s Encouragement  “If Greenbrier’s board does not wish to proceed on this
basis, we will move on to other endeavors and abandon any
efforts to complete a transaction,”  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP)  Chief
Executive Officer Daniel A. Ninivaggi said in the letter to
Greenbrier CEO William Furman.  Jack Isselmann, a spokesman for Greenbrier, declined to
comment on the offer.  In the letter, Ninivaggi said that Greenbrier’s investment
banker “last weekend” encouraged him to make an offer and that
the board would “seriously entertain” a bid of between $20 and
$22. He didn’t identify the investment banker. Greenbrier said
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. are its
financial advisers.  “We would never have made the offer had we not believed
that we had your support and the support of a substantial number
of directors for a transaction in the  price range  we
discussed,” Ninivaggi wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  