-- Micron Falls Most in Six Months as Quarterly Loss Widens
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-12-21T14:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/micron-technology-reports-wider-first-quarter-loss-amid-pc-slump.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of memory chips, fell the most in six months after
reporting a wider fiscal first-quarter loss as a slump in demand
for personal computers led to a supply glut, weighing down
prices.  The shares tumbled 7.1 percent to $6.31 at 9:49 a.m. in  New
York , after earlier declining 7.5 percent for the biggest
intraday drop since June 21. Before today, the shares had risen
more than 30 percent since touching a 52-week low on Oct. 24 on
optimism that chip prices will rebound.  Computer-memory chip prices fell 11 percent on average from
the prior quarter, Micron said. The drop came amid a projected
decline in PC shipments for 2012, the first annual contraction
in more than 10 years, according to  IHS ISuppli . Makers of PCs,
servers and  network equipment  had already accrued more chips
than they needed and reduced new orders, according to  Doug Freedman , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  The net loss for the period that ended Nov. 29 widened to
$275 million, or 27 cents a share, from $187 million, or 19
cents, a year earlier, the Boise, Idaho-based company said
yesterday in a filing. Revenue fell 12 percent to $1.83 billion.
Analysts on average  estimated  a loss of 20 cents on sales of $2
billion, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Micron also makes Nand  flash memory , chips that provide the
storage in mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets.
Industrywide production cuts in that kind of memory helped
reverse a slide in Nand prices, which rose 5 percent on average
from the fiscal fourth quarter. Even so, unit sales fell 9
percent, Micron said.  Elpida Approval  In July, Micron agreed to acquire bankrupt Elpida Memory
Inc. for 200 billion yen ($2.37 billion). The transaction is
aimed at grabbing control of more supply and bolstering a
challenge to industry leader Samsung Electronics Co., as well as
South  Korea ’s SK Hynix Inc. Elpida, the last Japanese maker of
computer-memory chips, sought  bankruptcy protection  in February
after losses left it unable to pay debts.  The Japan Fair Trade Commission has approved the
acquisition, according to a statement today from Micron and
Elpida. The transaction has also cleared reviews in the U.S.,
 Czech Republic  and Korea, according to the statement.  The deal still needs to win approval from Elpida creditors,
the Tokyo District Court, as well as regulatory nods in other
countries, the companies said. It is expected to be completed in
the first half of 2013.  Analysts, including Freedman, expect a manufacturing
slowdown in the memory industry next year to help restore the
balance between supply and demand and return Micron to
profitability.  Micron has reported losses for six straight quarters, and
analysts project that will continue for two more quarters,
according the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  