-- Microsoft Set to Face Possible EU Fines on Browser Violation
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-20T13:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/microsoft-set-to-face-eu-decision-on-browser-antitrust-violation.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  faces possible
European Union fines as soon as next month over its failure to
comply with a settlement to give users a choice of web browsers.  Regulators are close to a decision which would be “one of
the first in 2013,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust chief,
told reporters at a European Commission press conference in
Brussels today.  The world’s largest software maker was sent EU antitrust
objections in October, a preliminary step before being punished
for failing to abide by a promise to show a browser-choice
screen to users of its  Windows operating system . The company was
also warned to modify how it presents its Internet Explorer
browser in Windows 8 to avert another antitrust clash.  Microsoft has already been fined 1.68 billion euros ($2.23
billion) in EU antitrust probes, including an 899 million-euro
penalty for failing to obey an order to share data with
competitors. The Redmond, Washington-based company agreed in
2009 to offer access to rival browsers as a part of a settlement
to repair its relationship with the bloc’s regulators. It told
regulators last December that it was complying with its
commitments.  Robin Koch, a spokesman for Microsoft in Brussels, declined
to comment on Almunia’s remarks.  Almunia didn’t mention possible penalties, which can be as
high as 10 percent of yearly sales for breaching an antitrust
settlement.  Internet Explorer  Under the terms of Microsoft’s 2009 pledge, consumers who
buy personal computers were given a choice of the 12 most widely
used browsers to install in addition to, or instead of,
Microsoft’s  Internet Explorer .  The company  said  in July it only learned that month that it
didn’t offer its browser choice software to some 28 million
computers running Windows 7 Service Pack 1, or 10 percent of the
computers that should have received it. It distributed a
software fix to computers that were affected.  Any fines for Microsoft may take into account repeat
offenses, Almunia said in July in a reference to the EU’s 2008
penalty for the company’s failure to obey an earlier EU
decision. That ruling also ordered it to provide information to
software developers to make compatible products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 