-- Liikanen’s Bank-Separation Proposal Sparks Opposition, EU Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-20T17:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/liikanen-s-bank-separation-proposal-sparks-opposition-eu-says.html
Finnish Central Bank Governor Erkki Liikanen’s proposals to force banks to divert some trading into
separately capitalized units face widespread criticism, European
Union regulators said after seeking views on the plans that may
form the basis of an EU law.  Many banks argue that “a compelling case for mandatory
separation of trading activities has not been made,” the
European Commission said in a  document  summarizing  responses  to
the draft measures. Some central banks and finance ministries in
the 27-nation EU also signaled their opposition, according to
the report, published on the EU’s website.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has
sought views on the structural measures, which were proposed
earlier this year by an EU-mandated working group led by
Liikanen, who’s also a member of the European Central Bank’s
Governing Council.  Under the Liikanen group’s plan, lenders would transfer
trading they conduct on their own behalf and other high risk
activities into legally separate units. This trading entity
wouldn’t be allowed to finance its activities through deposits
covered by government guarantees.  Barnier has said the proposals are a “good basis” for
future commission work.  Bank criticisms of the draft plans include that they would
raise costs and spur the growth of so-called shadow banks that
face less strict regulation, according to the report.  Central banks and finance ministries have “diverging views
on the need for structural reform,” according to the report.
Even those in support of the plans are seeking “greater clarity
on the nature of the proposed separation and an impact
assessment.”  The majority of “non-bank respondents, business
federations or other representatives of corporate customers”
also have “strong reservations about mandatory separation,”
the commission said in the report.  Bank investors and consumer groups were more positive about
the proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  