-- Illumina Shares Gain on Report of Higher Roche Bid
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-12-20T21:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/illumina-shares-gain-on-report-of-new-roche-bid-frankfurt-mover.html
Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  gained the most in
almost a year after Swiss newspaper L’Agefi said  Roche Holding
AG (ROG)  may have agreed to buy the U.S. maker of DNA sequencing
equipment at a price 48 percent higher than its original
unsuccessful bid.  Illumina jumped 7.8 percent to $56.22 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day increase since Jan. 25. The San
Diego-based company has gained 85 percent this year amid the
takeover talk.  Roche and Illumina management may have agreed to a bid at
$66 a share last week that might be announced in the first half
of January, the newspaper said, citing information that
“appears trustworthy though couldn’t be verified.” Alexander Klauser, a spokesman for Basel-based Roche, said the company
doesn’t comment on “market rumors.” Laura Trotter, an Illumina
spokeswoman, also declined to comment on the report.  Such a bid would be worth about $8.1 billion, compared with
the $6.7 billion price rejected by Illumina last April.  Martin Voegtli , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, said he thinks
the reported bid is “highly unlikely.”  “Roche management would lose its face and trust with a
renewed $66 bid,” he said, adding that nothing has happened in
the past eight months to justify such a price increase.  “We’re always said that for Roche to go into that
business, they would need to be a dominant player,” which would
mean paying up for an Illumina or a rival like  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE) , said Peter Lawson, a Mizuho Securities USA analyst in New
York who has a “buy” rating on Illumina. He has a $57 price
target for the stock.  It could make sense for Roche to try again to negotiate a
deal, though at a price closer to its last offer, said Odile Rundquist, an analyst at Helvea in Geneva.  “I’m surprised about the $66 price tag,” she said. “I
remain skeptical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva  at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  