-- Lilly to Pay $29.4 Million to End SEC Foreign Bribe Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-20T18:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/lilly-to-pay-29-4-million-to-end-sec-foreign-bribe-case.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  agreed to pay
$29.4 million to settle U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
allegations that employees of subsidiaries gave cash and gifts
to officials in  China ,  Brazil , Russia and  Poland  to win millions
of dollars in business.  Under the settlement agreement filed today in federal court
in  Washington , the drugmaker didn’t admit or deny the truth of
the allegations. The SEC claimed the company’s violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act began as early as 1994.  “Eli Lilly and its subsidiaries possessed a ‘check the
box’ mentality when it came to third-party due diligence,” Kara Novaco Brockmeyer, head of the SEC’s foreign bribery unit, said
in a statement. “Companies can’t simply rely on paper-thin
assurances by employees, distributors, or customers. They need
to look at the surrounding circumstances of any payment to
adequately assess whether it could wind up in a government
official’s pocket.”  Lilly, the Indianapolis-based maker of the antidepressant
Cymbalta, said in a statement today that it was notified of the
bribery probe in August 2003. As part of the settlement, Lilly
agreed to have an independent consultant conduct a 60-day review
of its internal controls and compliance program related to the
anti-bribery law.  ‘Internal Controls’  “We have cooperated with the U.S. government throughout
this investigation and have strengthened our internal controls
and compliance program globally, including significant
investment in our global anti-corruption program,” Anne Nobles,
Lilly’s chief ethics and compliance officer, said in the
statement.  The SEC said an  Eli Lilly  subsidiary in Russia used so-
called offshore marketing agreements to pay third parties chosen
by government customers or distributors without knowing who
these people were beyond an address or bank account information.  These offshore entities were used in some instances to
funnel money to government officials to obtain business for the
subsidiary, the SEC alleged.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Eli
Lilly & Co., 12-cv-02045, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 