-- Indian Stocks Drop on Concerns Gujarat Verdict May Slow R
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-12-20T07:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/india-stock-futures-swing-between-gain-loss-before-gujarat-poll.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks dropped amid concern
recent gains may have outpaced the outlook for company earnings
and on speculation that an electoral victory of the opposition
in Gujarat may prompt the government to slow economic reforms.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost 0.4 percent
to 19,395.78 at 1:06 p.m. in Mumbai. The gauge has climbed 5.8
percent over the past month, the most since the 30-day period
ended Feb. 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Copper maker
 Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT)  fell from a nine-month high,
pacing losses among materials producers.  “Stocks where valuations are looking a bit stretched are
seeing profit-booking ahead of the year-end,” Deven Choksey,
managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in
Mumbai, said today.  The Sensex has risen 26 percent this year, headed for its
biggest annual advance since 2009, as government steps to open
the economy to overseas investment accelerated foreign buying of
local stocks. Offshore funds have bought a net $22.8 billion of
Indian shares this year, the highest among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China . The gauge trades at 15.3
times estimated earnings, the highest level since February.  Sterlite declined 2.1 percent to 117.35 rupees. The stock
yesterday climbed to its highest level since March 14.  Tata
Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the biggest producer, fell 1.8 percent to 416.55
rupees, paring its gain in the past 30 days to 16 percent.
 Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the biggest power-equipment
maker, dropped 1.6 percent to 229.95 rupees. Axis Bank Ltd. slid
1.7 percent to 1,312.5 rupees.  The BSE India Metals Index has jumped 13 percent over the
past 30 days, while BSE Bankex Index has risen 10 percent in the
same period.  Gujarat Verdict  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. decreased 0.6 percent to 5,895.65. India VIX, which
measures the cost of protection against losses in the Nifty,
gained 1 percent to 14.61, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gujarat Chief Minister  Narendra Modi  of the  Bharatiya
Janata Party  is heading for a third straight electoral victory.
The party is a key opponent of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
legislation opening the nation to overseas retailers. BJP’s
victory in Gujarat may force the government to boost spending on
populist measures before the general elections in 2014.  “Populist measures will spur inflation by widening the
fiscal deficit, which is negative for stocks,”  Arun Kejriwal ,
director at Mumbai-based Kejriwal Research & Investment Pvt.,
said by phone.  Singh’s administration began a campaign in mid-September to
revive economic growth from the weakest levels since 2009 and
avoid a credit-rating downgrade by paring fuel subsidies, and
opening up retailing and aviation to foreign investment. The
passing of a banking bill on Dec. 18 was the latest in the
series of such measures.  Standard and Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut their outlooks on
 India ’s credit rating, currently at the lowest investment-grade
level, to negative earlier this year. S&P said in a statement on
Dec. 11 the country’s large fiscal deficits and debt are
constraining ratings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  