-- Modi Bolsters Bid to Lead BJP With Crushing Gujarat Victory
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-12-20T13:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/india-s-modi-bolsters-bid-to-lead-bjp-with-gujarat-congress-rout.html
Narendra Modi  won a third
consecutive term as chief minister of the Indian state of
Gujarat, strengthening his bid to lead the main opposition party
into parliamentary polls in just over a year.  Modi’s  Bharatiya Janata Party  won 115 of the total 182
seats in the provincial assembly, routing the Congress party
which heads the federal government in a two-stage vote that
ended earlier this week, according to the  Election Commission of
India . Modi, 62, needs to tighten his grip over the state he’s
ruled for 11 years to help counter concern in his party that
anti-Muslim riots a decade ago make him incapable of wooing
allies ahead of the national campaign due by 2014.  “The focus is solely on Modi’s performance as he seeks to
rehabilitate his image and build a platform to become prime
minister,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the New Delhi-
based Centre for Media Studies.  With Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration
struggling to reassert its reform credentials, and beset by
economic growth slowing to a decade’s low, Modi’s government has
been hailed by Tata Group Chairman  Ratan Tata , and billionaire
 Mukesh Ambani , chairman of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , both of
which have investments in Gujarat.  Surplus Power  The state’s economy has grown an  annual  10.2 percent on
average over the last decade, against 7.8 percent for the
national economy. Under Modi, Gujarat has raised power
generation capacity more than fivefold, while his government
says it is the only state in India to have surplus electricity.  Party colleagues, whose seniority makes them prospective
candidates for the nation’s top office, have praised Modi and
said he is qualified to lead the country. The Hindu nationalist
BJP last led the national government from 1998 to 2004.  Modi won 117 seats five years ago, just short of a two-
thirds majority in the local assembly. In today’s count, Prime
Minister Singh’s Congress party won 61 seats, the commission
said.  In the northern state of  Himachal Pradesh , in the foothills
of the Himalayas, in another other vote counted today, Congress
ousted the ruling BJP government, winning 36 out of 68 seats,
according to the election commission.  “Congress has not done as badly as some would have
feared,” said A.K. Verma, a political analyst at Christ Church
College in Kanpur in  Uttar Pradesh , India’s most-populous state.
“Given all the scams and the unpopularity of some of their
policies, they will be given some hope from these results as
they prepare for the general elections.”  Stalled Legislation  Two years of corruption allegations against 80-year-old
Singh’s officials and ministers, the government’s inability to
curb  inflation  and coalition infighting over his proposals to
further open the economy to foreign investment have triggered
street protests and stalled legislation in parliament.  There has been no major survey of probable voter
preferences since Singh in September began a reform drive to
overhaul the economy. A poll published in August by  Nielsen
Holdings NV (NLSN)  and India Today magazine forecast that his Congress
party alliance would win 181 seats, 78 fewer than it secured in
the May 2009 election. The BJP bloc of parties may win as many
as 205.  Inflation, Slowdown  India’s $1.8 trillion  economy  is set to expand 5.7 percent
to 5.9 percent in the year to March 31, according to the  finance
ministry , the least in a decade. Inflation has stayed above 7
percent in all but one of the last 11 months this year, above
the central bank’s comfort level.  Singh unveiled his reforms drive to kick start growth after
almost 24 months of legislative paralysis, and it included moves
to allow foreign investment in multibrand retail outlets,
insurance companies and in pension firms.  Modi topped a poll of preferred leaders by the  India  Today
magazine in March, with 24 percent favoring him to be India’s
next premier. Congress’ Rahul Gandhi came second with 17
percent.  An opinion poll carried out for News 24 Today Chanakya, a
Hindi language TV channel, released earlier this week predicted
that the BJP may win as many 140 seats in Gujarat, or 77 percent
of those available. The margin of error was 11 seats.  Rioting Mobs  Even after today’s victory, allegations that Modi failed to
stop rampaging Hindu mobs as they burned their way through
neighborhoods in 2002 may still threaten his emergence as a
national leader. The  violence  left more than 1,000 people dead,
most of them Muslims.  The carnage, which left Modi barred from the U.S. and some
European nations, followed the killing of Hindu activists in a
train fire, a blaze for which Muslims were later found guilty.  A Supreme Court-appointed panel investigating one
documented incident found no evidence that Modi took decisions
to prevent assistance from reaching those being attacked. Maya
Kodnani, a former Modi aide, was jailed in August for her role
in the murder of 97 people in a suburb of Ahmedabad, Gujarat’s
biggest city.  Modi’s administration said it did its best to maintain law
and order during the rioting. Modi hasn’t apologized for the
riots, saying “one only has to ask for forgiveness if one is
guilty of a crime,” in an  interview  with the Wall Street
Journal this year, according to the paper.  The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, has signaled
he’ll quit the BJP-led opposition bloc if Modi becomes its face.  Gujarat’s achievements in improving basic services have
been less impressive, according to an  India Today  survey last
month. It ranks 12th out of the largest 20 provinces in
improvements to its education system and 9th in health care.  Even so, with about 5 percent of India’s population,
Gujarat generates 22 percent of its exports and 11.5 percent of
the country’s manufacturing, state government  data  show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  