-- India’s Unfinished Journey to Economic Success
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-12-20T23:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/india-s-unfinished-journey-to-economic-success.html
Even if the latest reforms succeed,
 India  will need to do much more to acquire the efficiency,
infrastructure, foreign direct investment, free markets and
deregulated, corruption-free orientation that will allow the
country to move from 5 percent annual real growth to higher
sustainable gains.  Land reform is required not only to allow foreign
supermarkets to become established but also to make it easier
for manufacturers to set up factories. A national  sales tax 
would encourage  intra-Indian trade  by replacing the tangle of
state levies. For now, state governments distrust the central
administration to give them their fair share of the proceeds.  Corruption needs to be reduced by shifting away from a
system in which politicians allocate public goods and where many
feel entitled to enjoy the lifestyle of the very rich. India
inherited its bureaucratic system from the British and added
corruption to the formula.  The “Licence Raj” system has been weakened since 1991,
but is far from dead. Deregulating the distribution of coal
would be a big plus. The government could begin by breaking up
or selling  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , a huge and inefficient state
monopoly.  Financial Markets  Financial-market development would be aided by easing the
requirement that banks and other financial institutions hold
large quantities of  government securities  -- a rule that has
kept the private-sector credit and corporate-bond markets
relatively small. Also, reducing government’s control over
three-quarters of India’s banks would make capital allocation
more market-driven and efficient.  Many Indians have strong entrepreneurial inclinations. The
growth that could be produced by shifting economic power from
 politicians  to entrepreneurs would be vital to reducing high
poverty rates and corruption. Small- and medium-sized businesses
are the largest nonfarm employers and account for 45 percent of
manufacturing output. They add about 3.3 million workers
annually. That’s still well below the 13 million new labor-force
entrants each year.  Corruption, a byzantine bureaucracy and poor infrastructure
impede entrepreneurs. In recent years,  China  has added annually
about 10 times more power to its electric grid than India. The
government’s reluctance to enact land reform and other spurs to
agribusiness, as well as barriers to intrastate trade, inhibit
entrepreneurial opportunities and rural productivity growth. And
80 percent of entrepreneurs, according to a survey, say that
corruption is increasing, a reasonable assumption as economic
expansion creates more opportunities for graft.  Furthermore, a culture that penalizes risk taking is an
obstacle to new ventures. Indian business is concentrated among
long-existing and well-connected conglomerates with close ties
to the government, much like the state-owned enterprises in
China and the chaebols in  South Korea . No significant Indian
government-owned business has been privatized in years.  Compared with the U.S., U.K.,  Germany  and even China, India
leads the pack in terms of business-startup costs and is only
topped by China in the time it takes to establish a business.
According to the  World Bank , India ranked 132nd out of 185
countries in a study on the ease of doing business, behind
 Russia  (112th) and  Brazil  (130th); China was 91st.  Many enterprises reduce the cost of bureaucracy and taxes
by operating off the books. A landmark study in the mid-1950s
found that the underground economy accounted for 4 percent to 5
percent of Indian gross domestic product. That share rose to 40
percent in 1996, and to 50 percent a decade later.  Education Deficit  Education also ranks high among India’s long-term
challenges. About 97 percent of children enter school, but more
than half drop out before completing high school. The literacy
rate of 63 percent in 2006 -- the latest available data --though
an improvement from 52 percent in 1991, is only higher than
Pakistan’s 2009 rate of 55 percent among major countries. School
enrollment is the lowest, in high school and college, among the
so-called BRIC nations: Brazil, Russia, India and China.  Even more of a problem is the quality of public education.
Business executives complain about the overbearing bureaucracy
in highly regulated schools, and the emphasis on rote learning
rather than critical thinking and comprehension.  An Indian call center found that it could hire only three
of every 100 applicants because so few high-school and college
graduates could communicate effectively in English and had basic
reading comprehension skills. Students in India’s engineering
colleges now number 1.5 million, compared with 390,000 in 2000.
Yet 75 percent of technical graduates and more than 85 percent
of general grads can’t pass the tests for jobs in India’s
information-technology industry, call centers and other high-
growth global sectors. These businesses directly employ only 2.5
million Indians and are constrained from more rapid growth by
shortages of adequately prepared workers.  Major Indian outsourcing companies such as  Tata Consultancy
Services (TCS)  and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  are increasing the length of training
programs to bring newly hired graduates up to speed. Both
companies made on-site evaluations of India’s 3,000 engineering
schools. Tata says 300 students made the cut; Wipro said 100
did. Only two Indian universities rank in the world’s top 500,
compared with 22 in China, two in Russia, six in Brazil and 154
in the U.S.  Higher training costs are reducing the international
competitiveness of India’s outsourcing industry, which
contributes $69 billion annually to the economy and accounts for
a quarter of  exports . Furthermore, competition from other
countries, such as the English-speaking Philippines, is
increasing.  Tablet Computer  There is hope for Indian education, however. The new Right
to Education law promises to lift quality by setting minimum
standards for school buildings, playing fields and student-
teacher ratios. Also, some wealthy Indians are endowing
universities, financing higher salaries to attract good faculty,
hiring Indian academics from abroad and promoting research, as
well as teaching. In addition, the Indian government, in
partnership with  Canada ’s DataWind Ltd., recently introduced a
low-cost tablet computer to be sold to students for about $35,
part of the government’s effort to leverage the Internet in
education.  Income inequality  has always been prevalent in India, and
has been rising in recent years.  McKinsey & Co.  estimates that
there are 2.5 million households making more than $34,000 per
year, compared with 1 million in 2005. However, those on the
bottom, with less than $3,000 a year, have increased to 111
million from 101 million in 2005.  India’s millennia-old caste system impedes social mobility
and economic growth. Every Indian is the same before the law,
though caste determines social status, who a person can marry
and what his or her occupation will be.  When India moved toward capitalism in 1991, it set out to
create equal opportunity for all, regardless of caste. The huge
number of lower-caste Indians used their voting power to push
the government to more than double the number of jobs and civil-
service positions reserved for them.  Despite 20 years of efforts to break them down, caste
influences play more of a role in wage inequality in India than
do social hierarchies in  Indonesia , Brazil and China. In 2010,
median household income of high caste Indians was more than
twice that of the low-caste Dalits. And the higher the caste,
the more access there is to indoor plumbing, electricity and
vaccinations for children, and the better the English skills and
literacy rates for both sexes become.  Urbanization also remains a challenge for India. Subsidies
and other government policies, at least until now, have
encouraged rural life. There are now 377 million city dwellers,
or 31 percent of the population, and that number is growing by
about 5 million a year as migrants from the hinterland flock to
the cities. That’s still a far cry from the situation in China,
where 49 percent of the population was urban in 2010, even
though migrants from rural areas are legally discouraged from
moving to cities. With urbanization comes economic growth and
rising incomes as better-paid, high-value-added city jobs
replace farm work.  City Migration  Reducing subsidies for rural Indians could encourage them
to move to cities, much as the Enclosure Acts in  England  in the
18th and 19th centuries pushed landless rural people into
factory towns during the Industrial Revolution.  India’s rural subsidies might be better spent on social
services such as old-age pensions and disability insurance,
health care,  unemployment benefits  and training. India ranks
last on the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development’s list of public social expenditures as a share of
GDP.  Although a smaller share of India’s GDP is produced by
industry than in China, services account for 56 percent of the
economy, compared with 43 percent in China. Services range from
high-value-added segments such as  information technology  to
restaurant dishwashers and rickshaw drivers, which on average
have much lower productivity and wages than industry. The demand
for goods is much more volatile than for services, especially in
the export arena. So India’s more inward-looking stance and its
orientation toward the production of services offer better
protection than China and other goods-export-led nations, which
are hurt by the global economic weakness and resulting depressed
demand for goods.  Urbanization must be combined with deregulation,
bureaucratic restraint, clean government and adequate
infrastructure to result in high efficiency and rapid economic
growth. And Indian infrastructure -- roads, railways and
electric power -- needs a vast improvement, another long-run
challenge.  India has limited natural resources, but a lack of local
raw materials hasn’t restrained  Japan ’s growth. India also has
to take care of its environment. Like other  developing
countries , India has major problems with air and water
pollution. The Ganges River is sacred, though tanneries, paper
mills and other industries dump untreated waste into it.  Indians have yet to acquire a sense of responsibility for
their environment, their national treasures and public spaces.
This may be due to an overreliance on government to fix things;
a historic caste culture; the religious conviction that the
present is unimportant; a sense of fatalism; and the pressures
created by a huge population. And it simply may be part of the
early stages of economic development.  Visiting India, I realized that this is a very old and deep
culture that resists rapid change. After independence in 1947,
these traits were reinforced by stifling bureaucracy,
corruption, economy-distorting subsidies, veneration of rural
life, Soviet-style central planning and an acceptance of slow
growth.  It will be fascinating to see if India’s problems can be
overcome and whether rapid and sustainable economic growth can
be established in a robust democracy. I believe India will
succeed in the long run.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the fifth in a five-part series.
Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  