-- Lippo Taps Demand in Indonesia’s Smaller Cities: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-12-21T05:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/lippo-taps-demand-in-indonesia-s-smaller-cities-southeast-asia.html
PT Lippo Karawaci (LPKR) , Indonesia’s
largest publicly traded real estate developer by assets, plans
to build more shopping malls and hospitals in cities beyond
Jakarta to capitalize on an expanding middle class.  Lippo will build about half of the 15 new  malls  it plans to
complete by 2015 in cities such as Semarang in north Java,
Denpasar in Bali and Manado in north Sulawesi province,
President Director Ketut Budi Wijaya said in a phone interview.
Lippo will also open new hospitals in Surabaya, Indonesia’s
second-largest city, Semarang, and Kalimantan, he said.  “Some of these cities will see growth rates higher than
Jakarta, and that will lead to urbanization,” Wijaya said
yesterday from the capital. “Middle-class growth is high and
they’re looking for a better service of health care. Health care
is the most under-invested industry in  Indonesia .”  Developers are targeting the spending power of a growing
middle class amid economic growth that’s expected to average 6.4
percent from 2013 to 2017, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. Lippo’s hospitals division
could account for 40 percent of revenue from about a third now,
Wijaya said without providing a time frame.  Retail sales have increased 12.5 percent to 135 trillion
rupiah ($14 billion) this year from 2011, Hasan Pamudji,
Jakarta-based senior research manager at property broker Knight
Frank LLP, said in an e-mail, citing figures from the
Association of Indonesian Retailers.  “Purchasing power in Indonesia is very strong, and
retailers, particularly foreign ones, keep coming in and trying
to grab a share of the pie,” Pamudji said in a telephone
interview. “That’s why you see retail centers mushrooming right
now, not just in Jakarta, but also in the second-tier cities,
particularly in the east.”  Tourism, Offices  Accor SA (AC) ,  Europe ’s biggest hotel operator, plans to locate
half of its new  Southeast Asia  properties in Indonesia. The
Paris-based company plans to increase the number of its hotels
in the region to more than 200, from 132, Robert Murray, chief
operating officer for Accor’s northeast and Southeast Asian
operations, said in an interview Dec. 7. The group’s hotels in
Indonesia, which include 16 Novotels and 11 Mercures, will
increase to 94 from 55 now, he said.  Growth in the country’s tourism market is also spurring
airlines to expand. Indonesian carrier PT Lion Mentari Airlines
is considering purchasing additional aircraft from Airbus SAS
and  Boeing Co. (BA)  as it adds flights in a region where  air travel 
is expected to grow more than 6.4 percent annually through 2031.  Surging Rents  Jakarta’s office rents are expected to surge 79 percent in
the three years to Dec. 31, 2014, as technology and financial-
service firms expand into  emerging markets , New York-based
Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said in an e-mailed release today.
Rents will jump to 356,028 Indonesian rupiah per square meter
(10.8 square feet) per month by the fourth quarter of 2014, from
198,680 rupiah in the fourth quarter of 2011, the group said.  In Jakarta, gross mall rents, which include service
charges, could rise by as much as 20 percent, Pamudji said. To
deal with limited land availability and the resulting high
prices within the city, developers are looking to the outskirts
to build so-called townships, cluster communities that combine
housing estates with offices, hotels or shopping malls, he said.  Lippo is also building within its existing townships to
meet the needs of new buyers, Wijaya said.  “As our townships get more mature, we need to build more
commercial facilities; that includes malls,” he said.  Jakarta Focus  At the Lippo Village township, which houses about 60,000
people in more than 10,000 homes, Lippo plans to add high-rise
apartments for those unable to afford houses, and a new mall, he
said.  Lippo’s residential division, which accounted for about 48
percent of revenue as of Sept. 30, will maintain its focus on
Jakarta, which could see price increases of as much as 20
percent in some parts in 2013, Wijaya said. Across Lippo’s own
properties, price growth will average about 15 percent, he said.  Lippo Karawaci  shares  were unchanged at 1,000 rupiah as of
12:09 p.m. in Jakarta and have climbed 52 percent this year.  Boosting Assets  Lippo, which is seeking to boost the value of its assets to
$8 billion in five years, from about $3 billion now, will do so
by moving forward on development projects on the 1,400 hectares
(3,460 acres) of land it holds now, Wijaya said.  The group will fund projects by selling completed
properties into its two Singapore-listed property trusts,  First
Real Estate Investment Trust (FIRT) , which owns its hospital
properties, and  Lippo Malls Indonesia Retail Trust (LMRT) , which holds
its malls, Wijaya said.  First REIT shares climbed 37 percent this year while Lippo
Malls advanced 34 percent, outpacing the Singapore benchmark
Straits Times Index’s 20 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  