-- Iraq’s Talabani Treated in Germany, Isn’t in Coma, Aide Says
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-12-20T09:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/iraq-s-talabani-treated-in-germany-isn-t-in-coma-aide-says.html
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani, the
country’s first Kurdish head of state and a moderating force
among the nation’s rival factions, isn’t in a coma and was flown
today to Germany for treatment, the head of his office said.  The 79-year-old Talabani’s functions have been temporarily
transfered to Vice President Khudair al-Khuzaie, a member of
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s Daawa party, according to
Naseer al-Ani. “He is not in a coma and his limbs are moving,”
he said in a phone interview in Baghdad today, without giving
further details. The  New York  Times and other media had earlier
cited officials as saying the president was in a coma.  Kurdish lawmaker Mahmoud Othman confirmed by phone that
Talabani was taken to Germany today from the Baghdad hospital
where he was admitted on Dec. 17 after suffering a stroke. He
was accompanied by German doctors who were summoned to Baghdad
to treat him. Medics from  Iran  and the U.K. also arrived in  Iraq 
to check on Talabani, state-sponsored Iraqiya TV said yesterday.  Talabani has been a stabilizing force in Iraq, although his
position is largely ceremonial. He was chosen as president by
parliament in 2005 after Iraq’s first democratic election in 50
years, which followed the U.S.-led invasion to oust  Saddam Hussein . He has worked to ease the conflict between the Shiite
Muslim majority and the Sunni community that escalated into
violence after the 2003 war, and the tensions between Iraq’s
Arabs and Kurds mainly focused on disputed land and control of
the nation’s oil wealth.  He began his political career in the 1950s and founded the
Patriotic Union of Kurdistan in 1975. His Peshmerga militia
battled Hussein’s army in the 1970s and 1980s, and following the
1991  Gulf War  he led a Kurdish uprising against the Iraqi
government.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-biggest crude reserves,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics that include Canada’s oil sands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in  Baghdad  at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  