-- Italian Senate Set for Budget Vote Before Monti Resigns
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-20T14:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/italian-senate-set-for-budget-vote-before-monti-resigns.html
The Italian Senate approved the 2013
budget, paving the way for Prime Minister Mario Monti to step
down before early elections next year.  Lawmakers in the upper house voted 199 to 55 to pass the
budget law, with 10 abstentions. The bill will now go to the
Chamber of Deputies for final approval in a vote that will take
place tomorrow, Ansa newswire reported today.  Monti announced on Dec. 8 that he’ll resign as soon as the
budget is passed after former Premier Silvio Berlusconi’s party
withdrew support for the government and the 76-year-old tycoon
tossed his hat back into the political ring. Monti is under
pressure from euro-area and business leaders as well as Italian
politicians to join the election campaign after helping restore
investor confidence in the euro area’s third-biggest economy.  “Investors are struggling to come to grips with what has
become an extremely uncertain and volatile political climate in
 Italy ,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London , said by e-mail yesterday. “We very much
doubt whether markets have adequately priced in the risks
surrounding the election.”  Bonds Gain  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond was little
changed at 4.4 percent at 2:47 p.m. in Rome. The yield was 7
percent on Nov. 16 last year, the day Monti took office when
Berlusconi’s government collapsed struggling to ward off
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Monti, 69, an economist and former European Union
commissioner, yesterday postponed a year-end press conference
scheduled for Dec. 21, when he had been expected to clarify his
political future.  Monti will probably address the issue on Dec. 22 or Dec. 23
after the lower house gives final approval to the budget,
International Cooperation Minister Andrea Riccardi said in  Rome 
yesterday. He declined to say whether Monti will run as a
candidate for premier.  Monti may endorse a unified list of candidates and take
part in the election campaign, daily la Repubblica reported
today, without citing anyone. Monti would return as premier if
the list won the election, according to the newspaper.  Feb. 24 would be the most convenient date for elections,
Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri told President Giorgio
Napolitano yesterday, according to an e-mailed statement.
Italy’s head of state said he will evaluate her proposal.  Berlusconi’s Offer  Berlusconi, who first signaled his intention to run again
on Dec. 5, last week offered to pull out of the race if Monti
leads a coalition of “moderates” including his People of
Liberty party and his former Northern League ally, which unlike
the PDL never supported the current government.  Monti met yesterday in Rome with Union of Centrists party
leader Pier Ferdinando Casini and Toward a Third Republic
movement leader Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, who is chairman of
carmaker Ferrari SpA. Both men are encouraging Monti to run.  While Monti is a favorite of many European political and
business leaders, polls indicate he would struggle to win the
support of voters weary of his spending cuts and tax increases,
which helped push Italy into its fourth recession since 2001.  In a Dec. 14 poll by SWG Institute, 61 percent of
respondents said Monti shouldn’t run. If Monti runs his probable
coalition would only win 15 percent of the vote, about half that
of the Democratic Party, or PD, which backs the government.  PD leader Pier Luigi Bersani, a former communist, is the
front-runner to succeed Monti. The 61-year-old, backed by
Italy’s labor unions, has pledged to continue Monti’s budget
rigor.  Next President?  If he decides not to run and the Democratic Party wins the
elections, Monti may be available to become the next president,
succeeding Giorgio Napolitano whose term ends in May, or to
serve as finance minister in the new government,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
Milan-based economists including Chiara Corsa wrote in a Dec. 13
research note.  While Italy’s debt rose above 2 trillion euros ($2.66
trillion) for the first time in October and the economy
contracted for a fifth quarter, Italy is still running a surplus
after interest payments. The country will be alone among the
euro area’s so-called peripheral states to bring its deficit
within the European Union’s limit this year.  “Italy should be careful not to erode the credibility
capital accumulated by Monti so far,” Barclays Plc economists
including London-based Fabio Fois said in an e-mailed note.
“His commitment to assuming a central role in Italian politics
would be the best way to preserve that in the eyes of Italy’s
European partners and financial markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  