-- Mitsubishi Motors Slumps on Government Recall Warning
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-12-20T02:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/mitsubishi-motors-slumps-on-government-recall-warning.html
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  fell the
most in 21 months in Tokyo trading after receiving a government
warning saying it was “passive” in its handling of engine oil
leaks as the carmaker ordered a fourth round of recalls.  The stock  slumped  as much as 11 percent, headed for the
biggest decline since March 2011, before falling 6.6 percent to
85 yen as of 11:06 a.m.  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average fell 0.9 percent.  Mitsubishi has called back 1.76 million cars since November
2010, including the latest round announced yesterday,
because of oil leakage that may cause engines to stop. Japan’s
Transport Ministry said it will soon conduct an inspection of
the company and ordered the automaker to submit a report by
March about improvements made to address the problem.  “The share price will remain pressurized before the
ministry’s inspection result is clear,”  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-
based auto analyst at Toward the Infinite World Inc., said today
by phone. “The impact of the recall on its reputation will
offset” Mitsubishi’s efforts at boosting its operations
including sales in  Southeast Asia , he said.  Mitsubishi will ask owners to return eight models,
including the Minica and Town Box minicars, for a total of 1.21
million vehicles in Japan, it said in a statement yesterday on
the latest recall. The company will book a charge of 7.5 billion
yen ($89 million) for the latest call back, it said.  ‘Inappropriate Decisions’  “The ministry warned the company on having been passive in
its handling of the recalls,” according to a ministry  statement 
yesterday. Mitsubishi was also warned “for having made
inappropriate decisions, for providing the ministry with
inappropriate explanation, for being insufficient in clarifying
the causes of the recall,” it said.  No accidents have been reported as a result of the defect,
the ministry said.  “Recalls are quite common in the automotive industry,”
said  Ashvin Chotai , managing director of Intelligence Automotive
 Asia  in  London . “The difference between this one and the others
is that Mitsubishi has failed repeatedly to deal with the
issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  