-- Livestock Must Be Tagged in USDA Plan to Trace Mad Cow Disease
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-12-20T21:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/livestock-must-be-tagged-in-usda-plan-to-trace-mad-cow-disease.html
Most livestock moved across state
lines will have to be identified and tracked under a U.S.
Department of Agriculture rule that aims to rapidly trace
diseased animals to their origin.  Cattle and other animals covered by the regulation will
have to be identified by ear marks, tattoos or brands and
accompanied by an interstate certificate of veterinary
inspection when moved from state to state, the USDA said today
in a statement. The tracing will assist investigators who need
to quickly discover the origins of cattle with mad cow disease
or other ailments along with their herd mates, the USDA said.  “Over the past several years, USDA has listened carefully
to America’s farmers and ranchers, working collaboratively to
establish a system of tools and safeguards that will help us
target when and where animal diseases occur, and help us respond
quickly,” Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in the
release.  A nationwide animal tracing system has been promised since
2003 by the USDA, following the discovery of the country’s first
case of mad cow disease, which may lead to dementia and death in
humans who eat contaminated meat. The disclosure in April of the
first case of mad cow disease in six years -- from a 10-year-old
dairy animal in  California  -- spurred debate about whether to
expand tracking of older cattle.  The USDA said the rule will cost the cattle industry $14.5
million to $34.3 million annually, “assuming official
identification will be undertaken separately from other routine
management practices.” Department Spokesman Matthew Herrick
said the agency has set aside $14 million to implement the plan.  Rule Benefits  The USDA said the benefits of the rule, in increased
efficiencies in tracing disease outbreaks, are expected to
exceed the costs.  The  National Cattlemen’s Beef Association  said it was
“encouraged” by the rule, which will go into effect 60 days
after being placed in the Federal Register.  “The health and well-being of cattle has long been a top
priority for cattlemen and women,” said Kathy Simmons, chief
veterinarian for the industry group. “NCBA remains supportive
of an animal disease traceability program for cattle health
purposes.”  The rule requires identification of livestock moved between
states, with guidelines tailored to different species. It would
be put in place gradually, applying first to older animals in
the U.S. cattle herd, which numbered about 90.8 million at the
start of 2012. The U.S. livestock industry is valued at more
than $70 billion a year.  Sick Animals  The new rule is “going to help us move quickly to identify
where diseased and sick animals are,” Vilsack said.  Brands and tattoos are acceptable as identification if
agreed to by the states or Native American tribes involved, the
USDA said in an e-mailed statement.  Of the world’s eight largest beef exporters, only the U.S
and  India  don’t have mandatory national ID and tracing systems,
according to researchers for the U.S. Meat Export Federation.  While the rule applies to cattle, bison, goats and other
livestock, it is focused on the beef and dairy cattle industry,
the USDA said.  Most beef cattle under 18 months are exempt, as are chicks
moved interstate from a hatchery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  