-- Living Provincially: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-12-20T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/living-provincially-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
The U.S. is a country that likes to
be taken seriously. It’s also a country that just spent upwards
of a year and $5 billion on elections that achieved almost
nothing. While the politics industry was consumed by urgent,
domestic concerns -- can you believe that  Mitt Romney  wants an
elevator for his cars? -- a few things were happening overseas.
Meltdown in Europe. Political collapse in Japan. Civil war in
 Syria . Scandals, slowdown and a leadership change in China.  Sometimes it was difficult to retain focus on Clint Eastwood’s empty chair,  Ann Romney ’s horse, and  Elizabeth Warren ’s Cherokee lineage. Somehow the country rose to the
challenge, taking time to weigh which was more troubling,
Republican presidential candidate Romney’s method of dog
transport or President  Barack Obama ’s memory of dog meat being
tough when he tasted it as a boy in Indonesia.  The British say Americans lack a sense of the absurd. Not
so. Consider the Oct. 22 presidential debate on foreign policy.
Mostly it was about domestic policy, though the candidates did
note that China,  Iran  and several other foreign nations exist.
Events in Europe weren’t worth mentioning, though they agreed
 Israel  was a friend. Discussing strategy, Obama explained to
Romney: “We have these things called aircraft carriers, where
planes land on them. We have these ships that go under water,
nuclear submarines.” Romney was unfazed. “We will stand with
Israel,” he affirmed.  The same absurdist tradition extends to fiscal policy. The
country’s political class maintains it’s been grappling with
fundamental questions about the limits of markets and the role
of government, when it’s mostly been arguing about the top rate
of income tax, a topic so narrow it’s almost beside the point.  Budget Talks  In negotiations between the Obama administration and
Congress about avoiding the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic
tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect in January,
real choices about ends and means have been excluded by tacit
agreement, just as they were during the campaigns.  The White House talks as though adequate public provision,
including an enlarged commitment to publicly supported health
insurance, can be financed by a sliver of taxpayers at the top;
everybody else gets something for nothing. Republicans offer a
similar deal. Taxes can be driven lower by deep spending cuts
(details to come) which the country would hardly notice. That’s
the great debate about the country’s direction?  A more attentive political class would have noticed, first,
that fiscal policy is not merely a domestic issue, and the
global economy is still a dangerous place. Five years after the
onset of the Great Recession, the biggest and most populous
economies are stressed and many governments are flailing.  Recession Threat  As an exporter, outward investor, and record-breaking
 debtor , the U.S. is bound up with all of them. A worst-case
scenario in Europe could send the U.S. back into recession. The
same Europe mentioned only in passing in that Oct. 22
presidential debate.  The world economy is growing at between 3 percent and 4
percent -- a crawl by ordinary standards. The  International
Monetary Fund  predicts that advanced economies will grow next
year by just 1.5 percent. The euro area is back in  recession ,
and Japan could be headed that way. The volume of world trade
grew by just 3.2 percent in 2012, and the IMF expects growth of
less than 5 percent next year. Compare that with the four years
leading up to the crisis: Trade volumes grew by an average of
nearly 9 percent annually. The Great Recession isn’t over.  China Slowdown  While emerging and developing economies were a source of
strength when the downturn began, that phase has ended. China’s
growth slowed this year with the shrinking of its export markets
and after the government tightened access to credit, fearing a
real estate bubble.  There are hopes that  Xi Jinping , freshly installed as head
of the Communist Party’s fifth-generation leadership, will have
a bigger appetite for economic reform than his predecessor.
Still, expect setbacks. The expansion has been powered by
investment in infrastructure of dubious viability, financed with
short-term bank loans rather than bonds -- a formula for
financial frailty.  In 2012 many investors decided India’s economic reforms had
stalled. Too little infrastructure remains India’s problem, as
the biggest power outages in a decade illustrated. Business
confidence sagged, and output slowed. In recent weeks, Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has renewed its commitment
to liberalization. We’ll see.  Brazil’s Model  Brazil’s government thought it was pioneering a new model
combining social inclusion and rapid growth, but the global
slowdown and its own efforts to stem inflation cut  growth  to an
estimated 1 percent in 2012. Its leaders said the U.S. had
started a “currency war” and was resorting to “monetary
protectionism.” (It’s called quantitative easing in the north.)
Growth slowed in Russia and  South Africa  as well. Blame weak
governments and strong economic ties to Europe.  In all, the BRICs aren’t what they used to be. The
 developing countries  in the aggregate grew by only a little more
than 5 percent this year, down from over 7 percent in 2010. IMF
forecasters expect little improvement in 2013.  Political paralysis plagued Japan all year. The  Liberal
Democratic Party ’s landslide election victory this month and
Shinzo Abe’s return as prime minister could make a difference.
Abe has promised a dose of economic radicalism -- starting with
stronger fiscal and monetary stimulus. Still, Japan’s debt is
already so vast that his budget options are few. Heavy spending
on reconstruction after the earthquake buoyed growth this year.
Forecasters expect it to subside again.  ‘Expansionary Austerity’  The U.K.’s experiment with “expansionary austerity”
failed. Its overdeveloped financial sector, overextended
mortgage borrowers, and exports to the euro area all continue to
weigh on demand. With a currency of its own, the  Bank of England 
resorted to quantitative easing and tolerated persistent
overshoots of its inflation target. While that helped, growth
stayed slow and the economy contracted again.  That brings us to the central figure in our great global
drama. Despite the recent lull in financial markets, the euro
area still tops the list of dangers. Massive unemployment in the
currency zone’s periphery and, as yet, no real prospect of
recovery make political upheaval and a new round of financial
alarm all too probable. Europe’s banking system is far from
safe. While, the recent agreement to create a single bank
supervisor for the euro countries is welcome, it stops well
short of a credible plan to deal with the main problem -- which
is to recapitalize distressed banks without driving peripheral-
country governments to insolvency.  European Setback  A big new setback in Europe is all too possible. It would
shrink American export markets further and could trigger a new
round of panic in financial markets. While the U.S. Treasury
Department has tried to influence developments in Europe, Japan,
and the big emerging economies, these efforts haven’t worked.
What the U.S. should do instead is use its own financial
resilience as a beacon of reassurance to financial markets.  In practical terms, what does that require? Like it or not,
fiscal policy is crucial. On current policies, America’s net
federal debt would rise from roughly 70 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 to more than 90 percent after 10 years
and roughly 200 percent by 2040. Thereafter it rises off the
charts. The bargaining position that the White House brought to
the fiscal-cliff talks is essentially its budget from last
spring, which proposes to stabilize the debt ratio at a level a
little higher than now: between 75 percent and 80 percent.  Chronic Inattention  The experience of other countries suggests that stabilizing
the debt at such a high level isn’t enough. Japan has shown it’s
possible to run net debt as high as 135 percent of gross
domestic product -- the ratio estimated for 2012 -- without
provoking a bond-market backlash. For that, though, thank the
country’s captive savers, a cultural legacy the U.S. can’t count
on. And whatever Abe, the incoming prime minister, may say,
Japan’s space for further fiscal stimulus is close to zero. The
lesson is that chronic inattention to fiscal control eventually
kills fiscal flexibility. In the next crisis, you’ll need it and
it won’t be there.  In Europe, put Greece aside as an outlier;  Italy , one of
the region’s biggest and richest economies, is more to the
point. Its ability to borrow has been called into question at a
debt ratio not much higher (and with a flatter trajectory) than
America’s. The debt ratio of  Spain , another distressed euro-area
borrower, has been lower than America’s throughout. Neither
Italy nor Spain is able to print currency to service its debts.  Fiscal Response  Just where the debt limit is for an economy attached to a
mint, such as in the U.S., is impossible to say -- until the
economy encounters it, a discovery best avoided. The real lesson
from the rest of the world is not about exact debt-ratio
thresholds, but that fiscal space eventually runs out, and when
it does you’re in trouble.  Look at it this way: The fiscal response to the Great
Recession increased the U.S. debt ratio by some 35 percentage
points of GDP between 2007 and 2012. Let’s suppose, like the
White House, that the fiscal stimulus was money well spent. The
next economic calamity would presumably call for another robust
intervention. Can the country plausibly hope to increase its
debt by another 20 percentage points of GDP, let alone another
35 percentage points, starting at a ratio of 80 percent?  America’s goal should be to bring the debt ratio back down
to the point at which it can safely contemplate another big
fiscal intervention if it needs to make one. That sounds hard.
It will demand a different kind of discussion than the one
 Washington  is presently having.  Fiscal Blueprint  Yet it’s feasible. Policy makers even have a blueprint: the
plan designed by the Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission, a panel
the president summoned and then ignored. It proposed a fiscal
adjustment roughly twice as powerful as the one being framed in
the fiscal-cliff talks.  This would stabilize the debt ratio by the middle of this
decade, then reduce it to 60 percent of GDP by 2024 and 40
percent by 2037. The commission showed that if the government
looks for  savings  in every category of spending, the cuts aren’t
fierce. Broadening the country’s depleted tax base by closing
loopholes and exemptions (including preferences for investment
income) could raise ample revenue without higher marginal rates.  Naturally, there’s more to economic policy than the budget.
A demanding global policy agenda also needs American attention
and leadership. After the crash, there was genuine international
cooperation. The resurgence of protectionism many predicted as
the global contraction got worse never happened. Central banks
coordinated their responses effectively.  American Leadership  On the other hand, governments pursued financial regulatory
overhauls mostly at the national level. Defects in the
multinational Basel process for regulating bank capital helped
cause the crisis in the first place, and there’s no substitute
for effective coordination in this area. America must take the
lead. While trade protection didn’t explode after 2008, the  Doha
Round  of new liberalization is defunct. The U.S. should look to
revive it. Worldwide, efforts to ensure against the dangers of
 climate change  are flagging. Here too, American leadership,
disgracefully overdue, is needed.  At home, suppressing the instinct to obsess over points of
disagreement, Washington could make common cause over education
and skills. A little less navel-gazing might scare the town
straight. For decades after 1945, the U.S. increased the
proportion of its workforce with a college education faster than
anywhere else, and the economy reaped the benefits. That
advantage is at an end.  Educational Edge  The U.S. still has priceless assets in the vibrancy of its
private sector and its culture of innovation and risk-taking,
but its skills and education deficits are a big and worsening
concern -- holding back growth, contributing to  income
inequality , and adding to poverty that’s high by advanced-
economy standards. Immigration reform offers a partial short-
term remedy. Longer term, education policy needs an overhaul.  Policies like these needn’t divide the country. They aren’t
a matter of Left or Right. Members of both parties backed
Simpson-Bowles and support liberal trade and pro-skills
immigration reform. Prominent Democrats and Republicans advocate
far-reaching education reform. Scaling these ideas up to
national policy, though, requires a broader consensus and the
willingness to concentrate on practical points of agreement,
rather than totems of doctrinal correctness.  Washington can do better than that. Consensus is a lost art
that many voters hoped Obama would rediscover. He achieved a lot
in his first term -- the health-care overhaul he’d promised in
the 2008 campaign and a fiscal stimulus that likely avoided an
economic catastrophe. Still, he didn’t mend America’s broken,
inward-looking, small-minded politics. Starting now, he gets
another chance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clive Crook in Washington at 
 ccrook5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  