-- Stocks Rise on Boehner Remarks as Treasuries Erase Gains
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-12-20T21:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/japanese-stocks-fall-yen-rebounds-on-u-s-budget-oil-declines.html
U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rebounding from its worst drop in five weeks,
as House Speaker John Boehner said he expects to keep working on
a budget plan with President  Barack Obama . Treasuries erased
earlier gains and commodities  trimmed losses .  The S&P 500 rose 0.6 percent to 1,443.69 at 4 p.m. in New
York after slipping 0.8 percent from a two-month high yesterday.
 Europe ’s benchmark stock index closed little changed. The S&P
GSCI Index of commodities was down less than 0.2 percent after
losing 0.6 percent earlier. Gold slumped to the lowest since
August as quickening U.S. economic growth damped speculation of
further monetary stimulus. Ten-year Treasury yields were little
changed at 1.80 percent.  Boehner’s remarks helped equities rebound after the S&P 500
fell as much as 0.2 percent earlier on signs budget talks were
deteriorating. Concerns about the negotiations overshadowed
government data showing the economy grew 3.1 percent last
quarter, more than previously estimated and exceeding the
forecasts of economists in a Bloomberg poll.  “Stocks were flat much of the day until a modest rally got
under way after Boehner said he would continue to work with
Obama, putting to rest some fears that talks over a deal were
losing traction,” Jeffrey Kleintop, chief market strategist at
LPL Financial Corp. in  Boston , which oversees $350 billion, said
in an interview.  Budget Talks  The House will vote today on Boehner’s plan to raise taxes
on incomes over $1 million, a plan which the White House has
said Obama would veto because he wants the threshold set at
$400,000. Boehner accused Obama of being unwilling to stand up
to fellow Democrats in the fight over how to avert spending cuts
and tax increases scheduled to begin in January.  A budget plan is needed to prevent more than $600 billion
of automatic tax increases and spending cuts, known as the
fiscal cliff, from coming into effect next year.  Today’s gain in stocks extended the S&P 500’s 2012 advance
to 15 percent, poised for its best year since 2009.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  surged a record 34 percent after
IntercontinentalExchange Inc., the 12-year-old energy and
commodity futures bourse, agreed to acquire the owner of the New
York Stock Exchange for cash and stock worth $8.2 billion,
moving to take control of the world’s biggest equities market.  Market Movers  Gauges of financial, telephone and commodity companies led
gains in the 10 of the main industry groups in the S&P 500. Bank
of America Corp., Walt Disney Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
climbed more than 2 percent for the biggest gains in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly
expanded in December to an eight-month high. The Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index rose to 8.1, from
minus 10.7 in November. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
New Jersey and  Delaware .  Another report today showed the Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months dropped 0.2 percent
after a revised 0.3 percent gain in October that was larger than
initially reported. The November drop matched the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The Labor Department said the
number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment
insurance payments rose for the first time in five weeks,
increasing by 17,000 to 361,000 last week.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index was little changed after closing
at a 19-month high yesterday. SBM Offshore NV soared 19 percent,
the most in at least 23 years, after seeking to settle a dispute
with Talisman Energy Inc. Ericsson AB lost 1.8 percent after
taking an 8 billion-krona ($1.2 billion) charge related to its
wireless-chip venture with STMicroelectronics NV.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, dropped 1.1 percent as it faces
scrutiny in Hong Kong for possible misconduct linked to the
city’s interbank rates.  Commodity Movers  Silver, soybeans, wheat and copper lost at least 1.8
percent to lead declines in 19 of 24 commodities tracked by the
S&P GSCI. New York-traded crude oil rose for a fifth day,
increasing 15 cents to $90.13 a barrel. Gold futures lost 1.3
percent to $1,645.90 an ounce.  The euro was up 0.1 percent at $1.3242, near an eight-month
high of $1.3308 reached yesterday. The dollar weakened against
12 of 16 major peers, losing the most versus the Swedish krona
and Norwegian krone.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.1 percent to snap a
two-day rally, as benchmark gauges in  Argentina ,  Brazil  and
 Russia  rose at least 0.5 percent while stocks in  Taiwan  and
Colombia retreated. The gauge of developing markets has gained
15 percent this year.  The yen strengthened against most major peers as the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  maintained its inflation goal at 1 percent after newly
elected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called for a doubling of the
target.  Japan ’s central bank expanded its asset purchase funds
to 76 trillion yen from 66 trillion yen, and kept its credit-
lending program at 25 trillion yen.  “There had been an expectation that the BOJ would maybe do
more,” said Melinda Burgess, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “There was a bit of
market disappointment that they didn’t deliver as much as we
were expecting.”  The yen has tumbled 13 percent this year, the worst
performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has weakened
3.5 percent and the euro has dropped 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  