-- Jets Face $17.1 Million Salary Cap Hit If Mark Sanchez Leaves
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-20T17:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/jets-face-17-1-million-salary-cap-hit-if-mark-sanchez-leaves.html
Mark Sanchez would cost the New York
Jets as much as $17.1 million if he’s cut or traded, almost
twice the price of keeping the benched quarterback as a backup
next year.  The Jets, out of contention for the National Football
League playoffs, must decide what’s next for Sanchez, the fifth
pick in the 2009 draft, and backup Tim Tebow, who was passed
over in favor of Greg McElroy to start this week against the San
Diego Chargers.  New York would face a $17.1 million salary cap hit if it
cut Sanchez, who has made 50 turnovers in the last two seasons.
A trade of Sanchez would still count $8.9 million toward the
Jets’ salary cap next season, and the team probably also would
have to pay a sizable portion of the $8.25 million he’s
guaranteed in 2013, said Andrew Brandt, a former NFL executive
and now an ESPN business analyst.  “They have to get a team willing to take on that money,
which means a team willing to make him a starter,” said Brandt,
who negotiated player contracts and managed the Green Bay
Packers’ salary cap as a vice president from 1999 to 2008.
“That may be difficult.”  The Jets reached the American Football Conference’s
championship game in their first two seasons with Sanchez, 26,
and in March gave him a contract that guaranteed a combined
$20.5 million during the 2012 and 2013 NFL seasons.  Turnovers Soar  In the last two years, Sanchez has thrown 35 interceptions
and lost 15 fumbles. This season, he’s shouldered the brunt of
criticism for the struggles of a Jets’ offense that ranks  30th
out of 32 teams  in yards gained. Sanchez lost his job after four
interceptions and a lost fumble in a 14-10 loss in Tennessee
three days ago.  “They made a bet that he’d be their quarterback for two
years,” Brandt said in a telephone interview. “I understand
why they did that deal last year. They locked Sanchez into three
additional years for very little additional money. And we’ll see
if they hold to that bet, otherwise they have to pay him anyway
or try to offload him.”  Sanchez said yesterday he was disappointed in the
quarterback change, while acknowledging that he needs to cut
down on turnovers. Sanchez said he hadn’t had any discussions
with the team about his future.  “I’m not going to get into hypotheticals of me being here,
not being here, whatever,” Sanchez told reporters. “We’re
focused on this week, we’re ready to play San Diego. That’s
where my mind’s at. So any question about, ‘What’s going to
happen next year? Are you ever going to be a starter again?’ I’m
not even going to go there.”  Both Gone?  ESPN  reported  today that the Jets will explore all options
with Sanchez, including a trade, citing unidentified people in
the NFL familiar with the situation. The Jets also plan to part
ways in the offseason with Tebow, the Walt Disney Co. unit said.  Acquired as Sanchez’s backup in an offseason trade with the
Denver Broncos, Tebow expressed frustration yesterday about his
limited role in New York, where he’s played only 70 offensive
snaps. Tebow was also passed over when Jets coach Rex Ryan opted
for McElroy, a second-year player from the University of  Alabama 
who will be making his first NFL start.  “All you can ask is a chance to go out there and play the
game you love and help this team win football games,” Tebow
told reporters. “I tried to make the most of every opportunity
that I had. I would have loved to have more.”  Tebow’s Future  Tebow, 25, said he’d wait until after the season to address
questions about whether he wants to stay with the Jets. Brandt
said that decision may be made for him.  “It’s kind of naive to think that the player decides where
to go,” said Brandt, who left the Packers just before
quarterback Brett Favre was traded to the Jets in August 2008.
“The team will hold his rights and figure out what’s best for
the team before it does anything.”  Brandt said the limited opportunity Tebow had with the Jets
probably won’t lessen his value. The Jets sent fourth- and
sixth-round draft picks to the Broncos for Tebow and a seventh-
round selection.  “He came out of Denver and I don’t think anyone was
interested in trading for him to be a starting quarterback, so
I’m not sure how much this devalues him,” Brandt said.  Brandt said the potential for a player to be a distraction,
on or off the field, is a factor when assembling an NFL roster.
After leading Denver to the playoffs last season and generating
international attention by espousing his Christian faith,
Tebow’s arrival in New York attracted a great deal of media
coverage. Sanchez was asked about Tebow’s presence throughout
the season.  Starter First  “The Jets have bigger concerns than what to do with Tim
Tebow,” Brandt said. “If he’s there, they have a nice option
at backup quarterback; if he’s not there, they have to figure
out something else. But they have to figure out the starting
quarterback much more than the backup quarterback.”  If Sanchez remains with the Jets and isn’t the starter next
season, he wouldn’t be the NFL’s only highly paid backup.  The Seattle Seahawks signed Matt Flynn during the offseason
to a three-year, $26 million contract that included $10 million
in guaranteed money and then gave the starting job to rookie
Russell Wilson, a third-round draft pick.  The Jets’ options may also be limited this offseason
because of the quarterback talent available. While Wilson is
among five rookie quarterbacks currently starting, the 2013
draft isn’t deep at the position, ESPN analyst Todd McShay said.
Brandt said the best veteran quarterbacks who may be available
are a pair of former No. 1 picks who have lost their starting
jobs: Alex Smith of the San Francisco 49ers and Michael Vick of
the Philadelphia Eagles.  “Time can heal a lot,” Brandt said. “You get into the
offseason and get a month or two away from the season and
realize what are the options beyond Sanchez and they don’t look
that great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  