-- Julia’s Gown, Madness Returns, Caroling: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i   a n d   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/julia-s-gown-madness-returns-caroling-london-weekend.html
Kylie Minogue joins with Jason Donovan to get London’s Christmas party started at the O2.  The Australian stars lead Hit Factory Live, a celebration
of the music produced by Pete Waterman. Heartthrobs Steps,
Bananarama, Rick Astley and Dead or Alive also feature. (The
event had been due to take place in Hyde Park in July, then got
canceled as heavy rain turned the site into a mud bath.)  Madness  takes over the O2 after that. Expect large doses of
cheeky-chappie Cockney humor and hits such as “Our House,”
“Driving in My Car” and “It Must Be Love.” The Camden
“nutty boys” will also perform songs from their new studio
album “Oui Oui Si Si Ja Ja Da Da,” released after their
Jubilee and Olympics concerts.  O2, Peninsula Sq., SE10 0DX. Hit Factory Friday, Madness
Saturday. Information: +44-20-8463-2000 or
 http://www.theo2.co.uk ,  http://blog.madness.co.uk/   Saturday  Remember the ivory-and-black gown that Julia Roberts wore
to pick up her Oscar in 2001?  It’s hanging on a mannequin in “Valentino: Master of
Couture,” a handsome tribute to the Roman maestro held inside
the grand riverside quarters of  Somerset House .  Don’t go expecting red gowns all over the place: A dizzying
variety of cuts and colors are worn by mannequins parked on a
high steel catwalk. There’s the dress that Jackie Kennedy wore
to wed Aristotle Onassis, and the black crepe number that
actress Monica Vitti pouted in for the 1961 “La Notte”
(directed by Michelangelo Antonioni). It looks as if it was sewn
yesterday.  Downstairs are vitrines crammed with adoring messages from
Kennedy and Donatella Versace (“You are and always will be
numero uno,” she gushes in handwritten Italian.) There’s also a
1991 apology note from Meryl Streep, who says she’ll miss
Valentino’s 30th-anniversary bash because “we are expecting a
baby that very weekend.”  Who said fashion exhibitions were dull?  “Valentino: Master of Couture” is at Somerset house
through March 3, 2013. Information:
 http://www.somersethouse.org.uk .  Delaunay is an elegant European restaurant and cafe a short
walk from Somerset House. It’s owned by the same people as the
Wolseley and attracts a similar celebrity crowd. Information:
 http://www.thedelaunay.com/  or +44-20-7499-8558.  Saturday Night  “Another Op’nin’, Another Show,” “Why Can’t You
Behave?,” “Always True to You in My Fashion,” “Brush Up Your
Shakespeare.” The hits just keep on coming in Cole Porter’s
“Kiss Me, Kate,” which is enjoying a suitably festive revival
by director Trevor Nunn at the Old Vic.  Hannah Waddingham seduces everyone in sight with her “So
in Love” number as leading lady Lilli Vanessi. “Too Darned
Hot” starts the second half with choreographer Stephen Mear
letting the entire cast run riot over the stage.  The Old Vic, 103 The Cut,  London , SE1 8NB. Information:
 http://www.cft.org.uk/  and  http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-
844-871-7628.  Sunday  A full weekend of carol concerts and singalongs is lined up
at the Royal Albert Hall so you can celebrate Christ’s birth in
music.  On Sunday evening at 8 p.m. (and Saturday evening at the
same time), the circular building will be candlelit for carols
and a performance of Handel, Mozart, and Vivaldi by the Mozart
Festival Chorus and Orchestra -- in full 18th-century costume.
The concert is repeated Monday at 2:30 p.m. and 7 p.m.  Royal Albert Hall, Kensington Gore, SW7 2AP. Information:
+44-845-401-5045;  http://www.royalalberthall.com .  Haandi is an East African-owned Indian restaurant serving
first-class food. It’s a 10-minute walk from the Albert Hall and
has stood the test of time against competing establishments on
the Brompton Road. Information: +44-20-7823-7373 or
 http://www.haandi-restaurants.com .  (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Mark
Beech  on music,  Richard Vines  on food and  Lewis Lapham  on
history.  To contact the writers on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net  and
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 