-- JX Buys U.K. North Sea Assets From Eni to Boost Oil Output
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-12-20T11:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/jx-buys-u-k-north-sea-assets-from-eni-to-boost-oil-output-1-.html
JX Nippon Oil and Gas Exploration
Corp., a unit of Japan’s biggest refiner, said it will make a
“sizable investment” in U.K. offshore oil and gas fields after
agreeing to buy North Sea assets from Italy’s  Eni SpA. (ENI)   JX Holding Inc. (5020) ’s oil exploration unit expects output of
40,000 to 50,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day by the end of
the decade from the investments, which include a 28.89 percent
stake in the undeveloped Mariner field, the Tokyo-based company
said today in a statement. An Eni official declined to comment
on the deal.  “We’re paying significant money for the equity and then
we’re also spending money to develop” the assets, David Nash,
executive director of JX Nippon Exploration in the U.K., said by
phone from  London . Some of the assets are subject to pre-emptive
accords with existing shareholders, he said.  JX is adding fields overseas to lessen its exposure to
rising energy prices. The company plans to produce 200,000
barrels a day by the end of the decade. Today’s deal may boost
production almost 40 percent from the 130,000 barrels per day
the company pumped from assets in 14 countries last year, the
company said.  Today’s deal is the latest sale of North Sea asset
disposals by the largest European  oil companies . Last week,  BP
Plc (BP/)  said it was selling a 50 percent stake in the Sean  gas field 
to SSE Plc for $288 million in cash, bringing its total sell-off
in the region to more than $3 billion. In November, BP agreed to
sell interests in several fields to  Abu Dhabi National Energy
Co. (TAQA)  for $1.1 billion.  Culzean Development  Under the terms of the deal with Eni, JX will also boost
its stake in the Culzean gas condensate development to 34.01
percent from 17.07 percent and become a parter in the Flotta
Catchment Area, which includes the Claymore field, JX said.  Malcolm Webb, chief executive officer of Oil & Gas U.K.,
said it welcomed “an active and lively market in U.K. assets
which encourages companies to invest here.”  “Engagement with the Treasury over the last 18 months has
brought forward several measures designed to promote investment,
such as tax allowances for new and existing projects with
difficult economics,” Webb said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  