-- KB Falls After Dropping Bid for ING Korea Life Unit: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-12-20T02:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/kb-falls-after-dumping-bid-for-ing-korea-life-unit-seoul-mover.html
KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) , the owner
of  South Korea ’s largest lender, fell the most in more than
three weeks in Seoul trading after its board scrapped a plan to
buy  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s South Korean life-insurance unit.  The  shares  declined as much as 2.9 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since Nov. 28, to 37,100 won and traded at 37,500
won as of 11:22 a.m. on the Korea Exchange. That compares with
the Kospi Index’s 0.2 percent gain.  KB Chairman Euh Yoon Dae on Dec. 18 failed to win majority
backing from the company’s board for his bid to buy the Dutch
firm’s South Korean life insurance operations, dealing a blow to
his goal of cutting KB’s reliance on banking. Seoul-based KB
joined the race to buy ING’s assets in July after dropping a
plan to acquire the government’s stake in bigger rival Woori
Finance Holdings Co. earlier that month.  “KB has lost an opportunity to boost its non-banking
business -- the firm’s weakness against other rivals,” Lee Chang Wook, a Seoul-based analyst at Taurus Investment
Securities Co. wrote in a report today. “The decision also
highlights KB’s weak governance and decision-making process.”  Lee cut his six-month stock price estimate by 6.9 percent
to 42,000 won and maintained his buy  rating  on KB.  Critical Timing  Euh, who took office in July 2010 for a three-year term
with pledges to cut costs and boost earnings, said in September
that KB aims to increase non-banking profit to 30 percent of
earnings. Its Kookmin Bank unit accounted for 85 percent of
total profit for the nine months through September.  “KB Financial’s board deemed that this is a critical time
and it’s important to maintain a high capital-adequacy ratio
amid the economic uncertainty,” KB said in a statement
following the board’s meeting.  The decision is also a setback to ING’s plan to raise about
$2 billion from the asset sale following a 2008 Dutch government
bailout. ING Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen is divesting
ING’s insurance units after winning more time from European
regulators in November to complete the sales and repay state
support.  Under the agreement, ING has to sell more than half of its
Asian insurance and investment-management operations by the end
of next year and dispose of the rest by the end of 2016.  ING said on Dec. 18 that it continues to explore all
options for divesting the Korean unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  