-- Kenya Stocks Seen Repeating Best Rally on Violence-Free Election
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-12-20T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/kenya-stocks-seen-repeating-best-rally-on-violence-free-election.html
Kenya’s all-share index, sub-Saharan
Africa’s best performer, is poised to match its 2012 advance
next year should elections take place without sparking violence,
according to Old Mutual Plc.  The  Nairobi Securities Exchange’s All-Share Index (NSEASI)  has
surged 38 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a
30-percent drop last year, when the shilling plunged to a record
low of 106.75 a dollar and  interest rates  climbed after
inflation peaked at 19.7 percent. The rally will be spurred by
further interest-rates cuts after 7 percentage points of
reductions this year, Alistair Gould, Nairobi-based Old Mutual
Securities’ head of trading, said.  The March 4 election is a test of Kenya’s political
stability after the presidential vote in December 2007 was
marred by allegations of vote-rigging, triggering ethnic clashes
that left more than 1,100 dead. East Africa’s largest economy
may expand 5 percent next year from an estimated 4.3 percent in
2012, fueled by slower inflation, lower interest rates and
election spending, the  World Bank  said Dec. 5.  “Political risk is still hovering above the country right
now and once we are through with our election process, we will
definitely see a return of very good economic growth,” Gould
said in a Dec. 13 interview. “Elections are the only thing that
could have any negative impact on our country.”  Top Picks  Old Mutual (OML) ’s 11 top stock picks for 2012, which included
 Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) ,  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB)  and British American
Tobacco Kenya Ltd., posted a more-than threefold increase this
year, according to Gould. Kenya Airways Ltd. and  Centum
Investments Ltd. (CENTUM)  went in the opposite direction, falling 44
percent and 10 percent. Old Mutual, based in London, is the
U.K.’s third-largest insurer with 261 billion pounds ($425
billion) of funds under management. Its brokerage is Kenya’s
10th-largest by market share.  Stock investors may be concerned should none of the
presidential candidates get more than 50 percent of the votes,
triggering a runoff election, Faith Atiti, a research analyst at
Nairobi-based NIC Securities Ltd., said.  “A higher risk perception ahead of the general elections
will likely be the main catalyst for market volatility through
the first quarter,” she said by phone from Nairobi Dec. 14.
“The fears will be further aggravated by the potential of a
runoff. The macroeconomic environment is really improved and
there are no huge shocks expected. The biggest risk is the
elections.”  New Charter  Kenya  adopted a new constitution in 2010 after almost 20
years of promises from political leaders to replace one dating
back to the country’s independence from Britain in 1963. The
charter aims to spread political power among dozens of ethnic
groups and end quarrels over land distribution that were at the
heart of the 2008 violence. The nation of 41 million people held
its first of five-year multi-party general elections in 1992
with each one bar a vote in 2002 plagued by unrest.  The  Nairobi Stock Exchange , which has a market value of
1.25 trillion shillings ($14.5 billion) is sub-Saharan Africa’s
biggest bourse after South Africa, which has a market value of
$509 billion, and Nigeria, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 20 million shillings to 26 million shillings in
shares traded daily between Dec. 17 and yesterday.  Banking stocks including, Equity Bank Lt and  Diamond Trust
Bank Kenya Ltd. (DTKL)  will probably lead the gains as borrowers will
be attracted by cheaper loans that will boost lenders’ interest
income, he said.  Infrastructure Boost  Construction companies will also be seeking more loans
because of increased  government spending  on infrastructure
projects, which will boost profit at companies such as  Bamburi
Cement Ltd. (BMBC) , a unit of Lafarge SA, Gould said.  Gains on the Kenyan bourse this year have been led by
 Uchumi Supermarkets Ltd. (UCSP) , the country’s only publicly traded
retailer. Its shares, which resumed trading in May 2011 after
the company came out of receivership in March 2010, have more
than doubled this year. A 1.5 billion shilling rights offer the
retail chain plans to undertake next year will boost its stock
and liquidity, Gould said.  The shares of NIC Bank, a Nairobi-based lender, almost
doubled, while  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , East Africa’s biggest mobile-
phone operator, rallied 71 percent and  Kenya Commercial Bank ,
the nation’s largest lender by assets and profit, surged 74
percent. Gains in NIC Bank were boosted by a 2 billion-shillings
rights offer, he said.  ‘Tough Year’  Kenya Airways (KNAL)  and  East African Portland Cement Co. (EAPC)  lead the
laggards on the  stock index  this year.  Kenya Airways, sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest airline,
raised 14.5 billion shillings in a sale of stock to existing
investors in June, less than the 20.7 billion shillings it
sought for an expansion, as higher fuel prices and labor unrest
cut profit. The shares have slumped 44 percent to 11.1 shillings
yesterday, below the 14 shillings rights offer price.  “Anyone who is buying into Kenya Airways is buying into a
very long-term investment,” Gould said.  East African Portland Cement, the third-largest publicly
traded maker of the building material, has slid 30 percent as
the company posted a fiscal full-year loss after labor unrest
shut down plants, cutting production. “The company itself is
sound,” Gould said. “There are massive opportunities.”  The Central Bank of Kenya raised  borrowing costs  by 12.25
percentage points to a record 18 percent in 2011 to bolster the
shilling and curb price pressures after the worst drought in six
decades. Last month, the monetary policy committee cut the
benchmark rate for the third time this year to 11 percent, as
the inflation rate declined to 3.3 percent in November from 4.1
percent in October, slowing for the 12th month.  Failed Elections  The shilling strengthened 0.3 percent to 85.85 per dollar
as of 4:28 p.m. in Nairobi yesterday. That pared its drop this
year to 1 percent. The benchmark  Nairobi Securities Exchange 20
Share Index (KNSMIDX)  rose 1 percent yesterday to 4,124.06 yesterday for a
29 percent increase this year. The index peaked at 6,161.46 in
January 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 37.9 percent gain in Kenya’s all-share index leads a
37.7 percent in Uganda’s main  equity measure  and 32.7 percent
increase in the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   Kenya’s stock indexes “remain below levels seen just
before the last election,” Aly Khan Satchu, chief executive
officer of Rich Management Ltd., a Nairobi-based adviser to
companies and high net-worth individuals, said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday. The country has “failed to
pass three out of the last four elections. Political risk
remains the biggest risk to a continued rally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  