-- Putin Wishes Khodorkovsky ‘Good Health’ After Sentence Cut
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-12-20T14:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/khodorkovsky-to-be-freed-in-2014-after-russian-court-cuts-term.html
Mikhail Khodorkovsky, once  Russia ’s
richest man, will be freed from prison in 2014 after a Moscow
court reduced his second sentence for fraud and tax evasion by
two years.  President Vladimir Putin today wished Khodorkovsky “good
health” after his release and said he hadn’t influenced the
courts on the former billionaire Yukos Oil Co. owner’s case.
Khodorkovsky and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, had their
terms cut to 11 years from 13 years by the Moscow City Court.  While Putin has called for improved laws to safeguard
property rights and stem capital flight, investors have cited
the Khodorkovsky case as an example of Russia’s failure to
respect the rule of law. Khodorkovsky, 49, says he was targeted
for financing opposition parties, an accusation the Kremlin
denies. Yukos was sold in pieces, mostly to state-run  OAO
Rosneft (ROSN) , to cover tens of billions of dollars in back taxes.  “There has been no personal persecution,” Putin told a
press conference in Moscow. “Everyone tries to tie it to
politics,” he said. “There was no such thing. This was purely
about an economic crime.”  Putin said at a call-in news conference two years ago that
Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands and that “thieves should
sit in jail.” Khodorkovsky has said he’s not guilty.  Today’s decision may be appealed to the Supreme Court, Anna
Usacheva, a spokeswoman for the Moscow City court, said by text
message.  Putin Rule  Khodorkovsky and Lebedev, 56, were sentenced to eight-year
terms in 2005 and convicted again on new charges in December
2010. The sentences include time served: Lebedev was detained on
July 2, 2003, and Khodorkovsky was arrested on the tarmac of a
Siberian airport on Oct. 25 of that year.  Khodorkovsky had been due for release in September 2016.
Putin, who extended his 12-year rule in March presidential
elections, will serve as head of state until May 2018 and could
run for re-election for one more six-year term.  Putin last week threw his support behind an initiative to
repatriate as much as $1 trillion in capital held by companies
and politicians abroad. Russia may have net capital outflow of
$67 billion this year after $80.5 billion last year, central
bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said Dec. 19.  The president today urged the billionaire shareholders of
TNK-BP, which Rosneft plans to acquire in the first half of next
year, to bring back to Russia the $28 billion they’ll get for
their 50 percent of the venture.  TNK-BP Proceeds  “I would very much like for them to invest the proceeds or
a significant part in Russia’s economy,” Putin said.  Rosneft agreed this year to buy TNK-BP in Russia’s biggest-
ever acquisition from  BP Plc (BP/)  and AAR, which represents Mikhail Fridman, German Khan,  Len Blavatnik  and  Viktor Vekselberg .  Fridman, like Khodorkovsky, was one of the “seven
bankers” group of oligarchs who helped bankroll Boris Yeltsin’s
re-election in 1996, after gaining assets in state sales.  BP will get $17 billion and 12.8 percent of Rosneft, while
pledging to buy $4.8 billion more of the Russian oil producer’s
stock from the state. AAR offshore vehicles are set to get $28
billion in cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  