-- Kingfisher Air Seeks License Renewal, Ministry Official Says
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-12-21T11:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/kingfisher-air-seeks-license-renewal-ministry-official-says.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier that halted flights because of a cash crunch, applied to
have its operating license renewed two weeks before the permit
will expire, a civil aviation ministry official said.  The Directorate General of Civil Aviation won’t act on the
application until the carrier submits a plan detailing how it
will pay vendor debts and fund operations, the official, who
declined to be identified citing rules, said yesterday. The
regulator suspended the airline’s permit in October following
flight disruptions after employees walked out over unpaid wages.  If the permit lapses at the end of this month, Kingfisher
can still seek renewal within two years and then resume flights,
according to a directorate document. The carrier plans to
restart operations in a phased manner using its own funds,
according to a plan the airline submitted to bankers on Dec. 17.  Kingfisher, controlled by liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya , has
been seeking cash for more than two years and said it’s in talks
with possible investors, including Etihad Airways PJSC. The
carrier, which was No. 2 in  India  by market share about a year
ago, has piled up debt of 85 billion rupees ($1.55 billion). It
pared more than two-thirds of its flight services and returned
planes to lessors before halting operations in October.  Shares of Kingfisher fell 1.3 percent to 15.20 rupees at
the close in Mumbai, reversing gains of as much as 4.6 percent.
The stock has dropped 30 percent in the past year.  Contract Termination  International Lease Finance Corp., the plane-leasing
business of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , has requested
that the Indian aviation regulator deregister four aircraft
leased to Kingfisher after the termination of a contract. The
regulator has started the process, the official said.  AIG said Dec. 10 that a group of Chinese investors agreed
to buy 80 percent of ILFC for $4.23 billion.  ILFC is also seeking return of one aircraft leased to
Kingfisher and subsequently impounded by Indian tax authorities
after the airline defaulted on payments, according to the
official. The detention of the aircraft is “illegal” and will
send the wrong signal to companies wanting to do business in
India, Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman for Kingfisher, said in a
text message on Dec. 11. He didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comments yesterday on the license renewal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  