-- Kodak, Heineken, Hornets, Kraftwerk:Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-20T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/kodak-heineken-hornets-kraftwerk-intellectual-property.html
A group including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  agreed to buy patents from
bankrupt Eastman Kodak Co. for about $525 million, gaining the
right to use the digital technology to capture and share photos.  The group is led by  Intellectual Ventures  Management LLC
and  RPX Corp. (RPXC) , Kodak said in a statement yesterday. Google,
Apple and RIM are among the 12 companies that will license the
patents in the deal, according to a court filing. Under the
terms, Intellectual Ventures will split the payment with the
licensees.  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  also are
part of the group, the court filing shows, along with Samsung
Electronics Co.,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) ,
Huawei Technologies Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Shutterfly Inc. (SFLY)  The
auctioned patents -- more than 1,100 related to the capture,
manipulation and sharing of digital images -- were previously
estimated by advisory firm 284 Partners LLC to be worth as much
as $2.6 billion.  The agreement resolves all patent-infringement lawsuits
between Kodak and the 12 licensees, Veronda said. That includes
suits Kodak had against Apple, RIM, Fujifilm, HTC, Samsung and
Shutterfly. In a May filing, Kodak had said Apple alone owed it
more than $1 billion in patent royalties.  Before uniting as one bidding group, Apple and Google had
led competing consortiums bidding for Kodak’s patents, people
familiar with the situation said earlier this year.  The two groups joined forces in August as the initial
auction date approached, a person familiar with the process said
today. Combining allowed each company to only pay for the
patents and protection it needed.  A May ruling against Kodak by the U.S. International Trade
Commission dealt a blow to the company’s pursuit of a higher
price for its patents. The decision, the result of a two-year
legal fight against Apple and RIM over a patent for previewing
digital images on cameras, was upheld in July. It dashed Kodak’s
plans to pursue royalty payments from Apple and RIM it once
estimated at more than $1 billion.  Kodak needed to sell the patents for at least $500 million
under a November agreement -- codenamed Komodo -- to obtain $830
million in financing to exit bankruptcy in the first half of
2013.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash while the rise of digital photography eroded its film
business.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Heineken, Bavaria Lose Bid to Annul $290 Million Cartel Fine  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-largest brewer, and Bavaria
NV lost final appeals against antitrust fines totaling 218.7
million euros ($290 million) for colluding in an illegal cartel
on the beer market.  The European Union Court of Justice, the 27-nation bloc’s
highest court, rejected the companies’ bids to overturn, cut or
review the fines in their entirety.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
fined the brewers and former Dutch rival Grolsch in April 2007
for coordinating prices in the Netherlands from at least 1996 to
1999. InBev NV, which has since merged with Anheuser-Busch Cos.
to become the world’s largest brewer, escaped a fine after
tipping off EU officials.  A lower EU court last year annulled the antitrust
regulator’s decision and 31.7 million-euro fine concerning
 SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s Grolsch. The September 2011 ruling by the EU
General Court said the commission hadn’t proven that Grolsch
directly participated in the cartel and “failed to explain”
why the company should be held liable for a Dutch subsidiary’s
conduct. The same court in June 2011 cut Heineken’s fine to 198
million euros from 219.3 million euros and Bavaria’s penalty to
20.7 million euros from 22.8 million euros.  Heineken’s original fine was paid in full in July 2007 and
reported as an exceptional item, the Amsterdam-based company has
previously said. Heineken is “disappointed” and “mandates 100
percent compliance with applicable competition laws,” according
to an e-mailed statement.  Bavaria is “very disappointed” with the decision and
“expected the court to judge differently,” spokeswoman Inge
van der Heijden said by telephone.  The cases are: C-452/11 P, Heineken Nederland and Heineken
v. Commission; C-445/11 P, Bavaria v. Commission.  Liverpool FC Defeats Attempt to Revoke ‘Liver Bird’ Trademark  Liverpool Football Club  retains exclusive rights to the
“ Liver Bird ” trademark despite complaints from a city resident
that the mark should belong to the whole city, the U.K.’s  Daily
Mirror   reported .  The  Liver Building  on which the bird image appears is a
city landmark, and Liverpool resident Alfie Hincks filed suit
claiming the bird was an image of the entire city, not just one
of its football clubs, according to the Mirror.  The court rules that Hincks didn’t submit enough evidence
for his argument, the newspaper reported.  Hinks told the newspaper his fight isn’t over and that he
plans to ask the great-grandson of the architect who designed
the Liver Building in his efforts to loosen the club’s exclusive
hold on the trademark, according to the Mirror.  New Orleans Hornets May Use Werewolf-Related Term as Team Name  One of the names the  New Orleans Hornets  National
Basketball Association team is seeking to register as a
trademark is a Cajun name for a werewolf.  New Orleans Rougarou is one of five new applications the
team submitted to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Dec. 5.
According to the two applications for the mark, it would be used
for “entertainment services” in the field of basketball, and
for a variety of clothing.  “ Rougarou ” is a form of “loup-garou” used by French-
speaking Cajuns for werewolves, which legendarily haunt the
swamps of southwest Louisiana.  According to the patent office database, other names the
team submitted include New Orleans Pelicans, New Orleans
Mosquitos, and New Orleans Swamp Dogs.  In 1974, New Orleans’ pro basketball team was known as the
New Orleans Jazz. That team moved to Utah in 1979 and is now
known as the  Utah Jazz .  Crown Equipment Seeks Overturn of USPTO Trademark Ruling  Crown Equipment Corp., an Ohio company that makes forklifts
and other material-handling products, filed suit seeking
judicial review of a trademark decision by the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  In a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Toledo,
Ohio, the company is challenging a patent office appeals board’s
refusal to register “crown insite.” According to court papers,
the term would be used for lift-truck and other material-
handling products, including parts for forklift trucks. Crown
applied for the mark in August 2007.  Crown says its registration was refused on the basis of
possible confusion with two marks, one registered by  Insight
Technology Inc.  of Londonderry, New Hampshire, and the other to
 Mine Radio Systems Inc.  of Stouffville, Ontario.  In its pleadings the registered marks cover completely
different classes of goods. Mine Radio Systems “Insite” mark
is used for radio systems used inside mines, while Insight’s
“Insight” mark covers wireless communications devices.  The company asked the court to reverse the patent office
decision, and declare that its intended use of the mark wouldn’t
be confusingly similar to existing trademarks. Crown also asked
for an award of litigation costs.  The case is Crown Equipment Corp. v. U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, 3:12-cv-03075, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Ohio (Toledo).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Kraftwerk Wins German Copyright Dispute Over Two-Second Sample  Kraftwerk , a German electronic music project, has won a 12-
year copyright battle over the use of a sample of their 1977
composition “ Metall auf Metall ,” the NME music news website
 reported .  The group had objected to the unauthorized use of a two-
second sample by music producers Moses Pelham and Martin Haas on
“ Nur Mir ,” a rap song by Sabrina Setlur, according to NME.  Germany’s  Supreme Court  said unauthorized sampling is
acceptable only if there is no other way to reproduce the sound,
NME reported.  The court determined that the sampled section could have
been recreated through other means by the time the “Nur Mir”
was made, NME reported.  Nigerian Hotels, Copyright Society Agree Over Music Royalties  Nigeria’s  Copyright Society  has come to an agreement with
hotel operators in that country over music royalties, Nigeria’s
Business Day newspaper  reported .  The agreement ends all pending court cases against the
hotels over royalties, according to Business Day.  The hotel operators -- through the  Hotel Owners Association
Abuja  and  Hotel and Personal Services Employers’ Association of
Nigeria  -- had claimed the rates sought by the licensing group
were too high and had sought a fee reduction, the newspaper
reported.  The dispute was mediated by Otunba Olusegun Runsewe,
director general of  Nigeria Tourism Development Corpora tion,
according to Business Day.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Trade Secret Concerns Raised Over California Fracking Rules  California’s Department of Conservation released  proposed
disclosure rules  covering hydraulic fracturing Dec. 18 that were
criticized by the Environmental Working Group and the  Center for
Biological Diversity’s Climate Law Institute , McClatchy
newspapers  reported .  In a  statement  the  Environmental Working Group  said that
other states’ experience indicated oil explorers claim trade-
secret exemptions and that these are likely abused, according to
McClatchy.  Jason Marshall, the chief deputy director of the Department
of Conservation, said the rules, which govern the injection of
water and chemicals underground to break up rock formations in
the quest for oil, are only a discussion draft, McClatchy
reported.  The  Western States Petroleum Association , an oil industry
trade group, said its members had used the fracking method of
exploration in only 628 of California’s tens of thousands of  oil
wells , according to McClatchy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 