-- Aussie Holds Losses on U.S. Cliff Concern; Kiwi Touches Week Low
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-12-20T05:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/n-z-dollar-touches-week-low-as-growth-trails-estimate-correct-.html
Australia ’s dollar maintained a
three-day loss and the nation’s bonds rose amid concern U.S.
lawmakers are deadlocked on a deal to avert the so-called fiscal
cliff, reducing demand for riskier assets.  Demand for the so-called Aussie was also damped after
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said a  budget surplus  for the
2012-2013 year was unlikely. New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the
kiwi, touched a one-week low versus the greenback after data
showed the nation’s gross domestic product grew less than
forecast in the third quarter.  “Another 24 hours goes by and we still don’t have any
concrete development on the fiscal cliff with the end of the
year not far away,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “That’s one good
argument for a lower Aussie.”  Australia’s currency was little changed at $1.0477 as of
4:25 p.m. in Sydney after falling 0.8 percent in the previous
three days. The so-called Aussie dropped 0.5 percent to 88.03
yen.  The  New Zealand dollar  touched 83.31 U.S. cents, the lowest
since Dec. 10, before trading at 83.51, 0.1 percent above
yesterday’s close in New York. It slipped 0.3 percent to 70.17
yen.  Australian  government bonds  climbed, with 10-year debt
yields dropping three basis points to 3.36 percent. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive a
floating rate, added 2 basis points to 2.72 percent.  Slower Growth  Officials in President  Barack Obama ’s administration told
leaders of business and financial services groups that
negotiations with House Speaker  John Boehner  over the fiscal
cliff of tax increases and spending cuts have deteriorated,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Australia’s Swan said that tax receipts in the first few
months of the fiscal year are “well below our forecasts.”  “What we’ve seen is a sledgehammer hit our revenues,” he
said at a press briefing in Canberra.  New Zealand’s GDP rose 0.2 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from the previous quarter, the statistics bureau
said today. The figure was half the 0.4 percent gain forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey and compares with a
revised 0.3 percent expansion in the second quarter. Growth
matched the central bank’s 0.2 percent forecast.  Recovery ‘Wobble’  “The GDP figures came in a shade below expectations,”
said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at  Bank of New Zealand  in
Wellington. “The market is well aware that the third quarter
was a bit of a speed wobble in the New Zealand economic
recovery, and the more timely forward-looking indicators are
quite solid.”  New Zealand’s dollar has strengthened 4.8 percent this
year, the biggest increase among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The Aussie has fallen 0.4 percent over the same period, while
the yen is down 12 percent, the worst performer.  New Zealand Finance Minister  Bill English  said the nation’s
growth outlook is attracting foreign bond investors, helping
propel the year’s strongest-performing Group of 10 currency.  “Other people seem to see our prospects as reasonable and
therefore they’re buying the currency,” English said in an
interview yesterday.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi fell against the yen after
technical indicators signaled recent gains in the South Pacific
currencies were poised to reverse. The Australian dollar’s 14-
day relative strength indicator against the yen was at 70, the
level that suggests an asset is about to change direction, while
the equivalent gauge for  New Zealand ’s currency was at 71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  