-- Need for Speed Means ETF Trading Outpaces Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-12-20T10:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/need-for-speed-means-etf-trading-outpaces-bonds-credit-markets.html
Trading in exchange-traded funds
that buy junk bonds is increasing at a faster pace than
transactions in the underlying debt as buyers seek a faster way
to take advantage of a market returning 15.5 percent this year.  Volumes in the three-biggest junk ETFs increased to a daily
average of $587.83 million this year, equal to 11.5 percent of
daily trading in the bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s up 90 percent from 2011, when the amount changing hands
was equivalent to 7.3 percent of trading in the notes.  Speculative-grade bond ETFs are attracting record amounts
of cash this year as Federal Reserve efforts to stimulate the
economy by holding interest rates at almost zero since 2008 push
investors into riskier assets. Bond buyers from retirees to the
biggest banks are increasingly using shares of high-yield bond
ETFs for fast access to debt with an annualized return of 21.8
percent since 2008, even as the risk of losses tied to rising
interest rates is the greatest since 2007.  “Rising volumes are inevitable with an outperforming asset
class,” said Neal Epstein, a senior credit officer at Moody’s
Investors Service. “From an investment perspective, active
management is de-emphasized when the ease of the exposure and
the performance of the bonds has been so outstanding.”  Expanded Holdings  The five- biggest  junk ETFs have increased their holdings to
$30.8 billion since the first such fund began in 2007 as the
biggest banks reduced their corporate-bond inventories 77
percent to $53.8 billion. While the market for dollar-
denominated high-yield debt has grown 10 percent since 2010,
average daily  trading volumes  for the notes haven’t kept pace,
increasing just 0.2 percent during the period, according to
Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The ETFs, which seek to replicate returns on benchmark
indexes, trade on exchanges like stocks and typically allow
individuals to speculate on securities without directly owning
them. Institutional investors are turning to them as a more
efficient way in and out of a  market  that traditionally trades
in private, over-the-counter transactions and where buying a
broad cross-section of bonds has become more difficult, said
Matt Tucker of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which runs the largest junk ETF.  ‘Largely Unproven’  With the gap between real-time ETF pricing and less-
frequent trading in corporate bonds, the “largely unproven”
funds are at “medium risk” in a “market-stress event,” Fitch
Ratings analysts wrote in a Dec. 19 report.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Dish Network Corp. sold $1.5
billion of 10-year bonds. Consolidated Precision Products Corp.
is said to have set the final terms on $600 million of loans
it’s seeking to finance its acquisition of  Esco Corp. (ESCO) ’s Turbine
Technologies Group. Tobacco bonds issued by U.S. states gained
after Philip Morris USA and other cigarette makers said they
would distribute to 17 states $4 billion in payments previously
withheld from a 1998 settlement.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, rose from a three-month low,
climbing 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of 89.8 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe Swaps  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 0.5 basis point to 110.5 at
10:11 a.m. in London. In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit
iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan 
advanced one basis point to 108.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, rose 0.4 basis point to 12.2 basis points.
The gauge widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
government securities and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds.  Bonds of New York-based Citigroup Inc. were the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers yesterday, with 151 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Dish Bonds  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-television
provider, sold its 5 percent notes due in March 2023 to yield
319 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. The deal was marketed earlier yesterday at
$1 billion.  Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes that
may include spectrum deals, the Englewood, Colorado-based
company said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Consolidated Precision will pay interest on a $415 million,
seven-year, first-lien term loan at 4.75 percentage points more
than the  London  interbank offered rate, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction. A $185 million, 7 1/2-year
second-lien term piece will pay interest at 9.25 percentage
points more than Libor, said the person said, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private.  The average yield investors demanded to buy a California
tobacco bond fell 0.2 percentage point yesterday, Bloomberg data
show. A tax-exempt Golden State Tobacco Securitization Corp.
bond rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, six steps below
investment grade, and due in 15 years, traded with an average
yield of 5.34 percent. That’s 3.2 percentage points above a
benchmark index, down from 3.56 percentage points Nov. 30.  Emerging Markets  Philip Morris, Lorillard Inc. and Reynolds American Inc.
said Dec. 18 they would release the funds in exchange for credit
against future payments toward the settlement. In the 14-year-
old agreement, the producers make annual payments to 46
jurisdictions based on cigarette shipments to cover the
companies’ liability in health-care cost litigation. The makers
and the states were in disagreement over claims that market-
share erosion should reduce the companies’ payments.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed to the least
in almost two years, declining 2 basis points to 263 basis
points, or 2.63 percentage points, according to  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index . The measure, which has averaged 345.4
basis points this year, is the lowest since Jan. 5, 2011.  ETF Acceleration  The average volume of high-yield bonds traded daily this
year is $5.12 billion, equal to about 0.47 percent of the
dollar-denominated notes outstanding, according to Bloomberg and
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. That compares with an
average volume of $5.11 billion in 2010, equivalent to about
0.52 percent of the market.  Trading in the three-biggest ETFs, run by BlackRock,  State
Street Corp. (JNK)  and  Invesco Ltd. (PHB) , has increased more than four
times from a daily average of $135.94 million in 2010, Bloomberg
data show. Junk ETFs have attracted $8 billion of deposits this
year, 25 percent of the inflows into mutual funds that buy the
bonds, according to JPMorgan.  “Investors are looking for more efficient ways to trade
the market and trade risk,” said Tucker, head of BlackRock’s
iShares Fixed Income Strategy team. “It’s more challenging
today to find multiple dealers who can offer me a security. As
an investor, it can be harder for me to get trades done and
build diversification.”  Reflecting Liquidity  Activity in ETFs is accelerating as new risk-curbing
regulations spur the biggest banks to cut the amount of their
own money committed to facilitate debt trading. The 21 primary
dealers that do business with the Fed have  reduced  bond
inventories from a peak of $235 billion in October 2007 after
the 27-country Basel Committee on Banking Supervision raised
minimum capital requirements in 2010.  “It’s a reflection of the deteriorating liquidity in our
market and the fact that the exchange-traded product, at least
for the purposes of trading it every day, is certainly perceived
as more liquid,” said Eric Gross, a credit strategist at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  in New York. If ETFs are compelled to buy or sell
bonds to create or redeem shares, “their liquidity is bounded
by our liquidity,” he said.  Investors have funneled $31.9 billion into junk-bond mutual
funds this year, according to data compiled by JPMorgan, as the
Fed’s plan to buy bonds and hold benchmark interest rates at 0
to 0.25 percent pushes them toward less-creditworthy borrowers.  ‘Medium Risk’  The unprecedented inflows helped push speculative-grade
debt prices to 104.46 cents on the dollar on Dec. 13, 0.51 cent
less than the peak in January 2004, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. Modified duration, a measure of the
securities’ price sensitivity to yield changes, climbed to as
high as 4.94 years on Nov. 30, the most since November 2007.  “We think risk/reward is not overly attractive for high-
yield credit, and as such, recommend fairly defensive
positioning heading into 2013,” Morgan Stanley credit
strategists Adam Richmond and Jason Ng wrote in a Dec. 4 report.
“Even if growth surprises to the upside, we cannot envision
much more than a ‘coupon-clipping’ year.”  Rising interest rates pose a “medium risk” to corporate-
bond ETFs, Fitch analysts wrote in a Dec. 19 report titled,
“The ‘Bond Bubble’: Risks and Mitigants.” Investment managers
with similar potential challenges are U.S. life insurance
companies, which hold $2.1 trillion of corporate bonds, and
hedge funds, which may experience magnified losses because of
their use of leverage, or borrowed money, the analysts wrote.  Investors are increasingly using ETFs to express bearish
bets on junk bonds as well as more optimistic views. Trading may
occur without affecting the underlying bond market as long as
prices remain stable and funds don’t have to create or redeem
shares as a result of the activity.  “It’s indicative of a liquidity differential rather than a
view differential,” Barclays’s Gross said. While the ETFs may
provide some liquidity for the junk-bond market as it grows
bigger, they are passive investors and unable to buffer price
swings the way the biggest dealers traditionally did with their
balance sheets, he said.  “They’re typically going to want to buy when everyone else
wants to buy, and they’re going to want to sell when everyone
else sells,” Gross said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  