-- New Rebel Islamist Groups Shun Free Syrian Army, UN Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-12-20T13:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/new-rebel-islamist-groups-shun-free-syrian-army-un-says.html
Syria ’s newest insurgent groups
increasingly operate independently of the rebel military command
and some are affiliated with al-Qaeda, a United Nations panel
said.  Many of the foreign fighters are linked to extremist groups
and “are Sunnis hailing from countries in the Middle East and
North Africa,” the UN Independent Commission of Inquiry on
Syria said in a report published today on its  website . While the
new groups sometimes coordinate attacks with the Free Syrian
Army, they’re not under its control, it said.  The presence of anti-government outsiders “provides one
motivation for other actors to enter into the conflict,” it
said, citing the presence of pro-regime foreign forces,
including the Lebanese Shiite Muslim group Hezbollah and Iranian
Revolutionary Guards.  Foreign rebel groups are present in three northern
provinces bordering  Turkey , the commission said. These are among
the northern and central areas where rebel groups control
“large swathes of territory,” while President Bashar al- Assad’s forces largely dominate the south, according to the
report, which is based on about 100 interviews with rebel
fighters and other Syrians between Sept. 28 and Dec. 16.  The U.S. recognized the Syrian opposition umbrella group,
the National Coalition last week, as the legitimate
representative of its people. It added the al-Nusra Front -- one
of the most successful rebel military  groups -- to its
terrorist list the same week, citing ties to al-Qaeda in  Iraq .  Russian Aims  Russia , accused by Western countries of shielding the
Syrian government, isn’t wedded to Assad and its main goal is to
end the civil war in the country, President Vladimir Putin told
journalists at a Moscow news conference today. The warring sides
will fall short of outright military victory, underlining the
need for an accord, Putin said.  The country’s increasingly intensive civil conflict means
“entire communities are at risk of being forced out of the
country or of being killed,” said the commission, which was
established by the UN Human Rights Council to investigate war
crimes in Syria.  Syria’s sectarian dividing lines fall most sharply between
its Alawite community, the recruiting ground for most of the
senior political and military figures in Assad’s regime, and the
Sunni majority, which broadly supports the rebels.  Sectarian Split  The conflict has forced other minorities increasingly to
align “themselves with parties to the conflict,” with
Christians, Druze and Armenians largely siding with the
government while Turkmen are mostly anti-government, the
commission said. Palestinians have split, while Kurds have
fought against both rebels and government forces.  Some Christian communities have formed militias to protect
their neighborhoods from rebel fighters by setting up
checkpoints around those areas, it said.  Negotiations are the only way to halt the fighting that has
grown increasingly fierce particularly around major cities such
as Damascus and Aleppo, the commercial hub, it said.  The commission said it had found numerous incidents of
torture, summary executions and attacks on cultural property.  “As the conflict drags on, the parties have become ever
more violent and unpredictable, which has led to their conduct
increasingly being in breach of international law,” it said.  Almost 44,000 people have died since the uprising against
began in March 2011, according to the activist Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights.  In certain areas of Syria, the humanitarian situation has
been “aggravated by widespread destruction and razing of
residential areas,” according to the report.  “Towns and villages across Latakia, Idlib, Hama and Dara’a
governorates have been effectively emptied of their
populations,” the panel said. “Entire neighborhoods in
southern and eastern Damascus, Deir al-Zour and Aleppo have been
razed. The downtown of Homs city has been devastated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  