-- New York PATH’s Sandy Repair Costs Could Top $700 Million
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-12-20T18:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/new-york-transit-needs-sandy-relief-spending-rogoff-says.html
Costs to repair damage to the  New
York  region’s PATH train system from  Hurricane Sandy  may be more
than $700 million, compared with the earlier estimate of $300
million, the head of the train’s operator said.  The Oct. 29 storm that slammed into the U.S. East Coast
caused “tsunami-like conditions” in PATH stations, said
Patrick Foye, executive director of the Port Authority of New
York and New Jersey. Repairs and upgrades are needed to
stations, tunnels, tracks and bridges, he said.  “None of our agencies are talking about a bridge to
nowhere,” Foye said today at a Senate Banking Committee hearing
in  Washington , at which executives from New Jersey Transit and
New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority also testified.
“We’re talking about restoring tunnels, bridges and train
stations.”  Foye and the other transit system leaders are seeking
funding from President  Barack Obama ’s proposed $60.4 billion
disaster-relief package to help the region recover from the
Atlantic’s largest-ever tropical storm system.  New York City  area transit service may have to be cut and
U.S. taxpayers may face more costs if Congress skimps on
spending for recovery from the storm, the top U.S. transit
regulator said at the hearing.  “There is a risk of serious service degradation to the
public if they can’t restore their equipment stocks,” Federal
Transit Administrator Peter Rogoff told the committee.  Model Ts  PATH trains between Hoboken,  New Jersey , and the 33rd
Street station in  Manhattan  resumed yesterday following almost
two months of repairs of water damage from Hurricane Sandy. The
storm flooded the tunnels with as much as 8 feet (2.4 meters) of
water and destroyed critical signal and switching systems.  PATH has spent about $200 million of its own money so far,
Foye said. Repairs are hampered by the fact that some destroyed
parts are no longer made, Foye said.  “It has been like trying to find replacement parts for an
entire fleet of Model T Fords in the 21st century,” he said.  Some trains are being directed by employees using radios to
communicate in areas where signal systems haven’t been restored,
Foye said.  The  Port Authority  said Dec. 18 that service between
Hoboken and the World Trade Center remains several weeks away
because damaged signal equipment needs to be replaced.  Republican Opposition  Rogoff pushed for Obama’s disaster-relief package, which
would include $11.7 billion for his agency that would go to
repair, replace and upgrade transit infrastructure harmed in the
storm.  Republican lawmakers have questioned the amount in Obama’s
package, saying the U.S. can’t afford that much as the country
approaches the automatic tax increases and government spending
cuts that would take effect in January without an agreement
between the president and Congress.  “We’re prepared to demonstrate and be accountable for
every dollar,” Foye said.  Of the president’s request, $6.2 billion is targeted to
repair and restore public-transportation infrastructure
controlled by the MTA, the Port Authority, New Jersey Transit
and New York City’s Transportation Department. Obama asked for
$5.5 billion to prevent damage to transportation infrastructure
from future storms.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, was the
sole lawmaker to attend today’s hearing, meaning the witnesses
faced no questions challenging the need for emergency relief.  Family Heirlooms  Spending now to upgrade transit systems in flooded areas
and move things like propulsion power and signal systems out of
areas likely to be hit in future storms would save taxpayers
money in the long run, Rogoff said.  “No homeowner who has had their basement flood takes their
family heirlooms and stores them in the basement,” he said.  The U.S. Federal Emergency Management Administration
oversees reimbursement to transit systems for costs of damage in
natural disasters after the operators spend their own money.  New Jersey Transit  Executive Director James Weinstein said
his system is asking for $1.2 billion in U.S. funding for repair
and upgrades following Sandy’s damage of about 25 percent of the
system’s rail fleet.  That spending would include $500 million to build new
railyard and inspection facilities in areas not prone to
flooding. An additional $200 million would pay to raise power
and other systems above foreseeable flood levels at the Meadows
Maintenance Complex in Kearny, New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  