-- Nike Profit Tops Estimates as North American Sales Gain
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-12-21T21:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/nike-profit-tops-estimates-as-north-american-sales-gain.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company, reported second-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as sales gained in North America and
the company controlled its marketing costs.  Excluding $137 million in losses associated with the Umbro
and Cole Haan businesses Nike is selling or has sold, profit was
$1.14 a share, the Beaverton, Oregon-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts projected $1 a share, the average
of 18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While sales have dropped in some regions abroad, Nike’s
largest market of North America remains a strength, with revenue
in the region gaining 17 percent amid demand for running shoes.
Those gains should continue with orders for the Nike brand from
December to April gaining 14 percent in  North America .  “North America looks strong,” Chris Svezia, an analyst
for Susquehanna Financial Group in  New York , said in a telephone
interview.  Nike also spent about the same on marketing as a year
earlier, which helped profit surpass estimates, he said.  The shares  rose  6.2 percent to $105.10 at the close in New
York for the largest gain since June 28, 2011. Nike has gained
9.1 percent this year.  Total orders for the Nike brand, excluding currency
exchange-rate changes, advanced 7 percent. Analysts projected a
gain of 7.1 percent, the average of four estimates.  Sales Forecast  Sales for this quarter, which runs through February, will
increase by a low double-digit percentage, Chief Financial
Officer Don Blair said on a conference call with analysts
yesterday. The effects of changes in the value of currency would
reduce that by one percentage point. Analysts projected a gain
of 4.7 percent to $6.12 billion, according to 16 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company continued to see its business in  China 
deteriorate as orders decreased 7 percent. Sales last quarter
sank 11 percent to $577 million. To improve the operations, the
company is revamping its apparel offerings, Charles Denson,
president of the Nike brand, said on the call.  Nike has used discounts to clear inventory that wasn’t
selling and is introducing a new line of tighter-fitting apparel
that will appeal more to Chinese consumers, Denson said.  Needs Work  “They still have a tale of two companies there,”  Sam Poser , a New York-based analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.,
said in an interview. “Footwear is extremely strong, and
apparel needs a lot of work.”  Net income in the quarter ended Nov. 30 declined 18 percent
to $384 million from a year earlier, Nike said in the statement.
Total revenue rose 7.4 percent to $5.96 billion.  Nike has been on a mission to improve its profitability.
Part of that plan came with the decision to sell money-losing
Cole Haan, a fashion brand with its own chain of stores, and the
soccer unit Umbro. Cole Haan is in the process of being sold to
 Apax Partners  for $570 million and  Iconix Brand Group Inc. (ICON)  has
bought Umbro for $225 million.  The other leg of that effort has been to raise prices and
cut production costs to counter rising prices for labor in  Asia .
While gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after the
cost of goods sold, narrowed for the eighth straight quarter,
Nike said it would improve by the end of the fiscal year.  “They did a very good job of cost containment,” Poser
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  