-- Nine Entertainment Wins Approval for Restructure Vote
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-12-20T03:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/nine-entertainment-wins-approval-for-restructure-vote.html
Nine Entertainment Co. debt holders
won court approval for a restructuring vote that would result in
the failure of a A$5.75 billion ($6 billion) leveraged buyout by
the broacaster’s owner CVC Capital Partners Ltd.  CVC gets A$4.5 million and a 0.75 percent stake in the
restructured company under the plan. The buyout firm bought the
Australian television network starting in 2006 from billionaire
 James Packer ’s Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd.  Federal Court Justice Peter Jacobson in Sydney today
rejected opposition to the plan from lenders who sought to
prevent a meeting of Nine’s creditors to approve the deal. The
debt holders, which include BNP Paribas SA, objected to being
forced to accept equity in the company and giving control to two
U.S. funds that hold 45 percent of the senior debt.  The proposed plan is the “only opportunity to the company
to repay the senior debt,” Jacobson said in delivering his
ruling. Otherwise it would be “highly likely” the company
would be placed in receivership, he said.  Nine has A$2.2 billion of senior debt, according to court
filings, which is due to mature Feb. 7.  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO)  and  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the U.S. funds, hold A$893
million of the debt. Under the reorganization plan, they will be
able to appoint the majority of Nine’s board in the first year.  Opponents to the plan can consult with other senior lenders
to see if a compromise can be reached on the board appointments,
Jacobson said. The plan must still go before the judge for final
approval, when he’ll have to determine whether it’s fair to all
creditors. That hearing is currently scheduled for Jan. 29.  Debt Owners  Other lenders who sought to block the meeting include
Rabobank International,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , CIC, National
Australia Bank Ltd., Portigon AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and, as a trustee,  GE Capital  Finance Pty.  Portigon holds senior debt of A$63 million. GE Capital has
senior debt of A$25 million and CIC holds A$19 million,
according to court filings.  Requiring unanimous consent from debt holders would make
debt-for-equity swaps almost impossible and would “emasculate”
the law governing such arrangements, Jacobson said in rejecting
the opposition.  Nine owns Australia’s second-most watched television
channel as well as the country’s largest indoor music venue and
Ticketek, an event ticketing company. Its most popular
television programs include the Australian version of Big
Brother, British motoring show Top Gear, and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s crime
drama the Mentalist.  Packer Family  Set up by James Packer’s grandfather Frank Packer in 1956
as  Australia ’s first television station, Nine’s maiden broadcast
was presented by  Bruce Gyngell , father of the current chief
executive.  This isn’t the first time an investor has lost money on
Nine. James Packer’s father Kerry sold the network to Australian
investor Alan Bond in 1987 for A$1 billion, buying it back for
A$250 million when Bond went bankrupt less than three years
later.  “You only get one Alan Bond in your lifetime,” Kerry
Packer remarked, according to Paul Barry’s 1993 biography, “The
Rise and Rise of Kerry Packer.”  The case is In the Matter of Nine Entertainment Group.
NSD2079/2012. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  