-- Norway Grid Manager ‘Excessively’ Nationalistic, Vattenfall Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-20T08:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/norway-grid-manager-excessively-nationalistic-vattenfall-says.html
Vattenfall AB, the Nordic region’s
biggest utility, said Norway’s grid operator Statnett SF has an
“excessively national” perspective which hampers the
harmonized development of the Nordic power system.  “Norway implements a strictly national perspective when
gauging the benefit of boosting transmission grids and building
cross-border links,” Joeran Haegglund, head of Vattenfall’s
public and regulatory affairs, wrote in a letter to  Svenska
Kraftnaet AB, the Swedish grid operator, dated Dec. 11 and e-
mailed by the network manager.  The European Commission plans to create an internal power
market for the bloc by late 2014, allowing electricity to flow
freely across borders. Countries need to boost links to pave the
way for more wind and solar energy, helping ship excess power
from nations with prevalent wind and sunshine to others where
demand is high, according to the regulator.  In a response to a public consultation by the Swedish grid
operator, Vattenfall said “the Nordic region lacks a
sufficiently harmonized view” on power transmission
investments. It urged the grid company, the Swedish Energy
Markets Inspectorate and the government to add to pressure on
neighboring countries to develop the network from a joint
perspective, according to the letter.  Statnett has “the most ambitious plans for new
power links that stretch outside of the Nordic region by 2020,”
while pledging to carry out investments that are profitable for
the area as a whole, Executive Vice President Gunnar G. Loevas
said today by e-mail from Oslo.  There is an inherent risk that national priorities override
joint Nordic planning, resulting in lower regional investment,
Mikael Odenberg, director general of Svenska Kraftnaet, said in
a Dec. 12 interview in  Stockholm .   To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  