-- Norway Pension Fund Buys $1.6 Billion of Prologis Properties
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-12-20T17:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/norway-s-oil-fund-buys-properties-for-1-6-billion-from-prologis.html
Norway’s  sovereign-wealth fund , the
world’s biggest, agreed to buy 50 percent of a European property
portfolio from  Prologis Inc. (PLD)  for 1.2 billion euros ($1.6
billion) for its first industrial property purchase.  The $680 billion fund will buy stakes in 195 properties in
11 European countries, including  Spain ,  Italy ,  Poland , the U.K.
and France, the Oslo-based investor said in a statement today.
Prologis, based in  San Francisco , will hold 50 percent of the
venture and manage the properties.  “The agreement marks the fund’s first investment in
industrial real estate and is in line with our strategy to build
a high-quality portfolio that’s spread over different countries
and sectors,” said Karsten Kallevig, chief investment officer
for real estate at Norges Bank Investment Management, manager of
the fund.  The sovereign-wealth fund is expanding into real estate and
is seeking to have 5 percent of its assets invested in
properties. It has bought commercial real estate in London,
Paris, Frankfurt, Berlin as well in Sheffield, England. The fund
last month made its first real estate investment in  Switzerland ,
buying a Zurich office complex from  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   The Prologis transaction included 100 million euros in bank
debt and is expected to be completed in the first quarter. The
venture has an initial term of 15 years.  Easing Concerns  “It was hoped that transactions like this would have
happened some time ago,” said  James Sullivan , an analyst at
Cowen & Co. in  New York  with a hold rating on Prologis. “Given
that the condition in the European economy and the outlook for
the Euro has been uncertain, it has been an issue in the minds
of some investors that would keep them out of the stock. This
transaction will to some extent alleviate those concerns.”  Prologis needs to sell as much as $8 billion of assets to
pay creditors and get an investment-grade debt rating, said John Guinee, managing director of broker Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “It is just one of many arrows in the quiver that they are
liquidating,” Guinee, who has a buy recommendation on the
stock, said by telephone. “They are about 44 percent levered
and to get the investment-grade rating they want on their debt,
they need to get it down to mid-30s.”  The Norwegian fund earlier this month said it would enter
the U.S. real estate market. The fund is focusing on
conservative property deals, such as large office complexes in
major cities and developed malls,  Yngve Slyngstad , chief
executive officer of Norges Bank Investment Management, said in
a Dec. 1 interview.  Distribution Facilities  The properties purchased from Prologis comprise 4.5 million
square meters (48 million square feet) of rentable space, the
largest amount in France. Most of it used as distribution
facilities by about 300 tenants, according to the statement.  Prologis this year sold about $470 million of property in
the Americas. The company in July said it planned about $800
million in further sales this year.  Prologis merged with AMB Property Corp. in June 2011 in the
biggest combination of U.S. real estate investment trusts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  