-- NYC Marathon Runners Offered Refunds in Sandy-Canceled Race
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-20T17:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/nyc-marathon-offers-refunds-to-runners-after-sandy-cancellation.html
Runners prevented from racing in
this year’s  New York  City Marathon due to  Hurricane Sandy  will
get a full refund or entry into the race in one of the next
three years, organizers announced today.  The New York Road Runners, which stages the race and has a
no-refund policy, said “extraordinary circumstances” forced
the group to offer a return of the entry fee -- which ranged
from $216 to $347 -- to runners who hadn’t canceled before Oct.
24, 2012. The largest Atlantic storm on record struck on Oct.
29, with the race set for Nov. 4.  Runners who want to return were offered a guaranteed spot
in the 2013, 2014, or 2015 race, NYRR said in a letter to
participants, which was also released by its press office. Those
entrants will be required to pay the entry and processing fees
for the year of the race they choose. If the entry fee
increases, runners will continue to pay the 2012 price.  “We are sorry that it has taken us longer to resolve these
issues than we had originally hoped,” NYRR President Mary Wittenberg said in the statement. “We have been working to
offer the best possible solutions in order to meet the needs of
the many different groups associated with the marathon.”  Organizers also offered the choice of a guaranteed entry
for the 2013 NYC Half marathon, scheduled for March 17. Runners
must pay the entry and processing fees for the 13.1-mile race.  ‘Indecisive’ NYRR  “I’m glad they gave the runners a variety of options,”
Adam Levy, an Atlanta-based runner who had planned to compete in
this year’s race, said in an e-mail. “It’s the least they can
do after being so indecisive and costing us in canceled flights
and hotels.”  Levy said he lost $850 due to the cancellation. The Road
Runners won’t cover additional fees incurred by participants.
Those who entered the race through a charity or an international
travel group will have the same refund or rescheduling options,
NYRR said.  The marathon, with about 20,000 overseas entrants in its
field of 47,000, was canceled two days before the scheduled
running as people in the New York area worked to recover from
Sandy. The hurricane killed 41 people in the city and left 4.8
million in the region without power. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
asked Congress this month for $60.4 billion to pay for repairs.  Relief Effort  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  canceled the race two
days after he said it would go on. The initial plans to hold the
event, which hasn’t been skipped since its first edition in
1970, drew widespread criticism, with many arguing that race
manpower and supplies such as generators could be used to help
the recovery effort. Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  The event accounts for 40,000 more hotel rooms than
usual per day for at least five days, NYC & Co., the city’s
tourism office, said at the time.  NYRR, which gains more than $20 million from the marathon,
was seeking as much as $15 million in insurance coverage from
the cancellation, the amount that comes from registration fees,
according to the Wall Street Journal.  The group had been in negotiations with a syndicate of
insurers put together through the Lloyd’s of London insurance
marketplace, according to the Journal.  Along with entry refunds, fees associated with other
marathon-related events, including a Nov. 3 dinner, reserved
grandstand seating and runner-tracking services, will also be
returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  