-- NYSE Bell Tolls for Exchange That Fell Behind
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-20T23:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/nyse-bell-tolls-for-exchange-that-fell-behind.html
The name on the building will remain
and the opening bell will continue to ring every trading day.
But an era is about to end, sadly, with the agreement by the New
York Stock Exchange to sell itself to  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE)   The contrasts between buyer and seller are stark, and go a
long way to explain the deal’s backstory: The NYSE is the
world’s largest stock market where the  trading floor  and
colonnaded structure in the heart of Wall Street are symbols of
American-style capitalism.  ICE, as the buyer is known, offers mostly electronic
futures trading and clearing. For better or worse, the NYSE and
its focus on a shrinking equities market is the past, and ICE,
which specializes in the booming derivatives business, is the
future. The wonder isn’t why the NYSE is being acquired by an
arriviste, but what took so long.  Even if ICE keeps the  NYSE (NYX)  and its floor intact, as it has
promised NYSE officials and New York’s congressional delegation,
it is a bittersweet moment for the Big Board. Its roots go back
to 1792, when merchants gathered under a buttonwood tree on Wall
Street to trade Revolutionary War bonds.  The exchange clung to its trading-floor traditions for too
long, although in recent years it bravely tried to transform
itself. ICE, based in Atlanta and only 12 years old, is barely
out of diapers. What it lacks in sophistication it makes up for
with a willingness to throw out the rulebook and experiment with
new technologies and trading instruments.  Trading Scandal  The NYSE’s reputation had faded over the last decade for
many reasons, including a scandal in which floor traders were
accused of collusion. Former Chairman Richard Grasso’s $140
million pay package in 2003 highlighted the old-boy
atmospherics.  Once regulators in 2005 made it easier for low-cost
electronic markets to compete, the NYSE bought its own
electronic facility and became a public company. In spite of
that, market share declined, and today the NYSE does only 21
percent of the trading in its own listed stocks.  ICE, at any rate, isn’t interested in trading stocks.
Instead, it’s looking to build up a global derivatives trading
operation. To that end, it is eager to get its hands on the
NYSE’s London-based futures market, known as Liffe, which is a
dominant player in interest-rate futures.  Meanwhile, seismic changes are about to hit markets around
the world. Regulations to enforce the Dodd-Frank financial
reform law will require trillions of dollars’ worth of
derivatives trades to go through clearinghouses, which hold
collateral from both parties to a trade to reduce the risk that
a default will harm the entire financial system.  ICE, already a player in the clearinghouse business, wants
a bigger piece of the pie. It will face many competitors, and
the strongest will be the  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the Chicago powerhouse
that controls 90 percent of the U.S. futures market and is
itself the product of a merger.  Just as exchanges are preparing for all of this, regulators
must, too. It won’t be long before traders are more interested
in getting a slice of risk, such as exposure to fast-growth
startup companies or the liquefied natural gas business, and
agnostic about the venue or the specific type of instrument.  They may not care much whether they buy or sell a stock, a
future, an option or an exchange-traded fund, so long as they
are able to get the risk exposure, and with it the anticipated
returns.  Converging World  In this converging world, an exchange that can offer
platforms to trade and clear all those instruments might be the
big winner. The U.S.’s fragmented regulatory system, in which
the Securities and Exchange Commission oversees equities and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission regulates commodities, will
have to adapt -- perhaps even merge, as well.  While they are at it, regulators also must get a better
handle on so-called dark pools, the trading that takes place
off-exchange among Wall Street banks and brokerage firms. The
shift in trading away from regulated exchanges is another reason
for the NYSE’s decline.  The disaggregation of stock trading makes it less likely
that buy and sell orders will meet, resulting in reduced
efficiency, higher trading costs and lower returns.  With such a proliferation of players, regulators must be
careful to maintain a level field. It’s crucial that all
exchanges and clearinghouses meet the same standards of
transparency. They should also be required to make market data
accessible to all.  It’s widely known that the SEC is more of a micromanager of
stock markets than the CFTC is of commodities exchanges. The
bond market, meanwhile, barely gets any regulatory attention.
The system of checks and balances should be the same no matter
what instrument is traded, or where.  For all its drawbacks, the NYSE remains the iconic Big
Board -- the forum where the giants of the corporate world are
listed. ICE, lacking a global brand, is buying one of the
world’s marquee names. It should be careful not to tarnish it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 