-- To Get Better Gun Control, Don’t Use the Phrase
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-12-20T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/to-get-better-gun-control-don-t-use-the-phrase.html
We can now be confident that last
week’s massacre of 26 women and children at an elementary school
in Newtown,  Connecticut , will not be swept under the carpet like
so many mass shootings of the past.  President  Barack Obama  said Dec. 19 that  he would  act
“without delay” after hearing from Vice President  Joe Biden ’s
task force in January. We’ll probably spend much of the winter
and spring debating Obama’s anti-violence proposal.  The question now is what the president -- and the rest of
us -- can do to make sure that the  National Rifle Association 
doesn’t once again intimidate enough members of Congress to gut
the bill. The only answer is to build a smarter, more effective
movement for common-sense gun laws than we have today, which
means lots of meetings, marches, TV ads, door knocks and social-
media campaigns.  Only the technology of movement-building has changed.
Abolitionism, women’s suffrage, civil rights, conservation --
every great stride forward in U.S. history has come from
ordinary people defying the odds and bringing organized pressure
to bear on politicians.  Any movement starts with its core legislative agenda. In
this case, that means:  -- Banning all assault weapons and high-capacity magazines
for everyone except the military.  -- Requiring instant background checks on all gun
purchases, including those at gun shows and online.  -- Providing law enforcement full access to all state and
local databases on felons and the mentally ill.  -- Making illegal gun trafficking a felony.  Wedge Driven  Until now, the NRA has disgraced itself by blocking each of
these no-brainer reforms, mostly by putting tens of millions of
dollars behind its lies. The best thing Obama did in his news
conference was his attempt to drive a wedge between NRA members,
most of whom favor reasonable gun-safety laws, and their hard-
line officers and board of directors.  With the NRA’s news conference on Dec. 21, we’re about to
see if its tardy response to the Newtown shootings plays with
the public. I have my doubts. Once a bully is exposed in harsh
daylight, it can be harder to instill fear again.  To break the NRA’s stranglehold, reformers need to shake
off the hangdog fatalism of the past. Former Pennsylvania
Governor  Ed Rendell  often points out that he won three statewide
elections against the gun lobby in a state that is second only
to  Texas  in NRA membership.  Democrats are too worried about senators from  Alaska ,
 Arkansas ,  Montana ,  Louisiana  and  West Virginia  up for re-
election in 2014. Even if many rural counties are out of reach,
dozens of others in suburban areas are full of moderate and
compassionate people who have not been approached imaginatively
on the gun issue.  Doing so requires reframing the debate with new language,
always an essential weapon in politics. That means retiring “ gun
control ” (the “control” part is threatening to gun owners) and
replacing it with “gun safety,” “anti-violence regulation,”
“military weapons for the military only” and -- on every
occasion -- “common sense.”  Mom-and-apple-pie appeals always work best. So far, with
anti-gun groups starved for money, they haven’t been widely
tried.  In the meantime, liberals need to downplay accurate but
politically useless arguments. It’s true that violent video
games don’t cause shooting rampages, that state laws allowing
concealed weapons are a menace, and that guns in the home are
 more likely  to be used in an accidental shooting than to protect
against burglars. But emphasizing these points just exacerbates
cultural differences and does nothing to advance next year’s
legislation.  Positions Rethought  What would? The most heartening remarks of the week came
from people such as West Virginia Senator  Joe Manchin , who was
elected in 2010 with  an ad  featuring him firing a gun. Now he
believes it’s time to rethink some positions. A couple of
country stars on his side (hello, Toby Keith) would help. So
would anti-violence super-PACs (yet to be formed) airing attack
ads in suburban media markets that thrust the NRA on the
defensive, where it has never been.  The NRA spent  more than $11 million  on behalf of candidates
in the 2012 cycle, a relatively small sum by today’s standards.
Let’s see what happens when it has to respond to a heavy ad
barrage next year that includes families talking about their
dead children.  The president’s role -- better late than never -- is to
mobilize his base. His 2012 grass-roots political organization,
the best ever built, raised more than $1 billion, amassed more
than 15 million e-mail addresses, contacted tens of millions of
voters and recruited a million volunteers in battleground
states.  Now the Obama team has the passionate issue it needs to
target and organize crucial suburban congressional districts. If
all  House Democrats  vote for the landmark bill next spring -- a
reasonable supposition -- Obama would need the support of 17
 House Republicans  for it to pass.  The only thing they or other members care about is their
own political survival. So the question for them is this: What’s
the use of a 100 percent NRA rating in the Republican primary if
it’s going to doom you in the general?  I know, I know. This sounds like a fantasy. The gun lobby
likes to point to the elections of 1994 and 2000, when several
Democrats who backed the assault-weapons ban lost their seats.
No federal gun laws have been passed since. New ones at the
state level have all been for the worse.  But U.S. politics is in a state of transition. Obama won a
solid majority in November. His army -- not the NRA’s -- is the
one that’s on the march. The massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary
School was so unspeakable that it may yet help a whole new
generation of political activists to find their voice.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 