-- Obama Expels BP, Record Number of Firms From Contracting
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-12-20T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/obama-expels-bp-record-number-of-firms-from-contracting.html
The Obama administration has
temporarily barred more than 3,800 contractors from winning new
federal work so far in 2012, the most on record.  BP Plc (BP/)  made the U.S. government’s blacklist last month
after being suspended for its role in the biggest  oil spill  in
the nation’s history. A  Booz Allen  Hamilton Holding Corp. unit
in  Texas  was banned for about nine weeks after it hired a former
government employee who shared sensitive information about a
pending technology project.  The increase in companies and individuals suspended and
proposed for debarments comes as federal agencies review
contracts that surged during two wars. Also contributing to the
record rebukes are pressure from Congress to weed out fraud, and
companies that may be snitching on each other as they fight for
a shrinking pool of awards.  Agencies are “absolutely behaving more aggressively and
the numbers show that,” said Rob Burton, a former acting
administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy during
the George W. Bush administration and now a partner at Venable
LLP in  Washington . “Contractors are also playing the role of
whistle-blowers a little more than they used to. You’re always
out to kill your competitor, right? But I’ve seen more of it
lately.”  Burton said he has represented clients that have
successfully challenged awards based on information they
had on competitors. He declined to disclose the companies
involved.  Crackdown Ordered  Lawmakers, inspector generals, and the Government
Accountability Office have faulted procurement officials for
failing to keep unethical or incompetent vendors from winning
work in the $500 billion-a-year federal market.  A GAO report in October 2011 said six out of 10 executive
branch agencies studied weren’t doing enough to weed out
undesirable contractors that fail to play by the rules and urged
the White House Office of Management and Budget to step up
oversight. In November 2011, then OMB-Administrator  Jacob Lew 
ordered agencies to appoint senior officials to ride herd on
questionable awards and take other steps to strengthen sanction
programs.  “This administration has made the utilization of
suspension and debarment a very clear and prominent element of
its enforcement toolkit,” said Alan Chvotkin, counsel and
executive vice president of the Professional Services Council,
an Arlington, Virginia-based association for federal vendors.
“The numbers are high, much higher than in years past.”  Ethical Lapses  The  General Services Administration , which oversees the
online database used to track vendors banned from winning
federal work, has records that go back to 1997 and provided data
to Bloomberg. This year’s figures are from Jan. 1 through Dec.
3.  “With one in six federal dollars going to contractors and
grantees, we have an ongoing responsibility to ensure taxpayer
dollars are not at risk for waste, fraud and abuse,”  Moira Mack , a spokeswoman for the White House’s Office of Management
and Budget, said in an e-mail.  Contractors can be proposed for exclusion from government
work for poor performance as well as ethical shortcomings,
including overbilling or falsely claiming a company is owned by
a disabled veteran in order to win special awards.  A suspension, which generally lasts fewer than 18 months,
excludes a contractor pending completion of a legal proceeding
or investigation. A debarment makes a contractor ineligible for
government awards for a fixed time, usually three years or less.
Companies are also ineligible to receive new work if they’ve
been proposed for debarment.  BP Ban  In BP’s case, the EPA said it imposed the ban because the
company’s conduct during the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster
showed a “lack of business integrity.” The action doesn’t
affect existing contracts. The incident killed 11 people and
caused the largest environmental disaster in U.S. history, the
EPA said.  BP on Nov. 15 reached a settlement with the  Justice
Department , agreeing to pay $4.5 billion to end all criminal
charges and resolve securities claims relating to the Gulf
explosion.  The suspension was unusual because the U.S. government is
typically hesitant to go after larger companies, said Steve Ryan, head of the government contracts unit at law firm
McDermott Will & Emery LLP in Washington.  “In the oil area, suspending or debarring one of the big
ones is an unusual event,” Ryan said in a phone interview.
“There’s a systematic reluctance against going after the big
ones.”  More Coming  The number of firms barred from contracting “don’t
necessarily reflect being tough” with large companies, said
Charles Tiefer, a University of Baltimore law professor who
specializes in government contracting.  “It’s good that the administration finally has the cojones
to protect the government from bogus contractors,” said in a
phone interview. “I still wonder whether the administration has
higher numbers of suspensions and debarments due to its going
after small fry.”  Tiefer, who served on the U.S. Commission on Wartime
Contracting, said he expects to see more action from the
government to exclude firms from contracting.  “There are still so many billions of dollars of wartime
contracting to be reviewed by auditors that we could still see a
wave of efforts to close the doors on bad contractors,” he
said.  Booz Allen  A  Booz Allen Hamilton (BAH)  unit was suspended this year from
competing for new contracts between Feb. 6 until April 13 after
the company told the government its San Antonio office hired a
former government employee who shared sensitive information
about a planned information technology project. The employee, a
former  Air Force  lieutenant colonel, was accused of disclosing
details related to the incumbent vendor’s pricing and sensitive
information related to a contract competition.  The agreement requires Booz Allen to file quarterly reports
with the Air Force about the firm’s implementation of “remedial
measures,” the company said in an April statement. It is also
subject to enhanced requirements to disclose employee misconduct
and ethics violations.  James Fisher, a company spokesman, declined to provide
additional comment about the matter or the increase in
contractor suspensions and debarments.  Skills Challenged  Roy Browning and KDV Inc., the Louisville, Kentucky-based
construction business he owned, were temporarily blocked from
winning federal work last year after a competitor alleged
Browning had misrepresented himself to receive special contracts
reserved for small companies owned by veterans. The rival
questioned whether Browning, a disabled veteran, was running his
construction business, as is required to receive the special
contracts, according to court documents.  In April 2011, the Department of  Veterans Affairs  debarred
KDV and Browning for five years, saying Browning’s prior
experience as a hair dresser and automobile service manager made
it unlikely he had the skills to control the company’s daily
operations.  Browning sued the VA and it removed him from the debarred
list last year pending additional investigation. The department
dropped the case this year.  The government may be too aggressive in pursuing debarment
in some cases, since what agencies see as fraud may occasionally
be errors that occur when companies don’t fully understand the
“complex” federal contracting system, Chvotkin of the
contractors’ trade group, said.  The financial impact of even short-term blacklisting from
federal work can be devastating for contractors, he said.  “It is for many a risk of a death sentence for doing
business in the federal marketplace,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  