-- Obama Openness Vow Broken as Disclosure Suits Top Bush
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-12-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/obama-openness-promise-belied-as-disclosure-suits-outpace-bush.html
Lawsuits filed in federal district
court to force the government to comply with Freedom of
Information Act requests surged under President  Barack Obama .  The FOIA-related complaints jumped 28 percent to 720 in the
last two years of Obama’s first term from 562 in the last two
years of President George W. Bush’s second term, according to  a
study  by the  Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse .  The analysis marks the first time FOIA lawsuit data has
been available in a central, public location, said Susan Long, a
Syracuse University statistics professor and co-director of the
data-gathering and research organization.  “We thought this was a hole that needed to be plugged,”
said Long. She leads a team of researchers who check federal
district courts across the U.S. daily to see if there is
activity on FOIA-related cases. The information is available at
 foiaproject.org .  Long said the records may lead to greater accountability at
the Justice Department, which defends agencies in cases over
information withheld from FOIA requesters.  “A little sunlight might change people’s behavior a bit,”
she said.  The foiaproject.org website said that “extensive case-by-
case analysis” may be required before a full assessment of the
dramatic surge in FOIA complaints can be documented.  Justice Response  Melanie Ann Pustay, director of the Office of Information
Policy at the Department of Justice, said in an e-mailed
statement that the figures may reflect the increase in the
number of FOIA requests made to agencies since 2009.  “The individual cases would need to be reviewed to
determine which raised valid FOIA claims,” Pustay said, adding
that it’s “difficult to draw conclusions about why FOIA
lawsuits are made without surveying the plaintiffs themselves to
find out why.”  She said the Justice Department hadn’t had “time to verify
the numbers” in the study.  The study broke out the growth of FOIA-related complaints
filed against individual U.S. agencies. The State Department
showed the highest growth rate from the Bush administration to
the Obama administration, more than doubling from 18 to 38
lawsuits, according to the study.  Under FOIA, agencies have 20 working days to provide
requested information or offer a timetable for eventual
disclosure. If an agency denies a request in part or in full,
it’s required to explain why records were redacted or withheld.
If an individual’s administrative appeal is denied, a suit can
be filed in federal district court to force disclosure. Those
FOIA cases can take years to resolve.  Timeliness Pledge  The researchers said that due to the difficulties
separating out FOIA suit filings that overlap different
administrations, studying the last two years of each president’s
term gave a clearer view of their relative disclosure records.  Obama called FOIA, which was passed during President Lyndon Johnson’s administration, the “most prominent expression of a
profound national commitment to ensuring an open government,”
in a memo to department and agency heads on Jan. 21, 2009, his
first full day in office.  Attorney General Eric Holder followed up Obama’s statement
with his own directive in March 2009, ordering government
agencies to review their internal FOIA rules. In the memo,
Holder said that timeliness of FOIA responses was “an essential
component of transparency.”  Mixed Record  Earlier this month, an open-government group released an
analysis that showed shortcomings in the Obama administration’s
transparency record.  The National Security Archive, a Washington-based
information repository, said in a Dec. 4  study  that 62 of the 99
government agencies it reviewed hadn’t updated their response
practices more than three years after Holder’s guidance was
issued.  Bloomberg reporters in June filed requests under FOIA for
records on taxpayer-supported travel in fiscal year 2011 for the
top officers at 57 Cabinet departments and major government
agencies. Only eight agencies complied within the legally
required 20-day deadline.  Six months after the filings , 38 out
of 57 agencies had disclosed the travel records.  The lowest rate of response -- 40 percent -- has come from
Obama’s cabinet. Among executive departments, only Treasury,
Homeland Security, Labor, Commerce, Transportation and Veterans
Affairs released travel details.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Energy Secretary Steven Chu and Kathleen Sebelius of the Department of Health and Human
Services are among those who haven’t complied. Even Holder,
whose Department of Justice monitors FOIA responses, hasn’t
released documents.  Obama administration spokesman Jay Carney declined to
comment last week about the Bloomberg investigation results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  