-- Obama Proving $418 Billion Bailout No Failure as GM Buys
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-12-20T12:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/obama-proving-418-billion-bailout-no-failure-as-gm-buys-shares.html
The U.S. Treasury’s plan to sell its
remaining 32 percent stake in  General Motors Co. (GM)  is a leap
forward for the Obama administration’s effort to end a $418
billion bailout program that in four years was transformed from
a political albatross to a winning campaign issue.  The decision to exit GM within the next 15 months, and the
Treasury’s sale last week of its remaining shares of insurer
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , will erase two corporate
symbols of the 2008 financial crisis from the government’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program. Taxpayers spent $182.3 billion on
AIG and $49.5 billion to rescue GM.  “This shows that the Obama administration, as it enters
its second term, wants to close the book on TARP as quickly as
practicable,” said Stephen Myrow, who worked on the program in
2008 as a Treasury official in the administration of George W. Bush and is now managing director at ACG Analytics Inc., an
investment research and consulting firm in Washington.  The stock sales, announced as Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner prepares to leave office, mark a turnaround for the
Obama administration. Public anger over the bailouts, initially
intended to prevent a financial meltdown by rescuing banks,
helped the Republican Party retake the House of Representatives
in 2010. Two years later, President  Barack Obama  turned the
issue against Republican opponent  Mitt Romney  to help win Ohio
and  Michigan , key states in the presidential contest.  GM Plans  GM plans to buy 200 million, or 13 percent, of its shares
for $5.5 billion by the end of the year. That would leave the
Treasury with about 300 million shares, or 19 percent on a fully
diluted basis, after the transaction.  “The question most often asked is whether TARP was
successful,” said  Kevin Petrasic , a partner with law firm Paul
Hastings LLP in Washington and former special counsel at the
Office of Thrift Supervision. “The more important question is
did TARP fail, and we do know the answer. It didn’t fail. Where
we are now, compared to where we were three years ago,
demonstrates that it didn’t fail.”  Congress approved $700 billion for the financial rescue in
October 2008, and the bill was signed into law by Bush in the
midst of a presidential election campaign that Obama won. The
economy was shrinking at an 8.9 percent annual rate in that
quarter, and 1.95 million jobs were lost.  Growth resumed in the third quarter of 2009, and
unemployment last month fell to 7.7 percent, the lowest rate
since 2008. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has more than
doubled since reaching a 12-year low on March 9, 2009.  On Autopilot  “My concern is that Treasury might put GM on autopilot and
forget about how taxpayers ended up owning the company in the
first place,”  Christy Romero , the special inspector general
overseeing TARP, said in an interview yesterday. “Treasury just
can’t focus on its exit from these investments. It has to focus
on ensuring that TARP was worth it and there’s continued
financial stability for our economy.”  GM surged 6.6 percent to $27.18 yesterday as the automaker
said it would pay $27.50 a share, a 7.9 percent premium over the
previous day’s closing price. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lost 0.8 percent to 1,435.81 as deteriorating  federal budget 
talks fueled concern automatic tax increases and spending cuts
will be triggered.  Shares Gain  The shares gained 26 percent this year through Dec. 18,
when they remained 23 percent below the company’s initial public
offering price of $33 a share.  The deal puts break-even further away for Treasury, which
has garnered about $23 billion through GM’s 2010 IPO, debt
repayment, repurchasing of preferred stock, and interest and
dividends. That means the U.S. would need almost $70 for each of
the remaining 300 million shares to recoup its investment, up
from about $53 before yesterday.  The Congressional Budget Office estimated in October that
TARP, which stabilized banks including Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley, would ultimately cost taxpayers $24 billion, down from
a projection of $109 billion in March 2010.  The rescues of GM, Chrysler Group LLC and auto lender Ally
Financial Inc. cost taxpayers $79.7 billion, and $40.9 billion
has been returned. Taxpayers have invested $49.5 billion in GM
and received $23 billion back, not including the $5.5 billion GM
plans to buy from the Treasury.  Several Pieces  Several pieces of the bailout remain. The Treasury said the
timing of its exit from GM depends on market conditions, and it
retains a 74 percent stake in Ally. The government is also
running housing programs that have helped fewer homeowners than
it initially hoped and is trying to sell shares of 218 banks
that still owe taxpayer money.  “With the year-end upon us, everyone wants to clean up
their balance sheets,” said Kip Weissman, a partner
representing banks for Luse Gorman Pomerenk & Schick PC in
 Washington . The GM sale allows the Treasury to “show a higher
profit and lower outstanding balance on TARP, and investors can
take some GM profits.”  Outside of TARP, taxpayers have invested $187.5 billion in
mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and
received dividends of $50.4 billion. The Obama administration
wants to overhaul the housing-finance system and wind down
Fannie and Freddie, which pool home loans for sale to investors
and guarantee interest and principal payments. The firms have
operated under U.S. conservatorship since 2008.  U.S., Canada  The auto bailouts by the U.S. and Canadian governments
propped up a light-vehicle industry that has since reported
three straight years of at least 10 percent growth. Cars and
light trucks sold at a 15.5 million annual  rate  in November, the
most since February 2008, according to data from Ward’s
Automotive Group.  The auto bailouts were “not a bust but not a success,”
said Phillip Swagel, who was an assistant Treasury secretary
under Bush and is now a professor at the University of  Maryland 
in College Park. “The economy would have been worse without the
auto rescue, but the administration’s method was more costly
than it needed to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  