-- Obama Splits Republican Alliance With CEOs Favoring Tax Increase
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-12-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/obama-splits-republican-alliance-with-ceos-favoring-tax-increase.html
Even as President Barack Obama was
being attacked in campaign commercials funded in part by
America’s business elite, he was making plans to enlist
corporate chiefs to help in his first post-election battle.  Within 36 hours of the Nov. 6 vote, White House aides
returned from victory celebrations in Chicago and began calling
business leaders urging them to press for a budget compromise,
including Obama’s demand for higher tax rates on the wealthy.  Some 50 chief executive officers have since met with the
president or his advisers, White House aides say, with many CEOs
spurred by their own desire to rein in the  deficit  and remove
the uncertainty looming over the economy. Among the visitors:
Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Robert Iger of Walt
Disney Co. and Randall Stephenson of AT&T Inc.  The resulting support among executives for Obama’s tax
stance has split the Republican business alliance, driving a
wedge between CEOs urging compromise and the nation’s most
prominent small-business group resisting.  The administration has “sicced big business on us,” said
Representative Pete Sessions, a Texas Republican. Sessions, who
will soon become chairman of the House Rules Committee, said
pleas from owners and executives of smaller privately held
companies to hold firm against tax increases have “completely
outweighed” corporate lobbying.  Still, Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  has retreated
in talks, offering a plan to raise tax rates on income over $1
million, rather than the $400,000 threshold Obama proposed in
his latest bid. The House may vote today on the measure.  Touching Nerve  Adding to the pressure, Obama administration CEO allies
such as  David Cote  of Honeywell Inc., Jim McNerney Jr. of Boeing
Co. and  Robert Wolf  of 32 Advisors LLC have recruited fellow
executives to join in discussions with the White House and lobby
Republicans in Congress, said people familiar with discussions.  One sign that the business leaders’ efforts have touched a
nerve is a Dec. 14 letter by Representative  Dave Camp , the
Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and
 Orrin Hatch , the top-ranking Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee. They warned that any increase in tax rates would
impede future efforts to overhaul corporate income taxes.  “The president’s latest gambit is clearly meant to divide
the business community on the issue of  tax reform ,” they  wrote 
to the Business Roundtable, a CEO group, and the National
Federation of Independent Business, the largest small-business
trade association.  Different Stakes  The small-business federation has maintained its opposition
to a tax-rate increase, urging members to lobby congressional
representatives against the Obama demand.  “We’ve made clear the impact that raising the top tax
rates would have on flow-through businesses and  job creation ,”
said Chris Whitcomb, tax counsel for the group.  Companies structured as S corporations, partnerships or
sole proprietorships typically don’t pay the corporate tax of up
to 35 percent. Instead, the small-business owners report profits
on their individual tax returns.  A 2011 Treasury Department analysis found that between 29
percent and 32 percent of small-business income is subject to
the top two tax rates. Of the taxpayers subject to the top two
rates, 25 percent are small businesses and employers. Not all
the businesses that pay taxes through their owners’ individual
returns are small. They include partners in global law and
accounting firms, oil pipeline companies and  hedge funds .  CEO Support  Congress and the White House are seeking to head off more
than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts scheduled
to begin in January if no deal is reached. Obama has demanded a
tax-rate increase on higher-earning Americans before he will
agree to spending cuts to address long-term fiscal imbalances.  Chief executives from about 170 large companies signed a
Dec. 11  letter  urging a deal, saying it should include more
revenue -- including tax increases -- and spending cuts. The
Business Roundtable, which organized the letter, previously had
favored extending tax cuts passed under President  George W. Bush 
for all income levels.  The same day, CEOs of 18 builders including Doug Yearley of
Toll Brothers Inc., the largest U.S. luxury home builder,
released a letter also calling for a compromise agreement with
higher taxes and spending cuts.  Business Roundtable President  John Engler  and U.S. Chamber
of Commerce CEO  Tom Donohue  joined other industry group leaders
yesterday at the White House for a meeting with top
administration officials.  Hardest Hit  Obama’s ability to bring around top executives on tax rates
is striking, considering the clashes the president had with the
business community during his fights over the overhaul of the
health-care industry and financial-market regulations.  Many of the CEOs would be among the hardest hit by higher
tax rates because of their salaries. Cote’s total compensation
last year was $37.8 million. McNerney’s was $23 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some executives stressed that any willingness to accept
higher rates was strictly tied to spending cuts, and they’ve
brought that message to the White House.  Barry Sternlicht , chairman and CEO of Starwood Capital
Group LLC, said he was invited by  Marc Lasry  of Avenue Capital
to participate in a meeting with  Valerie Jarrett , a senior Obama
adviser who is spearheading the outreach, and a few advisers.
Sternlicht said he decided it was worth attending to see if he
could make a difference.  He said he advised the administration at the meeting that
he opposed raising tax rates unless they “get serious about
spending cuts, led by tackling entitlements” and unless new
revenue “be earmarked to education reform and job creation and
specifically to bolstering community colleges.”  ‘Special Credibility’  While the White House is also enlisting traditional
Democratic supporters such as mayors and unions to back its
efforts, corporate CEOs are key to making the case for the
economic benefits of a compromise, said Joel Johnson, a former
adviser to President  Bill Clinton .  CEOs “have special credibility with members of Congress,”
said Johnson, now managing director of the Glover Park Group, a
Washington-based strategic communications firm.  The White House has an eye on that selling power.
Administration officials have made a point of asking chief
executives to provide backing for any agreement forged with
Boehner, arguing that a show of support will help tamp down
opposition in Congress from more ideological members of both
parties, said a person familiar with discussions.  Offering Encouragement  Arne Sorenson, CEO of Marriott International Inc. and a
supporter of Republican Mitt Romney in the presidential
campaign, said he has made phone calls to “folks on both
sides” since attending a White House meeting to urge a
compromise that includes both tax increases and spending cuts.  “We’re here to provide some encouragement to leaders from
both parties so they understand there’s more support from the
business community to do what’s uncomfortable,” Sorenson said.  The CEOs have been more forceful voices for compromise than
the last time a partisan deadlock threatened economic
disruption, when a standoff over raising the  legal debt limit  in
2011 brought the U.S. to the brink of default.  A former administration official involved in the debt talks
said the 2010 Republican midterm election victory and
uncertainty over Obama’s re-election prospects weakened the
White House in getting business support then. Obama now has a
fresh four-year election mandate.  ‘Investment Pause’  The Obama team and corporate executives also learned
lessons from the gridlock. In the aftermath of the debt-limit
talks, the Conference Board’s  Consumer Confidence  index’s August
2011 reading plunged 14 points, its largest one-month drop since
the near-collapse of financial markets in 2008. The index didn’t
return to its July level until the end of the year.  The current standoff may again be weighing on consumers.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment
 index  showed its biggest drop in December in more than a year.  General Electric Co. CEO  Jeffrey Immelt , who signed the
Business Roundtable letter, told investors on Dec. 17 that
uncertainty over the budget has contributed to an investment
“pause” that is depressing fourth-quarter revenue for the
Fairfield, Connecticut-based conglomerate.  Business leaders “have been more engaged” than in the
debt-limit talks and administration outreach has been “much
more intense,” said Obama adviser Jarrett.  Reaching Out  In addition to the White House meetings, the administration
is maintaining contact with business leaders through conference
calls several times a week, an administration official said.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and National Economic
Council Director  Gene Sperling  have been calling individual CEOs
since the election, officials said.  Boeing’s McNerney and Honeywell’s Cote, whose defense-
contracting firms would be especially hard hit by the automatic
spending cuts, met this week with Jarrett and Sperling.  “The White House is trying to, and frankly doing a good
job of, marketing their position,” Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’s
CEO and chairman, said at a Dec. 12 conference in New York,
according to the New York Times Dealbook. “They’re trying to
recruit, and I say this in a positive way, trying to recruit
people to their view.”  Several years have also passed since Obama fought with
corporate America over health care and financial regulations.  “We’re in a different time now,” Jarrett said. “So I
think there is an alignment of interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 