-- Mohawk to Buy Italian Tilemaker Marazzi for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-12-21T08:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/mohawk-agrees-to-acquire-marazzi-for-1-5-billion.html
Mohawk Industries Inc. (MHK) , the maker of
Daltile and Columbia flooring, agreed to acquire Italian
ceramics manufacturer Marazzi Group SpA for about $1.5 billion
in cash and stock to bolster its presence outside the U.S.  The purchase from investors including London-based private-
equity firm Permira is expected to be completed in the first
quarter of 2013 and boost earnings next year, Calhoun, Georgia-
based Mohawk said yesterday in a statement.  Mohawk, which has been expanding through investments in
 Australia ,  Brazil ,  China ,  Mexico  and  Russia , is acquiring a
manufacturer and marketer of ceramic tile in the U.S. and
Europe. Modena-based Marazzi distributes its products in more
than 100 countries and will increase Mohawk’s worldwide growth,
the U.S. company said.  “Mohawk has a long history of making additive
acquisitions,” analysts at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., including
John Baugh, wrote in a report yesterday. The Marazzi purchase
“strengthens the company’s position in one of the fastest
growing flooring segments,” while providing “numerous”
opportunities for cost savings.  Italian Recession  The purchase is taking place during Italy’s fourth
recession since 2001, with the jobless rate at a 13-year high of
11.1 percent. The economy, the third biggest among countries
using the euro, is likely to contract 2.1 percent this year and
0.6 percent in 2013, the employer lobby Confindustria forecast
on Dec. 11.  The Stifel Nicolaus analysts said they “certainly hope the
entry point for Mohawk into  Europe  is at a low point of the
cycle.”  The Italian company, which employs 6,300 people, had
revenue of $1.16 billion in 2011, Mohawk said today. Earnings
before interest and taxes, depreciation and amortization at
Marazzi will total about 145 million euros ($191 million) this
year, for a purchase multiple of about eight, it said.  The U.S. manufacturer bought Dallas-based Dal-Tile
International Inc., then the country’s biggest maker of ceramic
tiles, for $1.66 billion in early 2002. Global demand for
ceramic tiles is growing by 5 percent to 6 percent a year,
Mohawk said today.  Marazzi was taken private by its namesake founding family
and investment firms Permira and Private Equity Partners in
mid-2008 in a transaction valued at $1.1 billion at the time.  The Italian company has a “solid management team and
leadership positions in the U.S., Russia and Europe,” Mohawk
Chief Executive Officer Jeff Lorberbaum said in the statement.  Mohawk fell as much as 1.2 percent to $85.98 in extended
trading yesterday after rising 3.3 percent to $87.04 at the
close in  New York . The shares have gained 45 percent this year.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advised Mohawk on the transaction, the U.S.
manufacturer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  