-- Tohoku’s Atomic Plant Is on Active Fault Line, Regulator Says
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-12-20T11:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/tohoku-s-atomic-plant-is-on-active-fault-line-regulator-says.html
Scientists working for  Japan ’s
Nuclear Regulation Authority said geological fault lines are
active under the  Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506) ’s Higashidori nuclear
plant at the northern end of the nation’s main island.  The scientists conducted an investigation at the plant in
Aomori prefecture last week and reported their findings today.
Earlier this month, another team of geologists appointed by the
NRA said a fault is probably active under Japan Atomic Power
Co.’s Tsuruga No. 2 reactor at the southern end of the island.  Tohoku Electric said it has repeatedly conducted checks to
confirm faults at the plant are dormant.  “We will explain with detailed data in the next meeting
that fault lines at the plant are not active,” the utility said
in a statement today.  Officials from Tohoku Electric were invited to the NRA to
discuss the findings at a meeting on Dec. 26. All except two of
Japan’s 50 nuclear reactors are closed for safety checks after
the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami that wrecked an atomic
plant in Fukushima prefecture, causing radiation leakage and
mass evacuations.  “It is very hard to accept the argument that these are not
active fault lines,” said Kunihiko Shimazaki, a NRA
commissioner who was among the five scientists who ran the
investigation at the northern plant. “If Tohoku Electric says
they are not active, we would like to hear their explanation.”  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  is conducting additional checks
after an NRA team delayed a decision on whether a fault under
its Ohi plant is active.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  