-- Oil Rises a Fifth Day as Economic Growth Counters Budget
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-12-20T20:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/oil-falls-as-deteriorating-budget-talks-counter-growth.html
Crude in  New York  rose for a fifth
day, the longest stretch of gains since September, as better-
than-projected economic growth in the U.S. countered concern
that American budget negotiations will fail.  Futures reached a two-month high after the Commerce
Department U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 3.1 percent
annual rate in the third quarter, greater than the highest
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Oil fell as much as 0.8 percent
earlier on speculation that efforts to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff of tax gains and spending cuts are deteriorating.  “The market is getting support from the improving economic
picture,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “There have
been a number of signs pointing to stronger growth.”  Crude oil for February delivery rose 15 cents to $90.13 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Oct. 18. Futures, which have gained 3.9 percent
this week, are down 8.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for February settlement fell 16 cents to end the
session at $110.20 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The front-month European benchmark settled at
$20.07 premium to the corresponding West Texas Intermediate
contract traded in New York. The spread was $20.38 yesterday.  The Commerce Department in  Washington  previously estimated
that U.S. gross domestic product increased 2.7 percent in the
third quarter. The median estimate of economists called for a
2.8 percent advance.  Philadelphia Manufacturing  Other reports showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly expanded to an eight-month high and
nationwide sales of previously owned homes rose more than
forecast in November to reach a three-year high.  The index of U.S. leading indicators fell in November,
pointing to a slowdown in the economy early next year as
companies curb investment. The Conference Board’s gauge of the
outlook for the next three to six months dropped 0.2 percent
after a revised 0.3 percent gain in October that was larger than
initially reported, the New York-based group said today.  The U.S. accounted for 21 percent of the world’s oil
consumption last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review
of World Energy.  House Speaker  John Boehner  accused President  Barack Obama 
of being unwilling to stand up to fellow Democrats in the fight
over how to avert spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to
begin in January.  Nearing Deadline  “It looked like they were on the verge of an agreement to
avoid the fiscal cliff, but now that’s not looking that sure,”
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures
Group in  Chicago . “We had some positive GDP numbers today but
the economy won’t continue to grow in the new year if we go over
the fiscal cliff.”  Officials from the Obama administration told eight industry
representatives at the White House that plans to vote on
Boehner’s alternative proposal on taxes risk pushing the
government past the deadline for spending cuts and tax increases
to start, a person familiar with the meeting said.  Republican leaders gave themselves most of the day to line
up votes for Boehner’s tax measure by scheduling the roll call
on final passage after 7:30 p.m. Washington time, according to
the House Republican whip’s notice.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  called Boehner’s push for
his plan a “multiday exercise in futility” that wouldn’t pass
the Senate and would be vetoed by the president if it did.  ‘Some Hope’  “There’s still some hope that they will come to an
agreement, because otherwise prices would be much lower,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “There’s a sense that the
political posturing isn’t quite over.”  U.S. crude oil inventories decreased last week as
 refineries ramped up  operating rates, according to data released
yesterday by the Energy Department. Crude  stockpiles  fell
964,000 barrels to 371.6 million, the lowest level since Oct.
12. Refineries operated at a 91.5 percent rate, the highest
since Aug. 10.  “It looks like there is some follow-through from
yesterday’s report,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Crude demand
from refiners was extremely strong.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 330,672
contracts as of 3:11 p.m. Volume totaled 507,852 contracts
yesterday, 0.6 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.48 million, the lowest level since Nov. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  