-- Hollande Calls France’s Algerian Rule Brutal; No Apology
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-12-20T11:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/hollande-calls-france-s-algerian-rule-brutal-no-apology.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
called  France ’s 132-year colonial rule in  Algeria  “brutal and
unjust,” stopping short of an outright apology, as he seeks to
improve relations that have been troubled ever since the North
African country won its independence 50 years ago.  Citing France’s postwar reconciliation with  Germany ,
Hollande told Algeria’s parliament during a two-day visit that
he wants “a new age in relations” based on “recognition of
the truth.”  Hollande is the third French president to struggle how to
frame relations with Algeria since the country’s president,
Abdelaziz Bouteflika, demanded in 2003 that France apologize for
its “long, brutal and genocidal” rule. Bouteflika and other
Algerian leaders have lately backed off those demands, and
Hollande has already taken some steps toward Algeria, such as
this year being the first French president to recognize the
killings of 100 Algerian protesters in Paris in 1961.  Bouteflika hasn’t spoken on the matter during Hollande’s
trip. In a Dec. 11 interview with  Agence France-Presse , he
dropped his inflammatory rhetoric, saying he wants a “dynamic
and strong relation with France, based on the density of our
ties and the numerous interests that link our countries.”  A recognition of abuses that took place during French rule
without a formal apology would satisfy most Algerians, said
 Kader Abderrahim , a researcher at the Paris-based Institute of
International and Strategic Studies.  “Algerian powers make cynical use of the whole issue to
manipulate public opinion,” Abderrahim said before Hollande’s
trip. “But most Algerians just want to turn the page.”  Algerian Dignity  Interviews with Algerians lined up to welcome Hollande
yesterday as he walked the Algiers waterfront showed a variety
of opinions. “It’s very important for the dignity of the
Algerian people that he apologize,” said Hassan Taibi, an 18-
year-old student, adding that easier visa requirements to visit
France is more important to many young people.  Ali Medjaoui, 64-year-old civil servant who was 14 when the
French left, said: “We want to turn the page, but we won’t
forget. We want an equal partnership. We are not bitter, we
don’t demand apologies, we just need to remember.”  Adouan Benkrama, a 42-year-old unemployed man, said he
didn’t care about history; he wanted a job. “We need to forget
the past, what we need is more investment,” he said. “With all
this oil wealth, it shouldn’t be so difficult to get a job.”  ‘Complicated Relations’  About 700,000 of the 1 million Europeans who left Algeria
when it won independence in 1962 settled in France. The same
number of Algerians live in France now, Hollande said. France
doesn’t allow official statistics based on ethnicity, making it
impossible to know how many French citizens are of Algerian
descent.  “Except for possibly  Israel , there is no country in the
world that has such complicated relations with France as
Algeria,” Abderrahim said. Algeria was settled by the French
from 1830 and, unlike other African colonies, was officially
part of France until its 1962 independence.  Europeans never amounted to more than 15 percent of the
population. Christians and Jews received French citizenship in
1871. Muslims didn’t. While they got the vote in 1944, districts
were designed to ensure they never outvoted the Europeans.  Massacres, Torture  The war for independence began in 1954, and the French army
largely crushed the rebels by 1958. Civilian massacres and the
use of torture undercut support for the war in France, resulting
in General  Charles de Gaulle ’s decision to begin secret talks
with independence leaders.  In his speech to the Algerian parliament today, Hollande
mentioned torture and specific massacres, bringing applause.  “Nothing can be built on dissimulation, forgetting or,
worse, denial,” he said. “The question is simple and serious:
can we build together a new page in our history? I hope and I
think we can, but it must have a foundation, and that foundation
is truth.”  Benjamin Stora, a French historian, estimates that 500,000
Algerians were killed in the eight-year war. French official
statistics in 1962 said 243,000 died while Algeria puts the
figure at 1 million “martyrs.” About 7,000 French settlers
were killed or kidnapped, and the French military lost 27,500
men.  Building Future  Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal suggested in a Dec. 18
interview on France3 television that Algeria would no longer
demand an apology. “All Algerians are proud of their War of
Liberation, but we are in a new historical phase,” he said.
“We must recall our past, that is clear, but what’s essential
is to build our future.”  A long-planned friendship treaty between the countries was
scuttled in 2003 after then-President  Jacques Chirac  rebuffed
Bouteflika’s demands for an apology. During a visit to Algiers
in November 2006 as interior minister and the next year as
president,  Nicolas Sarkozy  said he couldn’t “ask children to
apologize for the faults of their fathers.”  Hollande and Bouteflika yesterday signed a friendship and
partnership “declaration” calling for greater cooperation in
economics, agriculture and defense.  France and Algeria “can do better” on their economic
exchanges, Hollande said. France is Algeria’s largest provider
of imports and the third-biggest buyer of its exports, he said.
Renault SA yesterday signed an agreement to build a factory in
Algeria that will export cars to neighboring countries.  Hollande also told parliament he would take steps to speed
up delivery of visas. About 200,000 French visas a year are
delivered to Algerians, the most of any country after  Russia ,
French officials say. But 20 percent are rejected, the most of
any country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Algeria at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  