-- Hollande No Hurdle to Stock Gains as French Outlook Sinks
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-12-21T17:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/hollande-no-hurdle-to-stock-gains-as-french-outlook-sinks.html
The election of Socialist President
Francois Hollande has proven to be no barrier to gains in French
stocks, which are having the best year since 2009 even as profit
estimates fall to an all-time low relative to  Germany .  The  CAC 40 (CAC)  Index is up 16 percent since Hollande’s May 6
victory, while the DAXK, a German gauge that excludes dividends,
increased 15 percent. Meanwhile, analysts forecast CAC 40
companies will post profit of 319.78 euros a share in the next
year, the lowest projection since May 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with an estimated 679.29 euros for
Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , near the highest estimate ever.  While brokers cut income forecasts, French stocks are
rallying as the European Central Bank pledged unlimited debt
purchases to bring down borrowing costs in the region’s weakest
economies. Yves Maillot at Natixis Asset Management says the CAC
40 may rise further as it’s posted less than half the DAX’s
gains since March 2009 and will benefit from overseas revenue at
companies such as Clermont-Ferrand-based Michelin & Cie.  “The DAX has outperformed the CAC over the longer term so
the CAC has room to catch up,” Maillot, who is based in Paris,
said by phone. Natixis manages $375 billion. “French companies
can extricate themselves from difficulties in  France .”  The French equities index advanced 45 percent from the six-
year low reached in March 9, 2009, while the DAX surged 107
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Increased Taxes  Investors are paying the most in 2 1/2 years for French
stocks, even as the unemployment rate climbs to a 13-year high
of 10.3 percent. Economists forecast next year’s growth will be
the slowest since 2009 amid increased taxes on big companies and
the rich.  The CAC 40 has risen 16 percent this year, the largest gain
since 2009’s 22 percent rally.  Lafarge SA (LG)  and  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  have led the advance, driving the gauge’s valuation to 10.7
times  estimated 2013 profits , the most expensive since January
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The DAX is
trading at 10.9 times projected earnings, the data show.  For Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $8.5 billion at
Banque Martin Maurel in Marseille, France’s efforts to tame its
deficit are more important than the outlook for company earnings
or the economy.  “What counts for investors is that France respects its
commitments,” Forneris said in a phone interview. “German
stocks are way ahead of French stocks so there is room for the
CAC to continue gaining ground this month and into the first
quarter. We’re still very low.”  Bond Yields  French stocks are rising with government debt. The  yield  on
the nation’s 10-year bonds has fallen to 1.99 percent from 3.72
percent in November 2011 even as Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s stripped the nation of its top credit rating.  France sold 3.97 billion euros ($5.3 billion) in debt on
Dec. 6, completing its 2012 issuance plan. The government
auctioned 900 million euros of benchmark 15-year bonds at an
average yield of 2.56 percent, a record low.  The CAC 40’s rally has been led by shares that were
“massacred” last year and isn’t sustainable, according to
Mathieu L’Hoir, a strategist at Axa Investment Managers in
Paris. Since Hollande’s election, Societe Generale, France’s
second-largest bank, surged 70 percent and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
jumped 72 percent. The lenders, which are based in or near
Paris, tumbled at least 54 percent last year.  “The reason for the better performance is linked to the
gains in French banks,” L’Hoir said in a Dec. 10 phone
interview. “We expect the CAC to underperform the DAX. The
earnings outlook is less favorable in France and valuations are
a bit more attractive on the DAX.”  Economy Suffering  France’s economy is suffering as Hollande tries to shrink
the budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product in
2013 through about 27 billion euros in tax increases. The
president, who described the financial industry as his
“adversary” during the election campaign, became the first
European leader to implement a tariff on financial transactions
in August, with a 0.2 percent duty on share purchases.  Expansion will slow to 0.1 percent this year from 1.7
percent in 2011, according to economist forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. Growth will be 0.3 percent in 2013, the data show.  Srill, companies that get revenue from outside France are
helping support this year’s rally for the CAC 40. Lafarge, the
world’s biggest cement maker, has surged 78 percent this year
for the best performance in the CAC 40. The Paris-based company
makes about 75 percent of its revenue outside western  Europe .  Michelin Expansion  Michelin, which already gets almost 60 percent of sales
outside Europe, said in October it plans to invest as much as
2.2 billion euros a year through 2015 to further expansion
outside its home market. The world’s second-largest tiremaker
has gained 56 percent this year, the biggest gain on record.  For Natixis’s Maillot, the presence of such global industry
leaders in the CAC 40 suggests the index will continue to gain.  “In spite of the country’s difficulties, France has many
companies that are grand champions and internationally
recognized in their industries,” he said. “The market’s
attitude shows a certain confidence in France.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  