-- Thomson Reuters Offer Accepted by EU to End Antitrust Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-20T11:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/thomson-reuters-offer-accepted-by-eu-to-end-antitrust-probe.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) ’s offer to
create a new license for securities identification codes was
accepted by European Union regulators to settle an antitrust
probe.  The company’s proposal means that so-called Reuters
Instrument Codes will work better with rival services, according
to an e-mailed statement today from the European Commission, the
Brussels-based antitrust authority. Customers will also have
greater possibility “to switch to competing providers of
consolidated real-time data-feeds,” it said.  “The commitments offered by Thomson Reuters will enhance
competition in this market,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement. “Financial institutions
that use Reuters Instrument Codes will now be able to switch to
alternative providers more easily.”  Regulators opened an investigation into the  Thomson
Reuters  codes in 2009, saying customers may potentially be
locked in to working with the company because replacing the
codes required a long and costly procedure to rewrite or
reconfigure software applications. The agency last year settled
a similar probe into  Standard & Poor’s  licensing fees for
securities identification numbers.  Data Feed  “Today’s announcement brings this matter to a close with
no finding of liability,” Thomson Reuters said in an e-mailed
statement. The company’s pledge to regulators will allow
customers to continue to use codes “with data from an
alternative consolidated data feed provider,” it said.  Thomson Reuters’s initial offer to settle the probe wasn’t
accepted by rivals and customers, EU regulators said earlier
this year. The company made a second offer in July.  An EU settlement avoids any decision on whether a company
broke antitrust rules. Thomson Reuters can be fined as much as
10 percent of its yearly revenue if it breaks the terms of the
legally binding settlement.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 