-- Xi Backs Hong Kong’s Chief Executive Amid Demands He Resign
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-21T02:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/hong-kong-chief-leung-may-face-tough-questions-in-beijing-visit.html
China ’s Communist Party General
Secretary Xi Jinping gave his backing for Hong Kong’s chief
executive, as opposition lawmakers called on Leung Chun-ying to
resign.  Xi told Leung his team had been “progressive” and
“pragmatic” since taking over, according to footage of a
meeting in Beijing yesterday that was broadcast on Hong Kong’s
Cable TV. The two didn’t discuss a controversy about illegal
renovations made at Leung’s homes, Hong Kong’s top official said
at a briefing afterward.  An uproar over the additions has seen Leung’s popularity
fall and led opposition lawmakers to demand yesterday that he
resign or face possible impeachment hearings. Xi may have wanted
to give Leung a boost in the face of that opposition,  Joseph Cheng , a political science professor at the  City University  of
Hong Kong, said in an interview yesterday.  “We know that the Chinese authorities are not happy with
the Hong Kong situation,” Cheng said before the meeting.
“Given the difficult situation of C.Y. Leung, I speculate that
Beijing would try to exercise restraint and avoid any
unnecessary pressure on him.”  Hong Kong’s  Democratic Party  and its opposition allies will
send a letter to Leung’s office demanding his resignation, party
chairwoman Emily Lau said yesterday. Leung survived a no-
confidence motion Dec. 12 over his handling of the controversy
over the structures. The unauthorized building additions
included a trellis, a gate that provided access to a road and a
cover over a parking space.  Violating Law  If Leung refuses to resign, the lawmakers will submit a
motion saying he violated the law for lying in the legislature
over the construction, according to the text of the motion
obtained from the Civic Party. Susana Kwong, chief information
officer at the Chief Executive’s Office, said the office
couldn’t immediately comment.  “The central authorities affirm your work and will
continue to firmly support your governance in adherence to the
law,” Xi told Leung, according to the Cable TV footage.  Hong Kong’s near-term economic outlook is “relatively
weak” because of sluggish export demand, the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority said this week. China has encouraged mainland-based
companies to borrow in  yuan  in Hong Kong by selling so-called
Dim Sum bonds, and designated the city as the nation’s major
offshore yuan center in its latest five-year plan.  Special Attention  The Hong Kong government must pay special attention to and
resolve the livelihood issues of employment, prices, housing,
poverty, environment and aging, China Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in
a meeting with Leung today.  There is great downward pressure on the economy at the
present time as the international financial crisis isn’t over
yet, Wen said, according to footage broadcast on Cable TV today.
Leung is on a 3-day duty visit to Beijing.  Leung’s main opponent in the Hong Kong leadership race
earlier this year,  Henry Tang , saw his candidacy undone after he
admitted he knew that his wife had built a basement with a wine
cellar and movie theater without government approval.  Since Leung took over, his attempt to focus on the economy
has been derailed as closer ties with China stoked concerns the
city’s autonomy will be eroded, with thousands protesting in
September over proposals for Chinese national education classes.
The former property surveyor has also been buffeted by scrutiny
from opposition lawmakers into the illegal building additions.  A lawmaker with the  Democratic Alliance  for the Betterment
and Progress of Hong Kong, Ip Kwok-him, said the allegations
surrounding Leung didn’t meet the standard for impeachment, the
 South China Morning Post  reported today.  Working Seriously  “I will take suggestions from the legislature and the
society about my work seriously,” Leung said at the briefing.
“I will focus on doing my job well. I will pragmatically work
with the people of Hong Kong.”  The day Leung took over in July, the 15th anniversary of
Hong Kong’s handover to China, 112,000 people took to the
streets to call for higher minimum wages, and protest against
income disparity and human rights abuses in China.  Street protests against a proposed anti-subversion law
triggered the 2005 resignation of Tung Chee-hwa, the city’s
first chief executive.  Any impeachment motion by the opposition would face stiff
resistance in the city’s legislature. Leung’s opponents hold
about a third of seats in the body, and impeachment would
require a two-thirds majority.  Leung has a  popularity rating  of 49.2, according to a poll
from the University of  Hong Kong  Public Opinion Program. The
poll, which sampled 1006 people and was conducted from Dec. 1 to
Dec. 4, asked respondents to him on a scale of 1 to 100.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  