-- Monti Praised by Merkel Favored Less by Taxed Italians
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-12-21T14:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/monti-praised-by-merkel-favored-less-by-taxed-italians.html
European leaders have praised
outgoing Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti and encouraged him
to run in next year’s elections. Italians are less enthusiastic.  Monti, who may resign as soon as today after 13 months in
office, would win at most 20 percent of votes in elections
expected on Feb. 24, said Maurizio Pessato, vice-president of
polling company SWG SpA. Sixty-one percent don’t even want him
to run, a Dec. 14 poll by SWG showed.  “Monti has managed to get policies pushed through because
he was seen as ‘super partes,’” said Pessato, using the Latin
term for above the political fray. “If he chooses to run, then
he has to choose his ‘partes.’”  Monti took over last year just as  Italy  risked becoming the
next victim of  Europe ’s debt crisis under former Premier Silvio Berlusconi. While he’s overseen a recovery in Italy’s bonds and
repaired its standing abroad, his austerity steps left Italians
with higher taxes, rising unemployment and a shrinking economy.  A former European Union competition commissioner, Monti
announced his intention to quit on Dec. 8 after Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party withdrew support for his Cabinet of
unelected technocrats. Monti, 69, has said he would step down
after the 2013 budget is given final approval by the lower
house, which is expected today. He may resign later today after
a cabinet meeting scheduled 7 p.m., Ansa news agency said.  Complacent Market  “The market is complacent about the risks attached to the
elections because it is buying into the idea that the ECB can do
whatever it wants,” Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million
at Glendevon King Asset Management in  London , said in a phone
interview on Dec. 18. A five-year government with strong backing
for reforms is needed and “I don’t see how you can get that
from a coalition.”  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond, which surged to 7.26
percent on Nov. 25 last year, past the level that had prompted
Ireland,  Greece  and  Portugal  to seek bailouts, rose 7.6 basis
points to 4.5 percent at 2:59 p.m. in Rome today. The gap with
similar-maturity German bunds was 311 basis points as the
European Central Bank’s bond-buying program buoys Italian debt.  After resigning Monti, an economist who’s never sought
elected office, would have to decide whether to stand aside or
join the fray. He’ll use a year-end news conference, scheduled
at 11 a.m. on Dec. 23, to announce plans to run at the head of a
coalition of centrist parties, newspaper la Repubblica said
yesterday.  Foreign Praise  While Monti’s rule has been praised in recent days by
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other European leaders such
as Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, his policies find less favor at home.  A former adviser to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Monti imposed
20 billion euros ($26.5 billion) in austerity measures. He
raised taxes, cut spending, raised the retirement age and
overhauled labor rules to make firing easier. The policies have
left Italy on track to cut its deficit within the European Union
target of 3 percent of output this year.  They also deepened Italy’s fourth  recession  since 2001,
pushing the  jobless rate  to a 13-year high of 11.1 percent. The
euro-area’s third biggest economy will contract 2.1 percent this
year and 0.6 percent in 2013, employer lobby Confindustria
forecast on Dec. 11.  Drinking Water  “Monti put out the fire, but he used the water Italians
were drinking,” said Giovanni Orsina, a professor at Luiss
Guido Carli University in  Rome .  A Nov. 17 poll by Datamonitor showed that 62.5 percent of
Italians had a negative view of the Monti government, 82.4
percent had little or no confidence in the economy improving,
and 81 percent said they had not been able to save in the past
three months. The poll questioned 1,000 people. No margin of
error was given.  Most polls indicate the Democratic Party led by Pier Luigi Bersani, a former communist, will win the election with about 30
percent of votes. A protest group led by comedian Beppe Grillo,
who’s suggested Italy leave the euro, trails with 20 percent
ahead of Berlusconi’s PDL party with between 15 and 20 percent.  Monti’s being courted by a group of small parties led by
Catholic politician Pier Ferdinando Casini and Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, the Ferrari SpA chairman. Berlusconi has said he’d
step aside and endorse Monti if he led a coalition with his PDL
and former Northern League ally, but not the Democratic Party.  Possible President  At the same time, Monti’s been mentioned as a possible
successor to President Giorgio Napolitano , whose term in the
largely ceremonial post ends in May. Bersani said Dec. 13 that
he’d like Monti to remain “engaged” in public service after
the elections.  The son of a banker from the northern city of Varese,
Monti, as EU commissioner, blocked  General Electric (GE)  Co.’s $47
billion takeover of  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and levied a
497 million-euro fine against Microsoft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  