-- Oracle to Buy Software Maker Eloqua for $871 Million
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   C e c i l e   D a u r a t
-- 2012-12-20T21:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/oracle-to-buy-software-maker-eloqua-for-871-million.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  agreed to buy Eloqua
Inc. for about $871 million, further expanding in cloud
computing and ratcheting up competition with  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) 
and  SAP AG. (SAP)   The $23.50-per-share offer is more than twice Eloqua’s
initial public offering price in August, and 31 percent higher
than its  closing price  yesterday. The board of Eloqua, whose
Web-based tools are used in marketing and revenue-performance
management, approved the deal, according to a statement.  Oracle Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  is spending to
add cloud software that customers can rent and run over the
Internet. The deal may spark more acquisitions of online
marketing companies by Salesforce, SAP,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and
International Business Machines Corp., according to  Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen & Co.  “Oracle paid up,” Peter Goldmacher, an analyst at Cowen &
Co. in San Francisco, said in an interview. “They see a real
opportunity in marketing automation.”  Salesforce, the largest maker of customer management
software, has been expanding in Web marketing and has an online
sales  partnership  with Eloqua.  Web-based software lets companies save money by renting
software online rather than installing and updating it
themselves. In its fiscal second-quarter earnings report Dec.
18, Oracle said cloud-computing software is on track for $1
billion in annual revenue and poised to become much larger.  In-Line Valuation  Oracle’s $871 million offer, which is net of Eloqua’s cash,
is more than nine times the target company’s sales over the last
12 months, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . By
comparison, German business software maker SAP paid 12 times
sales for human resources software developer SuccessFactors Inc.  In two previous large cloud-computing deals this year,
 Redwood City , California-based Oracle paid 6.3 times trailing 12
months’ sales for HR tools maker Taleo Corp. in April, and 7.1
times the revenue of customer support software maker RightNow
Technologies Inc., which it acquired in January.  Eloqua’s valuation is comparable to recent cloud-computing
deals, and Oracle has been paying a slight premium for cloud
acquisitions, Walter Pritchard, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.,
wrote in a research note today. The company historically has
paid five to nine times recurring revenue for companies it’s
acquired, and eight to 10 times recurring revenue for online
software companies, said Pritchard, who has a buy rating on the
shares.  Eloqua, based in Vienna,  Virginia , makes products that help
companies tailor and measure the effectiveness of e-mail
marketing campaigns, ranging in price from $2,000 a month for
four to 10 users, to $6,400 a month for 250 users. It went
public Aug. 1, and its shares had gained 56 percent through
yesterday.  The transaction is expected to close in the first half.  Shares of Oracle were little changed at $33.94 at the close
in New York. Eloqua jumped 32 percent to $23.66.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  