-- Morgan Stanley to Buy Stake in Eris Rate-Swap Exchange
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-12-20T15:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/morgan-stanley-to-buy-stake-in-eris-rate-swap-exchange.html
Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest
 U.S. bank  by assets, plans to purchase a stake in Eris Exchange
LLC and become a liquidity provider for the  interest-rate swaps 
futures market.  Morgan Stanley will participate in electronic and block
trading on Eris early next year, the New York-based company said
today in a statement. The bank will also join the board of
directors of Chicago-based Eris as part of the deal, the terms
of which weren’t disclosed.  New rules are pushing more derivatives onto exchanges as
regulators seek to reduce the risk resulting from a trading firm
defaulting on its obligation in a transaction. Unlike over-the-
counter products, those traded on exchanges are usually
standardized and cleared by an organization that guarantees the
contract will settle.  “As the traditional OTC rates-swap market undergoes
significant structural, economic and regulatory changes,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  believes that Eris Exchange and its futurized swaps are
ideally suited to provide our clients with flexible
alternatives,” Patrick Haskell, Morgan Stanley’s U.S. head of
liquid flow rates, said in the statement.  Standard interest-rate swap futures contracts traded on the
exchange carry margins that are 40 percent to 80 percent less
than over-the-counter agreements, according to the statement.  Morgan Stanley increased its interest-rates trading
headcount by more than 20 percent in 2010 and hired Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. trader Glenn Hadden last year in an effort to
turn around the business. Rates and currency trading contributed
more than half the firm’s fixed-income revenue in the 18 months
ended in June, from less than half in 2009, an increase driven
“primarily by rates,” Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said
in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  