-- Most Elderly Favor Keeping Social Programs Over Debt Trim
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-12-20T18:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/most-elderly-favor-keeping-social-programs-over-debt-trim.html
Most Americans believe in trimming
the nation’s debt, just not during their retirement, according
to a  Pew Research Center  survey released today.  While advocating smaller government, a majority of people
over the age of 30 say entitlement programs such as  Social
Security  and Medicare should be protected, even at the expense
of curbing the nation’s $16 trillion debt, the survey found.  Adults younger than 30 are more conflicted about the
deficit-versus-entitlements tradeoff, with 48 percent believing
it’s more important to preserve the programs and 41 percent
favoring  deficit reduction .  “There’s a lot of self-interest and a lot of contradictory
views,” said Kimberly Parker, associate director of the Pew
Social & Demographic Trends project in  Washington . “While we
see different views about the role of government, there’s a
strong commitment among families that generations have to take
care of each other.”  The survey underscores the dilemma faced by the White House
and Congress as they seek to resolve a budget impasse before
more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending
cuts begin in January if an agreement isn’t reached. President
 Barack Obama  is demanding tax increases on the highest-earning
Americans, while Republicans are calling for cuts in entitlement
programs.  Senior Support  Elderly people who favor keeping Social Security and
Medicare at current levels outnumber their counterparts who
think the deficit is more important by a 3-to-1 margin,
highlighting the generational support for the nation’s two
largest social programs.  The elderly, who  supported  Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney  by a 56-44 percent margin, are more likely to
support the social programs that the Republicans pledged to
change; those from 18 to 19, who voted for Obama by a 60-37
percent margin, are more concerned about deficit reduction than
their elders.  Disagreement among generations extended into the role of
government. Almost three of five people younger than 30 say they
believe government should take a more active role. Barely one-
third of older voters say government needs to do more.
Republicans narrowly favor reducing the deficit over preserving
the benefit programs, 45-42 percent. Democrats favor emphasizing
preserving Social Security by a 69-21 percent margin.  No War  Even with the differences between younger and older adults,
Pew researchers said they found “no indication of a broader
generational war.” Only 28 percent of adults say they think
strong conflicts exist between young and old Americans. The
survey says conflicts between Democrats and Republicans, rich
and poor people, immigrants and native-born Americans, and
blacks and whites are more pronounced.  Eighty-four percent of adults younger than 30 say it’s
their responsibility to provide financial assistance to an
elderly parent, and 58 percent say they expect to have to take
care of older relatives in the future.  Even so, a slight majority of young adults believe that
keeping Social Security and Medicare benefits at their existing
levels will place too much of a financial burden on them. A
slight majority of older Americans disagree.  The Pew survey found strong support for reducing benefits
for high-income Americans and asking well-off households to bear
a fair share for the programs. Social Security is funded by a
4.2 percent payroll tax on the first $110,100 in wages, with the
levy scheduled to revert to 6.2 percent in 2013 unless Congress
takes action.  Paying More  Social Security trustees estimated in an April report that
the $773 billion program’s retirement, disability and survivor
trust funds will be exhausted in 2033, as 10,000  baby boomers 
born between 1946 and 1964 leave the workforce every day. The
Census Bureau estimates 32.6 million U.S. households, or 28
percent, collected Social Security income in 2011.  Two-thirds of adults surveyed by Pew say they favor
requiring well-off households to pay more to support the
program. Fifty-five percent say they support reducing benefits
for wealthy seniors. Only 38 percent recommend raising the
 retirement age , set at 67 for people born after 1960.  A similar majority support reducing benefits for high-
income seniors who receive medical treatment paid by Medicare,
the federal health-insurance program for approximately 50
million elderly and disabled. The primary Medicare trust fund is
slated to run dry in 2024, trustees said in an April report.  Sixty percent of people surveyed say affluent seniors
should bear more of the costs of their health care. Only 35
percent say the eligibility age for Medicare should be raised;
most people can benefit from Medicare when they turn 65.  Barely a third of young adults favored raising retirement
ages, while 49 percent of senior citizens supported increasing
the minimum age to participate in Social Security.  The telephone survey of 2,511 adults was conducted between
Nov. 28 and Dec. 5. It has a margin of error of plus or minus
2.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in  New York  at 
fbass1@bloomberg.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in  Chicago  at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark McQuillan  in Washington at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 