-- House Panel to Try Again With Full Agriculture Bill in 2013
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-12-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/house-panel-to-try-again-with-full-agriculture-bill-in-2013.html
Farm-state lawmakers in the House
have conceded they probably won’t be able to attach a long-term
extension of U.S. farm policy to any deal to avert tax increases
and budget cuts set to take effect in the new year, and will now
go back to the drawing board.  Representative Collin Peterson of  Minnesota , the
Agriculture Committee’s top Democrat, said the panel probably
will begin consideration of a new bill, designed to set farm
policy for five years, on Feb. 27. The old law expired Sept. 30.
“What else are we going to do? We have no other choice,”
Peterson said yesterday.  Late February is the earliest such action could happen and
“I see no reason to delay,” House Agriculture Committee
Chairman Frank Lucas, an Oklahoma Republican, told reporters.  Some farm-state lawmakers had been talking about trying to
get the agriculture bill included in a larger deal to prevent
more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to
take effect Jan. 1, in what is called the fiscal cliff. With
time running out, and with House Speaker John Boehner opposed to
mixing the farm bill in the budget talks, the conversation has
changed.  Instead, inaction on a full five-year agriculture bill has
prompted farm-state lawmakers who’d earlier resisted splitting
the measure to try and attach parts of it to other legislation
in hopes of getting something passed by year’s end.  Lucas said he ordered committee staff months ago to draft a
“buffet of legislation” of short-term extensions as a
contingency for just such a scenario.  The House Agriculture Committee approved a farm bill in
July, a month after the Senate passed its version. Both bills
would cost about $1 trillion if scored over a 10-year period.  Piecemeal Extensions  Peterson had opposed piecemeal extensions of the farm bill,
which sets spending levels for crop subsidies and nutrition
programs, including food stamps. Now he says he would consider
backing a short-term measure to revive expired conservation
programs and to prevent farm policy from reverting back to
legislation passed in 1949, which could result in a doubling of
wholesale dairy prices on Jan. 1.  Peterson said any price increase may take months to fully
materialize at the retail level, though “how soon it goes up,
nobody knows.”  And any increase in the price of a gallon of milk could
prod action from lawmakers in 2013, he said. “Maybe the milk
price will wake them up.”  Sandy Aid  In the Senate, lawmakers are considering adding funds for
livestock ranchers reeling from drought to a $60.4 billion
disaster relief bill for superstorm Sandy. The chamber intends
to complete work on that legislation this week.  Oregon Democrat Jeff Merkley has filed an amendment to the
bill that would provide livestock disaster assistance as well as
aid for tree and fruit growers. Senate Agriculture Committee
Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow of  Michigan  is a co-sponsor, along
with three other Democrats.  Stabenow’s endorsement may boost the amendment’s chances,
as she and other farm-state lawmakers have opposed previous
efforts to separate drought relief from the farm bill.  “We are still working very hard to complete a farm bill,
to have the House take action, but in the meantime we have
disasters that have occurred,” Stabenow said Dec. 17 on the
Senate floor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  