-- How Many Billions a Year Will the DSM-5 Cost?
-- B y   A l l e n   F r a n c e s
-- 2012-12-20T23:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/how-many-billions-a-year-will-the-dsm-5-cost-.html
In preparing the DSM-5, the  revised
manual  that is to be the next bible of psychiatric diagnosis,
the  American Psychiatric Association  has been extravagantly
indifferent to all matters of cost.  There are profound economic consequences to where
boundaries are set between what is normal and what is considered
a mental disorder. Diagnosis of mental illness brings on a
cascade of costs, including doctor visits, tests, medications
(and treatment for their complications), forensic and prison
costs, disability obligations, the siphoning of educational
resources and absenteeism.  We are already experiencing an inflation in psychiatric
diagnosis and an explosion in the use of expensive, and often
unnecessary and harmful, psychotropic drugs.  Now, the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders will add new categories of mental
illness with very high prevalence rates in the general
population. A new diagnosis here, a new diagnosis there, and
pretty soon you have millions of new patients and billions of
dollars in expenditure.  Seemingly small DSM-5 changes will make a big difference.
Normal grief will become “ major depressive disorder ,” so that
pills and medical rituals will be applied to a person’s natural
emotional reaction to the loss of a loved one.  Excessive eating a dozen times in three months will become
not mere gluttony but “binge eating disorder.” Forgetfulness in
old age will be “minor neurocognitive disorder,” a label
encompassing an enormous new patient population (only some of
whom are at real risk of dementia) and incurring huge costs of
unnecessary brain imaging when there is no effective treatment.  New ‘Patients’  At the other end of the age continuum, temper tantrums will
be diagnosed as “disruptive mood dysregulation disorder.” And
these are but a few of the  many changes  in the DSM-5 that will
create millions of new “patients,” many of whom would do better
without expensive, potentially harmful treatments.  The new manual will also encourage doctors to  misdiagnose
physical disorders  as mental ones by creating a broad new
category for patients who are anxious about their medical
symptoms.  No one has calculated the total direct and indirect
monetary costs of the DSM-5 to the  U.S. economy , but the drain
threatens to be enormous. And the extra money will probably be
spent in the wrong places.  Our scarce mental-health resources are already distributed
in an irrational manner. We badly shortchange those with clear
psychiatric disorders while overtreating essentially normal
people. Many psychiatric patients wind up filling our
overcrowded prisons at an  annual cost per capita  greater than a
year at  Princeton University .  By further reducing the “normal” pool, the DSM-5 will
divert even more resources away from those most in need of help.  How will DSM-5 raise costs?  First there are the direct and indirect costs of treating
the newly diagnosed patients. These will be further amplified by
the extension of health insurance under the Affordable Care Act
to some 34 million more Americans, and its requirement that
insurance include comprehensive care for mental disorders.  This is a desirable policy change; a greater investment is
certainly needed to shore up our badly shortchanged mental-
health system. But the costs should be predictable and the money
spent where it is likely to do the most good.  Then there are indirect medical costs of treating
complications from excessive medication use. Antipsychotics
frequently cause enormous weight gain that can lead to diabetes
and heart disease. Overdoses with  prescription drugs  now cause
more visits to emergency rooms and expensive hospitalizations
than overdoses with street drugs.  Disability payments, workers compensation and veterans
benefits spent on psychiatric care will also rise. And the newly
diagnosed will, of course, incur increased sick days, resulting
in a loss of productivity.  Inadequate Reviews  The new DSM-5 diagnoses can be as dangerous as new drugs,
but have not received the same kind of thorough risk-benefit
review the U.S. Food and Drug Administration provides before
approving a new medicine. And they have received no cost-benefit
review.  Having been extremely profligate in its own expenditures --
the DSM-5 has already cost $25 million, five times as much as
the DSM-IV in 1994 -- the association has taken no account of
the potential costs to the public from its clinically risky
diagnostic changes.  It is now desperately dependent on DSM’s perennial best-
seller status to balance its books and is prematurely racing the
new manual to press -- treating it as a publishing cash cow, not
the public trust it should be.  We need a broader national dialogue on mental health, its
costs, and how best to spend precious resources. The DSM-5 is a
giant step in the wrong direction -- away from good clinical
common sense and fiscal responsibility.  Clinicians and patients have a big stake in pushing back,
and so do government and industry. The only sector that stands
to benefit from the DSM-5 is the pharmaceutical business. The
rest of us will pay the price.  (Allen Frances, a psychiatrist and professor emeritus at
 Duke University School of Medicine , was the chairman of the  task
force  that produced the DSM-IV. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Allen Frances at  allenfrances@vzw.blackberry.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 