-- Toyota Rated Worst as U.S. Insurance Group Toughens Tests
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-12-21T15:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/toyota-gets-worst-marks-as-insurance-group-toughens-crash-test.html
(Corrects number of marginal ratings in 10th paragraph of
story published Dec. 20.)  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry, the
best-selling mid-size car in the U.S., and the Prius V hybrid
earned the lowest ratings in a new crash test simulating a
severe front-end collision, an insurance group found.  The two Toyotas received the only “poor” scores on an
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety test intended to evaluate
a crash in which the front corner of a vehicle collides with
another car, a tree or a pole. It is more stringent than the
U.S. government’s test, which simulates a collision in which two
vehicles or objects meet head on.  “Toyota engineers have a lot of work to do to match the
performance of their competitors,”  Adrian Lund , the insurance
group’s president, said in a statement.  The insurance-industry funded group, based in Arlington,
 Virginia , said it introduced its so-called small-overlap test
this year because that type of accident accounts for almost a
fourth of frontal crashes that seriously injure or kill people
in front seats.  “With this new test, the institute has raised the bar
again and we will respond to the challenge,”  Brian Lyons , a
Toyota spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We are evaluating the new
test protocols and can say that there will not be one single
solution to achieve greater crash performance in this area.”  Test results showed mid-size cars such as Honda Motor Co.’s
Accord and Suzuki Motor Corp.’s Kizashi that had “good”
ratings performed better than most comparable luxury models.  The insurance group released scores for mid-size luxury
cars in August, finding most of the 11 models scored
“marginal” or “poor” in the new test.  Crashes, Cost  “It’s remarkable that this group of mid-size family cars
did so much better than the mid-size luxury car group,” Lund
said. “The difference is stunning. Thirteen of these mid-size
cars offer better crash protection than all but three of their
luxury counterparts, and at a price that’s easier on the
wallet.”  The insurance institute gives automakers advance notice of
its  tests , which can affect consumers’ purchase decisions, so
they can design cars to pass them. Honda, which redesigned the
Accord for 2013, this week earned praise for its top-selling
vehicle from Consumer Reports magazine.  Of the 18 mid-size cars tested by the insurance institute,
11 earned “acceptable” ratings and three were rated
“marginal,” in addition to the two with “good” scores and
the two Toyotas dubbed “poor.”  The insurance group’s test is “the first in the world to
address the risk of severe offset crashes,” Lynda Tran, a
spokeswoman for the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, which performs the government’s crash tests,
said in an e-mail. The agency wants to see what safety benefits
the testing yields, she said.  Dummy Damage  The Camry and Prius V hybrid wagon were IIHS top safety
picks in the crash tests that existed before this year. In those
two cars, the only Toyotas to undergo the new test, structural
components intruded into front-seat space where a driver would
sit, the group said.  In the Camry, the crash shoved the front wheel into the
footwell, bent the windshield pillar and pushed the parking
brake pedal and left outer edge of the instrument panel back far
enough to crush the driver’s body parts, the insurance group
said. It said there was “significant” intrusion in the Prius V
test coupled with “high forces” measured in a crash test
dummy’s legs and feet.  Those cars’ air bags deployed too late or not in locations
to protect drivers, the test found.  Honda credited a vehicle frame that it’s used for a decade
and is designed to disperse crash energy for its success on the
new test. Honda crashes 40 to 50 cars when it’s designing a new
model and does more computer-simulated crashes, Chuck Thomas,
chief engineer for automotive safety research, said yesterday on
a conference call with reporters.  Honda, based in  Tokyo , crash-tests its cars in Tochigi,
 Japan , and at its North American research and development center
in Raymond,  Ohio .  Top Picks  With the addition of the new test, IIHS added a higher
designation of vehicles getting its top-safety designation for
next year. Most categories of vehicles haven’t undergone the new
test yet, and the insurance institute said it will add to its
top safety picks next year as it conducts more tests.  Vehicles on the list for 2013 models are: Chrysler Group
LLC’s 200 four-door and Dodge Avenger;  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Fusion;
Honda’s four-door and two-door Accords and Acura TL; Kia Motors
Corp.’s Optima; Nissan Motor Co.’s Altima four-door; Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd.’s Subaru Legacy and Outback; Suzuki’s Kizashi;
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Passat and Volvo Cars’ S60.  The Kizashi, which got one of the best scores in the new
crash test, was previously rated “acceptable” for roof
strength so it wasn’t a top safety pick. Suzuki, based in
Hamamatsu, Japan, said in November it will end car sales in the
U.S.  In 2011, 32,367 people died in traffic crashes, the lowest
number since 1949, the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  