-- Park Presidency Gives Fighting Chance to Korea’s Chaebols
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-12-21T07:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/park-presidency-gives-fighting-chance-to-south-korea-s-chaebols.html
Park Geun Hye’s election as  South
Korea ’s 18th president lowers the risk that families in control
of the chaebols dominating the economy will see their power
reduced.  Opposition candidate Moon Jae In had proposed breaking up
cross-shareholdings used by the founding families of  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to control conglomerates
with minority stakes. Park, 60, of the ruling New Frontier Party
and daughter of the dictator who backed the chaebols, has said
she won’t dismantle those structures even as popular support
wanes for the business groups.  Samsung Group  and Hyundai Motor Group, run by South Korea’s
two richest people, would have been vulnerable to Moon’s plans,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts Chan Hwang and Joe Huh. Sales at the main electronics unit of Samsung Group, led by
Chairman Lee Kun Hee, was equal to  19 percent  of the country’s
 gross domestic product . Hyundai Motor and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  made
 Chung Mong Koo ’s conglomerate surpass  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Daimler
AG in number of cars sold.  “Park’s policies may imply a less significant change in
the structure of large globally competitive Korean corporates,”
HSBC Holdings Plc analysts led by Herald van der Linde wrote in
a report yesterday. “South Korea will likely maintain its
export-led growth.”  Stricter Rules  The never-married, eldest daughter of former leader Park Chung Hee said she would block new cross-shareholdings while
proposing stricter laws on chaebol owners who commit crimes, and
increasing fines for violations of fair-trade laws to as much as
10 times the damage. Park’s father, who took power in 1961 after
a military coup, encouraged growth in automaking, steel and
shipping by backing the chaebols until his assassination in
1979.  “Big businesses aren’t the only ones in the economic
ecosystem,” Park said at an Oct. 30 rally for small business
owners and independent shopkeepers. “Nobody should fall behind
because of an unfair structure.”  Exports by the 30 largest chaebols accounted for 84 percent
of South  Korea ’s overseas shipments in 2010, according to the
 Federation of Korean Industries , which represents the nation’s
biggest companies. Exports account for about half of the $1
trillion  economy .  One Trick  Those 30 chaebols employed just 6 percent of the nation’s
 workforce , while corporate tax paid by groups with more than 100
billion won ($93 million) in sales amounted to 12 percent of the
total tax collected in 2010, according to the government.  “Korea’s basically a one-trick  economic  act at this
point,” Jasper Kim, chief executive officer of Seoul-based
Asia-Pacific Global Research Group, said in an interview. “It’s
basically chaebol chaebol chaebol.”  Samsung Electronics declined 4.1 percent to close at 1.442
million won in Seoul trading, after the European Union said it’s
preparing an antitrust complaint against the world’s biggest
phone company. The stock has gained 36 percent this year.
Hyundai Motor was unchanged at 222,500 won and has gained 4.5
percent this year.  Popular opinion toward chaebols soured as  growth  slowed and
the wealth gap widened. The nation’s richest 20 percent earned
7.86 times more than those in the bottom fifth last year, the
widest margin since Statistics Korea began publishing the data
in 2006.  A February survey showed 62 percent of respondents said the
chaebols contributed to economic development, down from 70
percent in August 2011. Another survey published in October
showed 93 percent of 20- to 30-year-olds said government
policies on companies favored the business groups.  Income Inequality  “It’s a post 2008 subprime crisis effect -- this is the
first presidential election in which the voters were able to
express their discontent,” said Asia-Pacific Global Research’s
Kim. “ Income inequality  was an issue globally, but it is a big,
big issue in South Korea.”  The nation’s Gini coefficient, which measures income
inequality, rose from 0.306 in 2006 to 0.311 in 2011. Zero
represents perfect equality and a level of 1 signifies one
person holding all the wealth.  Limiting or banning cross-shareholdings would put pointless
pressure on companies, cause investment to shrink and hamper  job
creation , the Federation of Korean Industries said in an August
statement. Companies would also be vulnerable to foreign
takeovers, it said.  Lee’s Wealth  Samsung’s Lee, South Korea’s richest person, owns 3.4
percent of Samsung Electronics’ common stock and 0.1 percent of
preferred shares, 21 percent of  Samsung Life Insurance Co. (032830)  and
1.4 percent of  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830) , according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . The 70-year-old billionaire controls 81
companies connected by a maze of shareholdings.  Samsung Life has the biggest stake, at 7.5 percent, of
Samsung Electronics, which holds 37 percent of Samsung Card Co.,
which has 26 percent of unlisted theme-park operator Samsung
Everland, which owns 19 percent of Samsung Life.  Lee’s net worth is estimated at $11.3 billion and his
fortune has increased 42 percent this year, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Chung is valued at $6.7 billion
and his wealth has increased 12 percent in 2012, according to
the index.  The conglomerates’ economic power will make reforms
difficult, said Tom Coyner, who helps advise foreign investors
as president of Soft Landing Consulting Ltd.  “The chaebol have grown at least collectively, if not
individually in some cases, more powerful in many areas than the
government,” he said in an e-mail. “It will be almost
impossible to effectively implement campaign promises, unless
the chaebol view substantial reforms to be in their own long-
term best interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  