-- Penn State Fails to Delay Lawsuit by Ex-Coach McQueary
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-12-20T16:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/penn-state-loses-bid-to-stay-lawsuit-by-former-coach-mcqueary.html
Pennsylvania  State University lost a
bid to delay a lawsuit brought by former assistant football
coach  Mike McQueary  until criminal charges tied to the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse case are resolved.  The pending criminal cases against three former school
officials impose no burden on Penn State and McQueary’s case
should go forward, state court Judge Thomas Gavin said in a
ruling made public today in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  “Simply put, while there may be overlapping witnesses,
there are no overlapping issues in the criminal and civil
cases,” Gavin said in the ruling.  McQueary claims the university fired him because of his
cooperation with state prosecutors in the Sandusky
investigation. Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 seasons as a defensive
assistant football coach under  Joe Paterno , was sentenced in
October to at least 30 years in prison for sexually abusing 10
boys over a 15-year-period.  McQueary was a key witness for the prosecution in a June
trial against Sandusky. His testimony is at the heart of a
related case against former Penn State President  Graham Spanier ,
former Vice President  Gary Schultz  and former athletics director
Tim Curley.  McQueary’s Testimony  McQueary testified that he saw the former coach abusing a
boy, who appeared to be about 10 years old, in a football locker
room shower in February 2001 and reported the incident to
Paterno, Curley and Schultz.  Paterno died in January. Curley and Schultz are charged
with five counts, including endangering the welfare of a child,
lying to a grand jury and failing to report the 2001 incident to
authorities.  Spanier, who was fired by Penn State last year after
Sandusky’s arrest, was charged with similar counts last month.
All three have maintained their innocence. McQueary is expected
to be a witness in the case against them.  Penn State  had argued that its defense of McQueary’s
lawsuit over $4 million in lost earnings would be hampered by
the prosecutions of Spanier, Schultz and Curley. The interests
of the school, the defendants and the abuse victims would be
best served by a stay, the university argued in court papers.  Gavin disagreed, ruling that McQueary should have the same
right as Penn State to restore his reputation as promptly as
possible.  ‘Economic Harm’  “If this case is stayed, McQueary may well find himself
without funds to live on and/or to prosecute his claim, which to
me, rises to the level of economic harm,” Gavin said in the
opinion. The former coach’s severance package, which called for
payments for 18 months, will end by January 2014 and pre-trial
evidence gathering may take as long as a year, Gavin said.  David La Torre, a spokesman for Penn State, declined to
comment on the ruling.  The case is McQueary v. The  Pennsylvania State University ,
2012-1804, Court of Common Pleas of Centre County, Pennsylvania
(Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  