-- Pepsi Bottler Said to Seek at Least $300 Million in Offering
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-20T21:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/pepsi-bottler-said-to-seek-at-least-300-million-in-offering-1-.html
Organizacion  Cultiba (CULTIBAB)  SAB, the
bottler of PepsiCo. Inc. soft drinks in Mexico, is seeking to
raise more than $300 million in an equity offering next year,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Cultiba, which changed its name from Grupo Embotelladora
Unidas SAB, is planning the follow-on offering in part to boost
trading volume in the existing stock by increasing the number of
shares outstanding, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Trading volume
was 50,000 shares in the past month, compared with 19 million
shares for Coca-Cola Femsa SAB, Mexico’s biggest bottler of the
soft drink.  Cultiba is turning to the equity market after a rally in
bottler stocks sent valuations to record levels this year.  Arca
Continental SAB (AC*) , Mexico’s second-biggest Coca-Cola bottler, has
surged 63 percent in 2012, with the price touching a record 4.5
times  book value  in October, while Coca-Cola Femsa shares have
soared 44 percent.  Mexico has the world’s largest per capita consumption of
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  products, and Arca Continental and Coca-Cola Femsa
have been expanding through acquisitions to shore up dominance
in the local soft-drink market.  Carlos Orozco, Cultiba’s chief financial officer, declined
to comment on a possible share sale.  Arca Continental’s shares were little changed at the close
of trading in Mexico City, paring earlier gains of as much as
0.7 percent. Coca-Cola Femsa’s stock rose 0.3 percent. Cultiba’s
outstanding shares were unchanged today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  