-- Peter Madoff Gets 10 Years for His Role in Brother’s Ponzi Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-12-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/peter-madoff-gets-10-years-for-aiding-brother-s-ponzi-scheme-1-.html
Peter Madoff , who pleaded guilty to
aiding Bernard Madoff’s fraud while claiming he didn’t know his
older brother was running a vast, decades-long Ponzi scheme, was
sentenced to 10 years in prison.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain yesterday sentenced
Peter Madoff after considering pleas from victims of the fraud
that she not show him any mercy. As part of an agreement with
prosecutors, Madoff agreed not to seek less than the maximum 10-
year prison term allowed by law.  In a 55-minute hearing in  Manhattan , Swain said the notion
that Peter Madoff didn’t know about the wide-ranging fraud at
firm is “frankly, not believable.” She urged him to cooperate
with investigators who are trying to unravel the  Ponzi scheme  at
his former firm.  “I challenge you to be honest about all that you have done
and all that you have seen,” Swain told Madoff before
pronouncing sentence.  Peter Madoff, 67, becomes the second person sentenced in
the fraud at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, which
was exposed in December 2008. Bernard Madoff, who admitted
masterminding the scheme, is serving a 150-year sentence in a
North Carolina federal prison.  ‘Deeply Ashamed’  “I am deeply ashamed of my conduct and have tried to atone
by pleading guilty and forfeiting all my assets,” Madoff told
Swain. “I am here to accept my punishment from this court.  Swain also sentenced Madoff to one year probation when he’s
released and she approved a forfeiture order that Madoff agreed
to under which he must surrender all his assets, including
Social Security proceeds, up to $143.1 billion. Swain approved
the arrangement, which she called ‘‘draconian,’’ saying it
‘‘seals Peter Madoff’s financial ruination.’’  Peter Madoff had asked the court to let him attend his
granddaughter’s bat mitzvah next month before he’s ordered to
report to prison. At Madoff’s request, Swain said she will
recommend he serve his time in a federal prison camp in
Otisville,  New York , about 70 miles (112.6 kilometers) northwest
of  New York City . He must report to prison by Feb. 6 at 2 p.m.,
she said.  Madoff and his lawyers didn’t respond to questions after
the hearing. He walked silently through a crowd of photographers
and television cameras outside the U.S. courthouse in lower
Manhattan, then stepped into a silver BMW sedan and was driven
off.  Two Victims  Two victims of the Madoff fraud, Michael T. DeVita and Amy
Luria Nissenbaum, addressed the court.  ‘‘I ask that you show the same degree of compassion for
Peter Madoff that he showed for us -- none,” DeVita said,
urging Swain to set aside Madoff’s plea agreement and sentence
him to more than 10 years.  “He benefited from this scam for over 30 years and he
should be in prison for the same amount of time,” Nissenbaum
told Swain. She objected to Madoff’s request to attend the bat
mitzvah.  “I find it unacceptable that he has an opportunity to
attend a family event and I feel he should go away today,” she
said.  150 Years  Anthony Sabino , who teaches law at  St. John’s University  in
New York, said many victims of the Madoff fraud are unlikely to
be satisfied with Peter Madoff’s sentence, particularly in
comparison with the 150 years his brother received.  “Ten years -- it just seems to be on the low end of the
scale,” Sabino said.  In papers filed with the court, Peter Madoff’s lawyer, John R. Wing, said his client was “a victim of his brother’s Ponzi
scheme.” Peter Madoff’s “world was shattered” when his
brother disclosed the fraud to him, Wing said in the letter,
which was made public this week.  Peter Madoff’s guilty plea to two criminal charges came
three years to the day after his brother was sentenced to 150
years in prison. During his plea hearing, Peter Madoff told the
court he had no knowledge of  Bernard Madoff ’s scheme until Dec.
9, 2008, the night his brother confessed to him that the
investment business was a sham. Bernard Madoff was arrested and
confessed to authorities two days later, on Dec. 11.  Paid Expenses  Peter Madoff pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and
one count of falsifying records of an  investment adviser . Both
offenses carry maximum sentences of five years in prison.  Peter Madoff admitted to improperly avoiding taxes by
having the firm pay many of his expenses, which he didn’t report
as income. He also said he filed false reports with regulators
that helped conceal the fraud. After learning of the Ponzi
scheme, Peter Madoff said he helped his brother parcel out $300
million remaining in the firm to select friends and family
members.  Peter Madoff repeatedly lied and violated the trust
investors had in the firm, prosecutors said. His crimes began in
about 1996 and continued until December 2008 when the firm
collapsed, according to the government.  Sham Program  Had regulators and clients known the truth about the
compliance program overseen by Peter Madoff, “it is possible
that the fraud would have been detected years earlier and losses
to the many victims would have been avoided,” prosecutors said
in court papers Dec. 14.  Peter Madoff graduated from Queens College and Fordham
University Law School, joining his brother’s firm in 1970,
according to Wing. He and his wife, Marion, had two children:
Shana, who would later work for the Madoff firm, and Roger, who
worked as a Bloomberg News reporter and died of leukemia in
2006.  Federal prosecutors have obtained guilty pleas from
Madoff’s former chief financial officer,  Frank DiPascali , his
former accountant, David Friehling, and former employees Craig Kugel, David Kugel, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz, Irwin Lipkin and
Eric Lipkin. They haven’t yet been sentenced.  Also facing charges are former employees Daniel Bonventre,
Annette Bongiorno, Joann Crupi, Jerome O’Hara and  George Perez .
They have pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-228, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  