-- Petrominerales Drops After Output Fall, Brazil Buy: Bogota Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-12-20T19:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/petrominerales-drops-after-output-fall-brazil-buy-bogota-mover.html
Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) , a Calgary-based
 oil company  that operates in  Colombia  and Peru, dropped after
announcing a $36.9 million acquisition to expand into Brazil
amid declining production.  Shares fell 2.9 percent to 13,860 pesos at 2:24 p.m. in
Bogota after earlier falling as much as 3.4 percent, the largest
intraday drop since Nov. 28. The stock is down 56 percent this
year in the second-worst performance on Colombia’s Colcap Index,
which has climbed 15 percent.  Petrominerales acquired a 75 percent stake in Alvopetro SA
Extracao de Petroleo e Gas Natural, according to a statement.
The acquisition includes seven exploration blocks in Brazil and
three onshore producing  oil fields . Petrominerales’s production,
down 29 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
dropped further in November, the company said today.  The acquisition is “interesting but higher risk,” CIBC
World Markets Inc. analyst Ian Macqueen wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions. “It won’t solve their problem of
declining production.”  Fortress Energy Inc., also based in Calgary, will have the
remaining 25 percent, according to a separate statement.
Alvopetro is a Brazilian private oil and gas company, according
to the Fortress statement.  “We are excited about our initial entry into  Brazil  with
this large resource opportunity,” Petrominerales said in its
statement.  Production averaged 25,032 barrels a day in November,
Petrominerales said today in an operational update. In the third
quarter, the company pumped 26,334 barrels a day, down from
37,124 a year earlier, according to a  statement  Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  