-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Area Unexpectedly Expands
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-20T15:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/philadelphia-area-manufacturing-unexpectedly-expands.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly expanded in December to an eight-month high,
reflecting pickups in sales and orders that signal the industry
is starting to stabilize.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  rose to 8.1, from minus 10.7 in November. Readings greater
than zero signal expansion in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern New Jersey and  Delaware . The median
forecast of 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an
improvement to minus 3 after superstorm Sandy curtailed activity
a month earlier.  The report, which contrasts with data showing New York-area
manufacturing shrank for the fifth straight month, indicates the
industry is holding up as households maintain their purchases.
At the same time, uncertainty about tax increases and government
spending cuts slated for early 2013 are limiting investment.  “There’s a rebound from the Sandy effect, which depressed
the November number,” said Scott Brown, chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St. Petersburg,  Florida , who
projected reading of 5.2 for the index. “Things are still
hanging in there. We’re looking at moderate growth in
manufacturing.”  Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from minus 12.4 to 15.  Other reports today showed existing-home sales reached a
three-year high, the economy grew more than previously reported,
and applications for jobless benefits rose.  Sales of  previously owned  homes climbed more than forecast
in November as cheaper borrowing costs sustained the housing
rebound. Purchases increased 5.9 percent to a 5.04 million
annual rate, the fastest since November 2009, the National
Association of Realtors said today.  Third Quarter  Gross domestic product expanded at a 3.1 percent annual
rate in the third quarter, reflecting the first gain in state
and local government spending in three years, more consumer
purchases and a smaller trade gap, according to Commerce
Department figures.  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments climbed to 361,000 in the week
ended Dec. 15, the Labor Department reported.  Stocks maintained gains after the figures, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbing 0.1 percent to 1,436.93 at
10:26 a.m. in New York.  The Philadelphia Fed’s  new orders  measure jumped to 10.7,
the highest since February, from minus 4.6 the prior month, and
the shipments gauge increased to 18.3, the strongest reading
since April 2011, from minus 6.7. Its inventory index improved
to minus 11.5 from minus 12.5.  Factory Employment  The employment index climbed to 3.6 from minus 6.8.  The index of prices paid was little changed at 27.8 after
27.9 the prior month, while a gauge of prices received increased
to 15.4 from 6.3.  Manufacturers were also more optimistic about the prospects
for future business, with the six-month outlook for orders
climbing to 30.9 from 20.  The Philadelphia Fed’s overall index isn’t composed of the
individual measures, one reason some economists consider it a
gauge of sentiment among factory managers. Manufacturing makes
up about 12 percent of the economy.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management’s national figures on manufacturing. The ISM report
is due on Jan. 2.  New York  Figures from the New York Fed on Dec. 17 showed the so-
called Empire State index fell to minus 8.1 this month, from
minus 5.2 in November.  A cross-industry survey by the Business Roundtable found
more corporate leaders see a slump. About 23 percent of members
surveyed said their company’s spending will fall in the next six
months, compared with 19 percent in the prior quarter, the
Washington-based CEO association said on Dec. 12.  “The continued softness in quarterly sentiment reflects
deep uncertainty about the future overall economic climate,
realities of a slow-growing economy and frustration over
 Washington ’s inability to resolve looming ‘fiscal cliff’
issues,” Jim McNerney, chairman of the group and chief
executive officer of Boeing Co., said in a statement.  In one sign manufacturing is regaining its footing at the
national level, a Federal Reserve report last week showed
industrial production jumped in November by the most in two
years as businesses began to rebound from the damage inflicted
by superstorm Sandy.  The automobile industry remains a source of growth. Cars
and light trucks sold at a 15.5 million  annual rate  in November,
the most since February 2008, boosted in part by buyers
replacing cars damaged by the storm, according to data from
Ward’s Automotive Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  