-- Pimco Looking at Longer Danish Mortgage Debt as Volume Grows
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-12-21T11:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/pimco-ready-to-buy-longer-danish-mortgage-bonds-as-volume-grows.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. is
ready to invest in adjustable-rate Danish mortgage bonds with
maturities longer than one year as issuers in the $500 billion
industry try to build up liquidity in the notes.  Volumes in three- and five-year bonds sold in auctions in
November and December to refinance home loans rose by more than
half even as the amount issued across all maturities fell, data
compiled by  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  show. The extra liquidity in longer-
dated notes is making them more attractive, said Kristion
Mierau, senior vice president for covered bonds at the world’s
biggest bond fund.  “The auctions in fact confirmed mortgage banks are getting
traction in their efforts to incentivize borrowers to switch to
three-year or five-year loans,” Mierau said in a telephone
interview. The increase could make the bonds “a more compelling
trade,” he said.  Issuers including the mortgage arm of Danske Bank,
Denmark’s biggest lender, have urged customers to move away from
mortgages that require annual refinancing as the central bank
and rating companies warn of risks associated with short-term
funding backing long-term loans. At the same time, borrowers
have been drawn to record-low rates on the notes, which have
dropped below 1 percent as investors seek out assets denominated
in AAA rated  Denmark ’s krone.  ‘Excess Cash’  “There is a lot of excess cash in the system which is very
supportive for short-term instruments like Flex loans,” as the
adjustable-rate mortgages are called, Mierau said.  The Nykredit index of Denmark’s most traded mortgage bonds
hit a record high on Dec. 10 of 404.72, and closed yesterday at
403.67. Nykredit’s 2 percent mortgage note maturing Jan. 1,
2014, yielded 0.34 percent at 12:03 a.m. in Copenhagen after
falling to a low of 0.26 percent on Dec. 7.  Rates on one-year Danish mortgage bonds fell in the latest
set of refinancing auctions to an average of 0.42 percent,
compared with 1.2 percent a year ago, according to the
Copenhagen-based Association of Danish Mortgage Banks. Rates on
three- and five-year bonds sold were at least 50 percent higher.  “Over the years, it has proven hard to lure the debtors
away from” one-year bonds, Sune Mortensen, corporate head of
advisory services at Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer of
covered bonds backed by home loans, said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Low Rates  Denmark’s low rates have helped cushion the impact of a
burst property bubble that’s triggered more than a dozen bank
failures and sent the economy into a recession. The yield on the
country’s 3 percent government note due November 2021 eased two
basis points to 1.14 percent in Copenhagen. That’s about 25
basis points less than yields on similar-maturity German bunds.
The yield on Denmark’s two-year note eased two basis points to
minus 0.11 percent.
      Gross domestic product  will shrink 0.4 percent this year,
the government estimates. Though  home prices  have dropped more
than 20 percent since their 2007 peak, the foreclosure rate is
only about a quarter the level it reached during the 1990s
crisis.  The Danish central bank and Moody’s Investors Service have
warned that one-year bonds, which make up about half the
nation’s mortgage market, threaten to destabilize the industry
because of a maturity mismatch to the 20- and 30-year home loans
they fund. Issuers have responded by spreading refinancing
auctions over the year and by encouraging borrowers to switch.  Investor Demand  Yet getting customers to switch to more expensive, longer-
dated loans is proving hard. Success depends partly on
attracting more investors, said Karsten Beltoft, director of the
Mortgage Bankers’ Federation in Copenhagen.  “Demand from investors is important,” Beltoft said in an
e-mailed response to questions. In that respect, the auctions
have been a success, he said. “It has been possible to sell
more bonds with three- and five-year maturities without widening
the spread notably,” he said.  The average rate on three-year bonds in the auctions was
about 0.75 percent, while the average rate for five-year bonds
was about 1.25 percent, he said.  Pimco has favored one-year bonds because they offer better
returns and deeper liquidity, Mierau said in an interview last
month.  As of Sept. 30, 64 percent, or 635 billion kroner, of
outstanding adjustable-rate home loans were financed with bonds
with maturities of one year or less, according to the
Copenhagen-based mortgage association.  Borrower Shift  Denmark’s five largest mortgage lenders in November and
December auctioned 312 billion kroner in covered bonds that
comply with European definitions, according to Danske Bank data.
That represents a 13 percent drop from 2011. Combined with other
products, the lenders sold about 450 billion kroner in bonds.  The share of covered bonds with maturities of two to five
years climbed to 27 percent from 17 percent, according to
calculations based on Danske Bank data. The amount of three-year
bonds sold almost doubled to 45 billion kroner while five-year
bonds increased 31 percent, to 18 billion kroner, according to
the bank.  Borrowers who took out five-year adjustable rate loans in
2008 saw their rates drop by three quarters at the latest
auction, to 1.2 percent from 4.63 percent, according to
Nykredit. That translates into annual savings of as much as
70,000 kroner on loans of 2 million kroner.  “With further momentum we could eventually see a twisting
of the flexloan curve simply due to supply and demand
technicals,” Mierau said. “From the standpoint of an investor,
the combination of improving secondary liquidity in the longer
tenors and a steeper flexcurve loan would make the maturity
extension a more compelling trade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  