-- Poland Exchange-Traded Natural Gas Begins at 4.9% Premium to TTF
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-12-20T13:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/poland-exchange-traded-natural-gas-begins-at-4-9-premium-to-ttf.html
The first trade on  Poland ’s natural
gas exchange was 4.9 percent more expensive than the European
benchmark price on the Netherlands’ Title Transfer Facility as
the country begins its move away from a regulated market.  Polish gas for January began trading at 116.57 zloty
($37.95) a megawatt-hour, Chief Executive Officer Ireneusz Lazor
told reporters in Warsaw today. That compares to 27.30 euros
($36.19) a megawatt-hour for front-month gas on the TTF at 12:42
p.m. London time.  The price is near the regulated wholesale price, Marek Woszczyk acting chief executive officer of the Energy Regulatory
Office, told reporters today. After a November price cut, Poland
pays about $450 per 1,000 cubic meters ($41 per megawatt-hour)
to OAO Gazprom, supplier of 60 percent of gas to the dominant
domestic supplier  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA .
The remainder comes from cheaper local sources.  Poland has started a gas exchange in response to the
European Commission’s plan to create an internal gas market for
the bloc. It joins hubs in the U.K., the Netherlands,  Germany ,
 France  and  Austria  where growing volumes of traded gas are
challenging Gazprom’s preference for long-term contracts tied to
the price of oil.  “We’re aiming at billions of cubic meters to be traded on
the exchange and Warsaw becoming a hub for the region, including
Baltic countries, Ukraine, the  Czech Republic  and Slovakia,”
Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski told journalists today.  Forced Trading  The Polish government is preparing legislation that will
force PGNiG to sell 30 percent of its gas on the exchange to
help kick-start the market.  PGNiG had earlier agreed that it will sell 100 million
cubic meters of gas quarterly via the exchange to allow for the
bourse to start. That compares with average daily December
consumption of 46 million cubic meters. The country consumes
some 14.5 billion cubic meters of gas per year.  “Once 1 billion cubic meters is being sold on the market
the road to liberalize the market for the largest industrial
users will be clear,” Woszczyk said today. “My assumption is
that this will happen in the first quarter.”  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  