-- Porsche Boxster, Tesla Model S Are Best Drives in 2012
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/porsche-boxster-tesla-model-s-are-best-drives-in-2012.html
Automobiles occupy an outsized chunk
of my time. When you drive as many as three new cars a week,
every week, slamming doors, pinching leather, evaluating gas
mileage and figuring out how the radio works, the small stuff
matters. I love the smart, outrageous and practical; and am
exasperated by the wrongheaded, timid and abstruse.  Looking back on the past year, I rarely remember what
happened in any given month. Instead I recall the first time I
stepped inside the Tesla Model S (good) or tried to use
 Cadillac’s (GM)  Cue infotainment system (not so good). Here are a few
of the cars and features that I liked, and some I didn’t.  Breakout of the Year: The Tesla Model S.  An all-electric sedan with good range, it’s fast and
handles well, even on a racetrack. It seats five adults
comfortably and has a gorgeous cabin.  The well-optioned model I tested came to $102,000, about
the same as a decently-optioned Porsche Panamera. For that you
get a suite of gee-whiz electronics, including the most advanced
touch-screen system I’ve ever experienced.  You can faultlessly operate the screen even while driving,
proving that Silicon Valley does have something to teach
 Detroit .  The Model S easily could have qualified as my green pick of
the year, or executive sedan, or perhaps even my favorite sports
car. Instead, I’ll simply say it rates high in all of those
categories.  Biggest Headache: Poorly Designed Infotainment Systems.  Want to turn up the air conditioner or change the radio
station? You’ll first need to acquaint yourself with the non-
intuitive systems from Ford and Cadillac.  Ford released its MyFord Touch some time ago, and the
technology has almost single-handedly torpedoed the company’s
rankings in the J.D. Power  Initial Quality Study .  Cadillac didn’t learn from Ford, this year releasing the
Cue system, a touch-screen that is needlessly over-thought and
extremely finicky.  The more the company tries to justify Cue, the less I like
it. Their answer to consumers? Check out the iPad tutorial --
the last thing you want to do before taking a long drive.  Engine of the Year: BMW’s turbocharged 2.0-liter four-cylinder.  This is the first Bimmer four-banger available in the U.S.
in more than a decade, optional on both the 3 and 5 series and
standard on the Z4 Roadster. It’s fun, fast and efficient and I
prefer it over the 300-hp six-cylinder. The little engine that
could.  Most Desirable Ride: Porsche Boxster S.  The new incarnation of the two-door roadster is about the
most fun you can have driving with the top down.  Most Overpriced Ride: Porsche Boxster S.  Our as-tested model came to $88,870. See the problem?  Bang for the Tire-Screaming Buck: Ford Focus ST.  There’s something special about a light, small and
relatively inexpensive sports car. The ST version of Ford’s chic
hatchback has 252 horsepower and makes easy, controlled drifts,
so you can feel like a race-track hero. And it starts at
$23,700.  Niftiest Amenity: Kick-activated Tailgate.  Approach the rear of a  Ford Escape  with an armful of
groceries and you won’t have juggle to open the tailgate. Simply
kick the underside of the bumper and it’ll pop open (provided
the key fob is in your pocket).  Comeback Company: Chrysler.  The long-beleaguered carmaker, in tandem with Fiat, has
reworked its interiors and infotainment systems. It has improved
underperforming engines and creaky transmissions.  For instance, the standard-issue, primeval five-speed
automatic, which always seemed to be hunting for the correct
gear, is now being replaced by a slick and fast eight-speed.  These upgrades suddenly transform cars like the Chrysler
300 and Dodge Charger from has-beens into sales-lot contenders.  Most enticing of all is the all-new, super cool, SRT Viper,
with 640 hp. Bad to the bone and unabashedly American.  Cars I Want to Drive Again:  In no particular order: Fiat 500 Abarth, Bentley
Continental GT V-8, Audi S8, Subaru BRZ/Scion FR-S, Honda Accord
Coupe, McLaren MP4-12C.  Disappointments:  Chrysler may have renamed the Sebring, but the 200 sedan is
still a really lousy car. Avoid it at the rental lot.  Cadillac released a fantastic car this year, the ATS
compact sports sedan. And it also released the XTS, a full-size
sedan which plows down the road like a tractor. The company
seems to be biding its time until it makes a really worthy full-
size car. It the meantime, we deserve better.  The Fisker Karma, a brand-new electric hybrid I really
wanted to like. But the meshing of electric motors and gas
engine is loud, uncomfortable, and the car isn’t particularly
fast or powerful. The interior is cramped. It just doesn’t do
any one thing particular well.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 