-- Portugal Shelves TAP Airline Sale After Rejecting Brazil Bid
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-12-20T17:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/portugal-shelves-tap-airline-auction-after-rejecting-brazil-bid.html
Portugal ’s government shelved the
sale of state-owned airline TAP SGPS SA after rejecting the sole
offer from Brazilian investor German Efromovich’s Synergy Group.  Synergy, which controls the Avianca airline brands, made
the only binding bid for TAP by a Dec. 7 deadline after Portugal
opted for a disposal following the country’s bailout by the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union last year.  “It wasn’t possible to ensure in an adequate way the
financial means that would guarantee the price of the deal, the
capital increase and the refinancing of the company,” Maria Luis  Albuquerque , Portugal’s secretary of state for treasury and
finance, said today after a weekly cabinet meeting.  Cash-strapped Portugal has already sold stakes in utility
company EDP-Energias de Portugal SA and energy-grid operator
REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais, and is auctioning airport
operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA. A sale to Efromovich’s
Synergy would have been the first instance of a company in an
ex-colony buying the flag carrier of its one-time ruler.  Portugal remains pledged to sell TAP under the right
conditions, “ideally” beginning next year, Albuquerque said.
While as many as 13 parties initially sought information during
the current auction, only Efromovich had pursued his interest.  Capital Injection  A sale to Synergy would have resulted in a 35 million-euro
($46 million) gain for the state. The group would also have
taken on TAP’s debt and carried out capital increases of 166
million euros and 150 million euros, the minister said.  TAP had been expected to fetch a maximum 500 million euros,
according to analyst Donal O’Neill at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in
Dublin. The company  lost  76.8 million euros in 2011, when it
carried 9.75 million people, with debts of 1.23 billion euros.  Founded in 1945 with two 21-seat Douglas DC-3s, Lisbon-
based TAP’s initial routes included a 12-stop service to Angola
and  Mozambique . The carrier went private in 1953, with the state
retaining a majority stake, before being renationalized in 1975
following the fall of the authoritarian Estado Novo regime.  Swissair Group agreed to buy a stake in 1999, then backed
out in 2001, later declaring bankruptcy.  TAP’s chief attraction is its 74 weekly  flights  between
Lisbon and  Brazil , with its fast-growing economy, though the
carrier also offers the same number of services to  Africa  and
operates 46 routes within  Europe . Barclays Plc,  Banco Espirito
Santo SA (BES) , Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG are advising
on the disposal and that of ANA.  The government still plans to announce a decision on the
sale of ANA in next week’s cabinet meeting, Albuquerque said.  European Union rules limiting outside ownership of the
bloc’s airlines to 49 percent meant Efromovich had sought Polish
citizenship based on his parents’ country of origin to qualify
for a larger purchase. His status was confirmed on Nov. 30, said
Ivetta Bialy, a spokeswoman for  Poland ’s Mazowsze province.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at   jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  