-- Prada-Buying Chinese Seeking Jobs Boost Stocks for Standard Life
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-12-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/prada-buying-chinese-seeking-jobs-boost-stocks-for-standard-life.html
Jobseekers and luxury-goods buyers
in  China  are underpinning two key stock-market bets for
Edinburgh’s biggest fund company.  Standard Life Investments (SLGLDIA)  has been buying shares of  51job
Inc. (JOBS) , an online recruiter in the world’s most populous country,
and Hong Kong-listed  Prada SpA (1913) , the Italian maker of $3,290
handbags, in recent months. They are among the investment
company’s top picks for its global stock funds, said Mikhail Zverev, who is responsible for $5.5 billion at the firm.  “What we noticed is that the Italian brands in the luxury
space are relatively under-penetrated in China compared to say
more established French leaders,” Zverev, Standard Life’s head
of global stocks, said in an interview in the Scottish capital.
“Prada is very much in the catch-up mode.”  Investors are becoming more sanguine as  Europe  tackles its
debt crisis by propping up euro-region bonds, while the U.S.
edges toward a budget agreement and China’s Communist Party
completes its leadership transition. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO) , a
broad measure of developed markets, gained 14 percent in 2012.  “If I look forward to 2013, a lot of these uncertainties
are coming out of the picture,” Zverez said at his office two
days ago. “A lot of the dark cloud of political uncertainty has
been lifted. But most importantly we don’t need runaway economic
growth for our stocks to work.”  Fund’s Returns  Zverev, 36, joined Standard Life, which oversees 163
billion pounds ($265 billion), in 2007 from First State
Investments in Edinburgh. The  Global Equity Unconstrained Fund (STIEQGI) 
he manages returned 16 percent this year, ranking it 17th of 128
similarly managed funds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Other picks include  Gemalto NV (GTO) , a Paris-based digital
security firm that makes semiconductors and software enabling
products such as electronic passports and chip and pin bank
cards, and U.S. hauler  J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc. (JBHT)   51job has risen 12 percent on the Nasdaq this year,
trailing the MSCI World Index. More people will start using the
Internet to find work in China even as the economy slows, Zverev
said. The government is targeting economic growth of 7.5 percent
for 2013, according to people familiar with the plan after a
central economic conference this month. The  rate of growth  has
declined for seven straight quarters.  “We’re very early on in the penetration of online
recruitment but over and above that, the competitive dynamic of
the industry in China is such that the companies should be
getting more and more pricing power as time goes by,” said
Zverev. “They’re very much underpricing their services.”  Chinese consumers have overtaken those in the U.S. this
year to become the world’s biggest buyers of  luxury goods ,
consultancy firm Bain & Co. said on Dec. 12. Prada  shares  gained
97 percent this year.  “If you look at where Prada is positioned globally and
apply the same parity to Chinese sales you get up to 40 percent
upside,” Zverev said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  