-- Princeton Review Settles Claims in U.S. Civil Fraud Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-12-20T19:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/princeton-review-settles-claims-in-u-s-civil-fraud-lawsuit.html
Education Holdings 1 Inc. (REVU) , the
school testing-preparation company formerly known as Princeton
Review Inc., settled a U.S. fraud lawsuit claiming it repeatedly
submitted false claims for reimbursement for tutoring services.  The U.S.  Justice Department  today announced the settlement
of a suit filed in May in Manhattan federal court. The Justice
Department claimed that Framingham, Massachusetts-based
Princeton Review received tens of millions of dollars in federal
funds for tutoring services to New York City school children
that it didn’t provide. The U.S. said the settlement amount is
as much as $10 million.  “The fraud here happened on a massive scale -- through the
repeated and systematic subversion of the goals of a federal
program intended to provide essential tutoring services,” U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in  New York  said in a statement today.  Robin Weinberg, a spokeswoman for Education Holdings 1,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
settlement.  Another company, TPR Education LLC, is now doing business
as The Princeton Review. TPR Education, which purchased
Princeton Review’s Higher Education Readiness division on May
18, wasn’t sued in the case, it said in a statement today. TPR
Education didn’t buy Princeton Review’s Supplemental Educational
Services division.  The scheme is alleged to have run from 2006 to 2010 in the
Supplemental Educational Services division. Princeton Review
closed the unit in 2010, it said in May.  False Entries  Princeton Review began participating in 2002 in a federally
funded program to provide after-school tutoring to disadvantaged
children in underperforming schools, according to the complaint.
The company was paid a fixed hourly amount for each student it
tutored.  According to the complaint, many of the company’s site
managers routinely falsified entries on daily student attendance
forms to make it appear as if more students were present for
classes than actually attended.  The settlement was approved yesterday by a  Manhattan 
federal judge. Education Holdings 1 “admitted, acknowledged and
accepted responsibility for engaging in fraudulent conduct”
while it was doing business as Princeton Review, Bharara said in
his statement.  The case is U.S. v. Princeton Review, 12-cv-6876, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  