-- Pro-President Georgians Protest Ex-Government Officials’ Arrests
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-12-20T16:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/pro-president-georgians-protest-ex-government-officials-arrests.html
Protesters from Georgian President
Mikheil Saakashvili’s United National Movement rallied outside a
police station in the capital, condemning the arrest of four
former government members for alleged corruption.  The demonstrators carried posters and chanted slogans
outside the building in Tbilisi, where Nika Gvaramia, director
general of Rustavi 2 TV and a government member until late 2009,
is being held, Irma Nadirashvili, a UNM member, said by phone.
Nino Giorgobiani, a spokeswoman for the  Interior Ministry ,
declined to comment on how many people attended the rally.  Saakashvili’s party was unexpectedly defeated by
billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili’s opposition coalition in Oct. 1
elections. Several former government officials have since been
detained, including Bacho Akhalaia, a former Interior and
Defense Minister, drawing criticism from the European Union.  “Gvaramia’s arrest has nothing to do with his work at
Rustavi 2 station,” Corrections and Legal Assistance Minister,
Sozar Subari told reporters in Tbilisi today. “He’s suspected
of wrongdoing and corrupt deals before he joined the station,
therefore this needs to be investigated.”  Gvaramia considers his arrest “politically motivated” to
prevent his work at the TV station, his lawyer Mamuka
Chabashvili said by phone.  Former Energy and Finance Minister Alexander Khetaguri was
also detained, as was Devi Kandelaki, chief executive officer of
Telasi, an electricity distributor company in Tbilisi, owned 75%
by  Russia ’s state-controlled power producer and exporter, OAO
Inter RAO UES.  Khetaguri denies all charges, his lawyer Davit Khazhalia
told reporters in Tbilisi today. Kandelaki’s lawyer wasn’t
available for comment. The fourth person arrested was Kakha
Damenia, a former Economy Ministry official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  