-- Putin Urges TNK-BP Billionaires to Keep $28 Billion in Russia
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-12-20T11:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/putin-urges-tnk-bp-billionaires-to-keep-28-billion-in-russia.html
President Vladimir Putin urged the
billionaire shareholders of TNK-BP to bring back to  Russia  the
$28 billion they’ll get for their half of the oil producer from
state-run OAO Rosneft.  “I would very much like for them to invest the proceeds or
a significant part in Russia’s economy,” Putin said today
during a news conference with hundreds of journalists in Moscow.  Putin threw his support behind an initiative to repatriate
as much as $1 trillion in capital held by companies and
politicians abroad, calling for disclosure and limits on what
government officials can own abroad during his state-of-the-
union address last week. Russia may have net capital outflow of
$67 billion this year after $80.5 billion last year, central
bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said Dec. 19.  Rosneft agreed this year to buy TNK-BP in Russia’s biggest-
ever acquisition from  BP Plc (BP/)  and AAR, which represents Mikhail
Fridman, German Khan,  Len Blavatnik  and  Viktor Vekselberg . BP
will get $17 billion and 12.8 percent of Rosneft, while pledging
to buy $4.8 billion of Rosneft stock from the state. AAR
offshore vehicles will get $28 billion in cash.  ‘Careful, Civilized’  Putin today said in response to a Bloomberg question that
Russia should undertake “careful, civilized” measures to bring
about the “de-offshorization” of the economy and lure capital
from low-tax jurisdictions abroad.  Russia should seek agreements with offshore zones to compel
disclosure of tax information and help reveal tax information
and the end beneficiaries of companies, Putin said. The nation
also needs to refine its legislation to better safeguard the
interests of business owners and improve the investment climate,
he said.  Putin said the TNK billionaires won’t be forced to invest
the sale proceeds in Russia. “If we recognize the lawful,
legitimate owners, if they earned their money legally, then it’s
their business where they invest,” Putin said.  Government officials and executives from several Russian
companies are in talks with “some participants in this deal”
about investing the  TNK-BP (TNBP)  proceeds in the Russian economy,
Putin said. “I hope they’ll decide in favor of investing in the
Russian economy.”  BP and AAR signed separate binding agreements with Rosneft
in the past two months to sell their stakes in TNK-BP, Russia’s
third-biggest oil producer, ending a fractious, almost decade-
long partnership. Now-BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley was
ousted as head of TNK by AAR after a shareholder battle in 2008.
In May, Fridman quit as head of TNK-BP, saying the 50:50
partnership no longer served either side’s interests.  AAR declined to comment on Putin’s comments today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  