-- Putin Says Russia Not Wedded to Assad, Wants End to Strife
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-12-20T12:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/putin-says-russia-not-wedded-to-assad-wants-to-end-syria-strife.html
Russia  isn’t wedded to Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad and its main goal is to end the civil
war in the country, President  Vladimir Putin  said.  The opposing sides will fall short of outright military
victory, underlining the need for an accord, Putin told hundreds
of journalists today at a Moscow news conference.  “We aren’t concerned about Assad’s fate, we understand
that the same family has been in power for 40 years and changes
are obviously needed,” Putin said.  Russia has supported Assad throughout the 21-month Syrian
conflict, maintaining weapons supplies and giving political
support by blocking the West’s demands for action through the
 United Nations Security Council .  Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said last week
that Assad is losing control and may be overthrown by the
opposition, in the country’s first official acknowledgment that
the Syrian leader’s days may be numbered. Syria “needs a
change,” Putin said in September, again urging an end to the
bloodshed.  “Russia is hedging its bets,”  Theodore Karasik , director
of research at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis in Dubai, said by phone. Putin’s comments “show that
Assad’s core appears to be melting, and Russia doesn’t want to
be caught on the wrong side of the unfolding new Syria.”  Fighting Uprising  Assad has been fighting an uprising since March 2011 that’s
killed about 44,000 people, according to the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights . The opposition has made gains
against Assad’s forces and controls mainly Sunni Muslim areas
stretching from the northeastern outskirts of the capital to the
southwest.  Assad inherited power in 2000 from his father, Hafez al-
Assad, a Soviet ally who ruled for three decades and received
weapons and financial support for the Arab standoff against
Israel.  Russia has a naval base in the Syrian port of Tartus and
billions of dollars of arms contracts with the Middle Eastern
state. After the 2003 overthrow of Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein 
and Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  last year, Syria is the last
major customer for Russian weapons in the region.  Putin also criticized the U.S. today over the NATO-led
overthrow of Qaddafi, which he said unleashed instability.
Russia wants to avoid a similar outcome in other countries, he
said.  Putin’s predecessor as president,  Dmitry Medvedev , last
year didn’t block UN approval for the Western military campaign
in Libya, which the Russian leader has branded a “crusade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  