-- Putin Raps ‘Medieval’ Guantanamo, Backs Retaliation Against U.S
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-12-20T10:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/putin-raps-medieval-guantanamo-backs-retaliation-against-u-s.html
President  Vladimir Putin  criticized
“medieval” conditions at Guantanamo Bay as he backed
lawmakers’ retaliation against U.S. human-rights sanctions that
include a ban on adoptions of Russian children in America.  “At Guantanamo, they keep people in prison for years
without any charges,” Putin told hundreds of journalists today
at a news conference in Moscow. “People there go around in
shackles, like in medieval times.”  Ties with the U.S. have deteriorated after Congress passed
a bill this month that imposes a visa ban and asset freeze on
Russian officials allegedly linked to the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky and other human-rights abuses. Tensions are growing
after Putin, who faced unprecedented protests over the past
year, criticized U.S. efforts to promote democracy in his
country and oust Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The U.S. legislation has triggered a “mini crisis” in
relations, Putin’s foreign-policy aide,  Yuri Ushakov , said this
week. In response,  Russia  is proposing a ban on U.S. adoptions
of Russian children and the closing of non-government
organizations that get U.S. funding. It also barred 11 serving
and former U.S. administration officials in June for human-
rights abuses at facilities including Guantanamo Bay and the  Abu
Ghraib  prison in  Iraq .  Visa Ban  The restriction on entry to Russia was enacted last year in
retaliation for a U.S. visa ban for 11 Russian officials accused
of playing a role Magnitsky’s death. The U.S., legislation
passed by the Senate this month, targets 60 officials accused of
playing a role in Magnitsky’s death and a fraud that he
uncovered as well as any other officials who carry out human-
rights abuses such as murder and torture.  Magnitsky, an attorney for London-based Hermitage Capital,
alleged a $230 million  tax fraud  by Russian officials. He died
at age 37 in November 2009 after being beaten to death and
denied medical care during almost a year in pre-trial detention
on fabricated tax-evasion charges, according to a Russian
presidential human-rights body.  The U.S. Supreme Court in December 2009 refused to revive a
lawsuit against former Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  and
other military leaders by four British men who said they were
tortured while imprisoned at Guantanamo Bay, a detention center
at the U.S. military base in Cuba. Abu Ghraib photographs
showing U.S. guards mistreating inmates surfaced in 2004.  In an interview with  Fox News  last February, Rumsfeld spoke
of “disgusting deviant behavior” by guards at Abu Ghraib,
while praising Guantanamo as an “exceedingly well-run prison.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  