-- QVC’s Best Customers in Italy Spending 58% Above Average
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-12-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/qvc-s-best-customers-in-italy-spending-58-above-average.html
Italy  is in  crisis , with surging
unemployment, political upheaval and declining consumer
spending. Yet all of that is non importa for QVC, the home
shopping network owned by  Liberty Interactive Corp. (LINTA)   Two years after QVC entered the country, hard-hit Italians
have become the channel’s best customers. On average, they spend
$1,900 a year on QVC, about 58 percent more than the channel’s
sales average. At 44 purchases a year, they’re buying about
twice as often as QVC shoppers elsewhere.  Italians have taken to QVC with gusto because service at
stores there is often lacking while e-commerce is less developed
than in other industrialized nations, QVC Chief Executive
Officer Mike George said.  “We recognize there are short-term challenges that are
very severe,” George said in a telephone interview. “But we
also see it as an opportunity. It is a time when other retailers
are avoiding the market.”  QVC, which last year accounted for 86 percent of Liberty
Interactive’s $9.6 billion in revenue, is more aggressively
pushing into overseas markets. The first overseas QVC channel
debuted in the U.K. in 1993, followed three years later by
 Germany , then  Japan  in 2001. The Italian channel marks QVC’s
first new foray since then; the company is eyeing  Spain , Brazil
or  France  next. It began a joint venture in  China  in July.  QVC’s Englewood, Colorado-based parent is trading at a 6
percent discount to the Russell 1000 Index on a price-to-
earnings basis, down from a five-year high of a 94 percent
premium in March, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Celebrity Wares  QVC, which stands for “Quality, Value, Convenience,”
featured Sears merchandise and wares from celebrities and eager
entrepreneurs. It has since expanded its assortment, and today
viewers can buy everything from a $44 Joan Rivers “Joan Knows
Best” slim skirt to a 16-gigabyte Apple Inc. iPad for $779.  QVC reaches 25 million Italians -- almost half the
population -- and is taking on  Mediaset SpA’s (MS)  Mediashopping, the
network controlled by former prime minister  Silvio Berlusconi .
The barriers to entry were relatively low because local networks
are losing advertising revenue and eager for carriage fees from
QVC, George said.  At the same time, the channel’s liberal return policy is a
revelation in a nation where many stores limit returns. QVC is
also taking advantage of the dearth of online shoppers. Only 0.1
percent of retail sales happened online in Italy last year,
according to Euromonitor International, a London research firm.
That compared with 5.8 percent in the U.S. and 1.6 percent in
the U.K.  German Cookware  When QVC started the Italian channel in October 2010, its
staff was convinced viewers would want to buy only local goods,
George said. Instead, shoppers flocked to a variety of foreign
merchandise, including Stoneline, a German cookware brand. Only
one or two of the top-10 bestselling brands are Italian.  The Italian customers favor similar categories to QVC’s
typical  shoppers , including housewares and consumer electronics,
George said, although they tend to have an even larger appetite
for fashion and beauty items. About 85 percent of QVC’s shoppers
are women.  QVC Italia  brims with brio, its hosts extolling the
attributes of various products in rapid fire, with ample
gestures and touching. On a recent evening, an English-speaking
demonstrator applied  “Mally Beauty All Night Party” makeup to
a model while a host in a black evening dress translated, and
then applied some to herself.  While QVC’s Italian business is still small, with sales of
$35 million in its first full year 2011, it’s growing quickly.
For the third quarter ended Sept. 30, revenues were 17 million
euros, or $21.9 million, an almost 140 percent increase from the
previous year’s quarter.  Growing Room  There is room for growth. Just 2 percent of Italians shop
from their TVs, said Lisa Byfield-Green, an analyst at  Planet
Retail , a London consulting firm. By comparison, 6 percent of
Americans shop via television.  Still, QVC could find itself under pressure as more online
retailers make their way into the market, said Daniel Lucht, an
analyst at ResearchFarm, a London-based consulting firm
specializing in retail and consumer products.  “Online demand in Italy cannot be ignored,” Lucht said.
“This will mean stronger competition for QVC going forward.”  In older  markets , the network was able to build loyalty
before the rise of online shopping, Byfield-Green said.  “The risk that QVC faces in new countries it goes into is
that consumer behavior has changed quite a lot,” she said.  George is sanguine, noting QVC has its own online
operation. He said Italy is a warmup for a possible move into
Spain. Given QVC’s propensity for challenged markets, is  Greece 
on the shortlist, too?  “We’re not that gutsy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  