-- Rabobank Chief Says ECB to Rely on National Regulators for Years
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-12-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/rabobank-chief-says-ecb-to-rely-on-national-regulators-for-years.html
Rabobank Groep Chairman Piet Moerland said the  European Central Bank  may keep relying on
staff from national regulators for years after assuming full
supervision of the region’s largest banks in March 2014.  “It’s an illusion to think you can have fully fledged
supervision from  Frankfurt  from the start,” he said in an
interview at Rabobank’s headquarters in the Dutch city of
Utrecht on Dec. 19. “We, and all banks in the first group of
about 150 banks, will probably be dealing with staff from local
regulators for the time being.”  Moerland, 63, heads the second-largest Dutch bank with 771
billion euros ($1 trillion) in assets, more than the nation’s
economy. Its size makes it automatically fall under the first
group to be supervised by the Frankfurt-based ECB according to a
deal reached by European Union finance ministers earlier this
month, which set the target start date for March 2014.  European governments assigned the ECB the powers to
supervise national banks as a first step toward a banking union
that should help sever the link between government finances and
lenders. The central bank will rely on national regulators to
oversee most of the region’s 6,000 banks, while assuming direct
supervision of banks with more than 30 billion euros in assets
or with balance sheets representing at least 20 percent of a
nation’s economic output.  ‘National Expertise’  In the Netherlands,  ING Groep NV (INGA) , ABN Amro Group NV and  SNS
Reaal NV (SR)  fall under that scope along with Rabobank. The four
banks account for about 90 percent of the Dutch banking
industry’s assets, Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said.  The ECB will probably start by setting up a framework for
uniform supervision to be applied by national authorities,
Moerland said. Operationally “they will have to rely heavily on
national expertise throughout 2014 and possibly a couple of
years afterward,” he said.  It may take until the end of the decade before further
steps toward a banking union such as a European deposit-
guarantee fund and a resolution mechanism to unwind failing
banks will be completed, the chairman said.  The EU plans to start work on a joint resolution framework
next year, while a deposit-guarantee scheme remains a longer-
term idea that isn’t currently under way. In the meantime, it is
working on legislation to create common standards for national
rules.  Burden Sharing  “There can be no burden sharing before a level playing
field is in place and all participating banks comply with
stricter  capital requirements  under Basel III,” Moerland said.  More than half of the 27 nations that agreed on Basel III
will miss a January deadline to start implementing the capital
rules, the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said Dec. 14.  Rabobank is one of two European commercial banks rated AA-
with a stable outlook by  Standard & Poor’s  and was able to steer
through the global financial crisis without state aid. The bank
had a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, of 12.7 percent at the end of June. It seeks to
bolster the ratio to 14 percent by the end of 2016.  The unlisted lender is the only Dutch bank probed in global
investigations into alleged manipulation of Libor. UBS AG,
 Switzerland ’s largest bank, said on Dec. 19 it must pay $1.5
billion to U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators for trying to rig
global rates, triple the penalties levied against Barclays Plc.  Moerland declined to comment on the investigation.  “I do sincerely hope this chapter can be closed next
year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  