-- Raytheon 900 Missiles Behind in Deliveries, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-21T15:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/raytheon-900-missiles-behind-in-deliveries-u-s-says.html
(Corrects spelling of Tucson in 13th paragraph of story
published Dec. 20.)  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  has fallen almost 900
missiles behind in deliveries of the military’s most advanced
air-to-air weapon to the U.S.  Air Force , Navy and allies because
of a subcontractor’s difficulties manufacturing motors.  The delayed weapons are the newest version of the Advanced
Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile. They are intended for
deployment to Air Force fighter wings and Navy aircraft carriers
once testing is done and they are declared combat-ready.
Raytheon was to have delivered about 1,800 missiles as of last
month, according to Air Force figures.  The missile “is a critical tool of several nations’ air
forces, most importantly our own,” Lieutenant General Charles
 Davis , the military deputy for Air Force acquisition, said in an
e-mail statement.  Since February, the Air Force had withheld $438 million in
payments from Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon, the world’s
largest missile maker. On Dec. 11, the service reached agreement
with Raytheon on a revised delivery schedule that lifts the
payment suspension and triggers an initial $104 million payment
that’s now being processed, according to an Air Force statement.  The $104 million is likely to be paid by Dec. 31, Air Force
spokesman Charles Gulick said in an e-mailed statement. The
remaining money will be paid as fully assembled missiles are
delivered, he said.  The company is required to get back on schedule by
mid-2014, according to the Air Force statement. The agreement
also provides extended warranty coverage by Raytheon. Some of
the missiles that have yet to be provided were ordered in fiscal
2008 for delivery by Sept. 30, 2011, according to Air Force
data.  ‘Motor Issues’  The missiles have been delayed because  Alliant Techsystems
Inc. (ATK) , a Raytheon subcontractor, has had difficulties producing
the correct blend of rocket-motor propellant, according to the
Air Force.  “Motor issues with components produced by ATK remain
unresolved,” the Air Force said in the statement.  In the U.S., Raytheon had delivered 525 of a required 723
missiles as of Nov. 30. The company has provided 369 of 1,066
missiles to customers such as  Taiwan , the  United Arab Emirates ,
 Finland ,  South Korea ,  Morocco ,  Chile , Jordan,  Kuwait ,  Singapore 
and  Turkey , according to the service.  The Air Force is pressing Raytheon on the missile
deliveries as the Pentagon puts in place “Better Buying Power
2.0,” an initiative intended to improve contractor performance
and lower the costs of major weapons programs. The Defense
Department has pledged to expand incentives for exceptional
performance while making contractors more accountable for
lagging efforts.  Help From Norway  Steve Cortese, a spokesman for  Falls Church , Virginia-based
Alliant Techsystems, referred a request for comment to Raytheon.
Jon Kasle, a Raytheon spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement
that getting missile production re-established “has been a top
priority” and “we have engaged all resources to achieve this
goal.”  Raytheon continues to produce guidance and control sections
that represent 95 percent of its work on the missiles, Kasle
said.  Motor deliveries to Raytheon’s Tucson, Arizona-based
missile systems unit haven’t resumed as Alliant Techsystems
works to resolve its issues, the service said.  Raytheon has contracted with a second motor manufacturer ,
Nordic Ammunition Group  of Raufoss,  Norway , to work with Alliant
Techsystems on a limited number of motors while building its own
production capability, the Air Force said.  “Raytheon has accelerated the introduction of a second
motor supplier and developed a workable recovery plan,” Davis
said in his statement.  Payments, Upgrades  Raytheon invested two years ago in developing the Norwegian
company as a second source and “this month we are delivering
the first missiles” with its motors, Kasle said. The company
“will be ramping up quickly” to increase production, he said.  The Air Force said it negotiated with Raytheon for the U.S.
and its coalition partners to receive payments from the company
of as much as $33 million in consideration for the late
deliveries.  Raytheon also agreed to install software upgrades for
countries harmed by late deliveries, the service said.  The Air Force said it also negotiated new language that
extends warranties for the time that missiles are in the
contractor’s factory for repairs.  “Now it’s time to execute the plan and deliver hardware,”
Davis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  