-- RBA Sells A$117 Million of Australian Dollars to Other Clients
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-12-20T01:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/rba-sells-a-117-million-of-australian-dollars-to-other-clients.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia
decreased net sales of the nation’s dollars last month to a
category of buyers that can include foreign central banks.  The RBA  sold  A$117 million ($123 million) more Australian
currency than it bought in November through the other outright
transactions category, less than the net sales of A$483 million
in the previous month, according to data released today. It sold
a net A$414 million in the spot foreign-exchange  market , more
than the A$275 million in October and bought a net A$424 million
from the government.  A surge in RBA sales of the so-called Aussie dollar since
August prompted speculation policy makers are seeking to curb
gains in the currency after a more than 50 percent climb over
the past four years hurt manufacturing and tourism. The central
bank has now reported net sales of A$1.5 billion in the other
outright category over the past four months.  Australia ’s AAA debt rating is helping lure investors, with
as many as 26 central banks including those in Brazil, Russia
and Germany holding the currency, according to data compiled by
the Reserve Bank and Bloomberg. The South Pacific country is one
of just seven nations worldwide that have top-level AAA rankings
and stable outlooks from all three major rating companies.
Canada,  Denmark ,  Norway ,  Sweden , Singapore and Switzerland are
the others.  Foreign official investors held 29 percent of Australian
federal, state and local debt at the end of 2011, the most for
any single currency, according to International Monetary Fund
data.  The Aussie dollar bought $1.0474 as of 12 p.m. in Sydney.
It has risen 2.6 percent this year.  Other outright foreign-exchange transactions include the
RBA’s dealings with “other central banks, international
financial institutions which aren’t intended to affect the
 exchange rate , clients other than the Australian government, and
interest received on holdings of foreign assets,” according to
the central bank’s website.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  