-- Treasuries Demand Sets Record on Global Headwinds, Fed
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-12-20T18:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/treasuries-demand-sets-record-in-2012-on-global-headwinds-fed.html
Demand at Treasuries auctions rose
to record levels in 2012, bolstered by a global economy beset by
shifting headwinds and Federal Reserve monetary stimulus that
put downward pressure on yields.  The Treasury attracted $3.15 in bids for each dollar of the
$2.153 trillion of notes and bonds sold this year, surpassing
last year’s bid-to-cover ratio of 3.04 and the 2010 mark of
2.99. Demand increased even as Treasuries have returned 1.8
percent through yesterday, the smallest gain since 2009, when
they lost 3.7 percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Treasury Index.  Investors have clamored for the safety and liquidity of
 U.S. government debt  with the U.S. economic recovery on shaky
ground as President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in Congress
approach a Dec. 31 deadline that could lead to the expiration of
more than $600 billion in fiscal stimulus. European financial
officials enter a fourth year of efforts to keep the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis from spreading.  “It’s clearly a combination of lackluster global economic
prospects combined with the Fed’s decision to continue absorbing
net Treasury supply,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
Investors have sought “what central banks are buying,” Lyngen
said.  TIPS Auction  The Treasury sold $14 billion of five-year Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities today, the seventh offering of
coupon-bearing debt in eight trading days. This is the third
consecutive year demand at government debt auctions will
increase to a record.  The inflation-linked securities sold at a record-low  yield 
of negative 1.496 percent. Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment
to the principal value of their securities equal to the change
in the  consumer price index , in addition to a fixed rate of
interest that’s smaller than the interest paid to a holder of
conventional debt. The gap is known as the break-even rate.  Every maturity of note and bond offered by the government
reached a record low auction yield during the year, as declines
in the availability of safe assets led to increased demand at
the sales.  The specific debt maturity generating the most demand this
year was the two-year note, which averaged $3.79 in bids for
each dollar of the $420 billion of the securities sold. The
average yield on the two-year note in 2012 is 0.269 percent.  ‘More Pessimistic’  “The market is waiting for more information about the
fiscal cliff,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading
at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in New York, one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “The market is trading better
because people are becoming more pessimistic that a deal will be
reached.”  The government, which has run  budget deficits  of more than
$1 trillion for the past four years, will reduce net sales by
$250 billion in fiscal 2013 ending Sept. 30, from the $1.2
trillion of bills, notes and bonds issued in fiscal 2012, a
survey of 19 primary dealers found.  The central bank said Dec. 12 it will begin buying $45
billion of Treasuries a month next year in an expanded round of
so-called quantitative easing. That followed a Sept. 13
announcement that it will buy $40 billion a month of mortgage
securities.  Treasuries returned 9.8 percent last year and 5.9 percent
in 2010, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  