-- Industry Wins Delay of Costly Clean-Air Rules on Boilers
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-12-21T18:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/relaxed-pollution-rules-on-boilers-said-to-be-considered-by-epa.html
In one of the costliest rules in its
history, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency established
the first nationwide caps on mercury and other  pollutants  from
industrial boilers while bowing to industry demands to give
companies more time to comply.  The boiler rule was among a handful of final regulations
issued by the agency today. Taken together, the rules will cost
companies more than $2 billion annually to comply, a burden
industry groups say is unwelcome given the slow pace of the
economic recovery.  Environmental groups complained that the agency was bowing
too far to pressure from lawmakers and business groups, and that
the deadline extensions would lead to more asthma attacks and
premature deaths.  The “delay is completely unnecessary, especially given
that the changes to the emission standards are relatively
small,” James Pew, an attorney at Earthjustice in  Washington ,
said in an e-mail. Pew brought the court cases that helped spur
the agency to issue the rules.  The compliance deadline on boilers, which are used in
refineries, chemical plants and paper mills, were extended to
three years from now, with the option to request an additional
year.  Acid Gases  Just about every paper plant, manufacturer, hospital and
university runs a boiler, and they largely have been exempt from
the kinds of tight controls on mercury, acid gases and
particulate matter that the EPA already has issued for coal-
fired power plants. The final boiler rule alone was estimated by
the EPA to cost industry $1.6 billion a year.  Last week the EPA issued nationwide standards for soot.  “For the second straight week, the EPA has finalized
another costly and crippling regulation at a time when our
economy is on the brink,” Jay Timmons, president of the
National Association of Manufacturers, said in a statement. The
Washington-based group represents companies such as  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   Boiler users had asked the EPA to further tweak the
controls it proposed last year, and the agency both eased off on
some standards and tightened others. For example, more sulfur
dioxide and mercury will be required to be eliminated from
boiler exhaust; less non-mercury metals and particulate matter
will be cut.  “These adjustments have retained the significant health
benefits and resulted in rules that are simpler to implement,”
the agency said in a  fact-sheet  explaining the rules.  Cement Rule  In a separate rule released today, the EPA established new
caps on mercury and acid gases released from the smokestacks of
cement plants operating by companies such as Paris-based  Lafarge
SA. (LG)  Cement makers must meet the emissions caps by September
2015, two years later than originally proposed.  The EPA today also defined solid waste burned in boilers,
an issue that was being watched closely by both industry and
environmental advocates. Paper producers, for example, use
excess pulp, old tires and railroad ties to fuel their boilers,
and they asked the EPA to not categorize those items as waste,
which would subject the boilers to the stricter pollution
controls applied to incinerators.  The Washington-based American Forest & Paper Association,
which represents companies including Atlanta-based Georgia-
Pacific LLC and  Boise Inc. (BZ) , which has its headquarters in Boise,
 Idaho , complimented the EPA for its process in developing the
rule.  “Throughout this process, we maintained an open and
healthy dialogue with EPA and provided extensive data and
comments in the hope that rules would be developed that are
achievable and affordable for our industry,” Donna Harman, the
group’s president, said in a statement.  The cost of the regulations issued today fall short of one
the agency issued last year on mercury emissions from coal-fired
power plants. That rule was estimated to cost $9.6 billion
annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  