-- RIM Posts Narrower-Than-Expected Loss
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-12-21T00:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/rim-posts-narrower-than-expected-loss.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  shares fell
as much as 13 percent after the BlackBerry maker said it will
overhaul the service fees it charges subscribers, threatening a
source of revenue that accounts for more than a third of sales.  Subscribers who want enhanced services, including advanced
security, will continue to pay a fee, while others who don’t use
such services “are expected to generate less or no service
revenue,” Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said on a
conference call today. Service fees accounted for $982 million
in revenue last quarter, out of a total of $2.73 billion.  The move raises concerns that the company’s lucrative
services business is in jeopardy, casting a pall over the
planned introduction of the BlackBerry 10 early next year. A
shortage of detail on the change is contributing to investor
anxiety, said  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at  Wells Fargo &
Co . in  Chicago .  “By doing this and lacking details, RIM has created a very
large cloud of doubt about that high-margin revenue,” she said
in an interview on “Bloomberg West.” “By our estimates, it’s
really the only real source of profitability.”  RIM fell as low as $12.35 in  extended trading , reversing an
earlier gain of almost 10 percent. The stock had initially risen
after the company’s third-quarter earnings report, when RIM
topped sales estimates and reported a smaller loss than
projected.  ‘Big Hit’  RIM is changing its services-fee approach as mobile-phone
customers put pressure on wireless carriers to cut their monthly
bills. Carriers have traditionally passed on the fees to
consumers, something that’s now harder to do.  The BlackBerry operating system has to adapt to trends,
Heins said on the conference call.  “We will see pressure on pricing for BB OS-related services
in order to make sure we stay relevant in our markets,” he said.
“However, I want to be very clear on this: Service revenues are
not going away.”  Under the assumption that RIM has about 15 million
enterprise customers and about 60 million consumer users,
service-fee revenue could decline by as much as a third, said
Kevin Stadtler, president of  Fort Worth , Texas-based Stadtler
Capital Management, which owns about 40,000 RIM shares.  “It’s going to be a big hit,” he said.  More Details  Paul Carpino, RIM’s head of  investor relations , said the
company will disclose details about the pricing and structure of
the new fees when BlackBerry 10 services are introduced. He
declined to say if the change would affect existing subscribers
on BlackBerry 7 phones or earlier-generation models.  Before Heins made the comments, RIM had pleased investors
with its latest results, which included an increase in its cash
holdings by about $600 million to $2.9 billion.  Excluding some items, the company posted a third-quarter
loss of 22 cents a share, beating the 35 cent-loss predicted by
analysts. At $2.73 billion, revenue exceeded the $2.66 billion
estimate in the period, which ended Dec. 1.  BlackBerry demand in countries like  India  has been shoring
up sales for the company, even while consumers in the U.S. flock
to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS devices and phones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android. Early buzz around the BlackBerry 10 also has increased
optimism, fueling a rally that more than  doubled  the value of
the stock over the past three months.  More than 150 carriers are preparing to offer the
BlackBerry 10 and over 120 companies are testing the new
platform, a prelude to the phones going on sale on multiple
continents in February.  Market Share  For now, RIM is still struggling to compete with Apple and
Google. The once-dominant smartphone maker is poised to finish
2012 with a 4.7 percent share of the global market, compared
with almost 90 percent for Apple and Android combined, according
to research firm IDC.  Even as RIM’s market share shrank, the company had been
maintaining its installed base -- until last quarter. The total
number of BlackBerry subscribers dropped to 79 million from 80
million during the period. That’s a cause for concern, said  Bill Kreher , an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis .  “The subscriber base has slipped for the first time I can
remember and while this is something that people have probably
anticipated earlier, it’s beginning to happen,” said Kreher,
who has a sell rating on RIM’s stock.  Slimming Down  To adjust to its smaller stature, RIM is cutting about
5,000 jobs, or a third of its workforce. The company had 13,400
employees at the end of last quarter.  It’s also eliminating manufacturing sites and disposing of
one of its  business jets . The cost cutting helped RIM reach a
target of $1 billion in annual savings at the end of last
quarter, ahead of schedule, Chief Financial Officer Brian Bidulka said on the call.  RIM shipped 6.9 million BlackBerrys last quarter, in line
with estimates. Its PlayBook tablet shipments were 255,000,
beating the 150,000 predicted by analysts.  The company posted  net income  of $9 million, or 2 cents a
share, helped by a $166 million tax settlement. Net income was
$265 million, or 51 cents a share, in the year-earlier period.  RIM also said that Chief Information Officer Robin Bienfait
will retire at the end of the year, following six years at the
company. She will continue working as an advisor to ensure that
the BlackBerry 10 introduction goes smoothly, RIM said.  The road ahead won’t be easy, Fritzsche said. The company
expects another operating loss this quarter as it readies BB10.  “It’s going to be very difficult to turn this around,
without question,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  