-- RIM Investors See Gains as Apple Wanes
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/rim-investors-see-gains-as-apple-wanes.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  has doubled
in value over the past three months while  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares have
slumped, a turnabout that has rewarded investors such as
Renaissance Technologies LLC.  Renaissance, the hedge fund of billionaire  Jim Simons ,
bought 9.9 million RIM shares last quarter while selling almost
600,000 Apple shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, RIM has become the inverse of
Apple this year, turning the two stocks into a mirror image.  RIM investors are betting that BlackBerry 10 phones, due in
February, will let the company win back customers from the
iPhone and devices running Google Inc.’s Android. Apple,
meanwhile, has been dogged by concerns that orders are slowing
for its phones and tablets, as well as a flubbed introduction of
mapping software. That’s caused some investors to look
elsewhere, said Alex Gauna, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC.  “You’ve seen some freeing up of funds from Apple --
sometimes that will find a home in a peer such as Research In
Motion,” Gauna, who is based in  San Francisco , said in an
interview. “I don’t want to go so far as to say that the market
has begun to make a massive bet that Apple is in trouble.”  RIM reports its third-quarter results later today, giving
investors a view into its comeback efforts.  Analysts estimate 
that sales declined 49 percent to $2.66 billion in the period.
They’re projecting a loss of 35 cents a share, excluding some
items, which would mark RIM’s  third straight quarter  in the red.  With BlackBerry 10, RIM has to win back users who have
abandoned the once-dominant smartphone during its slump. The
company will finish 2012 with 4.7 percent of the market, with
Apple and Android taking almost 90 percent, according to IDC.  Renaissance, which manages more than  $15 billion in assets ,
bought at least $62 million in RIM shares last quarter while
selling Apple stock worth at least $340 million. The East
Setauket, New York-based firm declined to comment on the
purchases or their exact timing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  