-- Park Election Drives Rally in Builders, Insurers: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-12-20T06:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/s-korea-s-kospi-erases-gain-as-u-s-budget-offsets-election.html
South Korean construction and
insurance  stocks  rallied on speculation the industries will
benefit from the election of the ruling party’s Park Geun Hye as
the nation’s president.  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co., South  Korea ’s
largest builder, jumped 4 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc said
the government is likely to support the economy through the
expansion of public housing.  Dongbu Insurance Co. (005830)  climbed 6.3
percent after Park’s victory over rival Moon Jae In, whose
policies may have dragged on insurers’ earnings.  The  Kospi index  rose 0.3 percent to 1,999.50 at the close
in Seoul. The gauge pared a gain of 0.7 percent amid concerns
U.S. budget talks are stalling. Stocks resumed trading after a
holiday yesterday for the polls, during which the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index jumped 1.2 percent.  “While some individual sectors could get a short-term
boost from the elections, the overall reaction is muted,” Chung Yun Sik, chief investment officer for equities at ING Investment
Management Korea Ltd., which oversees about $20 billion, said by
phone today. “There are ongoing concerns over U.S. budget
negotiations and the  Kospi (KOSPI)  at the 2,000 level is prompting some
investors to take profits.”  The Kospi has risen 5.8 percent in the past month and
 trades  for 11.2 times estimated profit, near the highest level
since January 2011. The gauge’s gain was limited today as
officials from U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration told
leaders of business and financial services groups that
negotiations with House Speaker  John Boehner  have deteriorated
in the past 24 hours, a person familiar with the meeting said.  Construction Index  Park, who takes over as  South Korea ’s president on Feb. 25,
said on Dec. 18 that she will help the Kospi reach 3,000 within
five years if she is elected. She has pledged stronger support
for small- and medium-sized businesses, to help them compete
with dominant exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co. and
Hyundai Motor Co.  The Kospi Construction Index jumped 3.6 percent today, its
steepest gain since Nov. 27 and the most of 19  industry groups .
Hyundai Engineering climbed 4 percent to 72,600 won, while
Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co. rose 4.8 percent to 10,050
won.  GS Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360)  added 4.3 percent to
58,200 won.  “We expect the overall construction sector to benefit from
the election results because the government is likely to support
the economy through the expansion of public housing” and
investment in social infrastructure, HSBC analysts led by Herald van der Linde wrote in a report today.  Woori Gains  Dongbu climbed 6.3 percent, the most since Sept. 27, 2011,
to 45,500 won. Hyundai Marine & Fire Insurance Co. gained 5.8
percent to 32,900 won. Moon’s pledge to increase health
insurance support by setting a cap on annual medical costs had
created uncertainty about the outlook for private insurance
companies, E*Trade Korea Co. said in a report today.  Woori Finance Holdings Co. rose 3.1 percent to the highest
close in three months. Privatization of the South Korean
financial company is expected to be brought up with the start of
the new government, Hwang Seok Kyu, an analyst at Kyobo
Securities Co., said in a note today.  EG Corp. (037370)  led so-called Park Geun Hye-related stocks higher
today, rising by the daily limit. EG, in which Park’s younger
brother holds a stake, surged 15 percent to 44,550 won and
Shinwoo Co., where Park’s sister-in-law previously served as a
non-executive director, jumped 15 percent to 782 won.  Global Economy  “The election doesn’t make much difference one way or the
other,”  Mark Williams , chief Asia economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said by phone from  London . “The significant
factors for Korea are what happens to the global economy over
the next few months. The immediate outlook is determined by what
happens to exports.”  South Korea’s overseas shipments rose for a second month in
November, evidence that a recovery is taking hold after the
economy expanded at the slowest pace in three years in the third
quarter. The economy is predicted to grow 2.4 percent this year,
the slowest pace since 2009.  The  iShares MSCI South Korea Index Fund , an exchange traded
fund incorporated in the U.S., added 0.1 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  