-- J Sainsbury’s Coupe Said to Lead Race to Succeed CEO King
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-20T15:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/sainsbury-s-coupe-said-to-lead-race-to-succeed-ceo-justin-king.html
J Sainsbury Plc’s (SBRY)  Group Commercial
Director Mike Coupe leads a race to succeed Justin King as chief
executive officer of the third-largest U.K. grocery chain,
according to people familiar with the matter.  The supermarket company may announce as soon as February
that King will step down after about nine years in charge, said
the people, who declined to be identified because a final
decision has yet to be made. The 51-year-old executive will
probably stay on until 2014 to ensure a smooth handover,
according to the people. Coupe, 52, is the most likely successor
though other candidates are being considered, they said.  “It’s a negative that Justin King is stepping down after a
period of strong performance for Sainsbury,” said Nick Coulter,
an analyst at Nomura with a neutral rating on the stock. “It’s
also a challenging time to make such a transition.”  Sainsbury  fell  as much as 1.2 percent in London trading,
erasing an earlier gain of as much as 0.5 percent. The stock was
down 0.3 percent at 352 pence at 3:13 p.m., trimming this year’s
advance to 16 percent. Sainsbury’s share gain in 2012 compares
with declines of 16 percent at larger competitor Tesco Plc and
19 percent at the smaller William Morrison Supermarkets Plc.  Coupe joined Sainsbury from the then-owner of Iceland Food
stores in 2004, several months after King started as CEO. In
eight years at the retailer, he has helped oversee growth in
sales that has exceeded competitors, driven by the Brand Match
price campaign, own-brand ranges and a push into  convenience
stores . Sainsbury’s share of the U.K. grocery market rose to
16.9 percent in the 12 weeks ended Nov. 25, according to Kantar
Worldpanel, compared with 15.6 percent at the end of 2004.  Qatar Bid  Speculation about succession is premature and King has made
his commitment to the company clear, a Sainsbury spokeswoman
said by e-mail. The CEO said as recently as last month that he
had no plans to leave the retailer within the next year.  Coupe, who hosted a media visit to Sainsbury’s store in
Epsom,  England , last week, has been group commercial director of
the London-based company since 2010, overseeing trading,
marketing,  information technology  and online operations. He
previously worked at both Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s U.K. Asda chain
and Tesco, the U.K.’s largest grocer.  King, who before joining Sainsbury was director of food at
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc, (MKS)  fought off an attempted 10.6 billion-
pound ($17.2 billion) takeover three years after he joined. The
approach was from Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, which remains
the retailer’s biggest  shareholder  with a 26 percent stake.  Sainsbury  shares  have risen 34 percent during his tenure as
CEO, compared with a 36 percent gain for Tesco and a 6.2 percent
advance for Morrison.  Sainsbury sales rose 3.4 percent in the 12 weeks ended Dec.
8, faster than its three main U.K. competitors, according to
data from researcher Nielsen. Revenue gained 2.5 percent at
Tesco and 1.4 percent at Asda in the period, Nielsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  