-- Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Climb to Three-Year High
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-20T15:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-climb-to-three-year-high.html
Sales of previously owned homes rose
more than forecast in November to reach a three-year high as
lower borrowing costs sustained the U.S. housing rebound.  Purchases of existing houses increased 5.9 percent to a
5.04 million annual rate, the most since November 2009, the
National Association of Realtors reported today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected an increase to a 4.9 million rate. Property values
climbed 10.1 percent over the past 12 months as inventories
dropped to the lowest level in 11 years.  Record-low  mortgage rates  and an improved job market are
boosting sales and cutting inventories, giving the market the
opportunity to absorb foreclosures. Prices are rising as a
result, which will probably draw more buyers seeking to take
advantage of current affordability in housing, helping retailers
such as  Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR)  and Lowe’s Cos. Inc.  “The housing market is staged for continued improvement,”
 Anika Khan , senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , before the report. “Underlying
fundamentals are continuing to improve despite uncertainty.
We’re seeing better labor market numbers, and that’s also
reflected in better  consumer confidence . Sales activity is going
to be volatile but the underlying trend is still improving.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
4.59 million to 5.15 million. The prior month’s pace was revised
to 4.76 million from a previously reported 4.79 million.  Stronger Growth  Other reports today showed the economy grew at a faster
pace than projected in the third quarter, claims for jobless
benefits increased last week and consumer confidence climbed to
an eight-month high.  The economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, reflecting the first gain in state and local government
spending in three years, more consumer purchases and a smaller
 trade gap , figures from the Commerce Department showed.  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments increased by 17,000 to
361,000 in the week ended Dec. 15, according to Labor Department
data. It was the first increase in five weeks.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 31.9 in
the period ended Dec. 16, from minus 34.5 in the prior week. The
gauge was within a half point of a four-year high reached in
April. Americans views’ on the economy and personal finances
improved as gains in employment, a rebound in housing and lower
gasoline prices are giving households reason to be upbeat during
the holiday-shopping season.  Prices Increase  Today’s report on existing home sales showed the median
price increased to $180,600 from $164,000 in November 2011,
today’s report showed. The increase reflects a growing share of
sales of higher-priced properties,  Lawrence Yun , NAR chief
economist, said in a news conference as the figures were
released.  Compared with a year earlier, purchases increased 15.5
percent before adjusting for seasonal variations.  The number of previously owned homes on the market dropped
to 2.03 million, the fewest since December 2001. At the current
sales pace, it would take 4.8 months to sell those houses, the
lowest since September 2005, compared with 5.3 months at the end
of October.  Existing-home sales have improved after reaching a low 3.39
million annual rate in July 2010. In the buildup to the subprime
lending collapse and recession, purchases reached a peak of 7.25
million in September 2005.  Fed Policy  Efforts by Federal Reserve policy makers to boost growth by
keeping  interest rates  low are paying off. The average rate on a
30-year, fixed loan was 3.32 percent last week, compared to 3.94
percent a year ago, according to  Freddie Mac . The rate reached
3.31 percent in late November, the lowest in weekly data back to
1972.  Builders are planning on increasing the supply of new
houses, with the number of building  permits  issued in November
hitting a four-year high, the Commerce Department reported
yesterday. Applications, a proxy for future construction, rose
3.6 percent to an 899,000 annual rate, the most since July 2008.  Consumer confidence is improving and shoppers are spending,
partly because of housing-market gains, said  Robert Hull , chief
financial officer at Lowe’s, based in Mooresville, North
Carolina.  “2012 represents the first year of growth across all of
the core housing metrics: housing turnover, single-family starts
and median  home prices ,” Hull said at a Dec. 5 investor
conference. “These recent positive trends are helping consumers
regain confidence in both their local housing markets and their
home value.”  Pier 1’s furniture sales have been gaining momentum all
year, President and Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Smith 
said. On Dec 13, the company reported its 13th consecutive
quarter of sales and profit growth.  The improvement is due in part to “what we view as the
very beginnings of a long-awaited recovery in the housing
market,” Smith said on an earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  