-- Housing Poised to Bolster U.S. Growth as Sales Rise: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-20T21:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-rose-to-three-year-high-in-november.html
Sales of previously owned homes
climbed to a three-year high in November, reinforcing forecasts
that the industry is set to contribute to U.S. annual economic
growth for the first time since 2005.  Purchases of existing houses increased 5.9 percent to a
5.04 million annual rate, the most since November 2009, the
National Association of Realtors reported today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 4.9 million rate.  “Housing is going from being a powerful headwind to the
economy to what will be a powerful tailwind,” said Mark Zandi,
chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania . “It turned around in 2012, and I think it’s going
to take off in 2013.”  Rising real-estate values are helping to lift consumer
confidence, which rose to an eight-month high last week,
according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. Another
report showed the economic outlook weakened in November,
highlighting the risks posed by potential federal spending cuts
and tax increases, after growth picked up more than initially
reported in the third quarter.  Stocks rose as House Speaker John Boehner said he expects
to keep working on a budget plan with President  Barack Obama .
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent to 1,443.69
at the close in New York.  U.K. Sales  In  Europe  today, U.K. retail sales unexpectedly stagnated
in November as spending at department stores slumped the most in
almost two years. Sales including fuel were unchanged from
October, when they fell 0.7 percent, the Office for National
Statistics said in  London .  Elsewhere, the Bank of  Japan  expanded its asset-purchase
program for the third time in four months and will reconsider
its objectives for inflation as incoming Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe urges more action to end price declines.  The U.S. economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, compared with a previously estimated 2.7 percent
advance, according to Commerce Department figures. The report
reflected the first gain in state and local government spending
in three years, more consumer purchases and a smaller trade gap.  The index of leading indicators fell in November, pointing
to a slowdown early next year. The Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months dropped 0.2 percent
after a revised 0.3 percent gain in October that was larger than
initially reported, the New York-based group said.  Buyer Credit  Today’s report from the Realtors group showed sales were
strongest since a first-time buyer credit was first due to
expire in November 2009. Excluding the period influenced by the
tax break, sales were the strongest since July 2007, before the
recession began.  The median home price increased 10.1 percent to $180,600
from $164,000 in November 2011. Sales of higher-priced houses
are a growing share of the market, driving the advance, Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist, said in a news conference as the
figures were released.  Improving values are helping to drive gains in  consumer
confidence . The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to
minus 31.9 in the period ended Dec. 16, the highest level in
eight months, from minus 34.5 in the prior week. The gauge is
within a half point of a four-year high reached in April.  Shoppers are spending in part as a result of housing-market
gains, said Robert Hull, chief financial officer at Lowe’s,
based in Mooresville, North Carolina.  Gaining Confidence  This year “represents the first year of growth across all
of the core housing metrics: housing turnover, single-family
starts and median home prices,” Hull said at a Dec. 5 investor
conference. “These recent positive trends are helping consumers
regain confidence in both their local housing markets and their
home value.”  Furniture sales at  Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR)  have been gaining
momentum all year, president and chief executive officer
Alexander Smith said. On Dec. 13, the company reported its 13th
consecutive quarter of sales and profit growth.  The improvement is due in part to “what we view as the
very beginnings of a long-awaited recovery in the housing
market,” Smith said on an earnings call.  The job market remains an area of weakness for the economy,
explaining why Federal Reserve policy makers this month said
they would keep the benchmark interest rate near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent, and if the Fed projects
inflation of no more than 2.5 percent in one or two years.  The number of Americans filing first-time  claims  for
unemployment insurance payments rose for the first time in five
weeks, Labor Department figures showed today.  Jobless Benefits  Applications for jobless benefits increased by 17,000 to
361,000 in the week ended Dec. 15. Economists forecast 360,000
claims, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Today’s home-sales figures are the latest evidence of
strength in the industry at the heart of the last recession. The
number of building applications issued in November rose to a
four-year high, Commerce Department data showed yesterday.  Residential construction may add to economic growth this
year for the first time since 2005, boosting gross domestic
product by 0.3 percentage point, according to  Joseph LaVorgna ,
chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. That
contribution may double next year and reach about 1 percentage
point when related industries such as furnishings and remodeling
are added, he said last week.  “The housing recovery should pick up strength,” said Scott Brown, chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St.
Petersburg,  Florida . “Housing is going to add to growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  