-- Samsung Faces EU Antitrust Complaint Over Apple Patent Clash
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-20T15:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/samsung-faces-eu-antitrust-objections-over-apple-patent-clash.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  faces a
European Union antitrust complaint over its use of standard-
essential patents in legal disputes with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the EU’s
competition commissioner said.  “We will adopt the statement of objections very soon,”
 Joaquin Almunia , the bloc’s antitrust chief, said at a press
conference in Brussels today. He said the formal notice listing
antitrust concerns could be sent as soon as the end of the year.
The EU is probing whether Samsung violated agreements to license
key patents to other mobile-phone manufacturers on fair terms.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have traded victories in their patent disputes fought
over four continents since Apple accused Asia’s biggest
electronics maker of “slavishly copying” its devices. The
companies, competing for dominance of the global smartphone
market estimated by Bloomberg Industries at $219 billion last
year, are fighting patent battles even as Apple remains
Samsung’s biggest customer.  While regulators were “happy” with Samsung’s announcement
this week that it will withdraw injunctions in  Europe  that seek
to block sales of Apple products, Almunia said the commission
will continue to investigate whether Samsung’s threats to use
legal action harmed competition.  Legal ‘Threat’  “We are dissatisfied every time that we see the launching
of injunctions” involving standard-essential patents,” Almunia
told reporters at a press conference in Brussels. “The
injunctions in the Apple-Samsung case were launched; it was not
only a threat.”  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea “is fully cooperating
with the European Commission proceedings,” according to an e-
mailed statement.  The company earlier this week said it would withdraw
injunction requests against Apple in Germany, U.K.,  France ,
 Italy  and  Netherlands  involving key patents it holds for
wireless communications, citing “the interest of protecting
consumer choice.”  The company will continue litigation that seeks damages in
intellectual property disputes.  Under phone industry agreements on standards, companies
owning the rights to essential technology must usually license
it to competitors on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, known as FRAND.  Closely Watched  The EU’s reasons for taking action against Samsung will be
closely watched by companies involved in licensing industry
standards “on whether you can enforce a standard-essential
patent and under what circumstances,” said Douwe Groenevelt, a
lawyer for De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek in Brussels. The EU may
weigh in on wider issues to define what FRAND is and what costs
should be set for using standard-essential patents.  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. is also being
investigated by the EU for seeking and enforcing injunctions
against Apple’s iPhone and iPad and Microsoft’s Windows
operating system and Xbox gaming console, following complaints
by the two companies.  The patent disputes began when Samsung released its Galaxy
smartphones in 2010. Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  vowed before
his death last year to wage “thermonuclear war” to prove that
phones run on Google Inc.’s Android operating system copy the
iPhone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  