-- HSBC Sells Bao Viet Stake in Vietnam to Sumitomo Life
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-20T12:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/hsbc-sells-bao-viet-stake-in-vietnam-to-sumitomo-life.html
 Sumitomo Life Insurance will buy
 HSBC Holdings Plc’s (HSBA)  18 percent stake in Vietnam’s biggest
insurer  Bao Viet Holdings (BVH)  for 7.1 trillion dong ($340 million)
in cash.  The sale is expected to complete in the first quarter of
2013, according to an e-mailed press release from HSBC today,
ending the pair’s five-year partnership.  Sumitomo Life’s acquisition comes amid mounting interest
from Japanese firms in Vietnam’s financial sector, as economic
contraction and deflation limits earnings growth at home. A
stake in Bao Viet, the country’s seventh-largest listed company
by market capitalization, may provide long-term growth potential
from a nascent insurance market and a widening middle-class.  “They are the leader in the insurance business and that’s
a fast growing industry in  Vietnam ,” said Vu Thanh Tu, research
manager at Viet Capital Securities Co. “A lot of people still
don’t have life insurance and it’s a huge market.”  Bao Viet shares closed about 5 percent higher at 33,900
dong ahead of the announcement. The stock has fallen 17 percent
this year, lagging a 14 percent advance in the country’s
benchmark VN Index. HSBC shares fell 0.1 percent to 652.20 pence
as of 6:01 pm in Hanoi.  “Life insurance in  Japan  has reached saturation point,
while Vietnam, with its large population and high ratio of young
population, has a lot of potential to develop in the future,”
Sumitomo Life’s President Yoshio Sato said at a press conference
in Hanoi today. The company will enter discussions with Bao Viet
to develop insurance products in Vietnam, he said.  HSBC acquired a 10 percent stake in Bao Viet in 2007 for
4.12 trillion dong, becoming the insurer’s sole foreign
strategic partner. It bought a further 8 percent in a 1.88
trillion dong deal completed in January 2010. The London-based
bank said Aug. 9 that it was reviewing options for its stake in
Bao Viet.  “This transaction represents further progress in the
execution of the Group’s strategy, allowing us to focus our
capital and resources on the growth of our core businesses,”
HSBC’s Asia Pacific Chief Executive Officer Peter Wong said in
today’s press release.  HSBC’s Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  is seeking
to cut costs by as much as $3.5 billion by the end of 2013 and
boost returns by selling assets to focus on growing economies in
which the bank has the greatest market share. The lender is
cutting 30,000 jobs and agreed in March to sell some of its
general insurance units in Asia and Latin America for about $914
million. The bank Dec. 5 agreed to sell its stake in  China ’s
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. to Thai billionaire Dhanin
Chearavanont for $9.4 billion, the 37th divestment under
Gulliver.  HSBC’s Bao Viet exit contrasts with a rising Japanese
presence in Vietnam’s financial sector.  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  spent $560 million this year acquiring a 15 percent stake
in  Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam , or
Vietcombank.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s
biggest lender, is seeking to buy a 20 percent stake in  Vietnam
Joint Stock Commercial Bank For Industry and Trade , or
VietinBank, from the Vietnamese government, two officials from
the Tokyo-based bank said Dec. 13.  “The Japanese are long term players and this makes sense
from a long term point of view,” Fiachra MacCana, managing
director of Ho Chi Minh City Securities Corp., said of the
Sumitomo Life deal. “There’s no growth in Japan - every
Japanese corporation sees its survival in expanding overseas and
buying assets overseas.”  Bao Viet’s nine-month pretax profit rose 28 percent to 1.31
trillion dong, the company said in a Nov. 15 e-mailed statement.
Full-year pretax profit may increase 13 percent to 1.72 trillion
dong, online newspaper TTVN reported Nov. 26 citing Hoang Viet
Ha, the insurer’s operations director.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  