-- SEC Enforcement Chief Khuzami Said to Leave Agency Next Month
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-12-21T00:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/sec-enforcement-chief-khuzami-said-to-leave-agency-next-month.html
Robert Khuzami , who led the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s enforcement division’s
pursuit of financial industry wrongdoing related to the subprime
crisis, plans to step down as early as next month, three people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Khuzami, 56, notified SEC Chairman Elisse Walter of his
decision earlier this month, according to the people, who asked
not to be identified because the matter isn’t public. Walter has
yet to choose a replacement, the people said.  Then-Chairman  Mary Schapiro  hired Khuzami in 2009 to help
restore the agency’s image after it was battered for missing
Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. He carried out the biggest
shakeup in the enforcement unit’s history, eliminating layers of
management, expanding investigators’ legal powers and creating
five specialized units to police  Wall Street .  Under Khuzami, the SEC filed more than 130 cases related to
the financial meltdown, including 57 actions against senior
corporate officers. His investigators have taken aim at lenders
who generated subprime mortgages as well as Wall Street traders
and investment banks that bundled the home loans for hedge-fund
managers who wanted to bet that  house prices  would collapse.  He oversaw some of the biggest settlements in SEC history.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed in July 2010 to pay $550 million
over claims it misled investors about a mortgage-linked
investment;  Citigroup Inc. (C)  reached a $285 million settlement and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  forfeited $154 million for their roles in
similar deals.  Seeking Expedience  At the same time, Khuzami’s tenure has seen criticism from
lawmakers, judges and investors who say the agency hasn’t been
aggressive enough in holding top executives accountable for
practices that led to a taxpayer bailout of the banking
industry. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over SEC
cases against Citigroup and Bank of America Corp., has accused
the agency of balking at bringing tough cases against high-
ranking individuals in favor of reaching expedient settlements.  Khuzami, who didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment, had been mentioned as a potential candidate for SEC
chairman. The current chairman, Walter, took over this month
though her term at the agency has expired and she is required by
law to leave at the end of next year.  Discussing Replacement  Walter has been discussing who to name as Khuzami’s
successor with the other three commissioners, the people said.
One issue that may become a sticking point is whether it would
be appropriate for her to name a permanent, rather than an
acting, enforcement chief since it is unclear how long she will
run the agency.  Khuzami, the people said, has pushed for his deputy George Canellos to become the next head of the division.  A former federal prosecutor in  New York  who went on to work
as a top lawyer at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Khuzami was a strong
defender of the SEC’s enforcement record and argued it brought
as many cases as the law allowed.  He said that many of the ill-fated investment decisions
made before and during the financial crisis didn’t amount to
 securities fraud . He also defended the agency’s policy of not
requiring firms to admit wrongdoing when settling allegations,
saying that such a stance would lead to protracted litigation
and drain the enforcement program of resources.  ‘Top-to-Bottom Scrub’  After arriving at the SEC in March 2009, Khuzami spent the
first several months of his tenure reorganizing the division.
The process started with “a top-to-bottom scrub” of its
operations, he said in an August 2009 speech marking his first
100 days on the job. He likened the overhaul to changing tires
on a moving car.  Aside from financial crisis investigations, Khuzami
reoriented the enforcement division to take a more aggressive
approach to identifying misconduct in new areas. The specialized
units he formed are taking a deeper look at asset managers and
using data-intensive analysis to root out market manipulation
and  insider trading .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  