-- Second Man Arrested Over U.K. Minister’s ‘Pleb’ Spat With Police
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-12-20T11:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/second-man-arrested-over-u-k-minister-s-pleb-spat-with-police.html
A second man has been arrested in an
investigation linked to allegations that led to the resignation
in October of  Andrew Mitchell  as chief whip of Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party  in Parliament.  The 23-year-old man was held on suspicion of
“intentionally encouraging or assisting the commission of an
indictable offence on or around Dec. 14,” London’s Metropolitan
Police said in an e-mailed statement today. The force is probing
a police officer’s allegation that Mitchell, who was in charge
of Tory party discipline, called officers “plebs” outside
Cameron’s residence in September, an incident that led to him
stepping down a month later.  A  report by Channel 4 News  televised Dec. 18 said a police
officer had posed as a member of the public and falsely claimed
to have witnessed the events in an e-mail to his lawmaker.
Cameron may restore Mitchell to office if the new evidence
exonerates him, a person familiar with the premier’s thinking
said the same day.  The suspect, who was not named, was arrested last night and
released on bail this morning. He is not a police officer or
member of police staff, according to the police statement.  The Sun newspaper reported Sept. 21 that Mitchell abused
the police officers, saying they should “learn their place,”
because they refused to let him cycle through the main gate of
Downing Street.  First Arrest  A Diplomatic Protection Squad officer was arrested on Dec.
15 by police investigating how national newspapers were able to
publish their records of the incident. Mitchell denied using the
word “plebs,” while admitting he lost his temper and swore at
officers.  Police widened the investigation yesterday amid accusations
by Conservative lawmakers of a politically motivated campaign to
damage Mitchell. About 30 officers are working on the inquiry,
overseen by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.  “A police officer posing as a member of the public and
sending an e-mail potentially to blacken the name of a Cabinet
minister is a very serious issue and does need to be seriously
investigated,” Cameron told lawmakers yesterday, referring to
the first arrest connected to this case.  The officer wrote an e-mail to his local lawmaker,
Conservative John Randall, posing as a member of the public and
accusing Mitchell of calling police “plebes,” among other
spelling errors, according to the text of the e-mail reported by
Channel 4 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  