-- Second Wave of Spanish Banks Win EU Nod for $2.5 Billion Aid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-12-20T13:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/second-wave-of-spanish-banks-win-eu-nod-for-2-5-billion-aid-1-.html
Banco Mare Nostrum SA, Liberbank SA,
Banco Caja 3 and Ceiss won European Union approval to receive
1.9 billion euros ($2.5 billion) in government bailouts after
agreeing to shrink assets and sell units.  Mare Nostrum will reduce its balance sheet by more than 40
percent, Ceiss will shrink by about 30 percent and Liberbank
will reduce by 25 percent, the European Commission  said  in an e-
mailed statement today. Caja 3 will be “fully integrated into
Ibercaja” to ensure it returns to viability within five years,
it said. All lenders will sell subsidiaries and equity stakes.  “The restructuring plans of BMN, Caja 3, Banco Ceiss and
Liberbank will make these banks viable again, thereby
contributing to restoring a healthy financial sector in  Spain ,
while minimizing the burden for the taxpayer,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  Spain is creating a bad bank, called Sareb, as part of a
European bank bailout it agreed to in June as it tries to
cleanse troubled lenders of real estate assets following the
collapse of a decade-long housing boom. EU regulators must rule
on government aid to banks and may require them to sell assets
or accept limits on business behavior.  Taxpayer Cost  The funds approved today bring to 52 billion euros the
total cost to taxpayers of bailing out Spanish banks, Almunia
said. That’s made up of 39 billion euros from the European
bailout, which the government says banks will pay back, and 13
billion euros from previous Spanish rescue efforts. The total,
equivalent to about 5 percent of Spanish gross domestic product,
is “too high” and underlines the need to move toward
coordinated banking supervision in  Europe , he said.  Mare Nostrum will receive 730 million euros in public aid,
the EU said, Ceiss will get 604 million euros while Caja 3 will
get 407 million euros and Liberbank gets 124 million euros. The
banks will also transfer impaired assets and loans to Sareb to
reduce capital needs by about 1 billion euros.  Burden-sharing, or forcing investors to take losses, will
contribute more than 2 billion euros in capital, while asset
sales and other management actions will reduce the cost to
taxpayers of the restructuring by more than 1 billion euros, the
EU said.  Imposing those losses on junior debtholders is
controversial in Spain, where lenders marketed preferred shares
to retail investors who weren’t qualified to understand the
risks, according to Economy Minister Luis de Guindos. Almunia
said today that while some investors were “deceived, to put it
mildly,” as they thought they were buying guaranteed deposits
rather than loss-absorbing securities, EU funds can’t be used to
compensate them.  Arbitration Process  Spain plans to create an arbitration process for such
investors, de Guindos said on Dec. 18. Any compensation must
come from the banks or Spanish authorities as European taxpayers
can’t be expected to bear the cost, Almunia said.  Liberbank, Ceiss and Mare Nostrum face a ban on takeovers
and, along with Caja 3, have also accepted a ban on coupon
payments until burden-sharing measures on hybrid instruments
have been fully implemented. The four lenders will also limit
repayments to state-owned  credit institutions  and promise not to
advertise the state support or use it for “commercially
aggressive practices.”  The banks will refocus operations on lending to retail
customers and small businesses in their “historical core
regions,” quitting lending to the real estate industry and
limiting their wholesale business, the EU said. This would
reinforce their capital and liquidity and reduce reliance on
wholesale and central bank funding, regulators said.  BFA-Bankia, the biggest Spanish bank receiving European
bank bailout funds, won EU approval last month for a
restructuring plan that will see it cut more than a quarter of
its workforce, sell 50 billion euros of assets and force losses
on subordinated debt holders. The bank will receive 18 billion
euros in European funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  