-- Serbia Needs Dinar to Fall More to Offset Drop in Exports
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-12-20T15:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/serbia-needs-dinar-to-fall-more-to-offset-drop-in-exports.html
Serbia should allow the dinar to
weaken more to avoid a balance of payment crisis and counter a
drop in export demand as the European Union, its main market,
faces continued recession, a U.S.-sponsored foundation said.  The dinar has gained 4.25 percent since July 27, when Prime
Minister Ivica Dacic’s Cabinet took office, the second-best
performance in the world over the past five months after the
Uruguayan peso, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
dinar has lost 5.56 percent against the euro since January.  Months of appreciation against the euro “do not bode well
for the economy because of deteriorating competitiveness,” said
Milojko Arsic, the chief researcher at the  Foundation for the
Advancement of Economics  in Belgrade today. “A strong dinar is
bad for the economy and bad for new jobs” while a “gradual
real dinar depreciation would offset declining export demand.”  Serbia has traditionally relied on borrowing and foreign
investments to repay debts and close shortfalls. The country
will need between 5 billion euros ($6.62 billion) and 6 billion
euros a year over the coming years to repay creditors and needs
to adjust spending to the economy’s size to avoid a “debt
crisis,” said Arsic, a former central bank vice governor.  Arsic called on the central bank to refrain from further
monetary-policy tightening as such restrictiveness “would be
unwelcome because of excessive dinar appreciation.”  The Narodna Banka Srbije raised its benchmark interest rate
six times since June by a total of 1.75 percentage points to
11.25 percent as it tries to bring inflation down to a target
band of 2.5 percent and 5.5 percent by the end of 2013.  Arsic said external debt of 25.6 billion euros, or 83.7
percent, of its economic output in October is “worrying”
because it rose from 77.5 percent of GDP in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  