-- Sex Scandals, IPOs, Succession Shaped Asia’s 2012
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-12-20T22:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/sex-scandals-ipos-succession-shaped-asia-s-2012.html
Few people are happier to see 2012
end than  Hu Jintao , Yoshihiko Noda or  Lee Myung Bak . It was a
rocky year for the leaders of China,  Japan  and  South Korea , who
leave office with legacies in tatters.  Gripes about President Hu doing little about China’s
biggest challenges outnumbered the accolades. Noda’s premiership
ended as ingloriously as those of the other five leaders Japan
has had in the past six years. Lee’s time as president will be
remembered for South Korea’s widening rich-poor divide and North
Korea’s march toward nuclear-missile capability. Tensions over
tiny islands meant East  Asia ’s three biggest economies barely
spoke to one another.  Hu, Noda and Lee are but a few of the notable personalities
that shaped a chaotic year in Asia. As 2012 draws to a close,
some awards are in order for the people, countries and trends
that mattered most, for better or worse.  Man Behind the Curtain Award: To Thein Sein, the unsung
hero of Myanmar’s embrace of democracy, market economics and a
free press. Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi will always be the
symbol of her nation’s opening, but President Thein Sein is the
low-profile technocrat behind the scenes removing the vestiges
of the dictatorship that had cut off his 50 million people from
the world.  Whistle-Blower Award: To Wang Lijun, the former Chongqing,
 China , police chief who set in motion the scandal surrounding Bo Xilai, a powerful political figure. The fallout shook up and at
times overshadowed the nation’s leadership transition. Wang
turned over evidence to U.S. diplomats that Bo’s wife killed a
British businessman. The result was the biggest scandal China
has seen in decades and a global focus on the corruption and
income disparities chipping away at the Communist Party’s
credibility.  Stronger Than Bullets Award: To Malala Yousufzai, the 15-
year-old Pakistani girl shot in the head by Taliban gunmen. The
student-activist did more than defy their violence by surviving.
Her story catalyzed a global movement against the forces of
ignorance and extremism eating away at the Muslim world. Trying
to silence Malala only made her voice louder.  Horsing Around Award: To Psy, for showcasing South Korea’s
vibrancy. His rap sensation “Gangnam Style” and comical horse-
riding dance moves were parodied everywhere and breathed fresh
life into the “Korean Wave” industry of cultural exports,
which could pay economic dividends for the nation’s 50 million
people.  Nail That Sticks Out Award: To  Carson Block , the short-
seller who cast a probing light on opaque corporate governance.
His suspicions about deception at Chinese companies listed in
North America, such as Sino-Forest Corp., proved correct. Is he
right to compare Singapore commodities firm Olam International
Ltd. to Enron Corp.? Stay tuned in 2013.  I’m Baaaaaaaack Award: To Shinzo Abe, Japan’s next prime
minister. Many reached for this horror-film dialogue mainstay as
Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  rose suddenly from the ranks of
the political dead. Act 1 for Abe: resurrecting technology
giants Panasonic Corp., Sharp Corp. and Sony Corp., which have
stumbled spectacularly. That includes acting fast to weaken a
strong yen that has killed exporters.  Sex and the City Award: To  Singapore , site of several
earthy peccadilloes. The resignation of Speaker of Parliament
Michael Palmer this month over an extramarital affair came on
top of multiple sex scandals and two days after the island’s
largest Chinese-language newspaper called 2012 a year of lust.
Well, Singapore’s airport code is SIN. Could it be the casinos?  Third Rail Award: To Benigno Aquino, the Philippine
president. His support for a “condom bill” to provide
contraceptives to the poor earned the ire of the powerful
Catholic Church. His backing of higher taxes on cigarettes and
alcohol is running afoul of tycoons such as billionaire Lucio Tan. Taking on taboo issues to limit  population growth  and plug
holes in the budget will win a higher  credit rating . So will his
peace framework with Muslim rebels in Mindanao.  Stealth Boom Award: To Malaysia and  Thailand , two out-of-
the-spotlight nations.  Kuala Lumpur  eclipsed  Hong Kong  as Asia’s
initial-public-offering center and is poised to end the year as
the world’s No. 4 IPO market. Thailand emerged as an unlikely
deals powerhouse. Thai tycoons made a record $25 billion of
purchases abroad, signing more deals in 2012 than in the
previous 12 years combined.  Let’s Get Serious Award: To  Ratan Tata , chairman of  India ’s
largest business group, for shaming  Manmohan Singh  over his
failure to promote growth and root out corruption. In several
unusually candid critiques of Singh’s administration, the
billionaire called on the prime minister to get his act together
as nimbler China grabs market share. Tata is leaving Tata Sons
Ltd. after 20 years at the helm, and one of his greatest
legacies may be cajoling the government into action.  He Got Game Award: To Kim Jong Un, North’s Korea
basketball-besotted leader. With the one-year anniversary of his
father’s death bearing down, Kim and his generals were under
intense pressure to wow the world. His successful rocket launch
was the geopolitical equivalent of a 3-point shot just before
the buzzer. Kim’s shot managed to ruin the holidays for many a
world leader.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 