-- SocGen Unit Sale Sends Qatar Bank Past $100 Billion: Arab Credit
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-12-20T13:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/socgen-unit-sale-sends-qatar-bank-past-100-billion-arab-credit.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ, which
agreed to buy  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s  Egypt  unit, is set to become
the first Arab lender with assets exceeding $100 billion amid a
drive to tap  consumer lending  in more populous markets.  Doha-based QNB said Dec. 13 it will pay $1.97 billion for
77 percent of National Societe Generale Bank SAE. The deal will
give the lender, which overtook  Saudi Arabia ’s  National
Commercial Bank  for the region’s top spot a year ago, a foothold
in the Arab nation of more than 83 million. It will also boost
the bank’s assets by 11 percent to about $107 billion, more than
double their value at the end of 2009 and six times above the
Middle East average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  QNB (QNBK) , which raised $2 billion in bonds this year, said it
also seeks to buy a majority stake in one of  Turkey ’s top 10
banks as part of a strategy to more than double the ratio of
profit it derives from global operations by 2017. The plan
mirrors the drive by Qatar, home to 1.8 million, to use a cash
windfall from liquefied natural gas holdings to snap up assets
worldwide, including  London ’s Harrods department store.  “QNB is going the right way, expanding into populous
markets,” Rami Sidani, Dubai-based head of Middle East and
North Africa investments at Schroder Investment Management Ltd,
said by phone Dec. 18. “Qatar is a market driven by government
lending, not retail-focused, given its small population. QNB has
decided to expand into markets where it can benefit from real
retail dynamics.”  Egyptian Branches  With NSGB, Egypt’s second-biggest publicly traded lender,
QNB will own about 160 branches across Egyptian cities, more
than main rival Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE. A foray
into Turkey would help the bank secure clout in the biggest
economy in the  Middle East  and eastern  Europe  after  Russia . The
bank’s shares gained as much as 1.2 percent to 132.2 riyals,
before closing at 131.4 riyals in Doha.  Moving into Egypt carries risks since nine out of every 10
adults doesn’t have a bank account, the Middle East’s lowest
ratio apart from  Yemen , according to the  World Bank . Political
turmoil has also forced Egypt to delay an International Monetary
Fund loan agreement deemed as crucial to revive investments and
pry economic growth from near a 19-year low.  Small Population  QNB’s bonds haven’t rallied as much as regional peers this
year, while its shares are down 4.9 percent, compared with a 3.8
percent drop for Qatar’s benchmark index. The yield on the 3.375
percent dollar-denominated notes due 2017 declined 113 basis
points, or 1.13 percentage points, since their sale in February
to 2.24 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s GCC Conventional Financial Services U.S.
Dollar Bond Index, by comparison, yielded 2.98 percent
yesterday, down 271 basis points.  The lender’s effort to build scale abroad comes amid
constraints to expanding retail lending in a home population
that’s one-sixteenth the size of neighboring Saudi Arabia.
Emirates NBD PJSC said today it would buy BNP Paribas SA’s
Egyptian unit in a $500 million deal that will help the  United
Arab Emirates ’ biggest bank wean itself off of reliance on a
domestic market of 8.3 million.  Credit growth in Qatar is being spurred by government plans
to invest $130 billion to build roads, sporting facilities and a
metro and rail system before hosting the 2022 soccer  World Cup .
Public sector lending, which accounts for 42 percent of the
total, surged as much as 99 percent in the year to May, the
fastest pace in two years, before slowing to less than half that
rate in October, according to central bank data.  Won’t Overpay  The Qatari bank wants to secure 40 percent of profit from
operations abroad in five years, up from 17 percent now, Chief
Financial Officer Ramzi Marie said on a conference call Dec. 13.  QNB’s assistant general manager for group strategy, Mohamed Moabi, listed Turkey,  Morocco  and Saudi Arabia, where QNB has
applied to open a branch, as target markets. “In the next three
years, these are the countries where we will be paying close
attention to available opportunities,” he said on the call.  The lender, whose market capitalization has more than
doubled in the past three years, is acting prudently despite the
fast pace of expansion, Schroder’s Sidani said. QNB bought  NSGB (NSGB) 
shares at about 11 percent below the market price, showing
investors it’s “not willing to overpay for any expansion,”
Sidani said. It also lost out to OAO Sberbank in May in its bid
to buy Istanbul-based  Denizbank AS. (DENIZ)   ‘Soft Power’  “We have seen how the bank backed down from Dexia because
it didn’t meet the price level they were targeting and that was
followed by an acquisition of a very strong franchise in
Egypt,” Sidani said. “What we really like is the discipline.”  In Egypt, loan growth may triple next year to 15 percent as
it recovers from last year’s popular uprising and secures a $4.8
billion IMF loan, according to Deutsche Bank AG estimates in
October, before a spike in unrest over the past month. NSGB’s
2013 profit  may increase  9 percent, according to the average
estimate of seven analysts on Bloomberg.  QNB’s regional push forms “part of Qatar’s foreign policy
and its soft power expansion,” Emad Mostaque, London-based
investment strategist at Noah Capital Markets, said by phone
Dec. 17. The Qatar Investment Authority, a sovereign wealth
fund, owns 50 percent of QNB, and the bank’s chairman is the
nation’s Finance Minister Yousef Kamal.  Qatar, the world’s richest country on a per-capita income
basis, extended a $2 billion aid package to Egypt’s Islamist
government to help stem the decline in foreign-currency
reserves. QInvest LLC, a unit of Qatar Islamic Bank, is also set
to gain control of 60 percent of a joint investment bank with
Cairo-based  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO)  in a deal announced this
year.  “Qatar is looking to its future, benefiting from the Arab
Spring by creating new markets,” Mostaque said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  