-- South Korean Won Forwards Weaken After Park Elected; Bonds Gain
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-12-20T01:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/south-korean-won-forwards-weaken-after-park-elected-bonds-gain.html
Won forwards fell for the first time
in a week after the ruling party’s Park Geun Hye was elected
South  Korea ’s first female president, damping speculation of a
major shift in the nation’s exporter-friendly policies.
 Government bonds  advanced.  Park defeated main opposition nominee Moon Jae In by 51.6
percent to 48 percent in yesterday’s election, according to the
National Election Commission. Park has called for tighter
regulation of family-owned conglomerates such as  Samsung Group ,
but stopped short of Moon’s call for banning existing and new
cross-shareholdings. U.S. shares fell yesterday on concern
lawmakers are struggling to reach agreement on budget changes.  “The ruling New Frontier Party is more corporate friendly
than the opposition, which means less tolerance for a stronger
won,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based currency analyst at
Samsung Futures Inc. “There is caution against government
intervention considering what we saw on Dec. 18, and also the
U.S. budget deal is a continuous concern.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards on the won weakened 0.1
percent to 1,074.76 per dollar as of 10:04 a.m. in  Seoul ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won traded at
1,072.78 per dollar from a close of 1,073.23 on Dec. 18, when it
touched a 15-month high of 1,070.73. Local markets were closed
yesterday for the election.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, was little changed
today at 4.75 percent. That is down from 13.55 percent at the
start of this year. The won has strengthened 7.4 percent this
year, the best performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-used currencies.  Policy Stability  Park’s victory “means policy stability and continued
opposition of the  Bank of Korea  towards faster won gains,”
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong
Kong , wrote in a research note today. “As opposition candidate
Moon would have likely favoured a firmer currency, the unit
should correct today.”  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due September
2017 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.04
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. The one-year interest-
rate swap slid one basis point to 2.81 percent.  Obama administration officials told leaders of business and
financial services groups yesterday that negotiations on budget
talks with House Speaker  John Boehner  have deteriorated in the
last 24 hours, according to a person familiar with the meeting.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  