-- South Africa’s ANC Rejects Mine Nationalization for Taxes
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-12-20T13:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/south-africa-s-anc-rejects-mine-nationalization-proposals.html
South Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  rejected proposals to nationalize mines in
favor of higher taxes in the world’s largest producer of
platinum and chrome.  “The issue of nationalization as we’ve discussed it over
the last few months is off the table,” Public Enterprises
Minister  Malusi Gigaba  told reporters in the central city of
Bloemfontein today. The party is considering a “resource rent”
tax or higher royalties to extract more revenue from the
industry, said Enoch Godongwana, head of the ANC’s economic
transformation committee.  The ANC removed any reference to nationalization in its
policy recommendations approved by members at its national
conference in Bloemfontein. That ends three years of debate
within the party and removes uncertainty for companies including
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  that own assets in the
country. The ANC Youth League has led a campaign for the party
to adopt a program of seizing mines to redistribute wealth in
 Africa ’s biggest economy.  State intervention in mining should be focused on minerals
processing and through a government-owned company seeking more
equity in the industry, Godongwana said. Details of this and
mining taxes will be discussed further in the party, he said.  Investor Confidence  “Yes, there will be tax, what form it will take is a
matter for the administration,” he said.  The rand fell to 8.5152 against the dollar by 2:27 p.m. in
Johannesburg from 8.5260 before the press conference. The yield
on the government’s 2021 bond fell 5 basis points to 6.36
percent.  Lack of detail on the taxes may undermine investor
confidence in the mining industry, said  Peter Davey , the head of
mining research at  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)   “Just as nationalization has always hung like a cloud over
South Africa’s mining industry, this uncertainty is destroying
investor confidence,” Davey said in a phone interview from
 London . “There is just too much uncertainty. How can anyone
think about starting a new project in say, platinum, if there is
the prospect of an unknown level of resource tax.”  Mining makes up about 9 percent of gross domestic product
and accounts for two-thirds of exports. The country has an
estimated $3.3 trillion of mineral wealth, according to the
Department of Mineral Resources.  ‘All Views’  An ANC-commissioned study published in February called for
a 50 percent “resources rent tax,” triggered once companies
earn returns in excess of about 15 percent annually.  “We are concerned that there may be further taxes on
minerals,” Vusi Mabena, a senior executive at South Africa’s
Chamber of Mines in Johannesburg, said in a phone interview.
“We would like to engage with the ANC and the government to
ascertain the extent to which those would be imposed on the
mining sector.”  The government won’t be “reckless” and will listen to all
views before implementing any new mining taxes, Deputy Finance
Minister Nhlanhla Nene said at the ANC conference on Dec. 17.  “They made it quite clear that they want to have a debate
about it and that is positive,” Stephen Meintjies, head of
research at stockbroker Imara S.P. Reid, said in a phone
interview. “A ’one size fits all’ tax for the  mining industry 
is disastrous.”  Monetary Policy  Shares of Anglo American, the largest investor in South
African mining, rose as much as 0.5 percent, and traded 0.3
percent higher at 262.51 rand at 2:55 p.m. in Johannesburg.
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)   Anglo Platinum (AMS) , the world’s
largest producer of the metal gained as much as gained as much
as 1.5 percent to 165.95 rand.  The ANC agreed today to classify certain minerals as
strategic, which the government wants to manage through measures
including targeted export controls in order to ensure security
of supply, Godongwana said. Iron ore, coal, copper, copper, zinc
and nickel are amongst minerals being considered for
classification, according to the ANC’s document.  The party’s economic policy recommendations also calls for
a “more flexible  monetary policy  regime,” and that the central
bank take into account job creation and economic growth in
setting  interest rates . The South African Reserve Bank’s goal is
to keep  inflation  within a range of 3 percent to 6 percent.  “Government should engage with the new wisdom developing
on macroeconomic policy around the world in response to past
failures and the global crisis,” according to the ANC’s
document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Bloemfontein via Johannesburg at   fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Bloemfontein via  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  