-- South Africa Deserves Rating Upgrade, Ramaphosa Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-12-21T08:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/south-africa-s-zuma-cements-control-as-allies-win-at-anc.html
South Africa’s credit-rating
downgrades should be reversed after the ruling  African National
Congress  adopted clear policies, said  Cyril Ramaphosa , the
party’s newly elected deputy president.  “I’m sure the downgrade will turn into an upgrade,”
Ramaphosa told businesspeople in the central city of
Bloemfontein today. “We deserve that, we’ve got great policies
and there’s even a determination to implement those policies.”  The ANC yesterday resolved to consider raising taxes on
mining companies and increase “strategic state ownership” in
the economy, while rejecting proposals to nationalize mines and
banks. Delegates also said at the party’s national conference
the central bank should adopt a “more flexible monetary policy
regime.”  Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s have
downgraded the nation’s debt since Sept. 27 and warned of
further cuts, citing pressure on the ANC government to boost
spending and after the worst mining strikes since the end of
apartheid curbed economic growth. Africa’s biggest economy is
forecast to expand 2.5 percent this year, the least since a
recession in 2009, and too slow to slash a 25.5 percent
unemployment rate, according to government estimates.  “If there ever was a lack of clarity, people should be
absolutely clear now of where the ANC stands as far as its
policies are concerned,” Ramaphosa said.  President  Jacob Zuma  cemented his hold over the ANC at the
conference as his allies and Cabinet ministers won election to
the ANC’s top leadership structure. Kgalema Motlanthe, who lost
the vote for the ANC top spot, will remain as the country’s
deputy president until the 2014 general election, Zuma said
today.  Zuma Ascendancy  Zuma won the backing of 75 percent of conference delegates.
The other top five party posts went to his favored candidates,
as did most seats on the 80-member National Executive Committee,
the ANC’s main decision-making body.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan , Public Enterprises
Minister  Malusi Gigaba  and former central bank Governor Tito Mboweni were among those elected to the panel. Ex-finance
minister,  Trevor Manuel , who leads the National Planning
Commission, declined to stand for the NEC.  The ANC has ruled  country  since the end of white
segregationist rule in 1994 and holds about two-thirds of the
seats in Parliament. Zuma’s dominance in the party may give him
greater scope to determine policy, possibly reducing the
influence of labor unions.  “Zuma is firmly in the ascendancy at this time,” Jolyon
Ford, an analyst at Oxford Analytica in  London , said in an e-
mailed note to clients yesterday.  Infrastructure Spending  While Ramaphosa’s election will probably help ease concerns
about policy, there are still downside risks for the  mining
industry  and economic growth, Christian Esters, a credit analyst
at  Standard & Poor’s , said by phone from  Frankfurt .  “The mining industry is probably still looking for more
clarity on the tax regime and regulation,” he said today.  Zuma reiterated that the government’s National Development
Plan, spearheaded by Manuel, would be the basis of the
government’s economic policy going forward. The plan sets out
the investment needed in roads and rail projects, health,
education and other services to boost growth and investment. It
also calls for a review of  labor laws  to encourage hiring and
create 11 million new jobs by 2030, and for wage increases to be
linked to productivity, proposals opposed by the unions.  The rand weakened 0.9 percent against the dollar to 8.5511
by 10:45 a.m. in Johannesburg, erasing the gain since Dec. 17,
the day before the ANC election results were announced. The
yield on the government bond due in March 2021 fell 14 basis
points over the same period to 6.34 percent, the lowest on
record.  The ratings companies said the government needs to tackle
the high jobless rate as it faces rising anger among poor
shantytown residents over a lack of housing, water and other
services.  South Africa  had a record 113 township protests in the
first seven months of the year, according to Johannesburg-based
research group Municipal IQ.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  