-- Soybeans Tumble to 1-Month Low as China Cancels U.S. Imports
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-12-20T20:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/soybeans-tumble-to-1-month-low-as-china-cancels-u-s-imports.html
Soybeans declined to a one-month low
after  China , the world’s largest importer, canceled U.S.
purchases for the second time in three days.  China canceled 540,000 metric tons, bringing the total to
840,000 tons since Dec. 18, excluding 120,000 canceled by
unknown buyers, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said today.
Prices plunged as much as 23 percent since reaching a record on
Sept. 4, as prospects for rising output in  Brazil  and Argentina
eased supply concerns after a drought reduced harvests in the
U.S., the world’s largest grower and exporter.  “The Chinese appear to be shifting to supplies from South
America as weather is looking favorable for big crops in
Brazil,” Dave Smoldt, a vice president at INTL FCStone Inc. in
West Des Moines,  Iowa , said in a telephone interview. “The U.S.
purchases were a safety net against a weather problem in Brazil
or Argentina. China’s demand is not slowing. It’s just shifting
away from U.S. supplies.”  Soybean futures for March delivery dropped 1.8 percent to
close at $14.0475 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, capping for the first four-day decline since Nov. 12.
Earlier, the oilseed touched $13.9775, the lowest since Nov. 20.
Trading in soybean futures was 74 percent higher than the 100-
day average for the time of day.  While U.S. farmers saw production plunge for a third
straight year, after the worst drought in more than seven
decades, global output will increase almost 12 percent to a
record in the year ending Sept. 30, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said Dec. 11. Brazil, which is forecast to overtake
the U.S. as the top exporter, will boost its harvest by 22
percent, and  Argentina ’s will expand 34 percent, the USDA said.  Brazil Rain  As much as 3 inches (7.6 centimeters) of rain will fall in
southern Brazil during the next two days, with more rain in much
of the major growing region through Jan. 4, maintaining
favorable conditions, World Weather Inc. said in a report today.
Drier weather is reducing soil moisture in parts of northeastern
Brazil, a relatively minor producing region, the private
forecaster said.  Rain may boost Brazilian production to a record 81.5
million metric tons in the marketing year that begins Feb. 1, up
from 81.3 million forecast in November and 67.7 million
harvested this year, Abiove, a soy-processors’ group, said
yesterday. The U.S.  crop , which farmers have already harvested,
slipped to a four-year low of 80.86 million tons, according to
the USDA.  U.S. Fields  Some fields from  Nebraska  to  Indiana  received more than an
inch of moisture in the form of rain or snow during the past 24
hours,  data  from the National Weather Service shows. About 55
percent of the nine-state Midwest region was in moderate to
exceptional drought condition as of Dec. 18, up from 14 percent
a year earlier, according to the U.S.  Drought Monitor . Prices
reached a record $17.89 on Sept. 4, boosting costs for makers of
soy-based animal feed and cooking oil.  “Recent U.S. moisture and favorable South American weather
may be exerting greater influence on futures than previously
perceived, especially with China soybean buying topping out,”
 Richard Feltes , the vice president of research  at R.J. O’Brien
& Associates, said in a report today.  Soybeans are the largest U.S. crop after corn, valued at
$35.8 billion in 2011, government figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  