-- Spain 2012 Deficit Slippage Looms as Recession Deepens
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-12-21T12:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/spain-budget-deficit-slippage-looms-as-recession-deepens.html
Spain  will struggle to meet its 2012
deficit target as a  contracting  economy hinders the impact of
the deepest budget cuts in the nation’s democratic history,
Deputy Budget Minister Marta Fernandez Curras said.  “It will be difficult, but who says it’s impossible?”
Curras told reporters in Madrid yesterday evening after Budget
Ministry data showed the central-government’s shortfall through
November was 4.37 percent of gross domestic product.  Curras said the social security system, combining Spain’s
tax-funded pensions and unemployment insurance, is expected to
register a gap of around 1 percent of output in 2012. The
central government and social security together have a full-year
deficit goal of 4.5 percent.  For now, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government has
ruled out seeking European aid to curb a surge in borrowing
costs while acknowledging Spain may miss its deficit target. The
Brussels-based European Commission suspended its budget-cut
prescriptions for the nation last month as the euro region sank
into a recession.  No Need  Rajoy said on Dec. 14 that Spain hasn’t sought aid because
it doesn’t need it. Spanish exports rose 8.7 percent in October
from a year ago after gaining 0.5 percent the previous month,
Economy Ministry data showed today. Spain’s trade deficit is
down 28 percent over the first ten months of the year as
declining labor costs helped make the nation’s products more
competitive.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  rose three
basis points to 5.26 percent at 1:24 p.m in Madrid, compared
with a euro-era high of 7.75 percent on July 25, a day after
Spain signed conditions for as much as 100 billion euros in
European loans for its banks, and a day before European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to defend the euro. The
spread with similar German maturities widened five basis points
to 3.86 percentage points.  The European Union has set Spain an overall deficit target
of 6.3 percent of GDP for this year, after overspending swelled
to 9.4 percent in 2011. That includes the balance from the 17
semi-autonomous regions, 8,000 municipalities and the Social
Security.  Too Early  “The data are in line with the economic situation we are
going through,” Curras said. “I myself would like to know
today how much tax receipts will amount to at the end of the
year, but it’s too early to say.” It’s difficult to forecast
the deficit to the exact decimal place, she said.  Total tax receipts collected by the state in the first 11
months of 2012 rose 1.1 percent on a cash basis. The government
increased income tax in February and value-added tax in
September to slow a drop in revenue. The euro area’s fourth-
largest economy is due to  shrink  for a sixth straight quarter in
the three months through December.  Central government spending rose 0.1 percent on a cash
basis, boosted by a 16.3 percent surge in interest payments to
25.5 billion euros and a 3.2 increase in transfers including
social security funding and payments to the regions. Curras said
an increase in revenue and a drop in spending should reduce the
deficit this month.  Public Aid  While public aid to recapitalize the banking sector may be
included in the deficit, Curras said it is a one-time item that
won’t be taken into account by the European Commission to assess
whether the nation is complying with the targets it has been set
under a so-called “excessive deficit procedure.”  In a separate statement, the  Social Security  Ministry said
the pensions system registered a surplus of 0.26 percent of GDP
in the first 11 months, down from 0.60 percent a year earlier.
The figure doesn’t include the balance from the unemployment-
benefits system and the data are not comparable with Spain’s
deficit target.  Rajoy said last week he couldn’t predict what the deficit
will be this year. In a Bloomberg Survey of 18 estimates,
economists see it at 7.55 percent of GDP, followed by 6 percent
next year, again overshooting its EU target, set at 4.5 percent
of output.  While  unemployment  is already the highest in the EU, above
a quarter of the workforce, economists expect the recession to
worsen to 1.5 percent in 2013, three times as much as the
government’s official forecast, after 1.4 percent in 2012,
according to 37 estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  