-- Starz Takeover Looms as Malone Faces Low Value : Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-12-20T21:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/starz-takeover-looms-as-malone-faces-low-value-real-m-a.html
“Spartacus” and 55.1 million
subscribers could be up for grabs at half the median valuation
of television-industry takeovers as billionaire  John Malone 
prepares to make premium channel Starz LLC a separate company.  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  plans to split off its Starz unit in
the coming weeks, and Chief Executive Officer Greg Maffei has
said its cable networks may be more valuable to another owner,
signaling a possible sale. The standalone entity may lure buyers
from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  to  Sony Corp. (6758)  with the chance to gain a
conduit for original content, said Macquarie Group Ltd. Starz
could appeal to  Netflix (NFLX)  Inc. by giving the streaming service a
pay-TV presence, Training the Street’s Scott Rostan said.  Even as Starz develops shows such as “Spartacus” and
“Party Down,” its contract for Walt Disney Co. films expires
in 2015 and it trails rivals  HBO  and Showtime in transitioning
from movies to original programming. Wunderlich Securities Inc.
said Starz may be valued at $2.7 billion in a sale, including
net debt, while  Wedge Partners  Corp. said it could fetch as much
as $3 billion. That’s about 7 times analysts’ estimates for 2013
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
less than half the median for TV and broadcast program deals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Nothing There’  “Starz is still a valuable asset, but it’s injured losing
the Disney contract,” Matt Kaufler, a Rochester, New York-based
fund manager for Federated Investors Inc., which oversees $365
billion, including Liberty Media shares, said in a telephone
interview. “Starz has already pushed into some original content
but it’s still in a fairly embryonic stage. The market isn’t
going to reward them. There’s nothing there yet. It should sell
at a discount.”  Courtnee Ulrich, a spokeswoman for Englewood, Colorado-
based Liberty Media, declined to comment on the prospects of
selling Starz.  Liberty Media plans to separate Starz by the end of January
from the company’s other assets, including stakes in Sirius XM
Radio Inc., Barnes & Noble Inc. and Live Nation Entertainment
Inc.  The Starz unit consists mainly of the Starz and Encore
channels, featuring movies and shows for cable-TV subscribers
who pay an additional monthly fee. Starz hired Chris Albrecht,
former chairman and CEO at HBO, three years ago to lead the
division and develop  original shows  such as “Spartacus” to
compete with Time Warner Inc.’s HBO and CBS Corp.’s Showtime.  Starz had 20.8 million subscribers and Encore had 34.3
million at the end of the third quarter, according to the
company.  Solo Value  “This is Malone and management’s way of saying Starz has a
lot of value on its own,” said Training the Street’s Rostan, a
former M&A analyst whose New York-based firm trains new hires at
banks on mergers.  Liberty Media’s shares today gained 1 percent to $116.43,
their highest closing level since at least May 2006.  CEO Maffei said in September that a company with its own
distribution channels and content “might be able to do more”
with Starz than Liberty Media.  Comcast’s  NBC Universal  or Tokyo-based Sony could be
potential buyers that would use Starz in a similar role as it
serves now: as a vehicle to show first-run post-theatrical
movies along with some original series, said Amy Yong, an
analyst at Macquarie in  New York . Starz already has a deal with
Sony Pictures, while HBO’s contract with Comcast’s  Universal
Studios  expires at the end of 2016, making a Starz deal a
“perfect fit” in terms of timing for Comcast, she said.  ‘Real Estate’  “It’s real estate,” Yong said. “There’s value to having
20 million subscribers for Starz and 30 million-plus for
Encore.”  In a takeover, Starz could be worth $3 billion, including
net debt, said  Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst at Wedge Partners in
 Greenwood Village ,  Colorado . That would represent a multiple of
almost 6.9 times the average analyst estimate of $438 million
for 2013 Ebitda, the lowest among TV and broadcast program deals
of $500 million or more, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The median Ebitda multiple for the group is 14.1.  As a standalone, Starz warrants a lower valuation than HBO
or  Showtime  because it has fewer original shows and its
exclusive access to Disney films is set to expire after Netflix
takes over the contract, said  John Tinker , an analyst at Maxim
Group LLC in New York. The premium channel’s movie deal with
Sony Pictures also is poised to expire at the end of 2016.  Tinker said he values  HBO , creator of “The Sopranos” and
“Boardwalk Empire,” and Showtime, developer of the hit
“Homeland,” at as much as 8 times estimated 2013 Ebitda. Starz
should be valued “at a far lower price,” he said.  Univision, Netflix  The loss of  Disney  may actually help a buyer that wants to
develop Starz’s pay-TV channels into a haven for original
content because a deal now could be done at a lower valuation,
according to Yong. Starz could share costs for new shows with an
existing company, such as NBC Universal, that already spends
billions on original programming, she said.  Chris Marangi , a  money manager  at Rye, New York-based Gamco
Investors Inc., said Univision Communications Inc., owner of the
Univision Spanish-language channel, could be interested in Starz
as a way to expand into premium programming. Gamco oversees
about $37 billion, including Liberty Media shares.  Even Netflix, which already develops content for its more
than 30 million global streaming subscribers, may pursue Starz
to showcase its original series such as “House of Cards” on a
pay-TV network, Rostan said. It also would allow Netflix and
Starz to share development costs, he said.  Representatives for Sony, Philadelphia-based Comcast, New
York-based Univision and Netflix in  Los Gatos ,  California ,
declined to comment on the companies’ interest in Starz.  Buyer Barriers  While Starz offers potential suitors an established
platform for content, “there’s a lot of execution risk”
developing original programming that could deter suitors,
 Matthew Harrigan , an analyst at Wunderlich Securities in Denver,
said in a phone interview.  Comcast is stockpiling  cash  to potentially buy the
remaining 49 percent of NBC that General Electric Co. still owns
and may want to avoid a cash acquisition.  “Plus they’re the cheapest guys around in terms of
paying,” he said.  Comcast saw its market value close above $100 billion for
the first time this week, and the largest U.S. cable company’s
cash and short-term investments jumped 138 percent in the third
quarter to $10.3 billion.  Cash Constraints  While Netflix is strategically interesting, its limited
cash and debt capacity may prevent it from acting, Rostan said.
The company’s  debt  is rated three levels below investment grade
and it only has $798 million in cash and short-term investments.
Sony, too, struggles from a lack of cash, Yong said, and
Univision is still “a long shot,” according to Marangi.  Given Starz’s low valuation, Liberty may want to wait for
some hit shows to help boost its price before putting the unit
up for sale, Maxim’s Tinker said.  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX)  shares have
increased 25 percent from its closing price on its first
official day of trading after Cablevision Systems Corp. spun it
off last year, bolstered by the success of  shows  such as “Mad
Men,” “Breaking Bad” and ”The Walking Dead.”  ‘Puzzle Piece’  Starz’s existing contracts with Disney and Sony still give
the channel access to exclusive content for the next few years,
and its move to develop more of its own shows is a step in the
right direction, said Mark Hesse-Withbroe, a Minneapolis,
Minnesota-based analyst at Nuveen Asset Management, which has
$112 billion under management and owns Liberty Media shares.
That boosts its allure for a company such as Comcast, he said.  “I look at it as a logical puzzle piece that would fit
with others,” Hesse-Withbroe said in a phone interview.
“There’s stuff that people want to see on the network, and I
think there’s good value there. I like the prospects for
Starz.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  