-- State Department to Increase Guards at High-Risk Posts
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-12-20T20:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/state-department-to-increase-guards-at-high-risk-posts.html
The State Department will hire more
security guards and use more Marines to safeguard high-risk
posts around the world in an effort to prevent assaults on U.S.
diplomats following the deadly attack in  Libya , a department
official said.  Responding to a review panel’s findings of “systemic
failures” and “grossly inadequate” security for the U.S.
mission in Benghazi, Libya, the department plans to hire 150
more diplomatic security personnel, a 5 percent increase, Thomas Nides, deputy secretary of state for management and resources,
told lawmakers today. The Pentagon has approved dispatching an
additional 225 Marine Corps guards, he said.  “We will target them squarely at our high-threat posts,”
Nides said at a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, where he and another top department official said
security deficiencies contributed to the attack in Benghazi.
Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns  described as
“unacceptable” the lapses that came before the deaths of U.S.
Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens and three other
Americans on Sept. 11.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  had been scheduled to
testify at the hearing. She canceled after fainting and
suffering a concussion, the State Department said in a statement
Dec. 15.  She has agreed to appear next month, Senator  John Kerry , a
Massachusetts Democrat and the committee’s chairman, said as the
panel began its work today. Later, in a hearing held by the
House Foreign Affairs Committee, Chairwoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen,
a Florida Republican, said Clinton also will testify before her
panel in January.  Rethinking Reliance  The U.S. relies on host countries to provide the bulk of
the security at embassies and consulates, as most nations do.
Nides said the department has begun rethinking that practice.  “In today’s evolving threat environment, we have to take a
new and harder look at the capabilities and commitment of our
hosts,” he said. “We have to re-examine how we operate in
places facing emerging threats, where national security forces
are fragmented and political will may be weak.”  The independent review board appointed by Clinton to
examine the Libya attack found that U.S. reliance on a poorly
skilled Libyan militia and unarmed locally contracted guards for
security support “was misplaced,” according to the
unclassified version of the board’s report.  Clinton’s Pledge  The report outlined recommendations to bolster security at
embassies worldwide, and the State Department this week released
a letter Clinton sent to lawmakers pledging to implement “every
one” of them.  Clinton wasn’t aware that officials in Libya had requested
additional security before the attack, Burns said at both the
House and Senate hearings today. Such requests were handled at
the level of assistant secretary, he said.  Kerry endorsed a call by the review board to spend about
$2.3 billion annually for 10 years to upgrade security.  “There’s no question in my mind we need more resources in
significant ways,” said Kerry, who is under consideration by
President  Barack Obama  to be nominated as Clinton’s successor.  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, questioned why
congressional appropriators didn’t receive a request to transfer
funds to bolster diplomatic security in Libya even as cables
from there cited increasing risks.  Department’s Culture  He also questioned a pledge by Nides to ensure that all of
the review board’s recommendations are at least “under way”
before Clinton’s successor is in place early next year, and that
all will be implemented as soon as possible. There have been 18
State Department review boards in the past, Corker said, and in
no case has every recommendation taken hold.  “The culture in the State Department is one that needs to
be transformed,” he said.  A potential partisan split over added funding for
diplomatic security surfaced in the House committee hearing.  Representative Howard Berman of  California , the panel’s top
Democrat, said Congress bears much of the blame for insufficient
diplomatic security because lawmakers have cut the State
Department’s security funding.  That has “created a culture at the State Department that
is more preoccupied with saving money than with achieving its
security goals,” which may explain the department’s rejection
of requests for improved security in Benghazi, said Berman, who
is leaving Congress after losing his re-election bid.  “Requests for more money are a familiar refrain,” Ros-
Lehtinen said. She said the State Department has spent funds on
favored projects, such as global warming, instead of security.  “Budgetary constraints were not a factor in the
department’s failure to recognize the threats and adequately
respond to the situation in Benghazi,” Ros-Lehtinen said. “The
problem was and is about misplaced priorities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  