-- States Gaining in Economic Health as Manufacturing Grows
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/states-gain-in-economic-health-as-manufacturing-grows.html
The economic health of 27 U.S.
states showed signs of improvement as a four-year high in
industrial production spurred gains in the so-called Rust Belt
region, where manufacturing accounts for a larger share of jobs.  Michigan, Ohio, Indiana and  Illinois , contiguous Midwestern
states that are home to 13 percent of Americans, posted four of
the eight biggest gains for the three months ending in
September, compared to the previous quarter, according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States Index.  “We’re seeing the resurgence of U.S. manufacturing,” said
Robert Dye, chief economist at  Comerica Inc. (CMA)  in  Dallas . “It’s a
potential bright spot and it’s one of the good news stories
that’s still out there for the  U.S. economy .”  The 13 percent average share of manufacturing employment in
the four states compares with the 8.9 percent level for the U.S.
as a whole. The  Federal Reserve ’s gauge of  industrial production 
at factories, mines and utilities rose in July to 97.9, the most
since June 2008, seven months into the longest and deepest U.S.
recession since the Great Depression. The pace of auto sales
jumped to a four-year high in September.  The BEES Index is based on the performance of local-company
shares, tax collections,  home prices , mortgage delinquencies,
job growth and personal income, giving equal weight to each
component. It is intended to indicate the direction of each
economy, rather than absolute health, so a state that’s quickly
rebounding will receive a higher rank than one with a steady but
slower pace of growth.  Auto Sales  Automakers sold cars and light trucks in the U.S. at an
annualized rate of  14.9 million , after seasonal adjustments, in
September, according to Autodata Corp. That pace, at the time
the highest since March 2008, was topped by November’s 15.5
million rate. Researcher LMC Automotive raised its 2012 North
American production estimate to 15.3 million, from 15 million,
citing strong demand in the first three quarters.  Automakers including  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC
are hiring workers and adding shifts in Midwest plants. Ford has
said it’s expanding annual production capacity by 400,000 units
this year, which includes additional crews in two factories in
Michigan and Illinois. Chrysler completed the addition of 1,800
workers in Belvidere, Illinois, where it builds the new Dodge
Dart compact.  California Gains  Elsewhere in the U.S., the BEES index showed that
 California , the most-populous state, with 38 million residents,
posted gains for its  $1.96 trillion  economy. The  District of
Columbia  also improved.  North Dakota  had the biggest gain.  The largest decline in economic health occurred in Vermont,
followed by  New Mexico ,  Alaska ,  Wyoming  and  New Hampshire .  Vermont was the only state where equities retreated from a
year earlier, slumping 59 percent compared with a 30 percent
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the same
period.  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) , the Waterbury-based
maker of Keurig brewers and single-serve pods, led the six-
member gauge lower with a 74 percent decline.  David Einhorn , who
helps oversee $7.7 billion as president of Greenlight Capital
Inc., suggested this year that investors speculate on a drop in
the shares.  Florida, whose more than 19 million residents make it the
fourth-largest U.S. state, and Arizona switched to positive
economic health from negative in the third quarter.  Florida, New York  Florida lost  925,000 jobs  from March 2007 to December 2009.
Since then, 221,000 jobs have been added to payrolls, U.S. Labor
Department data show. The state is poised to overtake  New York 
in population sometime this decade. Florida had 19,317,568
residents to New York’s 19,570,261 on July 1, a difference of
252,693, the Census Bureau said yesterday. The difference was
419,354 a year ago.  Florida ’s percentage of mortgage payments delinquent by
more than 90 days or in the process of foreclosure decreased to
 16.8 percent  in the third quarter from 17.5 in the prior
quarter. While the level has fallen since March 2010, it remains
the highest percentage among all states.  Sunshine State home prices rose 2 percent in the third
quarter after falling in the first half of this year. Still,
they remain 42 percent below their peak in December 2006.  “They’re bouncing off a really low floor because they had
such a steep housing correction relative to the rest of the
country,” said Beata Caranci, who tracks the U.S. as deputy
chief economist at TD Economics in Toronto. “Now you have that
rebound in combination with  population growth .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa  at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandre Tanzi at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net  