-- Sturridge’s Move to Liverpool Stalls Over Fees: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-20T05:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/sturridge-s-move-to-liverpool-stalls-over-fees-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Sturridge Snag  Daniel Sturridge ’s 12 million-pound ($19.5 million) move
from Chelsea to Liverpool may be in jeopardy because of a
dispute between the Blues and the player’s advisers over agents’
fees, the  Daily Mail reported .  Liverpool had hoped that Sturridge would have been in a
position to undergo a medical exam yesterday so that his
transfer could be completed in time for him to be unveiled on
Jan. 1, the Mail added.  Sterling to Sign  Liverpool will sign teenager Raheem Sterling to a new five-
year contract worth about 40,000 pounds a week,  the Sun said .  Sterling, 18, had 18 months to run on his agreement and
could have left for about 1 million pounds with  Manchester
United  and Arsenal both ready to move for the England winger,
the Sun added.  Remy Receptive  Marseille striker Loic Remy is attracted by the prospect of
a move to  Newcastle United , which is said to be considering a 10
million-pound bid for the France international, the  Daily
Express reported .  “They are a very good team,” the Express cited Remy as
saying. “They are a big club with good players, very good fans
and a nice stadium that is always full.”  Nasri Blow  Manchester City ’s Samir Nasri is struggling to be fit for
any part of the Premier League champion’s Christmas and New Year
schedule after being told he can’t play for two weeks because of
a groin injury, the  Daily Mail reported .  The prognosis rules the French forward out of games against
Reading, Sunderland and Norwich and puts him in doubt for the
Jan. 1 match against Stoke, the newspaper added.  Latics Loan  Wigan manager  Roberto Martinez  is in talks with Manchester
United about signing Chilean striker Angelo Henriquez on loan,
the  Daily Mirror reported . Henriquez, 18, would provide cover
for Arouna Kone while he plays in the Africa Cup of Nations for
 Ivory Coast , the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  