-- Symantec Wins Jury Verdict Over Finjan Patent Claims
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-12-20T21:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/symantec-wins-federal-jury-verdict-over-finjan-patent-claims.html
Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the world’s biggest
maker of security software, won’t have to pay Finjan Inc. any
royalties after a federal jury decided Symantec didn’t infringe
two patents.  The jury of three men and three women deliberated about
four hours following a three-week trial before also deciding
today that the Finjan patents aren’t valid because the
technology isn’t new.  Symantec “didn’t need Finjan’s technology,” said attorney
 David Nelson , representing the company. “We already had it.”  In 1998 and 1999, the two software makers discussed a
potential merger, Nelson said. Symantec chose not to pursue the
transaction because it had already developed its own innovative
software, according to the lawyer.  “Symantec respects and agrees with the jury’s findings,”
Cris Paden, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-based
Symantec, said in an e-mailed statement. “Symantec takes its
ability to innovate technology solutions very seriously” and
will defend itself if Finjan appeals, he said.  Finjan, with offices in  San Jose ,  California , and Netanya,
Israel, sued Symantec as well as  Websense Inc. (WBSN)  and Sophos Inc.
in 2010 over patents for protecting computers and networks from
“hostile downloadables,” according to court papers. The jury
also ruled in favor of Websense and Sophos, saying they didn’t
infringe, either.  Paul Andre, a lawyer representing Finjan, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the verdict.  Symantec, known for its Norton antivirus products, rose 3
cents to $18.64 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  The case is  Finjan v. Symantec, 10-cv-593, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patents in the lawsuit, click: 6,092,194 and
6,480,962.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  