-- Syniverse Faces EU Probe Over Plans to Buy Mobile Rival Mach
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-20T15:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/syniverse-faces-eu-probe-over-plans-to-buy-mobile-rival-mach.html
Syniverse Holdings Inc.’s bid for
Mach, a rival provider of services to mobile-phone companies,
faces an in-depth probe by European Union antitrust regulators.  The European Commission said the deal may hamper
competition because it would create the largest data-clearing
house “by a very wide margin” globally for settling usage
records for consumers making calls on other networks, according
to an e-mailed statement. It extended the deadline to rule on
the deal until May 15, 2013.  “At this stage, there are doubts that the parties’
competitors for these services could represent a credible
alternative for mobile operators,” the EU said. “If these
doubts are confirmed, the merger could also cause a price
increase and a reduction of the quality of these services.”  Syniverse, owned by  Carlyle Group ,  agreed  to buy
Luxembourg-based rival Mach for about 550 million euros ($731
million) in July. It said the deal would allow it market more
services, including fraud prevention. Carlyle agreed in 2010 to
take Syniverse private in a $2.6 billion transaction.  Bobby Eagle, a spokesman for Syniverse, and Eileen Preston,
a spokeswoman for Mach in  London , declined to comment on the EU
decision.  Market Power  The combined firm would also have “significant” market
power in the settlement of invoices that mobile phone operators
send to each other to cover the costs of their subscribers’
using rival networks, the EU said. The company would also
control data feeds that mobile operators use to detect roaming
fraud.  EU regulators  approved  Syniverse’s 2007 purchase of
competitor Billing Services Group Ltd.’s European business, even
though the deal would reduce the number of providers of clearing
services for telecommunications roaming services from three to
two. The EU said today it cleared the earlier deal because Mach
remained on the market as a strong competitor to Syniverse.  The Brussels-based authority said at the time that Mach
had a market share of up to 65 percent in 2006 for mobile
roaming data clearing services in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 