-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed Amid U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-12-20T17:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-amid-u-s-budget-talks.html
U.K. stocks  closed little changed
near a nine-month high as U.S. lawmakers continued talks to
avoid fiscal changes that may lead to a recession in the world’s
largest economy.  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  dropped the most in 11 months in  London 
trading after making 2013 earnings forecasts that were below
analyst estimates.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  rallied 2.8 percent after it
agreed to buy Mathena Inc. for as much as $385 million.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  slipped 3.25 points, less than 0.1 percent, to
5,958.34 in London. The gauge advanced to a nine-month high
yesterday as German business confidence increased more than
forecast. The broader FTSE All-Share Index fell less than 0.1
percent. Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 0.6 percent.  “The increasing vitriol in Washington appears to not faze
markets seemingly to the extent I think it should,” said Gerard Lane, a strategist at Shore Capital Group Ltd., an investment
bank and stockbroker in Liverpool.  White House officials told a group of business leaders that
President  Barack Obama ’s talks with House Speaker  John Boehner 
for a budget deal had stalled, a person familiar with the
negotiations said.  The officials said that Republican plans to move forward
with Boehner’s proposal on taxes and spending may push the
government past the year-end deadline, according to the person,
who asked for anonymity because the talks are private.  Fiscal Cliff  If lawmakers fail to reach an agreement, the $607-billion
package of automatic tax increases and spending cuts will come
into force in January.  U.S. Labor Department data showed  first-time applications 
for jobless benefits in the world’s largest economy rose to
361,000 last week from 343,000 the previous week. Economists
forecast 360,000 claims, according to the Bloomberg survey
median.  Another report showed the index of leading economic
indicators fell in November. The Conference Board’s gauge of the
outlook for the next three to six months dropped 0.2 percent
after a 0.2 percent gain in October.  In the U.K., a report showed retail sales failed to
increase last month as demand at department stores slumped the
most in almost two years.  Sales including fuel were unchanged from October, the
 Office for National Statistics  said. That missed the median
forecast for a 0.4 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey.  Carnival Sinks  Carnival, the world’s biggest cruise-line operator, tumbled
6.1 percent to 2,391 pence in London after providing a full-year
earnings forecast that fell short of what analysts anticipated.
The company said it sees 2013 adjusted earnings per share in the
range of $2.20 to $2.40, lower than the estimate of $2.46.  Evraz Plc (EVR) , the Russian steelmaker partly owned by
billionaire  Roman Abramovich , led European commodity producers
lower, falling 4.1 percent to 267 pence, snapping four days of
gains.  Weir Group gained 2.8 percent to 1,863 pence, for the
biggest jump this month. The world’s largest provider of pumps
to mining companies said it will buy closely held Mathena, a
maker of pressure-control products for shale drilling, for an
initial payment of $240 million and profit-linked payments of
$145 million over two years.  Centamin Plc (CEY)  rose 3 percent to 42.71 pence after the gold
producer said production restarted at its Sukari mine in Egypt.  GKN Plc (GKN) , the British maker of car drive shafts, added 1
percent to 229.3 pence. The stock was raised to buy from neutral
at Citigroup Inc.  Vesuvius Plc (VSVS) , the world’s largest supplier of high-
temperature ceramics for steelmakers, surged 8.6 percent to 352
pence as analysts and investors tried to settle on a fair
valuation for the former Cookson Plc unit following a split-up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  