-- U.K. Inflation-Protected Bonds Set for Worst Year in Decade
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-20T16:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/u-k-inflation-debt-set-for-worst-year-in-decade-on-index-review.html
U.K. inflation-protected bonds are
poised for their worst year in more than a decade as government
proposals to change the way it calculates a gauge of retail
prices threaten to lower payments on the debt.  Britain’s 290 billion-pound ($472 billion) market for
securities linked to the retail-price index handed investors a
loss of 1.2 percent as of yesterday, a reversal from its spot as
the top performer in developed markets last year, when the bonds
returned 21.4 percent. A recalculation of inflation indexes may
save the government about 7 billion pounds a year by 2016-2017
at the expense of investors, according to an estimate by London-
based research company Capital Economics Ltd.  Jil Matheson, the national statistician, will announce on
Jan. 10 her recommendation for adjusting the retail-price index
to address anomalies in clothing-price calculations. Baring
Asset Management said it is holding back on purchasing index-
linked gilts while Pacific Investment Management Co. said it is
refraining from investing in so-called linkers with later
maturities as the proposal risks undermining Britain’s
credibility as a debt issuer.  Goalposts Moved  “I am unenthusiastic on long-dated U.K. index-linked
bonds,” said Michael Amey, a London-based  money manager  at
Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond fund. “They will
continue to suffer due to uncertainty over the calculation. The
debate over changes to the inflation measures gives a sense of
original contracts being revised, and the investment goalposts
being moved.”  The yield on index-linked securities maturing in November
2022 was at minus 0.78 percent as of 4 p.m.  London  time,
compared with minus 0.91 percent on Dec. 7, the lowest level on
a closing basis this year.  This year’s performance is the worst since 2001, when the
bonds declined 1.56 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.K. Inflation-Linked Gilt Index.  Merrill’s Global Inflation-Linked Index gained 6.8 percent,
while similar bonds from other developed markets returned from
0.67 percent in  Sweden  to 28 percent in  Italy .  The review may add to concern the government is changing
its calculations to help improve public finances, even though
the independent Consumer Prices Advisory Committee is driving
the investigation.  Interim Budget  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s interim budget
this month surprised lawmakers by including in economic
projections income from a recent coupon transfer from the Bank
of England and the planned sale of 4G mobile-phone spectrum
licenses.  “There is a reputation issue that has to be considered if
there were to be material change to the way the RPI is
calculated,” said Paul Mueller, a money manager at Invesco
Asset Management in London. “Investors want predictability.
There is a view that if the government starts to tinker around
with inflation calculations, they may do the same with other
things. This doesn’t give the right signal to overseas investors
about whether they invest in index-linked bonds or not.”  At issue is a widening difference between RPI and the
consumer-price index, the basis for the  Bank of England ’s policy
target, that’s due to differences in the mathematical formulae
used to calculate price changes.  This disparity, known as the formula effect, was stable at
about 0.5 percentage point until early 2010, CPAC said in its
2012 annual report. The gap widened to 1 percentage point after
the  ONS in February 2010  changed the way it calculates clothing
prices in the RPI.  Four Approaches  Matheson has set out four approaches for addressing the
issue, the first of which is to make no change. Of the other
three options, the ONS estimates they would reduce RPI by
between 0.4 percentage point and 0.7 percentage point, and
shrink the formula effect by about 0.3 percentage point, narrow
it to a minimal amount or eliminate it completely.  All of 10 economists surveyed on the matter by  Bloomberg
News  said the ONS would avoid the first of Matheson’s options
and make at least some alteration to the RPI.  The ONS will apply any change along with the annual update
to the RPI in inflation data published on March 19. A change is
inevitable, said  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotiabank Europe
Plc in London.  ‘Complete Farce’  Doing nothing “would be a complete farce,” Clarke said.
“The feedback from the investor community will be so
overwhelming they won’t be able to ignore that.”  Minutes of a meeting between the U.K.’s Debt Management
Office and bondholders published Dec. 10 showed some potential
buyers were shifting to short-dated securities pending the
outcome of the review.  The losses suffered by U.K. index-linked bonds are unlikely
to be repeated next year, said Mark Capleton, a fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. Clarity
on the issue and a pause in the Bank of England’s bond purchases
will help to restore demand for the securities, he said.  U.K. index-linked bonds recently recouped some lost ground,
gaining 3.3 percent since the start of November.  The central bank bought no index-linked bonds under the 375
billion-pound quantitative-easing program it instigated to
stimulate the economy. The purchases helped gilts outperform
linkers for the first time since 2008, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Policy makers decided to pause
the bond purchases in November.  ‘I’m Bullish’  “Regardless of the CPAC outcome, I’m bullish about linkers
on a break-even basis over the next 12 months,” Capleton said.
“The conventional  bond market  will need to adjust to a world
without quantitative easing. I think QE has masked a steady
drift upward in inflation expectations.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated the market has already
priced in 80 percent of the worst-case scenario for a change in
the RPI.  The U.K. 20-year break-even rate, a market gauge of long-
term  inflation expectations  derived from the yield gap between
gilts and index-linked securities, fell to 2.46 percentage
points in September, the lowest in more than three years. That
compares with its five-year average of 3.25 percentage points.
The rate was little changed today at 2.87 percentage points.  U.K. inflation-protected securities are also being
undermined by a government plan to allow companies to reduce
their pension deficit by changing valuation methods.  Because U.K. pension funds use a discount rate based
primarily on long-maturity government bond yields to measure
future obligations, a protracted period of low yields has
increased their liabilities. Any change in this rule will
potentially reduce demand for both long-dated gilts and
inflation securities.  “There are a number of uncertainties ahead, but the
inflation calculation review is the biggest factor that is
holding us back from buying U.K. index-linked bonds,” said
Dagmar Dvorak, a director of fixed-income and currencies in
London at Baring Asset Management, which oversees $50 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  