-- U.K. Retail Sales Stall as Consumer Weakness Persists: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-20T11:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/u-k-retail-sales-unexpectedly-stagnated-in-november-1-.html
U.K. retail sales  unexpectedly
stagnated in November as spending at department stores slumped
the most in almost two years.  Sales including fuel were unchanged from October, when they
fell 0.7 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today
in London.  The median forecast  of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 0.4 percent increase. Sales at non-
specialized stores, mainly department stores, fell 1.5 percent,
the most since February 2011. The strongest growth was in
electrical goods, boosted by tablet computers such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The figures add to signs of weakness in consumer spending
in the build-up to the  Christmas shopping season  after the
 Confederation of British Industry  said yesterday that  retail-
sales growth  cooled in December. Increases in electricity and
gas prices are keeping pressure on consumers as  inflation 
continues to outpace wage gains.  “The economic outlook has got worse and consumers are
probably still really uncertain,” said Rob Wood, an economist
at Berenberg Bank in London and a former  Bank of England 
official. “There’s no good news ahead for them in the near
term.”  Today’s data also showed that online shopping continues to
increase and now accounts for 10.8 percent of all retail sales.
Britons spent an average of 711 million pounds ($1.2 billion) a
week online in November, an 8 percent increase from a year
earlier.  London-based  Asos Plc (ASC) , the U.K.’s largest online-only
fashion retailer, said Dec. 11 first-quarter sales rose 30
percent in the three months ended Nov. 30 as it lowered prices
of its own-brand label.  Clothes Sales  Sales at household goods stores surged 3.8 percent in
November from October, the statistics office said today. Food
sales fell 0.1 percent in November, while sales of clothes and
shoes dropped by the same amount. From a year earlier, total
retail sales were up 0.9 percent.  Excluding fuel, retail sales 
rose 0.1 percent in November from October and increased 2
percent on the year.  The CBI said yesterday that its gauge of annual sales
growth fell to 19 in December from 33 in November. Retailers’
expectations for sales growth in January fell to 10. Anna Leach,
head of economic analysis at the CBI, said that “weak spending
power and uncertainty over the economic outlook are likely to
remain key risks to the retail sector in 2013.”  The pound rose 0.2 percent against the dollar today and was
trading at $1.6275 as of 11:20 a.m. in London.  ‘Sticky’ Inflation  U.K. inflation  held at a five-month high of 2.7 percent
last month, remaining above the Bank of England’s 2 percent
target. The central bank’s chief economist,  Spencer Dale , said
last week annual price gains are likely to remain “sticky.”  Today’s report showed the annual retail sales deflator, a
measure of changes in shop prices, fell to 0.5 percent in
November from 0.9 percent in October. The deflator on food rose
to 3 percent from 2.7 percent.  The Bank of England maintained its target for  quantitative
easing  this month as officials forecast “broadly flat” growth
along with continued strains from the crisis in  Europe . Policy
makers also warned that the economy may shrink this quarter.
 Gross domestic product  rose 1 percent in the three months
through September, helped by a boost from the Olympics that will
unwind this quarter. The third estimate for the period will be
published tomorrow.  U.S. Spending  A report to be published later today by the U.S. Commerce
Department may show  consumer spending  rose in November as
Americans shopped for the holidays. Household purchases
increased 0.4 percent after falling 0.2 percent in October,
according to the median estimate of 66 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Other reports on the world’s largest economy due today may
show home sales and demand for long-lasting goods rose.  Elsewhere, the  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its asset-purchase
program for the third time in four months, and will reconsider
its objectives for inflation as incoming Prime Minister Shinzo Abe urges more action to end price declines. The BOJ increased
the asset-purchase fund to 76 trillion yen ($905 billion) from
66 trillion yen, according to a statement released in  Tokyo 
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  