-- U.S. Economy Grew 3.1% Last Quarter, More Than Forecast
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-12-20T13:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/u-s-economy-grew-3-1-in-third-quarter-more-than-forecast.html
The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1
percent annual rate in the third quarter, more than previously
reported, reflecting the first gain in state and local
government spending in three years, more consumer purchases and
a smaller  trade gap .  The revised gross domestic product reading exceeded the
highest projection in a Bloomberg survey and compared with a
previously estimated 2.7 percent gain, according to Commerce
Department figures released today in  Washington . The median
estimate of economists called for a 2.8 percent advance.  The world’s largest economy will be hard-pressed to
maintain that pace of growth this quarter as global demand cools
and companies limit spending and hiring ahead of looming tax
increases and spending cuts. While a stronger housing market
will provide some cushion, the  Federal Reserve  is pursuing
record stimulus aimed at driving bigger gains for the expansion.  “We’re going to have some weakness closing out this year
and starting off next year,” said  Omair Sharif , a U.S.
economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We
really want to see business investment coming back because,
ultimately, that’s going to lead to hiring.”  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments rose for the first time in five
weeks, a separate Labor Department report today showed.  Jobless Claims  Applications for jobless benefits increased by 17,000 to
361,000 in the week ended Dec. 15. Economists forecast 360,000
claims, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Stock-index futures were little changed after the figures,
with the contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
March falling less than 0.1 percent to 1,432.8 at 8:57 a.m. in
 New York .  Projections for economic growth from the 80 economists
surveyed ranged from gains of 2.6 percent to 3 percent. Today’s
figure marked the third reading for the quarter. The economy
expanded at a 1.3 percent pace in the prior three-month period.  Consumer spending rose at a 1.6 percent annual pace from
July through September, compared with the 1.4 percent advance
previously reported and a 1.5 percent rise in the prior quarter.
Household purchases contributed 1.12 percentage points to growth
in the third quarter. The gain primarily reflected more spending
for health care services, the agency said.  Trade Deficit  The gap between exports and imports narrowed, adding 0.38
point to third-quarter growth. Imports declined at a 0.6 percent
rate during the period, the first drop in three years.  Government spending  offered more support to growth in the
third quarter. State and local government outlays added 0.04
percentage point to GDP, the first contribution since the same
three months in 2009. The Commerce Department previously
estimated that such spending subtracted 0.04 percentage point
from the economy. The upward revision primarily reflected a
pickup in investment on structures.  Business investment in equipment and software, which has
slumped as companies waited for lawmakers to clarify  tax policy ,
declined at a 2.6 percent annual pace, the most since the second
quarter of 2009. It subtracted 0.19 percentage point from the
expansion.  Residential investment, on projects like home construction
and improvement, climbed at a 13.5 percent annual rate in the
third quarter.  Growth Outlook  Economists project the economy will slow to a 1.4 percent
pace in the current quarter, according to the median of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Dec. 7 to Dec. 12.  Clouding their forecasts is debate over the resolution of
the so-called fiscal cliff, a package of more than $600 billion
in tax increases and spending cuts in place for January should
Congress fail to agree to trim the  budget deficit . President
 Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  are at odds over
what level of income should be taxed at a higher rate.  Companies are pointing to uncertainty surrounding fiscal
policy as one reason they’re holding back on spending.  “The economy is growing but very, very slowly,”  Peter McCausland , chairman and founder of  Airgas Inc. (ARG) , the largest
U.S. distributor of packaged gases, said during a Dec. 5 analyst
meeting. “The customer feedback we’re getting is that no one
wants to make a decision. We’re always hanging on by our
fingernails in this particular quarter.”  ‘Risk Factor’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said a tightening in fiscal
policy is a “major risk factor” that is already harming
investment and hiring decisions by causing “uncertainty” or
“pessimism.” The central bank “doesn’t have the tools” to
offset that event, he said during a Dec. 12 press conference.  Central bank officials in the U.S. last week linked the
outlook for the Fed’s main interest rate to unemployment and
inflation for the first time and said they will expand the
bank’s asset purchase program in January to spur the economy.  A Commerce Department price gauge that is tied to  consumer
spending  and strips out food and energy costs climbed at a 1.1
percent annual pace, matching the prior estimate.  Changes in fiscal policy also threaten to reduce household
spending, the largest part of the economy, first by hurting
Americans’ confidence and then by raising their tax bill. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  consumer sentiment  index
fell in December to a four-month low, a Dec. 7 report showed.  In addition, weaker global economies indicate limited
demand for U.S.-made goods. Some economists also project that
the superstorm Sandy, which struck the East Coast Oct. 29, will
reduce GDP in the fourth quarter.  Housing is a bright spot. The number of building permits, a
proxy for future construction, issued in November was at a four-
year high, according to Commerce Department figures released
yesterday. Record-low  mortgage rates  and rising home prices
suggest the housing recovery will extend into 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  