-- U.S. Drive-In Theaters Face Demise Without Funds for Digital
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-20T21:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/u-s-drive-in-theaters-face-oblivion-without-funds-to-go-digital.html
Drive-in movie theaters  that scraped
by during the surge in modern multiplexes are edging closer to
extinction as Hollywood phases out the 35-millimeter reels they
need to show films.  Most of the remaining 368 U.S. drive-ins, down from more
than 4,000 in 1958, must decide whether to pay as much as
$70,000 to install digital projectors for their large outdoor
screens. About 10 percent have, and the  United Drive-In Theatre
Owners Association  anticipates studios will move to electronic
delivery only as soon as the end of next year.  “It’s a pain,” said Thomas Epps, who is trying to sell
the Swingin’ Midway Drive-In Theatre outside the eastern
Tennessee town of  Athens , population about 13,000. “It’s an
expense to us and it’s not going to bring in another dollar.
Nobody is going to say, ‘Let’s go to the drive-in tonight
because they’ve got a little better picture.’”  The digital conversion, which spares studios the cost of
buying and shipping thousands of heavy reels of film for every
movie they release, has created a dilemma for drive-in owners,
who typically operate one screen and depend on a mix of
nostalgia and novelty to attract patrons in warm summer months.
While large chains and smaller exhibitors were aided by
financing plans, drive-ins don’t have that option yet.  The cost is challenging cash-strapped owners to find a
solution. At 75, Epps plans to retire once the Swingin’ Midway
is sold. In the meantime, he is leasing a used 2004 digital
projector to attract a buyer for his 500-car cinema. Once he
sells the theater, he’ll pay the balance due on the equipment
with the proceeds. His total cost will run about $40,000.  Conversion Rate  “It’s hard to justify,” said John Vincent, president of
the drive-in association and owner of the single-screen
 Wellfleet Drive-In Theatre  in Cape Cod,  Massachusetts , which is
converting. “About 10 percent converted last summer. It’s too
early to tell how many will ultimately make the switch.”  Vincent is working with  Cinedigm Digital Cinema Corp. (CIDM) , a
provider of digital equipment for theaters, on an deal with film
studios that would help owners obtain and repay loans to cover
the conversion. Under a similar program for indoor theaters, the
Morristown, New Jersey-based company arranges financing and
makes money installing and servicing equipment.  To help cover upgrade costs and repay loans, studios pay
exhibitors a fee based on the number of times a film is shown in
digital format. The fee comes from money the studios save by not
making and shipping film prints, Chris McGurk, Cinedigm’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in an interview.  Cinedigm, Studios  Cinedigm is trying to work out the details of a plan within
the next six months, according to McGurk, who said he’s making
progress. That would give drive-in operators time to make the
conversions, which often require some remodeling of projection
rooms, McGurk said. His goal is to convert as many as 400 of the
remaining 611 screens.  “Everyone in this industry needs to be really focused on
trying to figure out ways to help this unique part of Americana
survive and thrive,” McGurk said.  The company has two other business: distributing
independent films to theaters and home-video outlets, and piping
live events such as sports and opera to theaters. Cinedigm fell
1.5 percent to $1.33 at the close in  New York  and has declined
2.9 percent this year.  Studios are also exploring options, including a fee and the
sale of used, older-generation digital gear from indoor theaters
undergoing a second upgrade, said one studio executive who asked
not to be named because the deliberations are private.  Car Culture  Representatives from each of the major Hollywood studios,
owned by  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ,  News
Corp. (NWSA) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , declined to comment.  Drive-in movie theaters gained popularity in the U.S. after
World War II, peaking at 4,063 in 1958, when gasoline was cheap
and  Detroit  churned out big, comfortable cars. Before the latest
crisis, rising land prices and development, along with the
growth of multiplexes had already thinned their ranks.  Those that remain tend to be outside of urban cores, where
land is cheap. Survivors have added family-friendly features
like playgrounds and grassy areas in front of parking spaces
that can fit lawn chairs.  Double-features are still typical, with a popular, big-
budget movie playing first, said Lee Burgess, owner of the
 Highway 18 Outdoor Theatre  near Jefferson,  Wisconsin .  ‘Terrible Business’  Burgess paid for digital conversion out of his own pocket
two years ago by raising prices and barring patrons from
bringing their own food and beverages. While the policies riled
some customers, he saw it as necessary to stay in business.  Last summer, he charged $8 for an adult and $5 for
children. Concession prices included $5.50 for a large popcorn,
$5 for a cheeseburger and $18 for a 16-inch pepperoni pizza,
according to the theater website. There’s a supper club with a
bar behind the screen, Burgess said. No alcohol is allowed in
the viewing area, Burgess said.  While the digital conversion didn’t increase attendance,
Highway 18 remains profitable, Burgess said. Many drive-ins
aren’t, because owners aren’t willing to take a hard-nosed
business approach, he said.  “It’s a terrible business financially,” he said. “None
of the major cinema companies, like AMC, own drive-in theaters.
There’s a reason for that. They don’t make money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  