-- U.S. Third Quarter Third GDP Technical Note (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-12-20T13:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/u-s-third-quarter-third-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the technical note of
the Gross Domestic Product report from the Commerce Department.  This technical note provides background information about the
source data and estimating methods used to produce the estimates
presented in the GDP news release. The complete set of estimates
for the third quarter is available on BEA’s Web site at
www.bea.gov; a brief summary of “highlights” is also posted on
the Web site.  In a few weeks, the estimates will be published
in BEA’s monthly journal, the Survey of Current Business, along
with a more detailed analysis of the estimates (“GDP and the
Economy”).  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 3.1 percent (annual rate) in the third
quarter, which was 0.4 percentage point more than in last
month’s estimate.  The revision to GDP reflected an upward
revision to consumer spending, a downward revision to imports,
and upward revisions to exports and to state and local
government spending:  The upward revision to consumer spending primarily
reflected an upward revision to health care services that
reflected newly available data from the Census
Bureau quarterly services survey for the third quarter.  The downward revision to imports was primarily to services
and reflected downward revisions to travel and to royalties and
license fees that were based on revised quarterly services data
from BEA’s international transactions accounts.  The upward revision to exports was primarily to goods and
reflected revised export prices from the Bureau of Labor
Statistics along with revised Census goods data for September.  The upward revision to state and local government spending
was primarily to investment in structures and was based on
revised Census construction data for August and September.  The price index for gross domestic purchases--the prices paid by
U.S. residents for goods and services wherever produced--
increased 1.4 percent in the third quarter, the same increase as
in last month’s estimate.  Gross Domestic Income and Corporate Profits  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output of
the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in the
production of GDP, increased 1.4 percent in the third quarter,
0.3 percentage point less than in last month’s estimate.  Real
GDI decreased 0.7 percent in the second quarter.  For a given
quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI differ due to the
incorporation of largely independent source data.  Over longer
time spans, however, the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow
similar patterns; over the last four quarters, real GDP
increased 2.6 percent, and real GDI increased 2.2 percent.  Profits from current production increased $45.7 billion, or 2.4
percent (quarterly rate), in the third quarter.  Domestic
profits of financial corporation’s increased $68.1 billion,
domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations decreased $14.1
billion, and rest-of-the-world profits decreased $8.2 billion.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  