-- U.S. Banks Face Interest-Rate Shocks as Economy Mends, OCC Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-20T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/u-s-banks-face-interest-rate-shocks-as-economy-mends-occ-says.html
The biggest U.S. banks will face
interest-rate shocks to their already tight margins in coming
years, according to a report from the U.S. Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  The financial firms can’t be sure what impact the dragged-
out period of near-zero short-term rates will have on deposit
products until it ends, the OCC said in a report today on risks
to the banking industry. It also said future rate jumps could
drop the value of the companies’ mortgage securities. With
limited loan growth, the banks will struggle to improve net
interest margins in the near term, it said.  “After three consecutive years of record low interest
rates, banks are unlikely to realize further benefits from lower
funding costs,” the OCC said in the report, adding that a
return of interest income from future loan growth could be
squeezed by higher funding costs.  The regulator of national banks such as those owned by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp . reported a slowly
improving banking industry that still faces many of the same
risks it did in its first such report six months ago. The number
of banks with the lowest supervisory ratings has continued to
drop, partially because the worst of them have failed, the OCC
said, and enforcement actions have declined -- even as the
agency hit  HSBC Holdings Plc (HBC)  with a $500 million money-
laundering penalty last week, the largest in OCC history.  In the search for new ways to expand lending, the agency
cautioned that big banks’ underwriting standards have eroded for
such products as leveraged loans over the previous 18 months,
and “yields on high-risk assets are at record lows, with risk
continuing to rise.”  Future compliance costs and the continuing fallout from
compliance failures are also reducing profitability, the report
said.  “They face fundamental changes in their business models as
a result of weakening revenue growth, including shifts in the
role of trading, securitization, and consumer fee income,” the
report said of the big banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 