-- UBS to Charge Less Than 100 Basis Points for Franc Balances
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-12-20T18:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/ubs-to-charge-less-than-100-basis-points-for-franc-balances-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
said it will charge financial institutional clients less than
100 basis points for cash balances held in Swiss francs.  The fee will be set on a case-by-case basis, the Zurich-
based company said today. A basis point is one hundredth of a
percentage point.  UBS said this month it would start levying charges on Dec.
21, adding to measures imposed last year to control inflows into
clearing accounts. The bank has been levying a “temporary
excess balance fee” since August 2011 in cash clearing accounts
where net inflows were above a certain undisclosed threshold.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss bank, this
month also started imposing negative rates on cash clearing
accounts of banks in francs and other currencies above a certain
threshold.  UBS and Credit Suisse are cutting risk-taking and reducing
their balance sheets to meet stricter  capital requirements  from
regulators. Franc deposits held for other banks use up capital
and introducing charges allows a lender to compensate. Both
banks have been encouraging clients to keep their cash balances
in francs as low as possible.  Depositors have turned to Switzerland and Denmark as they
hunt for currencies with less risk than the euro, the fate of
which depends in part on whether nations such as Greece can pay
their debts. Switzerland’s central bank imposed a cap of 1.20
francs per euro in September 2011 to protect the economy after
investors seeking a haven from Europe’s debt crisis pushed the
 exchange rate  toward parity.  State Street Corp. (STT)  and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., two
of the world’s biggest custody banks, have already disclosed
plans to offer negative interest rates on francs and Danish
kroner. Royal Bank of Canada is also imposing negative rates on
some customers for those currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  