-- UBS Trader Hayes Exposed at Core of Libor Investigation
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-12-20T17:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/ubs-trader-hayes-exposed-at-core-of-libor-investigation.html
Tom Hayes, one of two former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
traders charged by U.S. prosecutors, is portrayed by American
regulators as the kingpin of a three-year campaign that
succeeded in manipulating global  interest rates .  Hayes, 33, was charged with wire fraud and price-fixing,
the  Department of Justice  said in a criminal complaint unsealed
yesterday. The trader and Roger Darin, a former short-term
interest-rates trader at UBS whose responsibilities included the
firm’s yen Libor quotes, were also charged with conspiracy. Yen
Libor reflects how much banks charge each other for loans in the
Japanese currency.  Hayes colluded with brokers, counterparts at other firms
and his colleagues to manipulate the rate, the Justice
Department said. Between 2006 and 2009, a UBS trader made at
least 800 requests to the firm’s yen Libor rate-setters, about
100 to traders at other banks, and 1,200 to interdealer brokers,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which
didn’t identify Hayes by name.  “Many UBS yen derivatives traders and managers were
involved in the manipulative conduct and made requests to serve
their own trading positions’ interests,” the CFTC said. “But
the volume of unlawful requests submitted by one particular
senior yen derivatives trader in Tokyo dwarfed them all.”  Shares Decline  UBS was fined 1.4 billion Swiss francs ($1.5 billion) by
U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators yesterday for trying to rig
Libor, which is derived by asking banks how much it would cost
to borrow from each other in different rates and currencies. The
penalty amounted to about a third of the Zurich-based lender’s
net income for 2011 and three times more than the 290 million
pounds ($472 million)  Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to pay in June.  UBS shares fell 1.1 percent to 15.03 francs in Zurich,
paring their gain for the year to 36 percent.  Banks’ manipulation of interest rates has spawned probes by
half a dozen agencies on three continents in what has become the
industry’s biggest and longest-running scandal. More than $300
trillion of loans, mortgages, financial products and contracts
are linked to Libor. U.S. mortgage financiers  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , for instance, may have lost at least $3 billion
from the rate’s rigging, according to a preliminary estimate by
a federal auditor.  Criminal Probe  For traders, even minor Libor moves can fuel profits or
losses. Moving the benchmark by just one-fifth of a basis point,
or 0.002 percent, can produce a $250,000 gain on a $50 billion
position.  Hayes joined UBS in 2006 and worked at the Swiss lender
until 2009, when he joined  Citigroup Inc. (C)  He was dismissed by
Citigroup less than a year later for involvement in suspected
rate-rigging, a person with knowledge of the matter said in
October. He worked at Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  from 2001 to 2003.  British fraud prosecutors opened a criminal probe this year
and last week arrested Hayes, according to people familiar with
the matter. Neither Hayes nor Darin have been accused by British
regulators of wrongdoing. Hayes is separately being probed by
 Canada ’s Competition Bureau for alleged rate manipulation along
with counterparts at five banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , RBS
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , a person briefed on the probe said in
September.  ‘Massive Effort’  Jina Roe, a spokeswoman for the  Serious Fraud Office  in
London, declined to comment. Efforts to contact Hayes and his
lawyer were unsuccessful. Darin, 41, didn’t respond to a
voicemail message left on his mobile phone.  Hayes “globally impacted transactions and financial
products tied to yen Libor,” defrauding counterparties
including New York-based financial institutions, the  Justice
Department  said. The trader led a “massive effort” to
manipulate yen Libor, at times daily to profit from his bets on
derivatives, the CFTC said yesterday.  The Justice Department said it has at least two cooperating
witnesses giving evidence about Hayes, including a junior UBS
trader and a junior submitter -- a bank employee who provides
estimates used to calculate Libor. On more than 335 of the 738
trading days from Nov. 2006 until Aug. 2009, sometimes on
continuous days, Hayes or the cooperating junior trader asked
Darin or two other submitters to accommodate his requests.  ‘Dominant Trader’  In an electronic message in March, 2008, Hayes asked a UBS
rate-setter for a high three-month yen fixing. The lender’s
trading records show that Hayes had a trading position on March
17 that would profit by $2.1 million if the rate increased by a
single basis point, the Justice Department said.  Hayes was “widely considered the dominant trader in the
 Tokyo  yen swaps market because he traded in enormous volumes and
accepted large trading risks,” the CFTC said. “Brokers were
eager to develop relationships with the Senior Yen Trader in an
effort to obtain a piece of his business.”  Each day, the British Bankers’ Association asks banks to
estimate how much it would cost them to borrow in 10 currencies
for periods ranging from overnight to one year. The top and
bottom quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are
averaged and made public before noon in London.  On March 27, a UBS employee identified by British
regulators as “Trader A” e-mailed a colleague identified as
“Manager A” to ask where yen Libor would be set and requested
a lower fixing. In a transcript of the same conversation
published by the Justice Department, Hayes is identified as the
author and Darin as the recipient.  ‘Low Side Pls’  “I dun mind helping you on your fixings, but I’m not
setting libor 7bp away from the truth,” Darin replied to Hayes.
“I’ll get UBS banned if I do that,” he said, according to the
Justice Department’s transcript.  In an electronic chat on or about April 28, 2008, Hayes
requested a low six-month Libor submission from Darin.  “Hi roger i have a 5OOk usd fix in 6m today, can we try to
keep it on the low side pls?” Hayes asked.  “I’ll submit something low ... but if u can u should
square it up,” Darin responded, before adding: “The correct 6m
is 1.O899.”  “Appreciate the help,” Hayes wrote.  That day, UBS’s 6-month yen Libor submission was 0.98
percent, compared to Darin’s “correct” rate of 1.O8 percent,
according to the Justice Department. The resulting 6-month yen
Libor was a quarter of a basis point lower than it would have
been had UBS inputted the correct rate, the Justice Department
said.  ‘Any Favors’  He also allegedly worked with interdealer brokers to help
persuade other rate-setting banks to make favorable submissions.
Interdealer brokers line up buyers and sellers of securities and
take a percentage from every trade. As interbank lending
declined with the start of the financial crisis in late 2007,
submitters increasingly relied on information from the brokers
in determining what rates to submit, the Justice Department
said.  On March 3, 2010, Hayes asked a broker identified as A3 if
he could ask the rate-setter at an unidentified Edinburgh-based
bank to lower his three-month yen libor submission, the Justice
Department said.  “I really need a low 3m jpy libor into the imm,” Hayes
wrote, referring to the International Money Market dates, when
three-month Eurodollar futures settle. The value of traders’
positions, often billions of dollars, was affected by where the
dollar Libor was set on those days. “Any favours you can get
with [Bank C Submitter] would be much appreciated ... even if
[the Bank C Submitter] only move 3m down 1bp,” Hayes said,
according to the Justice Department’s transcript.  ‘Libor Lower’  The following day the rate setter at the Scottish bank
reduced his submission in line with Hayes’s request and sent
Broker A3 a message saying: “Libor lower ;).”  British regulators allege Trader A paid brokers hidden fees
through phoney trades and offered to compensate colleagues and
competitors for acquiescing to his requests.  “If you keep 6s unchanged, I will f-----g do one humongous
deal with you,” he told a broker on Sept. 18, 2008, referring
to six-month yen Libor. “If you do that ... I’ll pay you, you
know, $50,000, $100,000... whatever you want ... I’m a man of my
word,” according to a transcript of a call released by
Britain’s Financial Services Authority that didn’t identify
Hayes.  1,000 Requests  About 40 individuals at the bank, including 11 managers,
sought to manipulate the rates. At least two further managers
and five senior managers were aware of the practice, the FSA
said. Most of the internal requests, all of the requests to
other banks and almost all the negotiations with brokers were
made by Trader A, according to the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority.  Trader A made more than 1,000 requests to 11 employees at
six brokers for assistance in rigging the rate, the FSA said. He
also asked the firms to help mislead other banks by altering the
cash rates they displayed on clients’ electronic screens, the
London-based watchdog said.  He compensated them through so-called wash-trades. Trader A
as well as a colleague entered into nine of the transactions to
pay an unidentified broker more than 170,000 pounds for helping
rig the rate, regulators said.  In a wash-trade, a trader submits two or more risk-free
trades through a broker which cancel each other out while
triggering a payment of fees to the broker arranging the trade.  UBS also paid 15,000 pounds a quarter to a second
unidentified interdealer broker over an 18-month period for the
provision of a “fixing service” for yen Libor, the U.K.
regulator said. The firm, which provided Libor panel banks with
a daily “run through” on where it estimated the rate would
set, would tailor its commentary to suit Trader A’s requests,
the British regulator said.  The case is U.S. v. Hayes, Darin, 12-mag-3229, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  