-- UN Syria Commission Presses for Negotiated Settlement
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-12-20T08:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/un-syria-commission-presses-for-negotiated-settlement.html
Negotiations are the only way to
halt the civil war in  Syria  that has grown increasingly violent
as it enters its 22nd month, the United Nations Independent
Commission of Inquiry on Syria said.  Violence has “increased dramatically” in and around major
cities, particularly Damascus, the capital, and Aleppo, the
commercial hub, the commission said in its latest periodic
update in Geneva today. It found numerous incidents of torture,
summary executions and attacks on cultural property.  “As the conflict drags on, the parties have become ever
more violent and unpredictable, which has led to their conduct
increasingly being in breach of international law,” the
commission said. “The sole way to bring about an immediate
cessation of the violence is through a negotiated political
settlement which meets the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian
people.”  Almost 44,000 people have died since the uprising against
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad began in March 2011, according
to the activist Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights . The UN
commission’s 10-page update covers the period Sept. 28-Dec. 16.  Sectarianism has grown and tension between the Shiite and
Sunni Muslim communities in some areas is escalating, according
to the report. The sectarian lines fall most sharply between
Syria’s Alawite community, from which most of the government’s
senior political and military figures hail, and its majority
Sunni community, which broadly supports the anti-government
armed groups.  The UN commission also said it’s investigating the use of
cluster munitions, something the European Union said yesterday
has left it “seriously concerned.” Syria isn’t part of the
convention on cluster munitions.  The commission said it “strongly supports” the efforts of
Lakhdar Brahimi, the joint special representative of the UN and
the League of Arab States, to bring Syria’s government and
rebels to a negotiated settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  