-- Mali Intervention Authorized by UN to Oust Al-Qaeda
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-12-21T15:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/un-security-council-clears-force-to-oust-al-qaeda-in-mali.html
The United Nations Security Council
approved the deployment of an African force to retake northern
 Mali  from extremists linked to al-Qaeda along with training and
equipment for Malian soldiers.  The resolution, drafted by France as a response to the
Islamist threat in a former colony and approved unanimously
yesterday, doesn’t specify the size of the intervention force.
African leaders have requested 3,300 troops.  Benchmarks for action, including adequate training, were
added after the U.S. expressed concern about the risk of
dispatching unprepared troops to battle hardened Islamist
fighters entrenched in an arid area the size of France.  Military intervention won’t happen before September, as
Mali heads into the dry season, according to military planners
including UN peacekeeping chief Herve Ladsous. In addition to
the weather, they cited the need to build up the rundown Malian
army and a desire to allow time for a political dialogue to end
a protracted constitutional crisis.  “The plan is verging on the unworkable: a mixed force of
African troops with limited resources and then specially trained
Malian troops to take on opponents that are quite prepared,”
 Richard Gowan , associate director of  New York  University’s
Center on International Cooperation, said in an interview.
“It’s quite possible this will not work on the ground.”  Quick Intervention  Mali plunged into chaos after a military coup in March left
a power vacuum in Bamako, the capital. That enabled Touareg
separatists -- many of them former mercenaries for Libyan leader
Muammar Qaddafi until his ousting -- to join with Islamist
rebels and seize the northern half of Mali, including the
ancient city of Timbuktu.  “We are happy that the resolution has been approved and we
want to thank the Malian, French and UN authorities that they
have given support for an operation to liberate the north,”
Amadou Goita, president of Front pour la Democratie et la
Republique, a coalition of political parties, said by phone from
Bamako, the capital.  “What we don’t understand is, why do we have to wait so
long before our country will be liberated? People are suffering
unimaginably. An intervention should happen as quickly as
possible,” he said.  The presidency’s spokesman, Diarra Diakite, said the
Foreign Ministry will probably issue an official statement
reacting to the approval later today.  Covert Missions  While there was no formal discussion of Western nations
sending forces, the French are already running covert missions
to wear down the Islamists and lay the groundwork for
intervention, according to two UN officials who asked not to be
named because the issue is classified.  “It would be naïve to think that  France  and the U.S. do
not already have military assets in the region doing what such
forces do, in readiness for an order to escalate their
operations,” said Jolyon Ford, senior analyst at Oxford
Analytica, a U.K.-based consulting firm.  The language of the Security Council resolution was left
vague because of uncertainty about whether Mali will be in a
position 10 months from now to head a military operation and
what the multinational African force would look like.  Nigeria will likely form the backbone of the African-led
force with countries such as Senegal, Niger and  Chad  expected to
join in. Neighboring Mauritania, viewed by Western powers as
having among the best desert fighters, has said it doesn’t want
to be involved. Algeria shares that reluctance.  Operation Funding  “The Algerians have a strong belief in non-interference
and their military has never operated outside of Algerian
soil,” said Kader Abderrahim, a researcher at Paris-based
Institute of International and Strategic Studies.  Also unresolved is funding for an operation that may cost
about $250 million. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said
contributions should be voluntary. European Union countries are
struggling with a financial crisis at home.  “Everyone is trying to do this on the cheap,” said Gowan.  Once one of Western  Africa ’s more stable democracies, Mali
is the focus of anti-Western Islamic militancy that Western
diplomats have said could spread throughout the region.  After brushing aside the Touareg insurgents, at least three
groups of Islamists, including Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda in the
Islamic Mahgreb, have tightened their grip on northern Mali and
are imposing a strict version of Shariah, or Islamic law, on the
region.  New Leader  Mali’s new prime minister, Diango Cissoko, vowed to seek
unity as he was sworn into the job Dec. 12, replacing Cheick Modibo Diarra, who was forced out by the army in a struggle for
control of the nation.  The new leader, a 63-year-old former justice minister, will
have the task of bringing together a fractured political class,
an army that overthrew his predecessor and the rebel groups in
the landlocked nation’s north.  “International action will be dependent on the political
and security developments in Bamako, and the way things evolve
on the ground in the north,” said  Gilles Yabi , West Africa
director of the Brussels-based International Crisis Group. “The
issue of the north can’t be separated from the question of
stability in Bamako, the influence of the junta and the
condition of the Malian army.”  Mali, which vies with Tanzania as Africa’s third-biggest
gold producer, also needs to organize elections to replace the
interim post-coup government. The nation’s economy is forecast
to contract 4.5 percent this year before growing 3 percent in
2013, according to the International Monetary Fund.  -- With assistance from Gregory Viscusi in Paris. Editors: Larry
Liebert, Michael Shepard, Emily Bowers, John Bowker  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  