-- Hungary Plans 1st Eurobond Since 2011; Fitch Raises Outlook
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-12-20T17:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/hungary-plans-first-eurobond-since-may-11-as-payments-loom-2-.html
Hungary  plans to end a 19-month
hiatus on international bond markets in 2013 as Fitch Ratings
raised the junk-rated country’s outlook to stable from negative
on the government’s commitment to narrowing the deficit.  Hungary plans to issue 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion) to
4.5 billion euros in foreign-currency bonds on the international
market in 2013, the Debt Management Agency said today. The
agency will probably start discussing a sale with investors in
early 2013 and issue “as soon as possible” depending on market
conditions, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Laszlo Andras Borbely
told reporters in Budapest.  “We could get by in the first quarter without a sale, but
we’d like to refinance foreign-currency debt if possible,”
Borbely said today. “We have managed to reduce borrowing costs,
giving the market some calm and stability.”  Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s government scrapped plans to
sell foreign-currency debt in 2012, expecting an aid deal with
the International Monetary Fund would cut borrowing costs. While
IMF talks stalled, the yield on Hungary’s 2021 dollar bonds fell
to a seven-week low of 4.81 percent yesterday and is down from
9.37 percent in January, as investors were encouraged by
Hungary’s ability to reduce public debt and demand for higher-
yielding assets grew.  Junk Grade  Fitch kept Hungary’s long-term rating at BB+, its highest
junk grade and on par with Macedonia, according to a statement
today. Standard & Poor’s lowered Hungary’s rating to two steps
below investment grade on Nov. 23, based on government policies
that are eroding economic-growth prospects.  “Pricing was just too tempting for the Hungarians to
resist coming to market,” Tim Ash, a London-based strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote in an e-mail today. “The
strategy will probably be to do as much financing as early as
possible.”  The yield on Hungary’s 2021 notes, which traded at 4.77
percent by 5:49 p.m. in Budapest today, is still almost two
percentage points higher than the 3.07 percent yield on similar-
maturity dollar bonds from  Turkey . Both countries are rated Ba1
by Moody’s Investors Service and BB by Standard & Poor’s.
Average yields for emerging-market dollar bonds have fallen to
4.5 percent from 6 percent at the start of January, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The forint gained 0.3 percent to 285.25 per euro today.  State-owned Magyar Export-Import Bank Zrt. sold $500
million in five-year bonds this month at a yield of 5.75 percent
in a sale billed by the government as a “test” of investor
appetite for the sovereign.  ‘Huge Inflows’  “There are still huge inflows to emerging-market bond
funds,” Csaba Szalma, who helps manage $5.3 billion at a unit
of Budapest-based  OTP Bank Nyrt (OTP) , said in an interview on Dec.
13. “The window is open, investors would love to buy and the
state needs the financing.”  Hungary’s foreign-debt redemptions amount to 5.1 billion
euros next year, including 1.4 billion euros in bonds and 3.6
billion euros owed to the IMF from an earlier bailout, according
to data published by the debt agency today. The government must
repay 1 billion euros of notes maturing on Feb. 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The 5.1 billion euros due excludes
funds to be repaid to the IMF via Hungary’s central bank,
Borbely said.  Financing Need  Hungary’s total net financing need for 2013 is about 700
billion forint ($3.2 billion), with total gross debt issuance
planned at 5.9 trillion forint, 75 percent of it in Hungary’s
currency, Borbely said.  The market will “easily absorb” the amount of foreign-
currency notes the government plans to issue, Viktor Szabo, who
helps manage about $10 billion in emerging-market debt at
Aberdeen Asset Management, said in e-mailed comments after
today’s announcement.  The forint fell to a record low against the euro and the
yield on the country’s 2021 dollar bond yield peaked in January
as Orban’s tax increases and seizure of pension assets cost
Hungary its investment-grade credit rating and forced it to
request aid from the IMF.  Hungary abandoned plans to issue foreign-currency bonds
this year because the forint and local bonds were among the best
performers in the EU, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said in a
Dec. 15 interview with state-run  MR1-Kossuth radio .  “Hungarian households also significantly increased their
holdings of government securities,” Borbely said, adding that
the financing plan calculates with no fresh loans from the IMF
in 2013.  Bond Returns  Hungary’s local-currency bonds returned 36 percent this
year in dollar terms, the most worldwide after Greek and
Portuguese debt, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. Non-
residents increased their holdings to a record 5 trillion forint
on Dec 14, according to state data.  Hungary’s public debt will fall to 73 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 from a projected 77 percent this year,
according to government forecasts.  While Hungary’s repayment deadlines in February and March
pose “significant” risks, the surge in non-resident holdings
has reduced the need to issue “large amounts” of foreign-
currency debt, Nicholas Spiro, the head of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London , and Concorde Ertekpapir Zrt., Hungary’s
largest non-bank broker, wrote in a joint report on Dec. 17.  The forint jumped 10 percent in 2012 as the country reduced
its budget deficit and bond purchases by central banks in the
euro region and the U.S stoked demand for riskier assets.  “With money flowing into emerging-market bond funds, even
paper rated below Hungary gets oversubscribed,” Aberdeen’s
Szabo said in e-mailed comments before the AKK’s announcement.
“They are still in time to go out to the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  