-- Hungary Easing Should Come Once Cost Pressures Abate, MNB Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-12-20T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/hungary-easing-should-come-once-cost-pressures-abate-mnb-says.html
Hungary should lower borrowing costs
only when cost pressures ease as rising production costs spark
inflation, the central bank said.  “Room for decreasing interest rates will be available when
cost-push inflation dissipates,” as factors supporting monetary
tightening and easing “cancel each other out” in the short
term in the bank’s baseline scenario, the  Magyar Nemzeti Bank 
said today in its quarterly Inflation Report.  The central bank has lowered  the main interest rate  by a
cumulative 125 basis points since July as growth concerns
outweighed the rise in inflation. External members appointed to
the Monetary Council by the government outvoted central bank
President Andras Simor and his two deputies four times, arguing
that lower rates would help the economy battle its second
recession in four years.  The bank reduced its  inflation  forecast to an average 3.5
percent next year, compared with a September forecast of 5
percent, citing a 10 percent cut in household energy prices and
changes in the timing of excise tax increases.  Government measures will slow price growth
“significantly” in the short term, even as rising production
costs at companies “gradually increase underlying inflation
from the middle of next year,” according to the report.  The central bank may reach its 3 percent inflation target
in the second half of 2014, it said.  Tax Burden  Cabinet steps raising the tax burden of companies ensure
that the country will meet its budget-deficit target of 2.7
percent of economic output in 2013, the central bank said.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban levied special taxes on banks
and telecommunications companies, increased the tax burden on
the energy industry as it seeks to narrow the shortfall below a
European Union limit.  Tax increases coupled with rising wage costs will hurt
profitability, lead to lower investments and may dampen the
country’s potential growth level, according to the report.  The bank sees gross domestic product growing 0.5 percent in
2013, versus an earlier forecast of 0.7 percent, after a
projected 1.4 percent contraction this year. Inflation will
probably average 3.2 percent and the economy will expand 1.5
percent in 2014, the report said.  Core inflation, which strips out raw food and energy prices
and adjusted for tax measures, may be 3.5 percent next year and
3.4 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  