-- Midwest Storm Cancels 1,000 U.S. Flights as Holiday Nears
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-20T22:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/united-american-cancel-flights-as-midwest-storm-thwarts-travel.html
U.S. airlines have scuttled more
than 1,000 flights as a winter storm pummels the U.S. Midwest,
hobbling travel just as airports prepare for the peak of the
pre-Christmas rush.  Chicago O’Hare International Airport, the nation’s second-
busiest for passenger traffic, led the cancellations with more
than 470, industry data provider FlightAware said. The city’s
Midway International Airport scrubbed almost 150 flights,
Houston-based FlightAware said.  Fog and low clouds in Chicago snarled operations for  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and American Airlines, which rank
first and third in U.S. passenger traffic and both have hubs at
O’Hare.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the fourth-biggest U.S. carrier,
was suspending flights at its Midway base at 4:30 p.m.  The heaviest days for pre-Christmas travel will be tomorrow
through Dec. 23, according to Airlines for America, the U.S.
industry’s Washington-based trade group. More than 42 million
passengers  will  fly during the holiday period, which the group
defines as running from Dec. 17 through Jan. 6.  The 1,000-plus cancellations tallied by FlightAware didn’t
count the delays rippling across the U.S. air-traffic system.
Winds slowed flights at San Francisco International Airport, a
United hub, FlightAware said.  Delta Cancellations  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , No. 2 in the world after United and
based in Atlanta, canceled 250 flights system-wide due to the
bad weather, Morgan Durrant, a spokesman said in a telephone
interview.  The National Weather Service was forecasting as much as 2
to 6 inches (15 centimeters) of snow in Chicago. Late-afternoon
temperatures of about 46 degrees Fahrenheit (8 degrees Celsius)
were projected to fall overnight as the snow arrived. Chicago’s
airports will handle about 2.4 million passengers from tomorrow
through Jan. 2, the city’s aviation department said.  Other U.S. Midwest cities were also feeling the effects.
Southwest will stop flights tonight in  Milwaukee  after 6 p.m.,
said Brad Hawkins, a spokesman. Hawkins couldn’t immediately say
how many flights the Dallas-based airline had canceled because
of the snowstorm.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  suspended pickups and deliveries
temporarily for some areas of  Iowa  and Nebraska where snow is
affecting road travel, said Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman. Some
planes were rerouted around Des Moines, Iowa, to the Atlanta-
based company’s main gateway in Louisville,  Kentucky . Other
areas may be affected as the storm moves, she said.  ‘Few Days’  “We still have a few days before Christmas, so we’re
looking for other ways to ensure even those hardest hit can get
their important packages,” she said.  Snow has slowed  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  deliveries in parts of Iowa,
Kansas, Michigan and Missouri, said Scott Fiedler, a spokesman.
The Memphis, Tennessee-based company has implemented contingency
plans and hasn’t suspended service in any areas, he said.  AMR Corp.’s American and regional affiliate American Eagle
had canceled 271 flights, FlightAware said. Chicago-based United
scrapped 230 flights for its main jet operations and commuter
carriers and delayed others for as much as 2 1/2 hours because
of the storm, Mary Clark, a spokeswoman, said by phone.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  canceled 41 mainline and regional
flights, Liz Landau, a spokeswoman, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  