-- Uralkali Sees 2013 Potash Supplies Recovering to 55 Million Tons
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-12-20T12:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/uralkali-sees-2013-potash-supplies-recovering-to-55-million-tons.html
OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the largest potash
producer by output, said global shipments of the crop nutrient
will recover next year as demand grows from Asia to the U.S.  Deliveries will return to 54 million metric tons to 55
million tons in 2013, Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner said today in Moscow. That compares with as little
as 48 million tons this year, a 16 percent decline from 2011,
Uralkali data show.  Shipments have slumped as China and  India , the two largest
buyers, delayed purchases as their stockpiles of the potassium-
based compound grew. Demand will recover as those inventories
shrink and farmers around the world use more fertilizer to
revive crops after droughts this year, according to Uralkali.  “The first quarter will still be difficult, but we expect
markets will start to recover in April and May when the
agricultural season starts in several regions,” Baumgertner
told reporters.  Uralkali expects to operate at half capacity in the first
quarter and at full strength from May. The ramp-up may see it
add 1.5 million tons to 2 million tons of output next year,
producing a total of 11 million tons, according to the CEO.  China  has delayed its regular potash purchases since a
$470-a-ton contract expired in June, while India’s last
contract, set at $490 a ton, ended at the end of the first
quarter. The agreements with both countries covered supplies
through the third quarter.  Uralkali expects to sign a new agreement with China in
April or May, and may reach an accord with India in January,
Baumgertner said. While both countries are seeking a “small
discount” to last year’s prices, the company doesn’t expect
charges to fall below $400 a ton, he said.  A discount for China would be “unjustified,” Elena Sakhnova, an analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow, said by phone,
citing contract delays. VTB has forecast global shipments at 58
million tons next year, while  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the largest producer by market value, predicted shipments of 57
million to 58 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  