-- Turkish Yields Rise Third Day on Speculation Easing Cycle Ending
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-12-20T15:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/turkish-yields-rise-third-day-on-speculation-easing-cycle-ending.html
Turkish two-year bond yields rose
for a third day on bets that stronger economic growth reduces
the chances of further  interest-rate cuts . [bn:WBTKR=IECM2Y:IND]   Yields [] on benchmark debt rose 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 6.01 percent at the 5 p.m. close in
Istanbul, the highest since Nov. 28. The lira lost 0.1 percent
against the dollar at 1.7862, a second day of declines.  The central bank, led by Governor Erdem Basci, kept the
bottom end of its so-called rates corridor unchanged at 5
percent two days ago. The median estimate of seven economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 25 basis-point cut. Basci
maintained the overnight lending rate at 9 percent and lowered
the one-week repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 5.5 percent,
in line with estimates.  Turkey ’s economy may grow more than 4
percent next year, Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in an
interview with CBNC-e television today.  “We understand that the central bank plans no further
policy rate cuts going forward,” Ata Invest Securities chief
economist Ozlem Derici and head of research Cemal Demirtas wrote
in an e-mailed statement today after Turkey’s central bank met
bank economists in Ankara yesterday. The meeting was closed to
the press.  “The central bank stated that a sharp increase in domestic
demand is in the making considering the growth indicators such
as PMI,  consumer confidence  and credits,” Ata Invest said.  Consumer Confidence  The consumer confidence index rose to 89.18 in November
from 85.73 in October, according to the Statistics Office in
Ankara on Dec. 17. Turkey may see loan growth above 15 percent,
nearing 20 percent next year, Adnan Bali, CEO of  Turkiye Is
Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS, said in an interview on CNBC-e television Dec. 18.  “The central bank’s rate cut was less than expected and
traders are closing positions because of the end of the year,”
Onur Bayol, a fixed-income and currency trader at  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) 
in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments today.  The central bank has driven down the  average cost of
funding  for banks to 5.58 percent on Dec. 19, down from 11.93
percent on Jan. 6, helping the benchmark bond yields fall 500
basis points this year in the biggest rally globally.  The lira gained 5.9 percent this year, the third-biggest
appreciation among 10  emerging markets  in Europe, the  Middle
East  and Africa after the Hungarian forint and the Polish zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  