-- Luxembourg in Talks to Sell Cargolux Stake After Qatar Buyout
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-20T15:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/luxembourg-in-talks-to-sell-cargolux-stake-after-qatar-buyout.html
Luxembourg’s government is in talks
to sell a stake in Cargolux Airlines International SA after
agreeing to buy out Qatar Airways Ltd. following a strategy
dispute at  Europe ’s biggest freight-only airline.  “The Luxembourg government will negotiate with all
interested parties,” Economy Minister Etienne Schneider told
reporters in the European duchy today. Several entities have
shown interest, he said.  The government said yesterday it struck an agreement over
the weekend to pay $117.5 million for Qatar Air’s 35 percent
stake, which the Doha-based carrier acquired in 2011 as part of
plans to become a major freight operator by 2015.  A dispute between the airline and its Middle East
stakeholder emerged on Nov. 30 when Cargolux Chairman Albert Wildgen stepped down after Qatar Chief Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker made what the carrier said were a series of demands
that were hard to accept.  Volga-Dnepr Group, a Russian heavy-lift specialist, is one
of the companies showing an interest in Cargolux and
“Luxembourg would be open to a cooperation with a Russian
investor,” Schneider said. Discussions have taken place at a
government level as well as with Volga-Dnepr President Alexei
Isaikin, he said.  Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Rogozin , speaking at
the same Luxembourg event, said combining Cargolux and Volga-
Dnepr “can only be a success.”  Early Stage  Negotiations with interested parties are at an early stage
and have no deadline, Schneider said. The discussions will at
first focus on “whether we can find a common strategy for the
development of Cargolux”. Formal negotiations over price and
capital increases will begin at a later date, he said.  Cargolux, the first operator of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 747-8
freighter, lost $18 million in 2011 as capacity exceeded demand,
and has been unprofitable in three of the past four years. The
results of a strategic review are due to be presented next
month, Martine Scheuren, a Cargolux spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. Talks with unions to lower labor costs are set to resume
Jan. 5, she said.  Stakeholders in Cargolux, which employs 1,500 people,
include state-backed passenger carrier Luxair SA and local banks
Societe Nationale de Credit et d’Investissement and Banque et
Caisse d’Epargne de l’Etat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  