-- Vale Seen Paying $158 Million More for Shipping by Alphabulk
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-12-20T12:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/vale-seen-paying-extra-158-million-for-shipping-by-alphabulk.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest iron-
ore exporter, may have paid about $158 million more for shipping
in the past 19 months by using the largest available carriers
rather than smaller vessels, according to Alphabulk.  The figure reflects the difference between how much it cost
the company to use Valemaxes relative to Capesizes, the Paris-
based maritime research company said in a report yesterday.
Costs for the bigger ships were higher because of a slump in
Capesize rates and restrictions that prevent Valemaxes berthing
at ports in  China , the largest iron-ore buyer. Vale declined to
comment, in an e-mailed response to questions.  The company is spending $2.3 billion on 19 Valemaxes in a
strategy to manage its shipping costs to  Asia . Rio de Janeiro-
based Vale also has a 25-year contract valued at $5.84 billion
with  STX Pan Ocean Co. (STX) , a Seoul-based shipping firm, to haul its
ore from  Brazil . STX has ordered eight Valemaxes.  The first Valemax started trading in May 2011 and there are
now 21 in the fleet, hauling a total of 17.1 million tons of
ore, Alphabulk estimates. That’s the equivalent of 100 voyages
on Capesizes. About 12.5 percent of iron ore from Brazil will be
shipped on Valemaxes by the time all the ships ordered are
operational next year, Alphabulk said.  35 Valemaxes  Vale will have 35 Valemaxes by the end of next year, each
with a capacity of 400,000 tons, available for the
transportation of  iron ore , according to a Nov. 14 statement by
the company. That will comprise 19 that it owns and 16 on long-
term charters.  Vale would save $380 million a year, or $7 for each ton of
ore carried, if it replaced the Valemax fleet with ships half
the size, which would be able to call at 80 percent of all
ports, Alphabulk said. The calculation assumes that China’s
curbs on Valemaxes remain in place.  The miner’s shipping strategy is based on using the ships
over a 30-year life span, while spot rates fluctuate, Arjun
Batra, group managing director of Drewry Maritime Advisors, a
research company, said by phone yesterday. The Valemaxes will
help the company keep its freight costs from rising, which is
its priority, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  