-- Vale Rallies as Iron Rebound Helps Asset Sales: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-12-20T19:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/vale-rallies-as-iron-rebound-helps-asset-sales-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s third-biggest
miner by market value, is staging the biggest rally in more than
a year on speculation rebounding commodities will boost profit
and help it get a better deal for unwanted assets.  Vale  sold  Dec. 18 a fertilizer plant to state-run  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , bringing the amount raised through asset sales
this year to $1.43 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, will unveil the sale of oil and
gas blocks in coming weeks and a cargo-unit stake by February,
Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said this month.  The mining company -- after a global expansion that
included nickel projects in  Canada  and a fleet of ships for
 China  -- is retreating to its core  iron-ore  business in a bid to
halt six straight declines in quarterly profit. A 56 percent
surge in the  price  of iron ore gives Vale some breathing room to
shop around the assets and negotiate the best price, said
Jonathan Brandt, an equity analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Vale wants to sell its low-return assets sooner rather
than later but at the highest possible price,” he said by
telephone from  New York . “The better external scenario should
help them slightly in their asset sales strategy.”  The stock has rallied 18 percent since mid-November, the
best four-week winning streak since September 2011, and touched
a seven-month high on Dec. 18. Vale is trading at 7.28 times its
estimated 2013 earnings, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company
by market value, trades at 12.6 times estimated earnings and No.
2 miner Rio Tinto Group has a ratio of 9.89 times.  Investment Cut  Vale pared some of its gains yesterday, falling 1.2 percent
to 40.51 reais in  Sao Paulo , after settling tax disputes with
 Switzerland  and Brazil’s Minas Gerais state. Vale agreed to pay
$233 million in the first case and $320 million in the second.  The stock  gained  0.7 percent to 40.81 reais at the close in
Sao Paulo today.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, said Dec. 3
that it will reduce  investments  next year by 6.9 percent to the
lowest since 2010. The company this year won’t reach a $21.4
billion investment target included in its annual budget, the
second straight year that spending fell short. Vale’s press
office in Rio declined to comment for this story.  The mining company has said it’s looking for partners in
projects including a potash mine in  Argentina  and a logistics
venture in  Mozambique . It will also consider selling a 22
percent stake in  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
aluminum producer.  Vale should sell low-return assets including a stake in
Oslo-based Norsk Hydro even if it can’t get the best possible
deal at the moment, said Rene Kleyweg, a London-based equity
analyst at  Renaissance Capital .  ‘Capital Discipline’  “They should not be worrying about the best time to sell
as they could be waiting a long time for that,” he said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “This is one of a series of
opportunities over the next six months to show capital
discipline. They should sell it and either use the proceeds
elsewhere, pay it out in dividends or reduce debt.”  Norsk Hydro has a market value of about 57.6 billion kroner
($10.4 billion), valuing Vale’s 21.6 percent stake at $2.24
billion, according to Bloomberg data  Vale said Dec. 18 that it agreed to sell its Araucaria
nitrogen operation in  Brazil  to Petrobras, as Brazil’s state-
controlled oil producer is known, for $234 million as it seeks
to raise capital to invest in projects with higher returns. Vale
will save about $50 million a year in operational costs for the
unit, it said in a regulatory filing.  Oil Sales  The deal follows four other divestments this year,
including the sale and agreement to lease back 10 ships for $600
million from South Korea’s Polaris Shipping Co. Vale also sold a
thermal-coal project in  Colombia  for $407 million, its
ferromanganese alloy operations in Europe for $160 million and
kaolin mineral business in Brazil for $30.1 million.  Vale expects to announce the sale of some of its oil and
gas assets in the coming weeks, CEO Ferreira told reporters in
 London  after an investors’ presentation on Dec. 6.  The assets are worth between $500 million and $1 billion,
Banco Itau BBA SA estimated in a June 30 report.  The company probably will announce the sale of a stake in
its general cargo VLI unit in the first two months of 2013,
Ferreira said. Vale, which initially considered divesting a
third of VLI, may end up selling as much as 70 percent of the
unit, he said.  Vale, which also started to write down assets bought in its
biggest-ever acquisition, needs to scrap unprofitable ventures,
according to Rafael Weber, who helps manage the equivalent of
$2.56 billion including Vale shares at Geracao Futuro Corretora.  ‘Consistent Message’  “It doesn’t make much sense to have all these assets at
this point in the cycle,” he said in a telephone interview from
 Porto Alegre , Brazil. “The returns of these projects aren’t
compatible with the capital they require.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
has climbed 15 percent since reaching a two-year low on June 21.  Vale’s “focus in selling non-core assets like oil and gas
or non-iron ore logistics is clear,” HSBC’s Brandt said.
“There are a couple of things working in Vale’s favor
currently, including higher iron prices, a weaker real that
helps reduce costs in dollars and a very consistent message to
create value by selling assets and reduce investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net  