-- Video-Game Makers Face More Scrutiny After Massacre
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-20T22:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/video-game-producers-face-scrutiny-over-violence-after-killings.html
Video-game makers and retailers are
facing growing pressure from  Washington  and advocacy groups
concerned about possible links between violent games and
tragedies like the school massacre in Newtown,  Connecticut .  A bill introduced yesterday by U.S. Senator Jay Rockefeller
directs the  National Academy of Sciences  to examine whether
violent games and programs lead children to act aggressively,
the West Virginia Democrat said in a statement. He will also
press the Federal Trade Commission and Federal Communications
Commission to expand their studies. The advocacy group Common
Sense Media cheered the moves.  “Recent court decisions demonstrate that some people still
do not get it,” Rockefeller said. “They believe that violent
video games are no more dangerous to young minds than classic
literature or Saturday morning cartoons. Parents, pediatricians
and psychologists know better.”  Shares of video-game makers and retailers fell as investors
weighed possible fallout. Combat titles like the top-selling
“Call of Duty” series from  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  generate
more than 20 percent of video-game software sales. U.S. retail
sales of games, consoles and accessories fell 8 percent to $17
billion last year, according to NPD Group Inc., an industry
researcher.  ‘Ultraviolent Games’  “We don’t know the facts yet about Newtown and the
shooter,” said James Steyer, head of Common Sense Media, a San
Francisco-based group that backed California limits on sales of
violent games before they were overturned by the U.S. Supreme
Court in 2011. “We do know that ultraviolent video games and
other forms of violent media more broadly contribute to a
culture of violence in American society.”  The renewed focus on violent games will deter some parents
from buying such games for their children, said Colby Zintl, a
spokeswoman for the group.  Activision Blizzard, the largest video-game company, fell
for a fourth day after the Dec. 14 shooting, losing 0.6 percent
to $10.78 at the close in  New York . It’s down 5.5 percent this
week. Maryanne Lataif, a spokeswoman for the  Santa Monica ,
California-based company, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  The game companies, through the  Entertainment Software
Association  trade group, say their products are protected speech
under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Like movies,
games are  rated  for violent content, with retailers voluntarily
limiting sales of products rated M (Mature) and AO (Adults Only)
to customers over ages 17 and 18, respectively. The industry
adopted a voluntary rating system in 1994 under congressional
pressure.  Industry Comment  “The Entertainment Software Association, and the entire
industry it represents, mourns the tragedy at Sandy Hook
Elementary School,” the group said. “The search for meaningful
solutions must consider the broad range of actual factors that
may have contributed to this tragedy. Any such study needs to
include the years of extensive research that has shown no
connection between entertainment and real-life violence.”  Adam Lanza, 20, the shooter in last week’s murders of 20
children and six women at the Sandy Hook Elementary, spent hours
playing computer games such as “Call of Duty” and studying
weapons in the basement of his mother’s home, the Sun newspaper
in the U.K.  reported  on Dec. 17.  Legal efforts to limit or bar the sales of violent video
games to minors have been struck down by federal courts. In June
2011, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled such a ban is an
unconstitutional infringement of speech rights.  “Even where the protection of children is the object, the
constitutional limits on governmental action apply,” Justice
 Antonin Scalia  wrote for five justices. The vote to strike down
the law was 7-2, with the majority divided in its reasoning.  Christmas Sales  The attention generated by the Connecticut school shooting
is unlikely to reduce sales during the Christmas season,
according to  Doug Creutz , an analyst at Cowen & Co. who
recommends investors buy shares of the largest game companies.  “If you go to Amazon.com right now, and you look at their
top selling games, four of the five are what you’d classify as
violent games,” Creutz said. “People are still buying these
games. It’s not kids playing these games, by and large. Parents
already don’t buy their kids these types of games.”  Those  top sellers  at the site include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
“Halo 4,” “Call of Duty” and “Assassin’s Creed 3” from
 Ubisoft Entertainment SA. (UBI)   The drop in the shares is largely a kneejerk reaction,
Creutz said.  Stocks Retreat  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , publisher of “Medal of Honor,” fell
3.2 percent to $13.94. Shares of the  Redwood City , California-
based company have lost 9.6 percent in the past three days.
 Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , the New York-based maker of
“Grand Theft Auto,” fell 2.4 percent to $11.69.  GameStop
Corp. (GME) , the video-game chain, slid 5.2 percent to $26.13.  Alan Lewis, a spokesman for Take-Two, referred inquiries to
the Entertainment Software Association.  Jeff Brown , a spokesman
for EA, also referred calls to the group. Beth Sharum, a
spokeswoman for Grapevine, Texas-based GameStop, didn’t respond
to e-mailed and phone requests for comment.  While sales may not suffer, the threat of increased
regulation may be weighing on the stocks, said Daniel Ernst, an
analyst with Hudson Square Research in New York.  “One should assume that as of today there is greater
likelihood of regulation,” Ernst said. “I think that
translates into the cost to the industry going up,” possibly in
the form of more detailed labeling on packages.  Staying Quiet  The companies themselves will probably remain quiet on the
issue, Creutz said.  “It’s tough to come out in the midst of a very emotional
situation like this and defend your product,” Creutz said.
“They’ve been through this cycle before, and it’s never
impacted their industry before. The likely scenario is neither
will this.”  Past studies have failed to demonstrate a link between
violent games and real violence, said Christopher Ferguson, an
associate professor of psychology and communications at  Texas
A&M International University  in Laredo,  Texas . Policy makers
should focus on more important issues including  gun control  and
mental health, he said in an interview.  “We can’t find any evidence to support this idea that
exposure to video-game violence contributes in any way to
support the idea that these types of games or movies or TV shows
are a contributing factor,” Ferguson said. “It doesn’t need to
be studied again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in New York at 
 mwhite110@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  