-- VTB Net Income Rises 15% on Retail Lending, Beats Estimates
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-12-20T15:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/vtb-quarterly-net-rises-15-on-retail-lending-beating-estimates.html
VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-largest
lender, said third-quarter profit climbed 15 percent due to an
increase in  consumer lending .  Net income attributable to shareholders rose to 23.4
billion rubles ($760 million) for the three months through Sept.
30, from 20.4 billion rubles a year earlier, Moscow-based VTB
said today in a statement. That beat an average estimate of 19.7
billion rubles from 15 analysts surveyed by the lender. Net
interest income, the difference between what a bank earns from
ending and what it pays on deposits, rose to 49.2 billion rubles
for the quarter from 46 billion rubles a year earlier.  VTB, which is almost 76 percent owned by the state, plans
to raise as much as $3 billion selling new shares in the first
half of 2013 to boost capital adequacy levels after acquisitions
of domestic lenders and a share buyback last year. In September,
Russia’s central bank sold a minority stake in  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , the
country’s biggest lender, raising about $5.2 billion.  “VTB’s results are mixed,” Natalia Berezina, a banking
analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, wrote in e-mailed
comments today after the results were published. “They beat
consensus and our expectations but costs and provision charge
were higher than expected.”  VTB’s staff and administrative costs jumped 49 percent to
134.9 billion rubles in the first nine months due “to the
consolidation of Bank of Moscow,” according to the statement.  Capital Ratio  The lender said its Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, rose to 9.3 percent from 9 percent at the
start of the year after it raised $1 billion from the nation’s
first perpetual bond in July. Perpetual bonds pay more than
securities with set maturities because issuers must compensate
investors for the risk of holding notes that may never be
redeemed. The central bank requires a Tier 1 ratio of 10
percent.  “We feel very comfortable with our capital position, which
means we do not have to go to the market,” Chief Financial
Officer  Herbert Moos  said in an analyst call today. “It will
depend on our level of growth.”  VTB and Sberbank, Russia’s two biggest banks, will be fully
privatized in five to 10 years, the RIA Novosti newswire
reported last month, citing First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov , in comments confirmed by his office. Russia’s central
bank reduced its stake in Sberbank to 50 percent plus one voting
share with the September sale.  Non-performing loans increased to 5.6 percent of total
lending from 5.4 percent at the start of the year, the bank said
in the statement. Retail lending jumped 25 percent in the first
nine months, while corporate lending fell by 10 percent.  VTB’s  shares  dropped as much as 1.4 percent and last traded
0.5 percent lower at 5.46 kopeks by 6:01 p.m. in Moscow. The
bank’s market value has plunged 60 percent since it raised $8
billion selling stock at 13.6 kopeks in an initial public
offering in 2007, the world’s biggest that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  