-- Warner Music Taps Wiesenthal as Chief Operating Officer
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-12-20T18:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/warner-music-taps-wiesenthal-as-chief-operating-officer.html
Warner Music Group named Rob Wiesenthal, the former chief financial officer at  Sony Corp. (6758)  of
America, as its chief operating officer, adding a high-level
deal maker as the company seeks to acquire assets.  Wiesenthal will oversee global corporate development in
recorded music and publishing, identify new business models and
drive growth through investments and acquisitions,  New York- 
based Warner Music said today in a statement. He will report to
Chief Executive Officer Steve Cooper.  Warner, owned by billionaire Len Blavatnik, may compete to
acquire record labels that  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group is
selling as a requirement of regulatory approvals for its
acquisition of EMI’s recorded music unit. At Sony, Wiesenthal
oversaw a Sony-led group of investors who acquired EMI’s music
publishing business.  “There are few media and technology executives of Rob’s
stature and expertise,” Cooper said in the statement. “Rob
will be a valuable resource as we enhance and grow our position
as a progressive music company.”  At Sony, Wiesenthal most recently held the title of
president of international operations at Sony/ATV, the music
publishing company owned jointly by the Tokyo-based consumer
electronics company and the estate of  Michael Jackson .  Wiesenthal oversaw Sony’s acquisition of Bertelsmann’s
stake in Sony Music Entertainment in 2008 and the purchase of
the Leiber Stoller publishing catalog containing many of Elvis Presley’s hit songs, and Famous Music from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  in 2007.
Prior to Sony in 2000, Wiesenthal was managing director and head
of entertainment & digital media, investment banking for Credit
Suisse First Boston, where he advised on deals including  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s purchase of New World Communications.  Wiesenthal serves on the boards of  Entercom Communications
Corp. (ETM)  and  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  