-- Winston, Debevoise, Akin Gump, Wachtell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-20T22:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/winston-debevoise-akin-gump-wachtell-business-of-law.html
Winston & Strawn LLP reorganized its
litigation department, which is headed by Jim Hurst, to create
new roles and make appointments that integrate recent prominent
lateral hires to the firm.  Four out of seven litigation practices groups and two sub-
practices will be led by partners who joined the firm within the
past two years, including several former partners from Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP, which went bankrupt earlier this year.  “With our recent high-profile lateral hires, we were able
to foster even greater integration in assigning leadership
roles,” Hurst said in a statement. “The recent additions have
also enabled us to decentralize leadership to locales where
certain practices are more regionally focused, such as
securities litigation in New York.”  Recent lateral hires appointed as practice leaders include
Dewey refugees  Jeffrey Kessler , antitrust and competition and
James P. Smith III, securities litigation.  Robb Adkins, who joined from the  Department of Justice  last
year, will head the white collar, regulatory defense and
investigations team. Joseph Tirado, who joined from Norton Rose
LLP in London, co-heads the international arbitration with Mark Bravin, who joined from Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP.  Winston also has established a new sports sub-practice, led
by co-heads Kessler and another former Dewey partner David Feher. The trademark, domain names and brand enforcement
subpractice will be headed by Paul McGrady, who joined the firm
this year from Greenberg Traurig LLP.  Winston drew from its stable of veteran litigation partners
for new leadership in two additional practice groups. Those new
chairmen include Bruce Braun, complex commercial litigation; and
George Lombardi, chairman, and Michael Brody, vice chairman for
intellectual property. Gene Schaerr and Linda Coberly will
continue as leaders of the appellate and critical motions
practice.  Steve D’Amore, a commercial litigator in Chicago, will
serve as vice-chairman of the litigation department.  Winston is led by Dan K. Webb, a veteran trial attorney.
The firm has more than 500 litigators, including more than 50
partners who have tried cases to verdict in the past five years,
the firm said in a statement.  The firm has almost 1,000 lawyers at 15 offices in  North
America , Asia and  Europe .  News  Robert Bork, Judge Defeated in Supreme Court War, Dies at 85  Robert Bork , the U.S. judge and legal scholar whose
nomination to the  Supreme Court  by President  Ronald Reagan  set
off a battle for the judiciary that lived on long after the  U.S.
Senate  rejected him, has died. He was 85.  He died this morning at Virginia Medical Center in
Arlington, Virginia, said his son, Robert Jr. The cause was
 heart disease .  Bork’s defeat in the Senate by a roll call of 58 to 42 --
the most votes ever against a Supreme Court nominee --
established new rules for how prospective justices get selected
and vetted. The word “borking” entered the political lexicon,
meaning, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, trying to
block candidates for public office “by systematically defaming
or vilifying them.”  In nationally televised hearings, the Senate Judiciary
Committee delved into Bork’s ideology, not just his legal
qualifications or competence. His past commentary on hot-button
issues became fodder for his interrogators, establishing that
long paper trails can be liabilities for judicial nominees.  In a 1963 article for New Republic magazine, Bork had
criticized civil-rights legislation that barred restaurants,
hotels and other public accommodations from discriminating on
the basis of race. While the “ugliness” of racism was clear,
he wrote, “having the state coerce you into more righteous
paths” is “a principle of unsurpassed ugliness.”  Intent on becoming an antitrust lawyer, Bork went to work
in New York after law school at what today is Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP, then in Chicago at Kirkland & Ellis LLP. In 1962,
with a wife and three young children, he moved to  New Haven ,
Connecticut, to accept a teaching job at  Yale Law School .  He was named U.S. solicitor general by President  Richard Nixon  at the start of his second term in 1973. Later that year,
Bork became acting attorney general.  He returned to Washington in 1981 as a partner with
Kirkland. Months later, Reagan named him to a seat on the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the District of Columbia Circuit.  For more, click here.  MF Global Parent’s Unpaid Fees Rise to $46 Million  Professionals liquidating  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  have run
up almost $46 million in fees that can’t be paid, according to
the latest operating report filed with the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in New York. MF Global Holdings is the parent of the liquidating
commodity broker with a $1.6 billion shortfall in customers’
property.  Through the end of November,  Louis Freeh  and professionals
serving him as Chapter 11 trustee for the MF Global holding
company together have accrued $32.7 million in fees since the
bankruptcy began at the end of October 2011. Professionals for
the official creditors’ committee billed another $13.3 million
that can’t be paid for lack of cash.  Freeh’s principal lawyers are  Morrison & Foerster LLP , and
his financial advisers are  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN)   To pay expenses of liquidation other than professional
fees, Freeh has been using cash representing collateral for the
claim of secured lender  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Originally $25.3
million, cash had been reduced to $14.1 million when November
drew to a close.  The cash outflow at the holding company was $610,500 in
November, according to the operating report. The month’s loss
from operations was $845,000.  The MF Global Holdings Ltd. parent and the commodity
brokerage subsidiary, MF Global Inc., went into separate
bankruptcies on Oct. 31. The holding-company parent is under
control of Freeh as Chapter 11 trustee, while the broker is
under control of a separate trustee selected by the Securities
Investor Protection Corp. The SIPC pays expenses of the separate
trustee for the brokerage.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in the same court.  Deals  Debevoise, Akin Gump Advise on Markel Deal for Alterra  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and Appleby advised  Markel Corp. (MKL) ,
the seller of property-casualty coverage, which agreed to buy
 Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. (ALTE)  for about $3.13 billion in cash
and stock to expand in reinsurance.  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP and Conyers Dill & Pearman counseled Alterra.  The Debevoise team is led by partners Nicholas F. Potter
and Gregory V. Gooding and includes partners Jonathan F. Lewis
and Peter F.G. Schuur.  The Akin Gump team was led by Kerry Berchem and Jeffrey
Kochian, partners in the firm’s corporate practice in New York,
which Berchem co-leads. It also included partners Ron Grabov-
Nardini, Anthony Swisher and Rolf Zaiss.  Brad Adderley is the Appleby partner who worked on the deal
for Markel.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising BofA Merrill Lynch as
financial adviser to Alterra Capital Holdings. The Davis Polk
corporate team includes partner Leonard Kreynin.  Investors in Bermuda-based Alterra will get 0.043 Markel
share and $10 in cash for each share they own, the companies
said in a statement yesterday. Based on Markel’s closing price
yesterday of $486.05, the deal values Alterra at about $30.97 a
share. That’s 34 percent more than Alterra’s close of $23.15.  Markel, founded by a pioneer of jitney insurance in the
1920s, is adding to its main business of underwriting risk as
its stock heads for a fourth straight annual gain. The  Glen
Allen , Virginia-based company provides coverage for businesses
such as farms and railroads.  Markel’s shareholders will own 69 percent of the combined
company upon the completion of the deal, which is expected in
the first half of next year, according to the statement. The
combined company will be domiciled in the U.S., which may limit
tax benefits for Alterra.  The transaction has support from the seller’s two largest
shareholders, insurer Chubb Corp. and the Trident Funds managed
by  Stephen Friedman ’s Stone Point Capital LLC, Steven Markel
said yesterday on a call with analysts. Those investors
controlled about 16 percent of the company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Knight Gets Higher Price in Getco Sacrificing Cash Certainty  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s decision to pursue a takeover
by Getco LLC gives its shareholders, mostly Wall Street firms,
an opportunity for stock appreciation while surrendering the
certainty of cash.  Wachtell Lipton  Rosen & Katz advises Knight
and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP counseled Getco.  Wachtell Lipton’s team is led by corporate partners Edward D. Herlihy. Additional partners include Jeannemarie O’Brien,
executive compensation and benefits; Joshua M. Holmes, tax; and
Joshua A. Feltman, restructuring and finance.  The S&C New York-based team includes H. Rodgin Cohen,
senior chairman, and John P. Mead, corporate/M&A; Marc Trevino,
employee benefits; John E. Estes, financing; Ronald Creamer Jr.,
tax; and David B. Harms, securities.  Knight, pushed to the brink of bankruptcy in August by a
trading error, chose Getco’s proposal Dec. 18 over a competing
offer from Virtu Financial LLC, three people with direct
knowledge of the matter said yesterday. The Chicago-based high-
frequency trader offered $3.75 a share for Knight, one-third of
it in stock, for a total value of $1.4 billion, according to a
statement from Knight yesterday. Virtu’s offer was all-cash.  An acquisition would end the 17-year independence of Jersey
City, New Jersey-based Knight, a company propelled by the
explosion in electronic trading in American stock markets. While
joining with Getco preserves Knight’s listing and expands its
reach, it also means the company’s value will depend on the view
of markets, where Getco has never traded.  For more, click here.  Moves  Squire Sanders Hires Two Partners in Financial Services Group  Squire Sanders  LLP is expanding its financial services
practice group with the lateral hires of two partners: Philippa
Chadwick and Paula Laird. Chadwick, who will be based in the
London office, joins the firm from Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP,
where she led its project finance team. Laird, who will also be
based in London, is head of banking at Wragge & Co., the firm
said.  Chadwick specializes in international project finance and
development bank finance. Her work includes international
economic and social infrastructure financings and infrastructure
investments in the  emerging markets . Most recently she has
advised the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on
projects in Russia, Poland, Romania and Turkey. She will be
based in the London office but will work across the firm’s
global network, particularly with the Moscow, Warsaw, and Asia-
Pacific offices.  Laird specializes in asset-based lending and asset finance,
including equipment leasing. She typically acts for major
commercial lenders and corporates on asset finance transactions,
including operating leasing, receivables finance, asset-based
lending and sale of leasing/asset finance portfolios.  Squire Sanders has more than 1,300 lawyers in 37 offices in
18 countries.  Holland & Knight Hires Real Estate Team in Miami  Holland & Knight LLP hired a five-lawyer team led by real
estate partners Vivian de las Cuevas-Diaz and Barbara Ferrer in
Miami. They join from Broad & Cassel PA, the firm said.  De las Cuevas-Diaz represents institutional lenders and
developers in the financing of complex real estate transactions.
She is currently president of the Cuban  American Bar
Association .  Ferrer has a background working with national, regional and
community banks on financing projects involving construction,
real estate and asset-based loans, the firm said. She also has
experience in public private financing.  “Vivian, Barbara and their team have created a very
sophisticated and successful real estate practice and we are
extremely pleased to have them join our firm,” said John Halula, Holland & Knight’s Miami real estate practice group
leader.  Additional Broad & Cassel employees moving to Holland &
Knight include two senior associates, an associate, two
paralegals, two secretaries and a law clerk.  Holland & Knight has more than 1,000 lawyers in 17 U.S.
offices as well as  Abu Dhabi , Beijing, Bogota and Mexico City.  Litigator Rejoins Nelson Mullins in Myrtle Beach Office  Bob Calamari has rejoined Nelson Mullins Riley &
Scarborough LLP’s Myrtle Beach office as a partner from McAngus
Goudelock & Courie LLC.  Calamari has experience in state and federal trial courts
in North and South Carolina. His trial experience includes
multimillion dollar insurance coverage disputes. Calamari has
also worked with businesses assisting with contracts, business
decisions, corporate protection, and business strategy and is an
experienced mediator, arbitrator, and special referee.  Nelson Mullins has more than 470 attorneys and government
relations professionals with offices at 13 U.S. offices.  Litigation  Argentina Debt War Lawyers Spend Decade Grappling With Judge  Two lawyers have spent much of the past decade defending
Argentina in front of the same U.S. judge in dozens of lawsuits
arising from the South American country’s 2001 default on $95
billion in sovereign debt.  Jonathan Blackman and Carmine Boccuzzi, partners at New
York’s  Cleary Gottlieb  Steen & Hamilton LLP, have represented
Argentina in litigation that began in 2002. The two share a
history with U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa, the Manhattan
jurist who has presided over the fate of billions of dollars of
Argentine debt over the same period.  The work, on behalf of a government that has criticized and
ignored Griesa, has put the lawyers in a difficult position with
the 82-year-old judge who oversees litigation over the defaulted
bonds. Their conflict with opposing counsel and even the judge
may only intensify as the landmark case heads toward a dramatic
hearing before a federal appeals court early in the new year.  At a Nov. 9 court conference, Griesa asked Boccuzzi about
press statements by Argentine President Cristina Fernandez De
Kirchner and Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino that the Republic
wouldn’t pay what it called the “vulture funds” that are
trying to collect on the defaulted bonds.  “Is that the position of the president of the Republic?”
Griesa asked. “Is that the position of the economic minister,
Mr. Boccuzzi?”  Boccuzzi made several attempts to argue that Argentina’s
officials weren’t publicly announcing their defiance of Griesa’s
court and the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York. After
questioning Boccuzzi for several minutes, Griesa gave up.  “I don’t think there is any utility in me going back and
forth with Mr. Boccuzzi further,” he said. “Obviously, Mr.
Boccuzzi does not really want to say that the Republic is saying
what is reported in the press.”  A spokeswoman for Cleary Gottlieb didn’t respond to voice-
mail messages seeking interviews with Blackman and Boccuzzi.  The litigation also has drawn in Ted Olson, a former U.S.
solicitor general, and  David Boies , who represented the U.S.
government in its antitrust case against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Olson
and Boies opposed each other in the litigation that decided the
2000  U.S. presidential election  -- Olson for Republican  George W. Bush  and Boies for Democrat  Al Gore . More recently they
joined forces to challenge California Proposition 8, the voter-
approved measure that banned gay marriage in that state and is
now before the U.S. Supreme Court.  Olson represents Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital
Ltd., which is trying to collect on its defaulted bonds in a
case involving $1.3 billion of debt and interest. Boies
represents a group of investors who traded their defaulted bonds
for new ones, at a discount, when Argentina restructured its
debt.  Argentina issued the bonds beginning in 1994. Since the
2001 default, its government has refused to make any payments on
principal or interest.  Lawyers from Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, led by partner Joseph Neuhaus, also have some history with the litigation. Neuhaus,
who earlier represented Argentina’s central bank, now represents
the Clearing House Payments Co. LLC, which operates a cross-
border and domestic wire-transfer system. The Clearing House
Interbank Payment System, known as Chips, handles almost $2
trillion of transactions daily, according to its website. In-
house lawyers Paul Saltzman and Joseph Alexander are also
working on the case.  Representing NML Capital with Olsen is  Robert Cohen  of
Dechert LLP. Joining Boies in representing the exchange
bondholders is Sean O’Shea of New York’s O’Shea Partners.  Hundreds of Italian pensioners who invested in Argentine
bonds at face value years ago and didn’t agree to exchange them
in the restructuring are also involved in the litigation.
Initially, they were represented by Dreier’s firm. When that
firm imploded after its founder’s arrest, some of the pensioners
hired  Michael Spencer  of Milberg LLP while others turned to
Rudolph DiMassa of Duane Morris LLP.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 08-
cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  