-- Twitter-Facebook, Libor Bribe Charges, Milan: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-20T13:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/twitter-facebook-libor-bribe-charges-milan-compliance.html
Facebook and Twitter users who
threaten violence online will face criminal charges in Britain,
while people posting “grossly offensive” comments may avoid
punishment by hitting the delete button, prosecutors said.  Threats, harassment and stalking on sites run by Twitter
Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  will be prosecuted “robustly” under new
social-media guidelines, while non-threatening messages that are
obscene or false may trigger charges if they “cross a high
threshold,” the Crown Prosecution Service said yesterday.  Keir Starmer, the agency’s director of public prosecutions,
said in an e-mailed statement that the rules are intended to
“strike the right balance” between freedom of expression and
the need to uphold the criminal law.  While the guidelines don’t change any U.K. laws, they are
intended to assist police in deciding how to handle complaints
about online communications and help prosecutors determine
whether charges should be filed in specific cases. Facebook and
Twitter were both involved in discussions on the rules and the
public can  comment  until March 13, the CPS said.  “The interim guidelines set out some very sensible tests
for when prosecutions would be appropriate,” Richard Allan, the
policy director for  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa  for Menlo
Park,  California-based Facebook , said in a statement.  Rachel Bremer, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Twitter, declined to comment on the CPS proposals.  Compliance Action  UBS Libor Traders Face Criminal Charges for ‘Getting Rich’  UBS AG’s $1.5 billion fine for rigging global interest
rates expands the scandal to include bribery of brokers and U.S.
criminal charges against two former traders.  Tom Alexander William Hayes and Roger Darin were charged
with conspiracy in a criminal complaint unsealed yesterday, the
U.S. Justice Department said. Hayes also was charged with wire
fraud and a price-fixing violation for activity with another
bank aimed at manipulating the London Interbank Offered Rate,
the department said.  Hayes, one of two former  UBS AG (UBSN)  traders charged by U.S.
prosecutors, is portrayed by American regulators as the kingpin
of a three-year campaign that succeeded in manipulating global
interest rates.  The charges are the first brought by the Justice Department
against individuals alleged to have manipulated Libor and
comparable benchmarks in Europe and  Japan .  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s $700
million fine is the largest in the Washington-based agency’s
history, David Meister, the commission’s head of enforcement,
said at the news conference. The total penalties of $1.5 billion
represent about one-third of the bank’s 2011 net income.  The U.S. government said the two men were part of a
conspiracy to commit wire fraud from September 2006 to 2009.
Hayes, 33, served as a senior yen swaps trader at UBS in  Tokyo ,
while Darin, 41, worked as a short-term interest rates trader at
UBS in Singapore, Tokyo and Zurich, the U.S. said.  Prosecutors allege that Hayes and Darin “conspired with
others known and unknown within UBS to cause the bank to make
false and misleading yen Libor submissions to the British
Bankers’ Association.”  Darin didn’t respond immediately to a voice-mail message,
and Hayes couldn’t immediately be reached. U.K. fraud
prosecutors opened a criminal probe this year and last week
arrested Hayes, according to people familiar with the matter.  For more, click here.  For related press conference video, click here.  Separately, the influence of a UBS trader in Tokyo who
colluded with other banks to align their submissions on the
Libor have come to light.  The employee led efforts to influence Japanese Yen Libor
submissions by paying brokers as much as 15,000 pounds ($24,400)
a quarter and offering a payment to another for helping him keep
that day’s rate low. The banker, only identified by regulators
as Trader A, worked at UBS in Tokyo from 2006 to 2009 and
directly contacted employees at other banks to influence their
submissions at least 80 times.  For more, click here.  Separately, UBS is under scrutiny in Hong Kong for possible
misconduct linked to the benchmark rate set in the city.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has started an
investigation to see if there was wrongdoing by the Swiss bank
in its submission of data for setting the Hong Kong Interbank
Offered Rate, according to a  statement  from the de-facto central
bank today. The HKMA is also reviewing whether the potential
misconduct may have had a material impact on the rate.  Overseas regulators alerted the HKMA about potential
manipulation of the local interbank lending rates and other
reference rates in the region, it said. The move signals that
the world’s biggest banks, some of which have already been
penalized in Japan, may now be probed in more Asian nations even
as they seek to placate U.S. and U.K. authorities.  For more, click here.  For a related video, see Interviews, below.  Thomson Reuters Offer Accepted by EU to End Antitrust Probe  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) ’s offer to create a new license for
securities identification codes was accepted by European Union
regulators to settle an antitrust probe.  The company’s proposal means that so-called Reuters
Instrument Codes will work better with rival services, according
to an e-mailed statement today from the European Commission, the
Brussels-based antitrust authority. Customers will also have
greater possibility “to switch to competing providers of
consolidated real-time data-feeds,” it said.  Regulators opened an investigation into the Thomson Reuters
codes in 2009, saying customers may potentially be locked in to
working with the company because replacing the codes required a
long and costly procedure to rewrite or reconfigure software
applications. The agency last year settled a similar probe into
Standard & Poor’s licensing fees for securities identification
numbers.  “Today’s announcement brings this matter to a close with
no finding of liability,”  Thomson Reuters  said in an e-mailed
statement. The company’s pledge to regulators will allow
customers to continue to use codes “with data from an
alternative consolidated data feed provider,” it said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  Courts  SAC Case Deadline May Force U.S. to Tip Hand on Any Cohen Deal  Prosecutors face a deadline next week that may force them
to tip their hand on whether they’re in plea talks with an ex-
SAC Capital Advisors LP manager to get him to testify against
founder Steven Cohen about insider trading.  Federal speedy-trial rules require Manhattan prosecutors to
secure a grand jury indictment by Dec. 26 against portfolio
manager Mathew Martoma, who was charged in a complaint Nov. 20
with making illegal trades on two drug company stocks after
receiving confidential tips.  Martoma, 38, may agree to postpone the U.S. deadline. If he
does, prosecutors requesting the adjournment sometimes tell the
presiding judge whether the two sides are in plea talks, or at
least provide some hint of negotiations.  In what U.S. prosecutors call the “most lucrative”
insider scheme ever, Martoma was accused of trading on shares of
 Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC based on tips he got from Sidney
Gilman, a University of Michigan neurologist.  The complaint doesn’t name Cohen, referring only to a
“Hedge Fund Owner” with whom Martoma spoke. A person familiar
with the case identified the fund owner as Cohen last month.  Martoma, who lives in Boca Raton,  Florida , and was fired
from SAC in 2010, hasn’t responded to the charges, though his
lawyer has said he will be exonerated. Gilman entered a
cooperation deal in which the U.S. agreed not to prosecute him.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, declined to comment on the deadline. He has said
Cohen and SAC acted appropriately in making the trades.  Defense attorney Charles Stillman, who said at Martoma’s
court hearing last month that he’d likely seek an adjournment,
didn’t return calls for comment. Jerika Richardson, a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to say if
prosecutors will seek an indictment from a grand jury or ask for
an extension.  For more, click here.  JPMorgan, Depfa Among Banks Convicted in Swaps Fraud Case  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , UBS AG and Depfa
Bank Plc were convicted by a Milan judge for their role in
overseeing fraud by their bankers in the sale of derivatives to
the city of Milan.  Judge Oscar Magi in Milan ordered that about 90 million
euros ($119.6 million) of assets be seized from the banks, the
amount of their profit, and that the firms pay sanctions of 1
million euros each. He also convicted nine bankers of fraud, and
suspended their sentences.  Yesterday’s convictions come as global authorities
investigate claims that more than a dozen banks altered
submissions used to set benchmarks such as Euribor and Libor to
profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives, such as the ones
used by Milan.  In separate statements, the banks said they disagree with
the verdict and plan to appeal. They had been on trial since May
2010, accused of defrauding Milan by hiding how much they made
on the derivatives. The companies had denied the charges and
settled with the city government in March, agreeing to unwind
 interest-rate swaps , which adjusted payments on 1.7 billion
euros of bonds sold by the city in 2005.  For more, click here, and click here.  Amgen Plea Deal in Aranesp Misbranding Accepted by Judge  A federal judge accepted  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s plea agreement to a
charge it misbranded its anemia drug Aranesp after declining to
approve the deal at a hearing on Dec. 18, saying he hadn’t been
given enough time to consider its ramifications.  U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson in  Brooklyn , New York,
signed off yesterday on the agreement with prosecutors, which
will cost the company $150 million in criminal penalties. Amgen
will also pay $612 million to settle civil claims over its
marketing practices, prosecutors said.  Amgen was estimated to have reaped about $85 million in
gains from misbranding Aranesp, Assistant U.S. Attorney Roger
Burlingame said during yesterday’s hearing. The company pleaded
guilty at the Dec. 18 hearing to a single misdemeanor
misbranding charge over the allegations.  The case is U.S. v. Amgen Inc., 1:12-cr-00760, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Interviews/Hearings  CFTC’s Chilton Calls UBS Libor Fine ‘Historic’  Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, talked about UBS AG’s $1.5 billion
settlement for rigging interbank rates.  Chilton spoke with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line.”  For the video, click here.  Gotbaum Testifies on Health of Multiemployer Pensions  Joshua Gotbaum, director of the  Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp. , testified at a House Education & the Workforce
Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions about the
challenges facing multiemployer pension plans and the potential
for reform.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Juncker Says Possible Dijsselbloem to Be Next Eurogroup Chief  Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said he has
“reasons to believe” Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen
Dijsselbloem could be his successor as head of the group of 17
euro-area finance chiefs.  Juncker made the remarks in an interview with Luxembourg
radio 100.7 yesterday. He said he expects to request nominations
by early January and “that there will only be one candidacy.”  Juncker, who was appointed to a new 30-month term as
eurogroup head in July, said earlier this month that he will
step down from that role by the end of January. Juncker has led
meetings of the euro-area finance ministers since 2005.  Dijsselbloem, 46, told Dutch RTL television on Dec. 18 that
he would consider leading the eurogroup if asked, though he
hasn’t been approached about the position. A member of the Labor
Party, he was named as the Netherlands’ finance minister on Nov.
5 as part of Liberal Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s coalition
government following elections in September.  Other EU leaders have indicated they wouldn’t oppose
Dijsselbloem.  BaFin Appoints Hufeld as Head of German Insurance Supervision  Felix Hufeld will start Jan. 2 as the head of German
Insurance Supervision, financial markets regulator BaFin said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Hufeld follows Gabriele Hahn, now head of Bafin’s Human
Resources and Regulatory Service unit. Hufeld’s former positions
included head of German, Austrian and northern European business
at insurance broker  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC)   Notable Passing  Robert Bork, Judge Defeated in Supreme Court War, Dies at 85  Robert Bork, the U.S. judge and legal scholar whose
nomination to the Supreme Court by President Ronald Reagan set
off a battle for the judiciary that lived on long after the U.S.
Senate rejected him, has died. He was 85.  He died this morning at  Virginia  Medical Center in
Arlington, Virginia, said his son, Robert Jr. The cause was
heart disease.  Bork’s defeat in the Senate by a roll call of 58 to 42 --
the  most votes ever  against a Supreme Court nominee --
established new rules for how prospective justices get selected
and vetted. The word “borking” entered the political lexicon,
meaning, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, trying to
block candidates for public office “by systematically defaming
or vilifying them.”  In nationally televised hearings, the Senate Judiciary
Committee delved into Bork’s ideology, not just his legal
qualifications or competence. His past commentary on hot-button
issues became fodder for his interrogators, establishing that
long paper trails can be liabilities for judicial nominees. The
legacy of the Bork nomination has caused advocacy groups to
adopt the tactics of political campaigns around judicial
nominations.  Bork was praised yesterday in a statement by U.S. Supreme
Court Justice Antonin Scalia as “one of the most influential
legal scholars of the past 50 years,” citing his thinking in
the areas of antitrust and constitutional law.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 