-- Worst-Rated Borrower List Cut to Half of ’09 Level, Moody’s Says
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-12-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/worst-rated-borrower-list-cut-to-half-of-09-level-moody-s-says.html
The number of companies with the
lowest ratings declined 15 percent this year as slow economic
growth has “failed to dent corporate credit quality,”
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Borrowers with a corporate credit rating of B3 or below and
a negative outlook dropped to 152 from 179 at the start of the
year, Moody’s said in a report. That’s about half the number of
companies with that designation in the first quarter of 2009,
during the peak of the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression, according to David Keisman, a senior vice president
at Moody’s. B3 is six steps below investment grade.  Book distributor Baker & Taylor Acquisitions Corp. and
retailer Sports Authority Inc. were among the 26 companies
removed from the worst-rated list, analysts led by Keisman wrote
in the report. The decrease came as the number of removals due
to a ratings boost or outlook change reached the highest in more
than two years, Moody’s said.  “Despite the concerns swirling through the markets, the
backdrop for corporate credit looks stable,” Keisman wrote.
“Continued slow economic growth in the U.S., combined with good
corporate liquidity and stable business conditions in many
industries, suggest little likelihood of rating activity
significant enough to produce either a spike or sharp decline in
the size of the B3 Negative and Lower List.”  About 2 percent of corporate ratings are on review for a
cut, the authors wrote.  The shrinking list is consistent with Moody’s forecast for
the U.S. speculative-grade default rate to drop to 2.5 percent
in June from 3.1 percent currently, the New York-based ratings
company said.  Bagel Chain  Avaya Inc., the communications-gear maker whose roots go
back to AT&T’s Western Electric unit, and bagel-restaurant chain
Einstein Noah Restaurant Group Inc. are among companies added to
the most recent list, according to the report. Those taken off
include apparel retailer BCBG Max Azria Group Inc. and  Gray
Television Inc. (GTN)   During the past three months, “positive rating actions”
were the most common reason for a company’s removal from the
list, Moody’s said. BCBG was taken off because its ratings were
withdrawn and Gray because its probability of default was raised
to B3 with a stable outlook.  Loans rated B or CCC have returned 17.97 percent this year,
according to the JPMorgan Leveraged Institutional Loan Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  