-- LLX Advances on Deal to Lease Space at Acu Port: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-12-20T20:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-20/llx-advances-on-deal-to-lease-space-at-acu-port-sao-paulo-mover.html
LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) , the Brazilian port
operator headed by billionaire  Eike Batista , surged the most in
a week after agreeing to lease space at its Acu complex to the
local unit of French steel-pipe-maker  Vallourec SA. (VK)   LLX rose 5.4 percent to 2.33 reais at the close of trading
in Sao Paulo. It was the biggest gainer on Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index, which rose 0.5 percent.  The stock had plunged 45 percent from this year’s high in
March as projects by companies including  Ternium SA (TX)  and  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  expired or were postponed. Today’s announcement,
combined with an agreement last month with  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
may bring new momentum to Batista’s plan to build what he calls
a “superport” at Acu, about 200 miles north of Rio, according
to Victor Mizusaki, an equity analyst at  UBS AG. (UBSN)   “These announcements confirm that large companies have
interest to construct a facility in the industrial complex,”
Mizusaki wrote in a note to clients today.  V&M do Brasil SA, Vallourec’s local unit, will build a
logistics base at LLX’s Acu port to service oil companies that
operate in the Campos basin under a 20-year agreement, LLX said
in a regulatory filing late yesterday. Vallourec is based in
Boulogne Billancourt, France.  Acu is the centerpiece of Batista’s plan to integrate his
commodities and oil empire and tap Chinese demand for Brazil’s
raw materials. The port could become the world’s third-biggest
by attracting investments from oil-storage facilities,
steelworks and car plants, he said in an interview in March
2011.  Batista Empire  Batista also has interests in the oil and mining industries
through companies including OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA
and MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA.  GE last month agreed to build an oil, gas and energy unit
at the port, according to an LLX filing.  The Vallourec and GE contracts may generate about 11.7
million reais ($5.7 million) in annual revenue for LLX, Mizusaki
wrote.  LLX had adjusted revenue of 52.6 million reais in the first
nine months of this year, compared with 2.4 million reais in the
same period of 2011.  A preliminary accord between Ternium, the steelmaker
indirectly controlled by billionaire Paolo Rocca’s family, and
LLX to build a mill at Acu expired Sept. 30 without a final
accord. Nissan Motor Co. chose to set up a $1.4 billion unit
elsewhere, and Anglo American delayed by a year the start of its
Minas-Rio project, which includes completing an iron-ore
terminal at the port.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  