-- Tackling the Menace of Revenge Porn
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/tackling-the-menace-of-revenge-porn.html
Once upon a time, vicious people did
their hurtful work through whispers, notes and direct insults.
Nowadays, they have a more insidious and repulsive weapon:
 revenge porn .  What is revenge porn, you ask? Consider this update to the
age-old mating ritual: Boy meets girl. Boy and girl start
dating. Boy and girl have fun together. Girl sends boy naked
photo of herself (aka nude “selfie”). Eventually, however,
girl dumps boy. In retaliation, boy posts photo of naked girl
online, sometimes including her name, address and phone number.  What recourse does girl -- and it is almost always a woman
-- now have? Unless she is a minor, this behavior is a clear
violation of criminal statutes in only one U.S. state:
 California,  where a law went into effect earlier this month.
Even there, however, the law is unsatisfactory. Strong laws
against revenge porn need to be broad enough to protect victims
but narrow enough to protect free speech.  It could be argued  that the First Amendment protects the
right to post legal material acquired lawfully. The Supreme
Court has ruled that even hurtful speech can be protected
speech, most recently two years ago in  a case  affirming the
right of a church group to picket the funeral of an Iraq War
veteran to protest gay-friendly policies, including in the
military.  But that speech was protected because it concerned matters
of public debate. Salacious images of individuals generally
 don’t fall in that category , and laws can be constructed to
cover the rare circumstances in which they do. (The career of a
 recent candidate  for mayor of  New York  City comes to mind.)  In the absence of criminal statutes, a revenge-porn victim
could sue her tormentor for  invasion of privacy  or  infliction of
emotional distress . Relatively few individuals, however, have
the means to pursue a civil case, and unless the defendant is
wealthy, there’s little to be gained. Without the resources of
law enforcement, it can be impossible even to prove the identity
of the culprit. A lawsuit would also attract additional
attention to the humiliating postings.  California’s new statute  attempts to deal with this by
establishing penalties of as much as six months in jail and a
$1,000 fine for distributing an image of the genitalia or, in
the case of a woman, the breast of an identifiable person
without that person’s consent. Unfortunately, the law has a
glaring flaw: It applies only to images taken by the
perpetrator. And  80 percent  of revenge-porn cases involve a
self-taken photo.  One can debate the wisdom of sharing a nude selfie.
Nevertheless, the practice, common among young Americans, is
perfectly legal among adults. Furthermore, it’s reasonable for
someone to expect that such a photo shared with a lover will
remain with the lover -- just as someone who gives a credit-card
number to a merchant has the right to expect that it won’t be
used to commit fraud. If it is, no one blames the victim.  Other states are experimenting with ways to fight revenge
porn. In  New Jersey , someone who disseminates intimate images of
a person without his or her consent can be fined as much as
$30,000. But if he obtained the images legitimately, the law
allows him to argue that he is “privileged” to distribute
them.  The New Jersey law is also open to First Amendment
challenges, as is a  model law  advocated by  End Revenge Porn , a
campaign organized by Cyber Civil Rights Initiative Inc. These
laws could lead to the prosecution of individuals who expose
matters of legitimate public interest, such as the sexual
transgressions of political figures or even sex crimes.  The  California  statute avoids this problem by requiring
that the perpetrator act with the intention of causing distress
to the subject of the photo or video. Such a clause also
protects, say, a private eye for showing a husband photos of his
cheating wife, or a mother for posting a snapshot of her naked
toddler on Facebook.  Bad breakups and bitter ex-lovers predate the digital age,
and they will outlast it. As states consider laws against
revenge porn, they will have to carefully weigh the need to
protect individuals from this despicable practice without unduly
restricting the freedom of speech. As California and New Jersey
show, they are fitfully finding their way forward.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 