-- Angola Set to Impose Up to 10% Tax on Oil Companies
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-10-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/angola-set-to-impose-up-to-10-tax-on-oil-companies.html
Angola ,  Africa ’s largest oil
producer after  Nigeria , is imposing a  consumption tax  on
petroleum companies that will raise some costs by as much as 10
percent, according to government documents.  The law, which comes into effect with its publication that
may happen as early as today, requires companies to follow a tax
schedule that adds five percent to most services and supplies
and double that for equipment rentals, a presidential decree
showed.  Angola set up a special tax reform branch in 2010 to work
with government ministries on increasing revenue and closing
loopholes in a bid to simplify taxation. The southwest African
country, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, pumped about 1.74 million barrels a day in September
from offshore fields, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Oil companies have benefited from tax exemptions even as
government reforms have expanded the net of taxable services,”
Emily Anderson, a researcher at the  London School of Economics ,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Closing loopholes
in the fiscal system will bring greater tax justice and taxpayer
confidence across all industries while making good economic
sense.”  Companies spend about $20 billion a year in petroleum
exploration and production in Angola, according to London-based
GlobalData Ltd. and Oilfield Support Angola Lda based in the
capital, Luanda. Tapping fields under one mile of ocean and
three miles below the seabed tests limits of current technology.
Mercer ranks Luanda the world’s most expensive city for
expatriates with an oil-driven economy that’s inflated prices.
Angola is continuing to recover from a 27-year civil war that
ended in 2002.  Modernize Codes  BP Plc (BP/) , ConocoPhillips and  Statoil ASA (STL)  are among oil
explorers investing at least $3 billion in wells off Angola next
year,  David Thomson , an analyst with Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in
Edinburgh, said in August. The companies will drill 20 wells at
a cost of $150 million each, he said.  The government’s tax reform branch plans to simplify and
modernize codes while boosting revenue, Gilberto Luther,
director of the reform project, said in an interview in April.  By 2017 or soon after, a value-added tax on finished
products and services will replace the consumption tax that’s
charged on each stage of manufacturing, Luther said. The new
levy will cut the “cascading effect” of the current tax, which
increases inflation by making prices higher than a lone tariff
on the final product, he said.  Discussions were under way at state petroleum company
Sonangol EP, the Ministry of Petroleum and among oil officials
about whether to reduce the industry’s tax exemptions for raw
materials and trim the current 90 days that  oil companies  are
allowed to finish a customs declaration, Nicholas Neto, head of
the Policy and Procedures Department Angola’s National Customs
Service, said in an interview in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  