-- Marine Le Pen’s National Front Wins French Local By-Election
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-10-14T11:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/marine-le-pen-s-national-front-wins-french-local-by-election.html
France’s anti-euro National Front
won a local by-election in the country’s south, riding on the
discontent with  Francois Hollande ’s Socialist presidency and the
disarray in the Opposition UMP party.  The National Front candidate Laurent Lopez took 53.9
percent of the vote in the town of Brignoles yesterday to win a
seat on the local department’s council. Catherine Delzers, the
candidate of former President Nicolas Sarkozy’s UMP party, won
46.1 percent, according to France 2 television.  Although a relatively minor election, the victory is a
warning to both the Socialists and the UMP that Marine Le Pen’s
National Front may be turning into a party that speaks for the
dissatisfaction of a population grappling with the highest
unemployment in about 14 years and an economy that has struggled
to grow over the last two years.  “This vote shows that the French have a wish for change,
that we bring solutions for the questions the French are
asking,” Le Pen said on LCI television yesterday.  With major municipal elections in  France  coming up in March
and European parliamentary ballots in May, the victory puts both
the Socialists and the UMP on notice to find ways to stem the
rising popularity of the National Front.  “The only response is to get results: on jobs, on growth,
on security,” Hollande said today at a press conference in
 South Africa , where he’s on a state visit. “The policies of the
past 16 months have asked for a lot of efforts from the French
and they have a right to demand results. The government’s work
must be aimed solely at this.”  Not France  In the first round of the Brignoles election on Oct. 6,
Lopez took 40.4 percent, Delzers 20.8 percent, and the candidate
of Hollande’s party was eliminated. In an effort to defeat the
National Front in the second round, Socialist leaders had called
on voters to back the UMP candidate.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said today at a Paris
press conference that “Brignoles is not France,” noting that
Hollande took 42 percent there in the second round of the 2012
presidential election, versus 52 percent nationwide.  Le Pen said efforts by the two traditional parties to block
the National Front showed it’s now the country’s largest party.  Since 2011, when she replaced her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, as the National Front’s leader, the 45-year-old has sought
to lose its image as a group of anti-Semites and right-wingers
to gain more mainstream appeal. She threatened this month to sue
anyone who describes the party as “extreme right.”  Message Out  The by-election yesterday was for one of the 43 seats on
the department’s council, one of 101 such local assemblies in
France. Only 33 percent of registered voters voted in the first
round, while 45 percent turned out for the second round.  “This doesn’t mean that we can win in every town
obviously, but our message is getting out,” Le Pen said.  An Ifop poll Oct. 9 put the National Front as the largest
party in France for the first time, with 24 percent of the
French saying they’d vote for it in next May’s European
elections, up from 21 percent in previous poll in May. UMP was
second at 22 percent and the Socialists third at 19 percent.  Political analysts have warned that the European elections
tend to be a magnet for protest votes, making the poll’s results
hard to interpret.  Still, the prospects of growing support for the anti-immigrant National Front is worrying Socialist leaders.  ‘Extremist’ Party  “It would be dramatic to see someone elected who does not
carry the values of the Republic,” Bruno Le Roux, the Socialist
Party’s whip in parliament, said Oct. 11 on Europe1 radio,
calling on voters to back the UMP in Brignoles.  Le Pen polled 18 percent in the first round of the
presidential elections in April 2012. The National Front has two
members in the 577-seat National Assembly.  While her father was convicted for making racist and anti-Semitic comments, she has recast the party to focus on economic
issues and French sovereignty.  She wants France to limit immigration, toughen jail
sentences, withdraw from the euro, impose trade barriers, force
the Bank of France to fund the government and return the
 retirement age  to 60.  UMP party head Jean-Francois Cope said Oct. 10 on France2
that the “the National Front is amusing to look at, but its
policies amount to a programmed economic suicide”  Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici today said the National
Front remains an extremist party.  “There’s a national message and it’s a worrying message
for those of us who love democracy,” he said. “When a party is
euro-phobic, when it is Islam-phobic, when it is against
globalization, when it is for national preference above all,
it’s a party whose roots are in the extreme right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  