-- Aussie Extends Slide Versus N.Z. Dollar as Home Loans Decrease
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-10-14T06:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/aussie-falls-versus-peers-as-u-s-debt-talks-damp-risk-appetite.html
Australia ’s dollar extended a
decline versus its  New Zealand  counterpart to a second session
after data showed home-loan approvals dropped for the first time
this year in the bigger nation.  The Aussie weakened against most of its Group of 10
counterparts before the Reserve Bank releases its October
meeting minutes tomorrow. New Zealand’s  interest-rate swaps  were
near a two-year high after a private report showed  home prices 
climbed to a record. The Aussie erased a decline against the
U.S. currency as Chinese stocks advanced, supporting demand for
assets linked to global growth.  “There are still various factors which point to a weaker
Aussie,” said Janu Chan, an economist at St. George Bank Ltd.
in Sydney. “The Australian dollar is still quite high by
historical standards and still looks like it’s at a point where
it’s contractionary for the economy, so this year we are
expecting a below-trend growth.”  The Aussie dropped 0.4 percent to NZ$1.1332 as of 4:53 p.m.
in Sydney after sliding 0.3 percent on Oct. 11. It touched
NZ$1.12 on Aug. 1, the lowest since October 2008. Australia’s
currency was little changed at 94.66 U.S. cents, while New
Zealand’s kiwi gained 0.4 percent to 83.54 U.S. cents.  The yield on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond retreated
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.12 percent. The
three-year yield declined three basis points to 3.07 percent.  The number of  loans  granted to build or buy houses and
apartments fell 3.9 percent in August from a month earlier, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists was a 2.5 percent decline.  Policy Outlooks  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board kept the overnight
cash-rate target at 2.5 percent on Oct. 1, saying the Aussie is
still lower than in April even after recent gains.  The Australian dollar’s  value  against the currencies of the
nation’s trade partners peaked at 80.2 on April 12 and has since
fallen to 72.3, according to central bank data. It’s still
stronger than the five-year average of 71.4.  “The Reserve Bank of Australia minutes will be watched
closely following the central bank’s decision to stop
characterizing the Australian dollar as ‘high,’” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, the Singapore-based head of foreign exchange strategy at
UBS AG, wrote in a note to clients on Oct. 12. “But AUDNZD is
unlikely to rise significantly higher given the  Reserve Bank  of
New Zealand is set to start hiking  interest rates  from 2014.”  A  price index  of New Zealand homes rose 0.8 percent in
September from a month earlier to an all-time high, figures from
the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand showed today. Two-year
interest rate swaps were at 3.52 percent today after reaching
3.58 percent on Sept. 18, the highest since August 2011.  China ’s  overseas shipments  fell 0.3 percent last month from
a year earlier, while  imports  climbed 7.4 percent, official
figures showed on Oct. 12. The median estimates of economists in
a Bloomberg survey were for a 5.5 percent increase and 7 percent
gain, respectively. China is Australia’s  biggest  export market.  The  Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.6
percent after a 1.7 percent jump on Oct. 11. U.S. stocks will
trade on the federal Columbus Day holiday today, while bond
markets are closed.  Japan  is shut today for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  