-- Australian, New Zealand Stocks Decline Amid U.S. Debt Stalemate
-- B y   J o h n   M c C l u s k e y
-- 2013-10-13T23:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/australian-new-zealand-stocks-decline-amid-u-s-debt-stalemate.html
Australian and New Zealand stocks
fell as American lawmakers struggled over an accord to raise the
nation’s debt limit and restore government operations.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  retreated 0.2 percent and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.2 percent as of 10:03 a.m. in
Sydney. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures  lost 1 percent.  With the U.S.’s borrowing authority set to lapse Oct. 17,
Senate leaders in Washington sought a pact to avert a default
and re-open the government. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
was negotiating with Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  after talks
between President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner 
broke down. Chinese exports unexpectedly fell in September, data
Oct. 12 showed. China and India are set to issue inflation
reports for last month today.  “Time is beginning to run out for getting any agreed
legislation through before the Oct. 17 lapse in the government’s
borrowing authority,” Sharon Zollner, senior economist in
Wellington at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd., wrote in a client note
today.  Japanese and Hong Kong markets are closed today for
holidays, while the U.S. bond market is shut for the Columbus
Day holiday.  Australia’s dollar lost 0.4 percent to 94.34 U.S. cents,
while the New Zealand currency was little changed at 83.19 U.S.
cents.  Senate Talks  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.3 percent last week
amid optimism U.S. lawmakers were moving closer to resolving the
debt impasse. The gauge traded at 13.6 times estimated earnings
on Oct. 11, compared with 15.4 for the  S&P 500 .  Reid said he’s “in conversation” with McConnell and is
“confident” Republicans will agree to end the partial
government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. McConnell said
in a statement that it’s time for Democrats to support a plan,
based on one drafted by Republican  Susan Collins , which Reid
rejected Oct. 12.  The talks are shifting away from Republican efforts to
curtail Obama’s signature health-care law to rescinding a tax on
medical devices to focus on the level of spending and the
duration of the deficit-ceiling extension.  Obama, in a phone call with House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California, “reinforced that there must be a clean
debt limit increase” -- and a stopgap spending measure also
free of policy add-ons -- before budget negotiations can begin,
according to a White House statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCluskey in Sydney at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  