-- Baidu Bearish Bets Rise to One-Year High: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/baidu-bearish-bets-rise-to-one-year-high-china-overnight.html
Options traders are the most bearish
in a year on Baidu Inc.,  China ’s biggest search engine, on
concern acquisition costs will reduce profitability.  Puts protecting against a 10 percent decline in Baidu’s
American depositary receipts cost 4.3 points more than calls
betting on a rally of the same magnitude last week, three-month
data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The price relationship known
as skew was the highest since October 2012. Baidu has risen 54
percent this year and reached a two-year high Oct. 2. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index fell 0.1 percent for the week.  Baidu has made five  acquisitions  over the past year to
maintain its lead among China’s Internet companies as smaller
competitor Qihoo 360 Technology Co. gains ground in the online
search market. The Beijing-based company paid $1.85 billion for
app store 91 wireless in July and bought a stake in group-deal
site Nuomi.com for $160 million in August. Baidu will probably
report the slowest  profit growth  on record in 2013, according to
the mean estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “After significant price appreciation, people
understandably are asking how Baidu is going to monetize its
recent investments and acquisitions,” Scott Kessler, an
Internet equity analyst at S&P Capital IQ in New York, said by
phone Oct. 11. “We expect Baidu’s aggressive spending to
continue to pressure margins. Some data have shown its search
market share has declined while Qihoo’s share has risen.”  Baidu’s skew, or the difference in put and call implied
volatility, rose 56 percent over the past month to 4.2 points on
Oct. 11. Its ADRs retreated 2.6 percent last week to $154.90,
dropping for the first time since August.  Search Share  Its share in web searches slid to 60 percent in early
October while Qihoo’s portion rose to 21 percent last month,
according to Chinese data provider CNZZ. Baidu’s search share
measured by page views may have decreased about 1.5 percentage
points to 65 percent over the three months through Sept. 24,
while Qihoo’s increased 2.7 percentage points to 19.5 percent,
Beijing-based T.H. Capital LLC said in a note Oct. 9, citing
figures compiled by the research firm.  Baidu, China’s second-largest Internet company by market
value after Hong Kong-listed  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , also
acquired video business PPStream Inc. for $370 million in June
to merge it with its video unit iQiyi.com, which it purchased in
November.  Income Decline  Higher spending on acquisitions and advertising caused a
4.6 percent decline in Baidu’s second-quarter net income to 2.64
billion  yuan  ($431 million) from a year earlier, the company
said in July. Profit for the three months ended in September may
drop 0.9 percent from a year ago to 2.98 billion yuan, according
to the average projection of eight analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income margin may narrow to 35 percent in 2013
from 47 percent, according to analysts’ average estimate
compiled by Bloomberg.  While Baidu is No. 1 in search, it’s “going through a
mobile transition and its mobile business isn’t monetized as
well as the desktop,” Walter Price, a senior portfolio manager
at Allianz Global Investors, said by phone from San Francisco
Oct. 10. “So their earnings growth is going to slow down for a
while and margins are going to be under some pressure. It’s
probably going to take Baidu a couple of years to get through
it.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.9 percent to $38.36
in New York for a second weekly rally. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index added 0.8 percent last week on speculation U.S. lawmakers
were making progress toward an agreement on raising the debt
limit to avoid a default.  Dangdang, Seaspan  The China-US gauge of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the
U.S. rose 0.9 percent on Oct. 11, trimming the weekly slump.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the nation’s biggest online
book seller, sank 14 percent last week to $10.28, the largest
weekly retreat since the end of August.  Seaspan Corp. (SSW) , a Hong Kong-based container-ship operator,
rallied 9.8 percent on Oct. 11, paring a weekly loss of 10
percent. The company said Oct. 11 it terminated a sale of
offering common shares and convertible notes to raise funds. It
had planned to sell 5.7 million shares and $125 million of
bonds, according to its statement Oct. 7.  Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA) , based in Beijing, surged 20 percent
last week to $6.84, the highest level since March 2011. It was
the biggest weekly gainer on the China-US measure.  China’s economy may have expanded 7.8 percent in the last
three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 30
economists as of Oct. 11. September  industrial production  may
have risen 10.2 percent from a year earlier, compared with 10.4
percent in August. The government is scheduled to report the
data this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  