-- Beijing Construction Plans $1.3 Billion Manchester Hub
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-10-13T13:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/beijing-construction-plans-1-3-billion-manchester-business-hub.html
Beijing Construction Engineering
Group Co. formed a venture with Manchester Airports Group and
other partners to build an international business district in
the U.K.’s second-biggest city.  The buildings on the 150-acre (61-hectare) site in the
north of  England  will be worth about 800 million pounds ($1.3
billion) when they’re completed and fully leased, the partners
said in a statement today.  Carillion Plc (CLLN)  and the Greater
Manchester Pension Fund are also part of the project, known as
Airport City. It will create as many as 16,000 jobs and the
development will be managed by Argent LLP, the group said.  Chinese developers including ABP Chinese (Holding) and
Greenland Holding Group Co. are expanding overseas as the
government maintains curbs on residential housing to cool price
increases. ABP is involved in the development of a third
financial district in London focused on Asian businesses after
the U.K. and  China  set a target three years ago of doubling
trade to $100 billion by 2015.  “Our aspiration as part of this international joint
venture is to create a world-class business destination that
will open up new connections on a global level,” David Partridge, managing partner at Argent (Property Development)
Services LLP, said in the statement.  Direct Link  Manchester Airport, Britain’s busiest hub outside  London ,
is used by more than 20 million passengers a year. The airport
plans to open a direct airline service to China, according to
the statement.  “We see our involvement in Airport City as an extension of
the memorandum of understanding between China and the U.K.,
where we have been looking to further explore joint
infrastructure opportunities for some time,” Xing Yan, managing
director of Beijing Construction Engineering, said in the
statement.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said it is
one of the country’s biggest developments since the Olympics,
which were held in London last year.  “It shows our economic plan of doing more business with
China and also making sure more economic activity in Britain
happens outside the city of London is working,” he said in a
television interview with Sky News from Beijing, where he’s on a
trade mission with delegates including London Mayor Boris
Johnson and representatives of U.K. technology companies.  Beijing Briefing  Guo Yanhong, vice general manager at BCEG said at a
briefing with the chancellor in Beijing that the company will
make an equity investment in the joint venture for the project
of 12 million pounds.  During his visit Osborne will hold the fifth China-U.K.
economic and financial dialogue with Chinese Vice Premier Ma Kai
to discuss the economy, trade and investment and financial
management.  Britain is the most popular destination in Europe for
Chinese investment, which last year jumped 95 percent in the
nation, according to U.K. government data. China Investment
Corp., the country’s sovereign wealth fund, took an 8.68 percent
stake in Thames Water Utilities Ltd. in 2012 and also made a 450
million-pound investment in Heathrow Airport.  London is vying with Frankfurt, Paris and Zurich to become
a trading hub for the Chinese currency. The Bank of England
became the first European central bank to establish swap
facilities with China, announcing a three-year 200 billion  yuan 
($33 billion) currency swap line in June to promote financial
stability and trade.  Beijing Construction Engineering Group, which is controlled
by the municipal government, provides engineering construction
services, municipal public works and real-estate development,
according to its website. Its projects include the National
Library in Beijing, the Beijing International Capital Airport,
and Line 1 of the Beijing subway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  