-- Big Banks Can Be Dismantled, Say U.S. and U.K. Regulators
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-13T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/big-banks-can-be-dismantled-say-u-s-and-u-k-regulators.html
Even one of the largest global banks
could be taken apart safely by U.S. government authorities if it
were to fail today, according to banking regulators from the
U.S. and U.K.  A U.S. plan for seizing and liquidating a major bank would
work if necessary, although it would be messy, according to Art Murton, a senior Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. official in
charge of planning how to dismantle complex firms, and Bank of
 England  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker . They spoke yesterday at an
Institute of International Finance event in  Washington .  “I think U.S. authorities could do it today -- and I mean
today,” said Tucker, who has worked with U.S. regulators on
cross-border hurdles to taking down an international firm. “A
global financial system will not survive if we don’t crack this
problem.”  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act empowered the FDIC to seize a firm
and dismantle it if regulators think it can’t pass through
bankruptcy without posing a significant threat to the financial
system. This so-called resolution authority hasn’t yet been
tested, nor have the regulators finished telling banks how it
will work.  “We are prepared,” Murton said, adding that the agency is
still trying to work out the difficult cross-border issues and
will be even more ready in another year.  Written Description  The FDIC is poised to release a written description of how
it would liquidate such a firm, using what’s known as a single-entry approach to take over its holding company, impose losses
on shareholders and let healthy subsidiaries stay open.
Government officials and bankers alike have called for a process
that will assure markets that the largest banks won’t need
future bailouts and are no longer too big to fail.  “People are not going to trust banks if they feel that we
continue to socialize our losses and walk away when things blow
up,” Deutsche Bank AG Co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain
said yesterday. “Too big to fail has to be addressed, and that
cannot be done by banks alone. We need regulators. We need
countries to sit down and work out the very complex legal
framework.”  Tucker, who is leaving the  Bank of England , repeated an
earlier statement that the U.K. is prepared to step aside if the
U.S. starts resolving a big domestic bank with a U.K. presence.  “We, the U.K., need a reciprocal agreement from United
States authorities,” he said, adding that he understands the
U.K. approach should be further settled before it can expect
“that reciprocal statement of principal.”  Living Wills  While U.S. regulators hammer out this last-resort scenario
for handling  bank failures , the law says the global banks have
to figure out how to go bankrupt safely. Dodd-Frank required
banks to file so-called living wills, which are meant to
describe how a major bank could undergo bankruptcy without
damaging the financial system.  If the FDIC and  Federal Reserve  aren’t satisfied that the
big banks are prepared for their own safe demise, the companies
could be forced by the regulators to restructure or sell off
pieces.  The biggest banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., filed a second round of the plans
earlier this month. The first round last year fell short of what
regulators need to see, according to Jim Wigand, who stepped
down this year as the FDIC official responsible for planning for
big-bank failures. Wigand said earlier this year all the banks
had to do more to make their plans credible.  “We have to eliminate too big to fail,” JPMorgan CEO
Jamie Dimon said yesterday. “We all know that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  