-- BMW’s Investment Embargo Threatens South African Economy
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-10-14T11:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/bmw-s-investment-strike-threatens-south-african-economy.html
For four weeks,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , halted
output at its only plant in South Africa as thousands of workers
went on strike to demand higher pay.  By the time car assembly and auto-component employees
agreed on Oct. 6 to accept a 10 percent wage increase for next
year, BMW had lost 13,000 cars in production, missed supply
targets on several export contracts and took a decision to stop
expansion in South Africa.  The strike at factories owned by seven carmakers, including
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , cost the industry at least
20 billion rand ($2 billion) in revenue, according to the
National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of  South
Africa , or Naamsa. The damage to the economy may be even more
severe as foreign investors threaten to scale back expansion
plans as labor instability worsens.  “One of the main risks is that a prolonged strike will
damage South Africa’s reputation and track record as a reliable
supplier to international markets,” Nico Vermeulen, director of
Naamsa, said in a phone interview on Oct. 7 from the capital,
 Pretoria . “To be a reliable supplier, you need labor
stability.”  Output Crippled  Strikes this year have crippled output in industries from
mining to construction to aviation, undermining economic
expansion and job creation in a nation where one in four people
are  unemployed . The disruptions may cut this year’s growth rate
by 0.5 percentage points, according to Peter Worthington, an
economist at Johannesburg-based Absa Bank Ltd.’s corporate and
investment banking unit. The central bank has already downgraded
its forecast for gross domestic product growth to 2 percent,
which would be the slowest pace since a 2009 recession.  “BMW has clearly had enough of the labor situation and the
risk/reward of further investment simply doesn’t make sense for
them,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London , said in a e-mailed note to clients
on Oct. 4. “There are many other companies thinking the same
thing because of labor issues.”  South  Africa  relies on inflows from abroad to help finance
its current-account  deficit , which reached 6.5 percent of GDP in
the second quarter. Most of that foreign capital has come from
investment in stocks and bonds, inflows that can be volatile as
global sentiment fluctuates.  Risk Perception  In 2012, Africa’s largest  economy  attracted $4.6 billion in
foreign direct investment, or 1.2 percent of GDP, according to
data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. That compares with $10.8 billion, or 2.3 percent,
in  Argentina , which has a similar-sized economy to South Africa.
Portfolio inflows from abroad into South Africa amounted to
about $5.5 billion last year, according to South Africa’s
central bank.  “Difficulties in industrial relations are likely to impact
FDI coming into the country,” Punam Chuhan-Pole, lead economist
for Africa at the  World Bank , said in a conference call from
 Washington  on Oct. 7. “There are a whole host of issues --
labor issues and social issues -- that are making investors more
cautious.”  Investors’ perception of risk in South Africa have
increased since August 2012, when violent strikes shut
operations owned by  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ,  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and
other mining companies. Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings downgraded South Africa’s debt for the
first time since the end of apartheid in 1994. The rand has
plunged 15 percent against the dollar this year, the worst
performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It was
trading at 9.9265 per dollar as of 1:19 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Platinum Strike  Anglo American Platinum said at the beginning of the year
it will cut as many as 14,000 jobs as part of a restructuring
plan. It scaled back those plans following pressure from labor
unions and the government. A two-week strike by the biggest
union at its South African operations, which ended on Oct. 10,
cost the company at least 1 billion rand in lost revenue, Chief
Executive Officer Chris Griffith said a day later in an
interview on Johannesburg-based SAfm radio.  Rising wage costs are adding to pressure on  inflation (SACPIYOY)  and
threatening to curb investment plans. Construction workers won
pay increases of as much as 12 percent following a three-week
strike in August and September that cost employers an estimated
2.7 billion rand in lost revenue, according to the South African
Federation of Civil Engineering Contractors.  Inflation Threat  “The reality is that the agreed wage increases will have
to be passed on to our employers in any new work we may tender,
which may well impact on their investment or expansion plans,”
said Norman Milne, president of the federation and commercial
director at Johannesburg-based builder,  Basil Read Holdings Ltd. (BSR) 
“Labor is becoming more and more expensive with no commensurate
improvement in productivity.”  Inflation accelerated to 6.4 percent in August, exceeding
the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target for the second
consecutive month. Rising wages and a weaker rand have prevented
policy makers from lowering its benchmark  interest rate  from 5
percent.  BMW’s plan to halt expansion in South African “amounts to
political and economic blackmail,” Karl Cloete, deputy general-secretary of the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa,
said in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 10.  For foreign investors, managing risks is a bigger concern
than making a political statement, said Neren Rau, chief
executive officer of the South African Chamber of Commerce and
Industry.  “It’s not about being against South Africa and the
government, it’s a clinical business decision,” he said in a
phone interview from Johannesburg on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  