-- China Dairy Demand Drives Warrnambool Bid War: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-10-14T05:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/china-dairy-demand-drives-warrnambool-bid-war-real-m-a.html
The race to sate Asia’s increasing
appetite for dairy foods has made even the worst-performing
 producer  in the region into the target of a bidding war.  Saputo Inc. (SAP) ,  Canada ’s largest dairy processor, agreed to
pay $372 million for  Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory Co. (WCB) ,
topping a bid from  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA)  Warrnambool, which exports
most of its produce to nations including China and  Japan , is
 trading  above Saputo’s Oct. 8 offer of A$7 a share. That shows
some investors expect a higher proposal for  Australia ’s oldest
dairy producer, said Canaccord Genuity Group Inc.  After the slowest profit growth of any Asian peer in the
past five years, the 125-year-old company is  projected  to almost
triple earnings this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, amid a surge in milk powder prices and record Chinese
demand. Bega, Warrnambool’s local rival and its largest
 shareholder , may be able to raise its bid by squeezing out more
cost savings, said RBS Morgans Ltd. Bega needs to boost its
offer to A$7.50 a share to win over Warrnambool investors,
Canaccord said.  “Dairy, in particular, is benefiting from increased Asian
demand,” Stephen Scott, head of research at Ord Minnett Group
Ltd. in Sydney, said in a phone interview. “There’s not a lot
in the listed space left once Warrnambool goes.”  Warrnambool,  which supplies milk  to make Philadelphia cream
cheese, is  named  after the home town of its founders in the
state of Victoria. Warrnambool now relies on exports for most of
its sales and last year made  143,000  metric tons of dairy
produce including cheese, milk powder and infant-formula
ingredients.  ‘Dramatic Improvement’  Even after posting its lowest profit since 2009,
Warrnambool is attracting bids just as the dairy-exports cycle
emerges from a trough, Chief Executive Officer David Lord said
in a phone interview. Poor weather in the world’s main milk-producing regions has dented supply, driving up prices, he said.  “We’re seeing a dramatic improvement in market
conditions,” he said. “We’re seeing a rise in demand out of
 China . The difference between what they can produce for
themselves and what they need is becoming wider.”  Lord said it was “possible” that Warrnambool’s stock
price reflected investors’ expectations of a higher bid.  China, the world’s most populous nation, is setting new
records for milk-powder imports, and demand for produce in  India 
is outstripping local production, Warrnambool said in an Oct. 9
 filing . This year, the price of exported milk powder will surge
33 percent, butter will rise 16 percent and cheese will climb 12
percent, the company said.  Profit Jump  Warrnambool’s  net income  in the 12 months ending June 2014
is forecast to rise to A$20 million ($19 million) from A$7.49
million, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Southeast  Asia ’s six-largest economies --  Indonesia ,
 Thailand ,  Malaysia ,  Singapore , the  Philippines  and  Vietnam  --
are also unable to produce enough dairy goods to meet local
demand, Rabobank, which specializes in agricultural research,
said in a  July report . Milk consumption will jump 27 percent
between 2012 and 2020 to 14 billion liters in those nations,
Rabobank said.  “Saputo in  North America  can see the growth in Asia,”
Mark Topy, an analyst at Canaccord in Melbourne, said in a phone
interview. “Australia or New Zealand is the obvious place to
be.”  Treasure Cave  A family-controlled business, Saputo plans to use
Warrnambool to spearhead sales in Asia. The Australian company
would be “the main platform” to tap demand in the Asia Pacific
region, Saputo said in an Oct. 8  statement . Saputo also said it
plans to invest in Warrnambool’s domestic operations to increase
capacity.  Montreal-based Saputo, maker of Frigo and Treasure Cave
cheeses, offered A$7 a share in cash, valuing Warrnambool at
about A$392 million. The proposal was approved by Warrnambool’s
board and beat a  stock-and-cash  bid from Bega that was valued at
A$5.78 a share when it was announced Sept. 12.  Bega rose 0.3 percent to A$3.83 at the close in Sydney,
extending its gain since it offered to buy Warrnambool to 22
percent and swelling the value of its bid to A$6.60 a share.
Warrnambool, maker of Sungold milk, fell 0.6 percent to A$7.23.  Bega, based in the New South Wales town of the same name,
 owns  about 18 percent of Warrnambool. Saputo’s market value of
C$10 billion ($9.7 billion) is more than 17 times larger than
Bega’s.  Higher Bid  Saputo’s proposal, in addition to cash, offers Warrnambool
investors as much as 56 cents in tax credits for each of their
shares. Eligibility depends on a shareholder’s own tax
liability.  Even accounting for the potential credits, Warrnambool’s
share price reflects a “mild expectation” of a higher offer,
said Canaccord’s Topy.  Bega “could increase its bid quite significantly,”
 Belinda Moore , an analyst at RBS Morgans in Brisbane, said in an
e-mail. According to Moore, Bega may be able to double its
estimated cost savings from the takeover to A$15 million.  Bega has “no present intention” to raise its bid, though
“reserves the right to do so,” the company said in an Oct. 11
filing.  Sandy Vassiadis, a spokeswoman for Saputo, echoed that
sentiment in an e-mailed response to questions, saying the
company “has no intention to make changes to the offer, but we
maintain the right to do so.”  Cheap Production  In addition to their proximity to Asia, Australian dairy
producers are attractive targets because the country’s mild
winters reduce feeding costs for dairy herds, said Scott at Ord
Minnett.  “We have a bit of advantage in producing dairy effectively
and cheaply,” Scott said.  For the bidders, those attributes have outweighed
Warrnambool’s recent track record. No dairy producer in Asia
with a market value of more than $100 million has reported worse
sales and  profit  growth in the past five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s compound revenue growth rate in the period
was almost zero, while profit fell 21 percent on that basis, the
data show.  Saputo, as a foreign buyer, would also have to overcome
potential regulatory hurdles. Some farmers oppose Decatur,
Illinois-based  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) ’s planned A$2.2
billion purchase of Australian crop handler  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  The
deal is being evaluated by Australia’s Foreign Investment Review
Board, the same body from which Saputo will need approval.  Ripe Targets  Saputo’s proposal is also dependent on investors holding
more than 50 percent of the shares selling. Bega and Murray
Goulburn Co-operative Co., an Australian dairy producer whose
own bid for Warrnambool was rejected in 2010, own about 35
percent of the  stock . Murray Goulburn said Oct. 8 that it will
“take time to consider its options,” and a representative for
the company declined to comment further.  Demand from Asia’s expanding economies means Australian
producers will remain in buyers’ sights, said Neil Pathak, a
mergers and acquisition lawyer with Gilbert & Tobin in
 Melbourne .  “They are going to have a great demand for food,” he
said. “We are ripe for foreigners looking to buy good
agribusinesses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  