-- China and Taiwan to Form Equity Exchange as Relations Improve
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-13T08:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/china-and-taiwan-to-form-equity-exchange-as-relations-improve.html
China  and Taiwan plan to set up a
cross-strait equity exchange center in the mainland’s
southeastern province of Fujian as relations between the two
sides improve.  The center may be funded by 10 institutions including
China’s state-owned Xiamen Jinyuan Investment Group and a unit
of Taiwan’s  SinoPac Financial Holdings Co. (2890) , SinoPac Chief
Financial Officer Michael Chang said by phone today.  “It’s an exchange for junior shares, aiming to help early
stage or small companies in China to raise funds,” he said.  The announcement follows other signals of strengthening
links between the two sides. China and Taiwan can consider
starting military exchanges to ease concerns over military
security, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday,
citing a summary from a cross-strait non-governmental peace
forum.  Other funders of the equity-exchange center include Xiamen
Rural Commercial Bank, Guosen Securities Co. and  Citic
Securities Co. (6030) , China National Radio reported today, citing Wang
Juan, the center’s manager.  The plan is still at an early stage and SinoPac needs
Taiwanese financial regulator’s approval for the investment,
SinoPac’s Chang said.  “From SinoPac’s standpoint, we aim to help mid- to small
Taiwan companies in China to raise funds by equity or debt, as
it’s hard for Taiwanese companies to list A shares,” he said.
SinoPac is the only Taiwan company involved, and after the
project gets under way it plans to invite other businesses from
the island to join, according to Chang.  Six-Decade Division  China’s President Xi Jinping seeks to address a six-decade
division with Taiwan after forging closer economic ties.  China doesn’t object to trade ties between  Taiwan  and the
European Union, Hua Chunying, a Chinese foreign ministry
spokeswoman, said yesterday in a statement posted on the
ministry’s website. Hua was responding to the announcement that
the EU may start investment agreement discussions with the
island. Still, China rejects official relationships between the
two parties, she said.  Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-jeou, whose approval rating has
fallen to below 10 percent, has called for boosting political
trust with China through closer communication.  Economic Growth  Improved ties with China has helped bolster Taiwan’s
economic growth as tourist spending surged and trade increased
under Ma’s administration. Ma, who came to power in 2008, must
balance improved relations with concerns that the mainland would
dominate its smaller neighbor.  “After these five years of effort, the Taiwan Strait today
has become one of the most peaceful waterways and most
prosperous passageways in Asia,” according to Ma’s National Day
address on his website. “The two sides should utilize frequent
contacts and interaction to boost political trust, and should
continue expanding and deepening exchanges in a variety of
fields to further the people’s welfare.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  