-- Copper Supply Glut Seen Tripling as Prices Sink 10%: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n ,   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-10-14T13:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/copper-supply-glut-seen-tripling-as-prices-sink-10-commodities.html
The worldwide glut of copper supply
is poised to almost triple in 2014, driving prices to the lowest
in at least three years at a time when the International
Monetary Fund says economic growth will be weaker than forecast.  The surplus will reach a 13-year high of 272,000 metric
tons, according to data from Barclays Plc and the International
Copper Study Group in Lisbon. Codelco and  Freeport-McMoRan (FCX) 
Copper & Gold Inc., the biggest producers, are among those
scheduled to add  supply  next year. The metal will drop as low as
$6,450 a ton in 2014, or 10 percent less than last week’s close,
the median of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  New mines or expansions to existing pits from Mongolia to
Indonesia to  Chile  will boost output as producers respond to
prices that more than tripled in the past decade. Shortages
occurred in seven of the past 10 years as the Chinese economy
expanded almost sixfold. Mining companies are finally catching
up just as growth in China, the world’s second-largest economy
and consumer of two in every five tons, is projected to be the
lowest in almost a quarter century.  “We’ve got enough of a surplus to keep prices under
pressure,” said  Robin Bhar , an analyst at Societe Generale SA
in London who has covered metals for about 25 years. “You’re
going to have to see demand really surprise, which I don’t see
given the economic environment, to knock those expectations
seriously off course.”  Nickel Surplus  Copper fell 8.7 percent to $7,243.25 on the London Metal
Exchange this year, tumbling into a bear market in April. The
LMEX index of six industrial metals dropped 9.3 percent because
of surpluses in aluminum and nickel. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities declined 1.7 percent, the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 14 percent and the
Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.6 percent.  Production will jump 5.1 percent this year and 4.9 percent
in 2014, twice the pace in 2012, according to London-based
Barclays. Growth in demand will slow to 4.1 percent, from 4.8
percent in 2013, expanding the surplus from 94,000 tons.
Stockpiles in warehouses monitored by bourses in  London , New
York and  Shanghai  reached 934,654 tons in June, the most since
2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays’s prediction for a bigger copper surplus in 2014
contrasts with its forecasts for smaller gluts in aluminum,
nickel and zinc. Lead shortages will worsen and the deficit in
tin will be little changed, the bank says.  Costliest Mines  Copper producers may not need to curb output any time soon
because the costliest mines need about $6,600 to break even, or
almost 9 percent below prices now, according to data compiled by
Macquarie Group Ltd.  Orders to withdraw copper from LME-tracked warehouses,
known as  canceled warrants , rose fivefold this year, indicating
demand may be stronger than estimated. The orders reached a
record 375,425 tons in June and were last at 258,275 tons, still
seven times the average over the past decade, bourse data show.  Supply regularly gets disrupted by everything from strikes
to landslides. Freeport-McMoRan, based in Phoenix, lost about
125 million pounds (56,700 tons) of output in the second quarter
after halting work at its Grasberg mine in  Indonesia  because of
a tunnel collapse May 14. Rio Tinto Group’s $6.6 billion Oyu
Tolgoi project in Mongolia was delayed because of disagreements
with the government on funding.  “I’ve been to Asia recently and I see solid demand,”
Javier Targhetta, the senior vice president of marketing and
sales at Freeport-McMoRan said in an interview in London on Oct.
8. “I’ve seen a very solid market in China. The recovery of the
U.S. is a fact. There are promising signs in Europe.”  Manufacturing Index  A Chinese manufacturing index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics reached a six-month high in September. The
government’s broadest measure of credit rose more than forecast
in August, signaling that a rebound is strengthening.  Faster economic growth may not be enough to spur an
acceleration in the country’s  refined copper imports , which rose
4.8 percent from a year earlier in August, according to customs
data.  Unwrought imports  climbed 16 percent from a year earlier
in September, reaching an 18-month high. Stockpiles held in
 China ’s bonded warehouses, separate to those tracked by the
Shanghai Futures Exchange, climbed 50,000 tons to 450,000 tons
in August, Maike Futures Brokerage Co. says.  That’s more than the 31,500 tons withdrawn from bourse-monitored depots in the past three months. Premiums that buyers
pay on top of the exchange price to secure immediate supply fell
in September, an indication more metal was available, according
to Standard Chartered Plc.  Five Years  Codelco, owned by Chile’s government, plans to invest $4
billion to $5 billion annually in the next five years to boost
output, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Keller said in a Oct. 7
interview in London. The Santiago-based company’s $3 billion
Mina Ministro Hales is scheduled to open later this year,
eventually adding another 183,000 tons to global supply.  Mina Ministro Hales and Chinalco Mining Corp.’s Toromocho
mine in  Peru  will be among the 10 biggest capacity additions
next year, adding a combined 811,000 tons of output, according
to Morgan Stanley.  Freeport-McMoRan will report a 15 percent drop in profit to
$2.59 billion this year, the mean of nine analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg shows. Shares of the Phoenix-based
company, which gets 79 percent of its revenue from copper, fell
2.2 percent to $33.44 in New York trading since the start of
January. They will reach $36.94 in 12 months, according to the
average of 16 analyst forecasts.  Processing Ore  Aurubis AG, Europe’s largest producer of refined copper,
cut its annual profit forecast on Aug. 13, citing price swings
and weaker European demand. The Hamburg-based company should be
able to charge mining companies more for processing ore next
year as mine output expands, CEO Peter Willbrandt said in an
interview in London on Oct. 7. Higher returns for smelters
worldwide may accelerate the surge in supply.  “As you get into the end of the year, the surplus will
become more apparent,” said Gayle Berry, an analyst at Barclays
in London who has covered metals for more than a decade.
“Things are looking better from a demand perspective but you
look at supply, copper mine supply is growing at the fastest
that it has in almost a decade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  