-- Czechs to Push for Nuclear Future Amid Low Power Prices
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-10-14T21:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/czechs-to-push-for-nuclear-future-amid-low-power-prices.html
The Czech Republic aims to increase
the share of nuclear power in its energy mix even as neighboring
 Germany  plans to shut down all of its atomic plants and prices
of European electricity hover close to all-time lows.  The country’s new energy strategy categorizes nuclear power
as “crucial” for preserving energy security, Deputy Industry
Minister Pavel Solc said in an Oct. 9 interview conducted via e-mail. The strategy draft, subject to environmental assessment,
is slated for the  cabinet’s  approval early next year.  With two nuclear-power stations and a fleet of coal-fired
plants fed by lignite from local mines, the Czech Republic
exports as much as 20 percent of its electricity production.
Czechs will need to replace almost 3,500 megawatts of capacity
by 2030, which will come mostly in the form of new atomic power,
the deputy minister said.  “We’re unable to make up for it with renewable sources or
increased energy efficiency,” Solc said. “By 2030, our export
potential will completely disappear.”  CEZ AS, the largest Czech utility that operates the
country’s two atomic stations, has twice delayed choosing the
supplier of two new units at the Temelin power plant. It’s
asking the government to provide guarantees on the purchase
price of power to make the $10 billion project economically
feasible. The state holds a 70 percent stake in the company.  CEZ shares fell 2.3 percent to 472 koruna today in Prague.
The stock has lost 31 percent of its value this year.  Choice Delayed  U.S.-based Westinghouse Electric Co. and a Russian-Czech
group led by Rosatom Corp. are vying for the Temelin contract.
CEZ delayed the decision until the end of 2014 at the earliest.  Germany chose to exit nuclear energy in 2011 following the
tsunami-induced disaster in Fukushima,  Japan .  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  ordered the shutdown of all of the country’s 17 reactors
by 2022. Eight have already closed.  Power for next-year delivery in Germany, where CEZ sells
part of its output, has dropped 15 percent this year and touched
a record-low 36.20 euros ($49) per megawatt-hour in August,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CEZ would need power prices to recover to about 80 euros a
megawatt hour to make Temelin a break-even project, according to
Patrick Hummel, a Zurich-based utilities analyst at UBS AG who
recommends selling the utility’s shares.  “It shows you how value-destroying the project would be if
there isn’t sufficient financial support provided,” Hummel said
in an Oct. 8 telephone interview. New reactors in Europe are
unprofitable “by a mile, and we don’t see that changing any
time soon.”  Profitable Investment  CEZ management can’t make the decision on Temelin until the
state long-term energy strategy is in place, spokeswoman Barbora
Pulpanova said Oct. 10 by e-mail. The company needs to ensure
the investment is profitable, which at this point isn’t the case
without state aid, she said.  The Czech government is taking part in the European Union’s
discussion on how to fix the power market, which is keeping
electricity prices “artificially low,” Solc said. Even so, the
energy strategy draft relies on nuclear energy rather than
smaller power sources to avoid excessive dependence on fossil
fuel imports.  “The problem with nuclear power is it lacks flexibility,”
UBS’s Hummel said. “It’s the dinosaur in the energy system. It
just doesn’t fit in the future energy mix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  