-- Death Jostles Sex, Narcissism as Vienna Art Comes to U.K.
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-10-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/death-jostles-sex-narcissism-as-vienna-art-comes-to-u-k-.html
As you would expect in a survey of
Viennese art in the era of  Sigmund Freud  and  Gustav Klimt ,
narcissism, love, sex, neurosis and death are all prominent.  In “Facing the Modern: The Portrait in Vienna 1900” at
 London ’s National Gallery, an entire room is devoted to the grim
reaper. There are death masks of such crucial figures as Mahler
and Klimt, plus the latter’s pictures of Ria Munk, a rich young
woman who was unhappy in love and shot herself in 1911.  The artist painted her on her deathbed, and posthumously
against his trademark mosaic of brilliant decoration. The second
picture was left unfinished on Klimt’s own demise in 1918.  Klimt,  Egon Schiele  and Oskar Kokoschka are represented by
major works. Among the showstoppers is Schiele’s “The Family
(Self Portrait),” painted shortly before the artist’s early
death at the age of 28, also in 1918. That was the year that
brought down the curtain on Vienna’s brief period as the capital
of the multi-ethnic, multi-faith empire.  In the late 19th and early 20th century it had been a city
in which the cultured Jewish population of the city took leading
roles as artists, sitters and patrons.  The final room includes Klimt’s “Portrait of Amalie
Zuckerkandl” (1917-18). Some 25 years later, the glamorous and
intelligent subject was murdered in a Nazi extermination camp.  Mortality is also to the fore in such works as Franz Eybl’s
mournful study of “The Artist Franz Wipplinger looking at a
Portrait of his Late Sister” from 1833 and the full-frontal
‘’Nude Self Portrait with Palette” that Richard Gerstl painted
before committing suicide by both hanging and stabbing himself.
(The reason was an unsuccessful romance with Schoenberg’s wife).  Love Rival  Gerstl (1883-1908) emerges as a wild and erratically
brilliant painter who killed himself just as he was attaining
artistic maturity. Even stranger -- as a painter -- was his
rival in love: Arnold Schoenberg. The great master of twelve-tone music also attempted a career in art, saying that his
complete lack of training and conventional skill was an asset.  This was an idea nearly a century ahead of its time. In the
1980s and 1990s, his clumsy pictures, verging on outsider art,
might have gone down well. While fellow composer Gustav Mahler
kindly bought one work, Schoenberg’s foray into painting failed.  The survey begins with early 19th century works, and
contains less familiar names such as Anton Romako (1832-1889)
and Hans Makart (1840-1885): two Viennese virtuosos of the brush
who ventured boldly miles beyond the boundaries of good taste.  Crash Course  Walking through “Facing the Modern” amounts to a crash
course in a century of Austrian art. Because the rooms are hung
thematically, it also makes the chronology confusing and causes
some uncomfortable juxtapositions: as if a bit of Pre-Raphaelite
schmaltz were to be hung next to a  Francis Bacon .  Putting artists from different eras together makes a point:
even Viennese radicals were conservative. Klimt spent the first
half of his career as an academic 19th century painter;
Schiele’s expressionism relied on old-fashioned draughtsmanship.  Elsewhere, cubism and pure abstraction were appearing. In
Vienna, the brush-strokes might get looser and the backgrounds
jazzier, yet art continued to be mainly about pictures of
people. Actually, that is its fascination.  “Facing the Modern: The Portrait in Vienna 1900” is at
the National Gallery, London from Oct 9 to Jan 12, Sponsored by
Credit Suisse.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,  John
Mariani  on wine,  Lance Esplund  on  New York  art and  James Russell 
on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 