-- Dimon Joins El-Erian, Jain Warning Against U.S. Default
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-10-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/dimon-joins-el-erian-jain-warning-against-u-s-default.html
The U.S. shouldn’t risk defaulting
on its debt because doing so would wreak havoc in the world’s
economy and financial markets, said the heads of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG and Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The United States cannot default and, in my opinion, will
not default,” JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said
yesterday during a panel discussion at a financial industry
conference in Washington. “It would ripple through the global
economy in a way you couldn’t possibly understand.”  “When push comes to shove there will be an agreement,”
Pimco CEO Mohamed El-Erian told the same event. A default would
“trigger failures” in collateral markets and “be a big blow
to the economy,” he said.  The warnings from the leaders of modern finance echoed
those made by international economic policy makers also meeting
in the U.S. capital and came as lawmakers said they lack a clear
plan for preventing a default and ending the government shutdown
that’s now entering a 13th day. U.S. borrowing authority lapses
on Oct. 17 unless the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling is
lifted.  “It’s unthinkable that an agreement won’t be found,”
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  told reporters in
Washington. “It’s quite obvious that if this situation were to
last a long time, this would be negative, very negative for the
 U.S. economy  and the world economy.”  ‘Utterly Catastrophic’  The economy has been gaining strength and a default now
could reverse that progress, Dimon said. “Please, let’s not
shoot ourselves in the foot,” he said. Deutsche Bank co-CEO
Anshu Jain called the prospect of even a small default “utterly
catastrophic.”  JPMorgan is the largest U.S. bank by assets and based in
New York. Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, is the biggest in
 Germany . Pimco of  Newport Beach , California, manages the world’s
biggest bond fund.  “There isn’t life beyond default,” Jain said during the
panel discussion with Dimon at the conference held by the
 Institute of International Finance , an industry group. “This
would be a very rapidly spreading, fatal disease.”  The potential consequences are so unfathomable that Jain
said he couldn’t offer the audience any meaningful
recommendations on how to react.  Incurable Problems  “Europe was paralyzed at the possibility of an Italian
default, which was a 2 trillion euro economy,” Jain said,
referring to the continent’s debt crisis. A U.S. default would
be far worse with incurable legal problems, he said. “You’re
now talking about the underpinnings of finance,” Jain said.  Upsetting collateral transactions would make fallout from
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. look “not as
bad” in comparison, said El-Erian. Pimco still holds short-term
Treasuries because it anticipates a pact, he said.  The  Reserve Bank  of India is also holding on to its
reserves of Treasuries even though  U.S. debt  has become “mildly
less attractive,” Governor  Raghuram Rajan  said yesterday.  The consequences of default “would be absolutely
disastrous, considering the role of the  U.S. dollar ,” said
 Baudouin Prot , chairman of Paris-based BNP Paribas SA. “I don’t
believe for one second that this scenario will occur.”  Even as default looms, Jain said the dollar’s status as the
world’s reserve currency is here to stay.  “There’s no alternative” and there won’t be one for at
least a decade, he said. Jain said he would have liked to have
seen the euro occupy more of that role. “The European crisis
over the last two or three years has set that back,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  