-- Dollar Drops on Political Impasse; Volatility Falls
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-10-14T21:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/dollar-falls-against-yen-on-debt-impasse-aussie-slides.html
The dollar fell versus 11 of its 16
most-traded counterparts as U.S. lawmakers struggled to resolve
a political impasse over raising the nation’s debt limit and
ending a partial shutdown of the government.  The greenback erased its first loss in five days versus the
yen after President  Barack Obama  summoned congressional leaders
to the White House and Democratic and Republican Senate leaders
said they’re optimistic about reaching an agreement.  New
Zealand ’s dollar gained after data showed  home prices  rose to a
record. A measure of  volatility  among Group of Seven nations’
currencies fell to the lowest since January.  “The debt issues are dominating people’s thinking,” Brad Bechtel, the managing director at Faros Trading LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut , said in a phone interview. “The market’s not
willing to really bet too heavily on the outcome until they
really see the news.”  The dollar was little changed at 98.57 yen at 5 p.m. New
York time after weakening earlier as much as 0.5 percent to
98.08 yen. It rose 1.9 percent in the previous four days. The
greenback fell 0.1 percent to $1.3561 per euro. Japan’s currency
declined 0.1 percent to 133.67 per euro after weakening to
133.60 on Oct. 11, the least since Sept. 26.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the
currency’s performance against a basket of 10 leading
counterparts, slid as much as 0.23 percent, the biggest intraday
drop since Oct. 2, to 1,010.07 before trading at 1,011.21, down
0.12 percent.  Lower Volatility  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7  Volatility Index , a gauge of
price swings, touched 8.21 percent, the lowest intraday level
since Jan. 23. The gauge has dropped from this year’s high of
11.96 percent on June 24. The 2013 average is 9.47 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, climbed versus
all of its 16 most-traded counterparts after the Real Estate
Institute of New Zealand said a  home-price index  rose 0.8
percent in September from a month earlier to an all-time high.  The kiwi gained 0.4 percent to 83.57 U.S. cents and touched
83.81 cents, the highest level since Sept. 24.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch
McConnell  said they’re optimistic about ending the government
shutdown and preventing the nation from breaching the debt
ceiling. Without an agreement, U.S. borrowing authority lapses
Oct. 17. The federal government would start missing payments
sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Risk appetite improved, and stocks rose. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index advanced 0.4 percent after declining 0.7
percent earlier.  Force Deal  “Obviously, the closer you get to Oct. 17, it’s something
that can force the deal and get more optimistic comments,”  Alan Ruskin , Deutsche Bank AG’s New York-based global head of Group
of 10 foreign exchange, said in a telephone interview. “The
dollar’s been recovering against the yen. Risk assets will
probably do OK in this scenario.”  Obama postponed his meeting with congressional leaders,
first scheduled for 3 p.m.  Washington  time, to “allow leaders
in the Senate time to continue making important progress”
toward a deal, according to a White House statement.  “It continues to weigh on the dollar,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in London. “If we see some degree of improvement, then
that will provide some support for the dollar.”  Forecasts Lowered  The wrangling in Washington led strategists to cut their
forecasts for the dollar for a third straight month in October,
the longest stretch this year.  From Credit Suisse Group AG to  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , firms
have lowered the median estimate for the U.S. currency versus
the euro, pound, Canadian dollar, Swiss franc and Japanese yen
by an average 1.2 percent in October, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That follows a 1.7 percent reduction last month, which was
the biggest this year, and a 1.2 percent cut in August.  The dollar declined 1.2 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-country currencies. The euro gained 1 percent, and
the yen slipped 0.4 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $34 billion, from $35 billion on Oct. 11, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-Chinese-yuan  exchange rate  amounted to $9.5 billion, the largest
share of trades at 28 percent. Options on the dollar-yen rate
totaled $5.8 billion, or 17 percent.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 445 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading was
62 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in  New York  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  