-- Congolese Plans to Tax Miners in Francs to Cut Dollar Use
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-14T14:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/drc-plans-to-tax-miners-in-francs-to-cut-dollar-use.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo Prime
Minister Matata Ponyo said his government plans to tax mining
companies in local currency in an attempt to “drastically
reduce” dollarization in the economy within three years.  The DRC franc has been stable for four years and “we don’t
have any justification for people to pay taxes in U.S.
dollars,” Ponyo said in an interview on Oct. 11 in Washington,
speaking through an interpreter. “We are in the process to de-dollarize our economy and bring people to use the local currency
more and more.”  Hyper-inflation in the 1990s, when consumer prices rose
almost  10,000 percent , prompted the government to collect taxes
in dollars. The DRC franc has been little changed against the
dollar this year and Ponyo said the government is targeting
“exceptional” inflation of less than 1 percent. The economy is
more than 50 percent dollarized, the prime minister said.  The economy may expand about 8 percent this year and more
in 2014, led by the  mining industry , Ponyo said. The government
is also seeking to increase investments in agriculture and is
working with experts from  Harvard University  to set up “agro-industry centers,” he said.  New Mining  Congo’s government is seeking to increase revenue from the
recent expansion of its mining industry. Mining and oil account
for 32 percent of the country’s economic output, according to
the central bank. The government plans to raise its free stake
in new mining projects to 15 percent from 5 percent, Chantal
Bashizi, the vice president of the commission revising the
mining code, said Oct. 10.  The IMF lowered Congo’s economic growth projections this
year to 6.2 percent from 8.1 percent. The economy may grow 10.5
percent next year and 10.3 percent in 2015, according to  IMF
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.   The Washington-based lender canceled a $532 million loan to
Congo late last year after the African country failed to publish
sufficient detail about a 2011 asset sale by state-owned copper
miner Gecamines to a company associated with Israeli billionaire
Dan Gertler.  Gecamines is currently in talks with Gertler’s Fleurette
Group about selling its 20 percent stake in Kamoto Copper Co.,
which is controlled by Glencore Xtstrata Plc and may become
Congo’s biggest copper producer next year.  Full Transparency  “The will of President Kabila is that we should have full
transparency in the mining sector, in the hydrocarbon sector and
in the forestry sector,’ the prime minister said, referring to
Congolese President  Joseph Kabila . ‘‘There is a decree that I
have signed that clearly states that there is no sale in the
mining sector that can be undertaken without abiding by’’
regulatory rules, he said.  Transparency International  ranked the country the 168th
most corrupt nation in the world out of 183 countries surveyed
in its 2011 annual report.  Ponyo, an economist who was Congo’s finance minister before
becoming premier in 2012, said the government has tried its best
‘‘to resolve the issue for which the program was interrupted.’’
The government aims ‘‘to restart with the  International Monetary
Fund ,’’ he said.  The government will wait for the outcome of a national
dialogue that may lead to a cabinet reshuffle before deciding
whether to submit a request for an IMF program, Ponyo said,
declining to speculate whether he would remain prime minister.
‘‘This is a delicate question that is for the head of state’’ to
answer, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in  Washington  at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  