-- ECB Bank Check to Be Different From Previous, Coeure Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-10-13T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/ecb-bank-check-to-be-different-from-previous-tests-coeure-says.html
The European Central Bank’s upcoming
check of European bank balance sheets will cast “three pairs of
eyes” over lenders’ books to ensure credibility, Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said.  “The way we will do it next year will be very different
from the way that the previous two stress tests were done,”
Coeure said at an event in  Washington  yesterday. “Any number
provided by the banks will first be checked by the national
supervisor, then there will be a second check at the European
level, in Frankfurt. And then there will be a third check by
independent auditors.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB is taking over supervision of
Europe’s lenders as part of a banking union that seeks to
prevent a repeat of the financial turmoil caused by the
sovereign debt crisis. Before they assume responsibility next
year, the ECB will perform a three-stage health check on the
system that culminates with a test simulating stress scenarios.  The balance-sheet assessment preceding the stress tests
will be “a way to dispel the notion that assets are worth much
less than what you can see,” Coeure said. “For that you need
clarity.”  Stress Tests  European lenders have had to undergo two stress tests since
2010, with eight banks failing the last round conducted by the
European Banking Authority in 2011 with a combined capital
shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion). ECB officials
have said the central bank shouldn’t take over supervising
lenders before bad loans on balance sheets across the region are
dealt with.  The ECB has pushed national governments to have money ready
when the results of the exercise are ready next year, if banks
can’t raise private capital themselves when shortfalls are
found. Coeure said the European Stability Mechanism, a bailout
fund, should be ready if states need assistance, a move which
would require governments to enter a formal aid program
monitored by European partners.  “What should be at least available is European support to
countries in the form of ESM lending, the way it has been done
in Spain,” Coeure said. “This works. It has been used in
Spain, so we know that it works. We also have to be sure this
comes after all other stakeholders have been involved, meaning
shareholders should be wiped out and there has to be a certain
amount of bail in also.”  Market Prospects  “Some banks may have to raise capital,” President Mario Draghi said in New York on Oct. 10. Still, “from what we see
today the situation is not bad. In the last month and a half
we’ve seen several banks capable of raising capital. So the
market prospects are way better than they were on the occasion
of the last stress tests two years ago.”  Draghi will present the methodology for the ECB’s bank
assessment on Oct. 23, Executive Board member Yves Mersch said
in an interview with the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung
published yesterday. The ECB will require the 130 largest banks
that it supervises directly to hold higher levels of capital
than they do now because of their systemic relevance, Mersch was
reported as saying.  Banks in Spain, Italy and Portugal face about 250 billion
euros ($338 billion) in potential losses on their business loans
over the next two years, the International Monetary Fund said on
Oct. 9, with about one fifth of combined corporate loans in the
three countries at risk of default. Bank lending overall in the
17-nation euro area has contracted for the past 16 months.  Council Vote  The Governing Council of the ECB, the central bank’s
highest decision-making body, may vote this week on how it will
proceed with the assessment. Officials have said so far that an
assessment to identify the riskiest portfolios will come first,
followed by an asset-quality review, and then stress tests.  “European banks are not loaded with toxic assets, they are
loaded with assets and loans that were granted at a time when
they were profitable, and that are not so profitable anymore
because the environment has changed,” Coeure said. “If we want
banks to be able to accompany the recovery, they have to be able
to structure their balance sheets in a way that creates room to
extend new loans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  