-- Merkel Faces Struggle on Coalition Talks Even After Her Victory
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-10-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/merkel-faces-struggle-on-coalition-talks-even-after-her-victory.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
confront a stiffening challenge to form a government this week
even after her record election victory as prospective coalition
partners raise demands to open official talks.  With the leadership of Germany’s Greens party already
casting doubt on negotiations with Merkel’s Christian
Democratic-led bloc, the  Social Democrats  are hardening in their
demand for a nationwide  minimum wage  of 8.50 euros ($11.51) an
hour. Merkel’s faction will hold a second round of exploratory
talks with the SPD today in Berlin and with the environmental
Greens tomorrow.  “It’s clear above all that there won’t be a government
with the SPD” without an obligatory minimum wage, SPD General-Secretary Andrea Nahles told  Bild am Sonntag  in an interview
yesterday. “Our members won’t accept anything else.”  The difficulty for Merkel of navigating coalition talks
belies winning the biggest election victory since German
reunification. The vote three weeks ago put Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union  and the Bavarian CSU  five seats short  of an
absolute majority, rendering any negotiating party an
overshadowed junior partner.  After CDU, CSU and SPD negotiators met for a three-hour
meeting on Oct. 4 to set the tone, the 21 interlocutors are
scheduled to reconvene at 4 p.m. today in central Berlin to
tackle differences on issues such as labor policy and the
 European debt crisis .  Taxes, Wages  While SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  last week signaled a
softening on the party’s demand to raise taxes, the ultimatum on
the minimum wage underscores the difficulty of bridging
differences. Merkel rejected a statutory minimum wage throughout
the campaign, preferring an industry-by-industry approach that
allows wages to be set by collective bargaining.  Over the weekend, Merkel reiterated her support for
industry-determined wages, showing no hint of compromise.  “The government has introduced branch-specific minimum
wages for more than 4 million employees in the last four
years,” the chancellor said  in a podcast  ahead of a speech
she’ll give on Oct. 16 to the IG-BCE labor union.  In the Bild interview, the SPD’s Nahles raised the stakes
and said today’s meeting should be the deciding moment.  Merkel’s bloc “shouldn’t assume that there will
automatically be a third round of exploratory talks,” Nahles
said. “We need concrete indications already on Monday on
whether entering coalition talks would make sense.”  Terms of a Deal  Still, most signals pointed to the likelihood of an
eventual agreement between Merkel and the SPD for a “grand
coalition,” reprising a government of the rival factions that
Merkel oversaw in her first term between 2005 and 2009.  CDU and CSU party officials were preparing an offer to the
SPD that would involve a minimum wage, limits on part-time jobs
and higher pensions,  Leipziger Volkszeitung  reported. In return,
the SPD would reject jointly issued euro bonds, the newspaper
said, citing unidentified party officials.  Some 52 percent of Germans support a grand coalition, an
Emnid poll published in Bild yesterday showed, while only 25
percent back a government with the Greens. Hamburg’s SPD mayor,
Olaf Scholz, a party vice-chairman, joined members of his bloc
who say that a grand coalition is the best option to confront
 Germany ’s challenges over the coming years.  ’’Voters have given us a mandate to make something out of
the election result,’’ he told  Der Spiegel .  SPD Leverage  The SPD will convene a party meeting of some 200 delegates
on Oct. 20 to decide on whether to proceed with any talks. Any
coalition agreement that the parties reach in the weeks after
would then have to put to an SPD member vote, a prospect that
gives the party’s negotiators leverage with Merkel.  The chancellor told lawmakers from her party last week that
she wants clarity on coalition building by Oct. 22, the first
day that the new lower house, or Bundestag, meets.  While Nahles last month raised the possibility that
coalition talks could last until January, Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble , a CDU member, said Germany could have a new
government in a about month, sooner than expected.  “We could have a new government around mid-November,”
Schaeuble told reporters Oct. 12 in  Washington  during meetings
of the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank .  Meanwhile, Green party leaders expressed skepticism about a
coalition with Merkel following exploratory talks between the
groups on Oct. 10. Winfried Kretschmann, the Green premier of
the southwestern state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, said the next day
that such a coalition was “not very likely.”  “It would be an enormous challenge to shoulder,”
Kretschmann told reporters after a session of the upper house of
parliament, or Bundesrat, Oct. 11. “That’s why I think it’s not
very likely that black-green will happen,” he said, using terms
for Germany’s color-coded political factions.  Merkel’s CDU/CSU won 311 seats out of 631 in the Bundestag,
requiring her to form a coalition to have a majority. The SPD
has 193, while the Greens won 63. The anti-capitalist Left Party
has 64 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  