-- FDIC Says China Among Countries Near Deals on Bank-Failure Path
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/fdic-says-china-among-nations-nearing-deals-on-bank-failure-path.html
China , Switzerland, Germany and
 Japan  are among nations close to reaching arrangements with U.S.
regulators to ease the dismantling of failed banks, said Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg.  U.S. regulators are working with German and Swiss
counterparts on joint white papers similar to agreements already
in place with the U.K. for how banks governed by multiple
jurisdictions could be unwound by their host nations, Gruenberg
said in remarks prepared for a speech yesterday in Washington.
The FDIC will secure memorandums of understanding on bank
resolutions with China and Japan soon, he said.  “It is critical that home and host jurisdictions
understand well the approach to resolution of their counterpart
and work together to develop a cooperative approach,” he said.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act empowered the FDIC to seize a firm
and dismantle it if regulators think a bankruptcy would pose a
significant threat to the financial system. This resolution
authority hasn’t been tested, and Gruenberg said his agency will
disclose a full description of its approach by year-end --
opening the idea to public comment.  Germany  and Switzerland share the U.S. preference for a so-called single point of entry, in which the host nation takes
over a failed bank’s holding company, imposes losses on
shareholders and lets healthy subsidiaries stay open. The
approach depends on long-term debt held in the parent to absorb
losses and capitalize a healthy bridge company, Gruenberg said.
The agency is consulting with the Federal Reserve on a future
rule to set a minimum.  Simulation Exercises  U.S. regulators will run simulation exercises with U.K.
counterparts this year and in 2014, Gruenberg said.  “Nearly 70 percent of the on- and off-balance sheet assets
of our major institutions are held in the U.K,” he said.
“There is no close second.”  Art Murton, the FDIC official in charge of planning for
resolutions, and Bank of England Deputy Governor Paul Tucker
said on Oct. 12 that the U.S. system is ready to handle a big-bank collapse.  “I think U.S. authorities could do it today -- and I mean
today,” said Tucker, who has worked with U.S. regulators on the
cross-border hurdles to taking down an international firm. “A
global financial system will not survive if we don’t crack this
problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 