-- Firstmac Offers Super Funds Cheaper Home Loans Amid RBA Caution
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-13T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/firstmac-offers-super-funds-cheaper-home-loans-amid-rba-caution.html
Firstmac Ltd., an Australian lender
with about A$5 billion ($4.73 billion) of mortgages, will offer
home loans to self-managed superannuation funds, undercutting
some local banks amid a central bank warning against a loosening
of lending standards.  The non-bank lender, which issued A$11 billion of mortgage-backed debt in the last 10 years, plans to offer SMSFs a 4.99
percent variable rate from today through its website
 loans.com.au , according to Michael Corkill, a spokesman for the
Brisbane, Queensland-based company.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  lends
to pension funds at a 5.98 percent variable rate, the bank’s
website  shows .  Households could be taking financial risks by investing
retirement funds in property, the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
cautioned in  minutes  from its Sept. 3 meeting, adding it would
closely monitor the development. Australian  home prices  surged
to a record in September, RP Data-Rismark indexes show, as
buyers capitalized on record-low  interest rates .  “Price bubbles usually occur where there is excessive
leverage and speculation,” Marie Mortimer, managing director at
loans.com.au, said in an e-mail. “SMSF borrowers typically have
a lower loan-to-value ratio and are investing for their
retirement, rather than rampant speculation. Low interest rates
may cause prices to rise in the future, but it is not currently
a problem.” Loans.com.au is an online brand of Firstmac.  Pension Funds  SMSFs, which have between one and four members, together
managed A$506 billion as at June 30, making them the largest
component of Australia’s A$1.6 trillion retirement savings
system. SMSFs can borrow to invest in a range of assets
including property.  Pension funds that take a A$150,000 loan from Firstmac will
pay A$970 upfront to cover legal, valuation and settlement fees,
Corkill said. Westpac charges A$1,500, plus legal costs for its
SMSF loans, its website shows.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  offers home loans to SMSFs
borrowing A$200,000 or more at a 6.4 percent variable rate, plus
an establishment fee of A$1,600, Tracy Hicks, a company
spokeswoman said by e-mail on Oct. 11. Discounts are offered on
a case-by-case basis, she said.  Coran Lill, a spokesman for BT Financial Group, Westpac’s
wealth management arm, wasn’t immediately able to comment on the
bank’s lending rates for SMSFs when contacted last week.
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  individually assesses
loan rates for SMSFs based on the size of the fund and the
extent of the relationship with the borrower, Stephen Ries, a
spokesman for the bank, said by phone on Oct. 11.  Spokespeople at National Australia Bank Ltd. weren’t
immediately able to provide information on lending rates when
contacted last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  