-- French Fume Over Speed Traps That Cut Hollande Budget Gap
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-10-14T15:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/french-fume-over-speed-traps-that-cut-hollande-budget-gap.html
French drivers call it “la
guirlande de noel” -- “the Christmas wreath” -- but it
heralds anything but good tidings.  Near the town of  Saint-Julien -en-Genevois, on the Swiss
border, there’s an automatic radar detector that emits a bright
flash like a sparkling Christmas light each time it catches a
speeder. And it nabs a lot of them: More than 250,000 in 2011
and 2012, according to French motoring magazine  Auto-Plus .  “These radars are just cash machines to fill state
coffers,” said Laurent Hoff, a 39-year-old engineer who has
been “flashed” twice by the wreath while driving his Renault
Scenic minivan above the 50 kilometer-per-hour (30-miles-per-hour) speed limit. The damage: 90 euros ($122) in fines and two
points on his driver’s license.  Like Hoff, many French drivers say it’s unfair that they’re
getting flashed -- from the light of a camera that records the
license-tag numbers of offenders -- ever more frequently. In the
10 years since the speed traps were introduced by former
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  (during his tenure as interior
minister), their number has increased to 4,200 on autoroutes,
two-lane highways, and secondary roads across the country.  In meeting their original goal of cutting traffic
fatalities and countering  France ’s reputation for tolerating
wine drinking and reckless driving, the speed traps have been a
resounding success. French highway deaths fell below 3,700 last
year from about 8,000 in 2003, according to the  Interior
Ministry , which largely credits automatic radar for the change.  67,000 Stories  Some drivers, though, say the primary focus of the speed
traps is no longer road safety, but increasing revenue as
President  Francois Hollande  seeks to shore up state finances.
Automatic radar systems are  expected  to yield 800 million euros
in fines next year, up from 453 million euros in 2007. The speed
traps will account for more than half of the total driving and
parking fines in France in 2014, according to the  Finance
Ministry . The government aims to trim the total budget shortfall
to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product next year from 4.1
percent this year and 4.8 percent in 2012.  The growing anger over the speed traps has spurred the
motorist lobbying group “40 millions d’automobilistes” to set
up a website called  “raconte-moi ton radar,”  or “tell me
about your radar.” The site has gathered 67,000 stories from
drivers detailing why they felt trapped after being flashed. The
site has anointed the “Top 10” radar locations and has a map
showing those it deems  most hazardous . Some 10 percent of the
stories concern the Saint Julien “wreath.”  Rebel Cops  Even some police are starting to reconsider the wisdom of
the speed traps. Two officers from Lyon were suspended this
month after they were  filmed  by a French news channel covering
up a radar device. The pair were seeking to highlight what they
say is pressure on cops to continually increase the number of
traffic citations they issue, according to Gabriel Versini-Bullara, an attorney for one of the officers, a police union
representative whose name wasn’t made public.  Securite Routiere, the traffic-regulation agency, defends
the speed traps. The department says the radar detectors are
located in areas that are accident-prone or where speed is the
main cause of accidents, and that they continue to be effective
in saving lives.  The speed traps became a focus of last year’s presidential
campaign after Marine Le Pen, the candidate of the anti-euro
National Front, pledged to end the installation of new radars.
The current policy, she said, amounts to “hunting for
motorists” simply to raise funds for a poorly governed state.  Election Win  The National Front won a local by-election yesterday in the
town of Brignoles, a warning to rivals that the party may be
turning into a force for the dissatisfaction of a population
grappling with the highest unemployment in 14 years.  The leading candidates in last year’s presidential
election, Hollande and Sarkozy, responded to Le Pen with a
pledge that money from speed-camera fines would be entirely
allocated to road safety.  Frank Arroua isn’t convinced. He was driving his VW Golf on
the A6 highway near the Paris suburb of Corbeil-Essonnes, where
the speed limit drops from 110 kph to 90 kph. When he had slowed
to 95 kph he saw the telltale flash, and four weeks later he got
a 45-euro fine in the mail.  “I got flashed for driving only five kilometers above the
speed limit,” said the clothing store manager. “It creates a
feeling of injustice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  