-- Given Imaging Gains to Year High as Buy Calls Increase
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-13T14:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/given-imaging-gains-to-year-high-as-buy-calls-increase.html
Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , the Israeli
maker of swallowable cameras, gained to the highest in almost a
year in  Israel  after its shares in  New York  rallied on new
analysts’ buy ratings.  Shares of Yokneam, Israel-based Given climbed 2.6 percent
to 71.17 shekels, or $20.07, the highest since Nov. 27 at the
close in Tel Aviv. The gain follows the New York shares’ advance
to a two-year high of $20.46 on Oct. 11.  SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc.  initiated  coverage of Given
with a buy rating, citing an expected ruling by the end of the
year from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for a pill used
to diagnose diseases when colonoscopies can’t be performed. The
PillCam Colon 2 has already been approved in  Japan  and  Europe .
Four of six analysts that cover Given rate the company the
equivalent of a buy, the highest level since February, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “My expectations are that they receive it in November,”
Bryan Brokmeier, an analyst at the Maxim Group LLC who rates the
stock buy, said in a telephone interview from New York on Oct.
11. “Investors aren’t giving Given enough credit for their
ability to hit commercial milestones.”  Shutdown Effect  The FDA’s “anticipated activities are subject to resource
constraints on the Agency due to the lapse in appropriations and
may change in the event of a protracted lapse period,” the
agency said on its  website . The FDA will continue drug and
device reviews which rely on fees, it said.  “For products that are in review, where the FDA is still
sort of actively evaluating FDA applications, those are being
delayed,” Jeremy Feffer, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
New York, said by phone on Oct. 11. “For those that that are
presumably in the later stages like this one should be because
they submitted almost a year ago, I don’t know if the shutdown
is going to have any sort of impact.”  Feffer, who has a buy rating on Given and estimates a 22
percent price increase in the next twelve months, expects the
FDA decision either later this month or in November. Maxim’s
Brokmeier also recommends investors buy the stock, and
anticipates a price gain to $23.  Given’s U.S.-traded shares had closed at an 89 cent premium
to those in Israel, the largest since June 25, reversing from a
discount. Shares in  Tel Aviv  gained 0.9 percent last week to
69.40 shekels, or $19.57.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the biggest Israeli
companies traded in New York rose 1.1 percent to 102, boosting
its weekly gain to 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  