-- Gold Advances Most in a Week on U.S. Government Shutdown Concern
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-10-14T18:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/gold-rebounds-from-three-month-low-as-u-s-debt-talks-drag-on.html
Gold advanced the most in a week as
U.S. lawmakers struggled to reach an accord on raising the
nation’s debt limit, increasing demand for the precious metal as
a haven.  President  Barack Obama  summoned the four congressional
leaders to the White House for talks to end a partial government
shutdown and prevent U.S. borrowing authority from lapsing in
three days. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he and
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  are closer to an agreement.
Bullion dropped to a three-month low last week on speculation
that lawmakers would reach an agreement to raise the debt
ceiling and end the shutdown.  “Demand for gold is on the rise as it’s not apparent
anymore that the parties will reach an agreement before the
deadline,”  Bart Melek , the head of commodity strategy at TD
Securities in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  Gold futures for December delivery added 0.7 percent to
settle at $1,276.60 at 1:37 p.m. on the Comex in  New York , the
biggest jump for a most-active contract since Oct. 7.  Physical Demand  “We’re seeing some quite good physical demand at these
levels,” Bernard Sin, head of currency and metal trading at
bullion refiner MKS (Switzerland) SA in Geneva, said by
telephone. “The U.S. is the main story, focusing on the
developments around the shutdown. Prices will continue to be
volatile.”  Gold is down 24 percent this year, heading for the first
annual drop since 2000, as some investors lost faith in the
metal as a store of value and on speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  will slow debt purchases. The U.S. government has been
partially shut since Oct. 1 after lawmakers failed to pass a
budget.  Silver futures for December delivery rose 0.4 percent to
$21.354 an ounce in New York.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery increased 0.6 percent to $1,383.50 an ounce.
Palladium futures for December delivery climbed 0.3 percent to
$715.25 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  