-- India Must Focus on Growth as Markets Stabilize, Kochhar Says
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/india-must-focus-on-growth-as-markets-stabilize-kochhar-says.html
India  must shift focus to reviving
economic growth led by investments after stability returned to
the nation’s currency and bond markets,  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ’s Chief
Executive Officer  Chanda Kochhar  said.  The steps taken by the Reserve Bank of India, including
those to roll back some of the previous liquidity tightening and
measures to lure inflows from overseas Indians have had a
cooling effect, she said in an interview in Washington D.C. The
economic slowdown is weighing on banks’ asset quality though it
isn’t bad enough to “create a big kind of havoc,” she said.  “Finally what we need to focus on is growth in the
country,” she said. “It’s the investment story that has fallen
off currently. What we really need is a much more conducive
environment.”  Raghuram Rajan, who began his term as the Reserve Bank of
India’s governor last month, has taken steps to boost dollar
supply and also eased some of the cash squeeze his predecessor
 Duvvuri Subbarao  imposed to support the rupee. As a result, the
local currency has rebounded 13 percent from a record low
reached in August. Rajan unexpectedly raised the benchmark
interest rate last month, threatening to delay recovery of the
economy from its  slowest pace  of growth in a decade.  The rupee traded at 61.08 a dollar on Oct. 11, compared
with an all-time low of 68.845 reached on Aug. 28. Ten-year
government bond yields have fallen 74 basis points from a five-year high of 9.23 percent reached on Aug. 19.  ‘Can’t Escape’  Data last week showed India’s industrial-output growth
slowed more than economists estimated in August as consumer
spending moderated, adding pressure on Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government to intensify efforts to revive the $1.8
trillion economy.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said last month it wants to see
more evidence of a recovery in the world’s largest economy
before tapering monthly bond purchases of $85 billion that have
buoyed  emerging markets .  “Any of this tapering would have an effect globally so
India cannot escape,” Kochhar said. “But I think the bigger
issue or the challenge lies in just bringing back growth in the
economy.”  Singh’s steps, ranging from fewer restrictions on foreign
investors to faster approvals for road and power projects, have
so far failed to stem a slowdown in growth. Rajan increased the
repurchase rate on Sept. 20 by a quarter-percentage point to 7.5
percent and signaled more in his pledge to cool inflation.  Project Approvals  Policy makers need to ensure “projects get approvals, that
the approvals are consistent, that they don’t get withdrawn
while the project is under implementation and so on,” Kochhar
said.  While the slowdown in growth will add to Indian banks’ bad
loans, she said the consumer portfolio, whether it’s mortgages
or car loans, has continued to be “very stable.”  Kochhar said ICICI Bank’s international loan business is
growing at “around 10 percent to 15 percent.”  The lender is looking at a Japanese yen-denominated bond
issuance “as the markets stabilize,” she said.  “We always like to make an issuance when the rates are at
their optimum,” Kochhar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  