-- Iran Nuclear Talks Pit UN Demands Against Atomic Treaty
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-10-13T14:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/iran-nuclear-talks-pit-un-demands-against-atomic-treaty.html
The political clash over  Iran’s
nuclear program  reflects an equally implacable legal conflict
between treaties that both sides say back up their positions.  Whether Iran has a right to enrich the uranium-235 isotope,
used to generate atomic power and make nuclear bombs, is at the
heart of a dispute that has raised the specter of war for the
past decade. The primacy of the question may be the only area of
agreement this week in the first round of international talks
since Hassan Rouhani was elected Iran’s president on a pledge to
resolve the dispute.  “The question of enrichment is at the center of the
negotiations themselves,” U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said Oct. 10 in  Kuala Lumpur . “I’ve personally had private
discussions with the foreign minister and I think it’s best to
keep those discussions private and personal at this point.”  Iran asserts the right to enrich uranium under the 1968
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, an interpretation rejected by
the  United Nations  Security Council, which says its demands take
precedence. While Iran says its nuclear work under international
monitors is peaceful, its past deceptions and alleged military
work have compelled the UN to order a suspension of enrichment.
It has imposed four rounds of sanctions aimed at undermining the
country’s economy and restricting its access to nuclear
technology.  Geneva Talks  “The obligations imposed by the UN Charter trump any
inconsistent treaty, including the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty,” Michael Glennon, an international-law professor at
 Tufts University  near  Boston , said in an e-mail. Challenging the
legality of the UN’s actions “at this point would be diplomatic
suicide,” said Glennon, who has advised UN atomic monitors and
the U.S. State Department.  The  Geneva talks , scheduled for Oct. 15 and 16, will
include  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia  and the U.K., in addition
to the U.S. The senior U.S. official will be Under Secretary of
State for Political Affairs Wendy Sherman and Iran will be
represented by Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif.  Iran, with enough enriched uranium to make 15 atomic
weapons if it chooses, has called the sanctions illegal. It
insists the 1968 NPT is the legal standard by which its rights
should be measured. The treaty allows signatories access to
peaceful nuclear technologies in exchange for a pledge they
won’t use that expertise to develop weapons.  Interpreting Treaty  Iran won’t ship out any of its stockpile of enriched
uranium, Abbas Araghchi, deputy foreign minister said on state
TV today.  “We will negotiate about the form, size and level of
enrichment, but transporting the enriched stockpile out of the
country is one of our red lines,” Araghchi said.  Other countries, including those that have had nuclear
weapons programs like  Brazil  and  South Africa , enrich uranium.
Iran denies its military had a role in nuclear work and
questions why it shouldn’t have the same rights.  Iran will put forward a three-step proposal at the talks,
according to the Iranian Students  News Agency . As part of the
plan, Iran would seek a commitment from the so-called P5+1 to
recognize the country’s right to enrich at the end of the talks.  “The essence of the matter is that many similarly situated
NPT non-nuclear weapon states have uranium-enrichment
programs,” Dan Joyner, a  University of Alabama  law professor
who wrote the book “Interpreting the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty,” said in an e-mail. “The UN resolutions calling for
Iran to cease  uranium enrichment  were ill-considered, and
arguably exceeded the authority of the Security Council.”  Rouhani, who negotiated a two-year suspension of Iran’s
nuclear work from 2003 to 2005, has invoked  Pakistan  and Brazil
as examples for Iran.  Economic Contraction  “The world did not want Pakistan to have an atomic bomb or
Brazil to have the fuel cycle, but Pakistan built its bomb and
Brazil has its fuel cycle, and the world started to work with
them,” he said in a 2004 speech to Iran’s Supreme Cultural
Revolution Council, according to  reproduced text  from his talk
published by  Brandeis University  in Waltham,  Massachusetts .
“Our problem is that we have not achieved either one, but we
are standing at the threshold.”  Brazil, with the world’s No. 5 uranium reserves, abandoned
decades of covert work in the  early 1990s  while keeping its
enrichment program for domestic energy needs. South Africa,
which had atomic devices during the apartheid era, has plans to
expand its  enrichment program, according to the  South African
 Institute  of International Affairs in Johannesburg.  Squeezed by sanctions,  Iran ’s economy, with the world’s No.
4 proven oil reserves, will contract 1.3 percent this year after
shrinking 1.9 percent in 2012, according to International
Monetary Fund estimates.  U.S. Suspicions  “From the perspective of southern countries, this looks
very much like U.S. suspicions trying to prevent southern
countries from developing nuclear technology,” said Jo-Ansie
van Wyk, who wrote a report in June called  South Africa’s
Nuclear Future  for the South African Institute of International
Affairs. “This looks discriminatory under the NPT.”  Article 4  of the NPT says that countries meeting their non-proliferation obligations have “the inalienable right” to all
peaceful nuclear technology. That right can be lifted by the UN
 Security Council .  “In the event of a conflict between the obligations of the
members of the United Nations under the present charter and
their obligations under any other international agreement, their
obligations under the present Charter shall prevail,” reads
 Article 103  of the UN rulebook. It came into force in 1945.  Competing Demands  “The gray area relates to whether Iran has met all its
obligations,” wrote Rajesh Basrur, author of “South Asia’s
Cold War: Nuclear Weapons and Conflict in Comparative
Perspective.”, in response to questions. “If it is determined
that it has, then, under the existing terms of the treaty, it
has the ‘right’ to enrich uranium.”  Sides negotiating this week in Geneva will have to maneuver
between competing demands putting both the UN’s integrity and
the NPT at stake.  The Security Council’s five permanent members want their
supremacy over international treaties recognized. That means
that at some point, Iran would again have to suspend enrichment.
Iran wants its “right” to enrich under the NPT acknowledged.
Something will have to give.  “It is highly regrettable that in recent years attempts
have been made in certain quarters to reinterpret NPT Article 4
to the detriment of the authority of the treaty,” said Tariq
Rauf, former head of verification and security-policy
coordination at the UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency in
Vienna. “Without this article there would not have been an
NPT.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  