-- Israel Shares Snap Five-Day Gain on U.S. Default Concern
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-10-13T13:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/israel-shares-advance-to-two-year-high-following-global-rally.html
Israel ’s benchmark stock index fell
for the first time in six days amid concern talks aimed at
averting a U.S. default will fail, threatening growth in the 
Middle East nation's biggest trading partner.  The benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  reversed earlier gains to slide
0.6 percent to 1,285.16 at the close in Tel Aviv, the biggest
drop since Oct. 3. Israel Corp. and  Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GZT)  led the
declines, retreating 2.8 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively.
The index climbed every day last week, adding 2.8 percent.  “The market is taking a breather today after recent gains,
especially since there is still some uncertainty regarding a
positive outcome in the U.S.,” Yaniv Pagot, chief strategist at
 Ramat Gan , Israel-based Ayalon Group Ltd., said in a telephone
interview today. “Investors are hesitant to increase exposure
even if most believe the U.S. issue will be resolved
positively.”  Senate leaders of both parties in the U.S. began
negotiations to prevent a default even as senators blocked
legislation and talks between the White House and House
Republicans hit an impasse. Democratic lawmakers said
yesterday that the lack of movement this weekend may have an
effect on financial markets tomorrow.  Last week’s advance in the TA-25 Index brought its gain
during October to 2 percent, as tension in the Middle East
receded. Syria agreed to hand over its chemical weapons and
allow arms inspections, while President Barack Obama and his
Iranian counterpart, Hassan Rouhani, spoke by phone on Sept. 27
in the highest-level encounter between leaders of the two
countries since 1979.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  