-- Japan Urges U.S. to End Deadlock as Aso Keeps Calm on Treasuries
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-10-13T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/japan-urges-u-s-to-end-deadlock-as-aso-keeps-calm-on-treasuries.html
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso
said it was up to the U.S. to resolve its debt impasse, not for
Japan to fret over its investment in Treasuries, as a deadlock
in  Washington  threatens to trigger a U.S. default.  “This isn’t a problem that can somehow be resolved by us
making a lot of noise,” Aso said in an interview on Friday in
Washington with Bloomberg TV. “There’s no other way than for
the U.S. government itself and the  U.S. Congress  to make an
effort to sort it out. It’s not a matter of what we should do,”
Aso, 73, said when asked if Japan needed to look at its  asset
allocation  in U.S. Treasuries.  With the U.S. set to run out of room to borrow more unless
Congress increases the debt ceiling by Oct. 17, Senate leaders
began negotiations to avert a U.S. default after talks between
the White House and  House Republicans  hit an impasse. Group of
20 central bankers and finance ministers called for “urgent
action” to break the deadlock after the  International Monetary
Fund  warned a failure by the U.S. to meet its debt obligations
would “seriously damage” the global economy.  Aso, who said last week that the Japanese government must
consider the impact of a default on its bond holdings, called
the U.S. standoff a “big issue” for Japan. “We hope very much
it will be sorted out by Oct. 17,” Aso said.  China Watching  Japan held $1.14 trillion worth of U.S. Treasuries at the
end of July, the second-largest foreign holder, according to
data from the Treasury Department.  China , with $1.28 trillion
worth, is the largest foreign creditor to the U.S. while the
 Federal Reserve  holds the most Treasuries, the data show.  China is paying great attention to the U.S. debt ceiling
issue, state-run Xinhua News cited Premier  Li Keqiang  as saying
last week.  The U.S. fiscal impasse is a good time for a “befuddled
world to start considering building a de-Americanized world,”
including a new international  reserve currency  to replace the
dollar, China’s official Xinhua News Agency said in an Oct. 12
English-language commentary written by Liu Chang.  If the U.S. fails to raise the borrowing cap by Oct. 17,
the government will have $30 billion plus incoming revenue to
pay its bills. It would start missing scheduled payments,
including benefits, salaries and interest, between Oct. 22 and
Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Rates on Treasury bills due on Nov. 29 rose 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 0.16 percent last week,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They were negative as
recently as Sept. 30. Yields on benchmark Treasury 10-year notes
rose four basis points on the week to 2.69 percent.  Democratic senators on Oct. 12 warned of potential stock
market declines Oct. 14 if Congress can’t reach an agreement.  External Risks  External rather than domestic challenges pose the biggest
risks to Japan’s economy, Aso said, citing the Oct. 17 deadline
and China, where he said “there are many difficulties now,”
without elaborating.  “Domestically, with the Olympics coming, sentiment seems
to be picking up,” Aso said. “So  consumer spending  will tend
to increase, and, in that sense, we will have to be constantly
mindful of foreign factors rather than domestic ones.”  Japan’s economy grew for a third straight quarter in the
three months through June, as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe aims to
end 15 years of deflation and revive the world’s third-biggest
economy.  Changes Promised  Having pushed through fiscal steps -- including 5 trillion
yen ($51 billion) in stimulus to counter a blow from a  sales-tax 
increase in April -- and unprecedented monetary easing that has
weakened the yen and boosted exporters’ profits, the challenge
for Abe is to overcome political opposition and implement
sweeping structural changes he promises to jump-start private-sector growth.  Encouraging businesses to start distributing their rising
profits and near-record cash by boosting wages and investment
will be key to sustaining the rebound. Without pay increases,
households will be hit by both higher taxes and living costs --
as energy bills climb after the yen slid about 21 percent the
past year against the dollar.  That so-called “third arrow” of Abenomics -- an overhaul
of regulations, tax and other policies -- is the most critical,
Aso said.  Japan  will lift a ban on outsourcing management of foreign
exchange reserves to private industry to improve efficiency, the
Nikkei newspaper said today, without attribution. The government
will let trust banks and private funds manage part of its $1.27
trillion reserves, while Treasuries and other stable assets will
remain the core investments, Nikkei said.  ‘Widespread Skepticism’  Japan’s plan to raise the sales tax to 8 percent in April
from 5 percent while boosting fiscal stimulus met “widespread
skepticism” at the G-20 meeting, according to Chinese Deputy
Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao .  It would be dangerous for Japan to rely on monetary policy
alone to boost growth, as it would be easy for the central bank
to be seen as financing the government’s deficits, said  Naoyuki Shinohara , deputy managing director at the International
Monetary Fund.  Inflation expectations in Japan haven’t rebounded as much
as the government has hoped, Shinohara said in an interview in
Washington on Oct. 11. The more stimulus that the  Bank of Japan 
applies, the harder it gets to eventually normalize policy and
the greater the risk of accumulating imbalances in financial
markets, which are challenges that the U.S. Federal Reserve is
already facing, he said.  Everyone knows the Fed must one day return the U.S. money
supply to “normal,” Aso said. Unless the timing and speed is
considered carefully, any tapering could cause large problems,
particularly in  emerging markets , Aso said, calling for close
communication between the Fed and the BOJ to prevent problems
from spilling over to the global economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Eisen in  New York  at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  