-- U.S. Nears Agreement With Afghanistan on Troops Post-2014
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   E l t a f   A s e f y   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-10-14T12:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/kerry-gets-partial-deal-for-u-s-troops-staying-in-afghanistan.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said they were close to
completing a security agreement that would allow some U.S.
troops to stay in Afghanistan beyond 2014.  After two days of negotiations in Kabul, both leaders said
the remaining obstacle to concluding the deal is whether Afghan
representatives will endorse the U.S. having legal jurisdiction
over international forces accused of committing crimes in the
country. Any agreement must be approved by both  Afghanistan’s
parliament  and a council of elders, Karzai told reporters late
on Oct. 12.  “We reached agreements,” he said at the presidential
palace in Kabul after the two sides hammered out a draft text of
the Bilateral Security Agreement, wrapping up talks 10 hours
later than planned. Karzai said he received “written
guarantees” from Kerry’s side that detailed the U.S.’s
commitment to defend Afghanistan against an outside attack.  President  Barack Obama  has said U.S. troops won’t stay to
train and assist Afghan forces after the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization withdraws all combat units next year unless the
U.S. has a security agreement that protects any remaining
forces. Last year, he had set a goal of completing a deal by
Oct. 31.  U.S. and Afghan officials involved in the talks said both
sides agreed on the wording of a draft text. The next step is
for a Loya Jirga, a national consultative assembly of tribal
elders, to meet and consider the deal, a gathering that will
probably take place next month.  Taliban Warning  Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar warned of “grave
consequences” for the U.S. and its allies if the agreement is
signed, according to a  statement  sent to reporters today.
Zabihullah Mujahed, a spokesman for the group, confirmed its
authenticity by phone.  Omar cited the recent military overthrow of  Egypt ’s
government helmed by the  Muslim Brotherhood  as evidence that the
U.S. only respects election results when they suit its
interests. Afghans won’t accept the security pact even if it
gets approved by a Loya Jirga, Omar said.  “The invaders should know that their limited bases will
never be accepted,” Omar said. “The current armed jihad will
continue against them with more momentum.”  Soldier Jurisdiction  On Oct. 12, Kerry hailed a seeming breakthrough in
negotiations that had been hung up on a handful of issues,
including cooperation on counterterrorism operations and
commitments by the U.S. to defend Afghanistan from attacks or
cross-border incursions by militants from  Pakistan .  “We have resolved in these last 24 hours the major issues
that the president went through,” Kerry said in a joint
briefing with Karzai. Earlier in the day he told U.S. Embassy
staff in Kabul that an agreement “will put the Taliban on their
heels.”  The top U.S. diplomat cautioned, though, that “if the
issue of jurisdiction cannot be resolved, then, unfortunately,
there cannot be a Bilateral Security Agreement.” The U.S.
understands and respects Karzai’s need to present the draft to
the council of elders and elected lawmakers to win approval on
sensitive questions of sovereignty, he said.  The U.S. says a make-or-break condition for troops to stay
on after 2014 to train, assist and conduct counterterrorism
operations is that American forces be judged for any wrongdoing
under U.S. rather than Afghan law, just as they are in  Germany ,
 Japan  and wherever U.S. forces are stationed.  ‘No Immunity’  Kerry insisted it’s false to suggest the U.S. is demanding
immunity.  If any soldier “were to violate any law, as we have in the
past, we will continue to prosecute to the full measure of that
law, and any perpetrator of any incident, crime, anything, will
be punished,” he said. “There is no immunity.”  Though Kerry did not cite examples, the highest-profile
case is Robert Bales, a U.S. staff sergeant who went on a
rampage and massacred 16 Afghans outside Kandahar in March 2011.
Bales pleaded guilty in a U.S. military court to avoid the death
penalty and was sentenced to life in prison without parole.  Talks for a similar Status of Forces Agreement with  Iraq 
broke down over the same issue of legal jurisdiction for U.S.
troops, prompting Obama to withdraw U.S. forces at the end of
2011. Since then, Iraq has experienced resurgent sectarian
violence.  Iraq Lesson  In part because of the turmoil that Iraq has experienced
since U.S. forces left two years ago, some Afghan analysts are
optimistic a Loya Jirga will ultimately agree to the accord.  It’s a “strategic opportunity” for Afghanistan to
guarantee its security and a “strategic necessity” for the
U.S. to protect its long-term interests and investments of money
and lives in Afghanistan, Waliullah Rahmani, executive director
of the Kabul Center for Strategic Studies, said by phone.  “It’s highly unlikely for both countries to walk away and
disapprove the security accord,” Rahmani said. “Both will
compromise over the disputed issues to ensure their interests.”  U.S. officials involved in the talks credited Kerry’s 12-year personal relationship with the two-time Afghan president
with enabling Kerry to achieve a tentative agreement. While
Karzai is notorious for clashing with other senior U.S.
officials, including Obama, the Afghan leader’s relationship
with Kerry has been described by both men as warm and
respectful.  Karzai Satisfied  A  State Department  official who briefed reporters traveling
on Kerry’s plane also credited his patience and persistence to
resolve sticking points. The administration is satisfied with
the language in a draft that Karzai approved, and recognizes
there is no deal until the tribal council and parliament sign
off, according to several officials involved in the negotiations
who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe private talks.  Karzai was ultimately satisfied with assurances he had
received from Kerry, according to an Afghan official involved in
the discussions who spoke Oct. 12 on condition that he not be
named to discuss internal deliberations. At the same time, the
Afghan official said, popular sentiment on sovereignty issues
related to foreign troops in  Afghanistan  is so strong that
Karzai can’t sign a deal without approval from elders and
lawmakers.  Foreign Aid  While Karzai and Kerry didn’t discuss the number of U.S.
troops that might stay, a continued American military presence
would provide intelligence, logistical and other support to
Afghan forces after they take on sole responsibility for
security.  The U.S. now has about 52,000 troops in Afghanistan, down
14,000 in the past six months. The Pentagon plans to reduce to
34,000 by February, and withdraw all combat forces out by the
end of 2014.  Afghanistan needs security guaranteed by outside forces to
attract and retain foreign aid. Aid accounts for more than 95
percent of the country’s gross domestic product, according to
the U.S.  Congressional Research Service .  An agreement is “indispensable” to Afghanistan as the
nation elects a new leader to replace Karzai next April, Ahmad
Saeedi, a former Afghan diplomat and Kabul-based political
analyst, said in a phone interview. Karzai has led the country
since 2001 and is barred from standing again due to term limits.  “The accord will save billions of dollars invested in
Afghanistan’s army, mining projects and the 12-year achievements
the U.S. has made in various sectors,” Saeedi said. “The U.S.
will not abandon Afghanistan so simply,” he predicted, in part
because it wants “to keep track of intelligence information in
the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Asefy Najafizada in Mazar at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  