-- Najib Sees Malaysia Escaping Fitch Rating Cut: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-10-14T09:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/najib-sees-malaysia-escaping-fitch-rating-cut-southeast-asia.html
Prime Minister Najib Razak said he
believes that Malaysia can avoid a cut to its  credit rating 
while the government will try its “level best” to prevent a
breach of its self-imposed sovereign debt ceiling.  “We will manage it,” Najib said in an Oct. 11 interview
in Putrajaya, the country’s administrative center near  Kuala
Lumpur . “We’re very closely monitoring how we manage our macro
position as well as our fiscal and debt to make sure that we
will not be downgraded.”  Najib raised subsidized fuel prices for the first time
since 2010 and said he’d delay some public projects after Fitch
Ratings cut Malaysia’s credit outlook to negative in July,
citing rising debt levels and a lack of budgetary reform. The
country, which has a long-term foreign-currency denominated
rating of A- at Fitch, has run annual budget  deficits  every year
starting in 1998.  At 53.3 percent,  Malaysia ’s debt-to-gross domestic product
ratio is the highest among 12 emerging Asian markets after  Sri
Lanka , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s
Investors Service said last month the budget gap may exceed
Najib’s target of 4 percent of GDP this year and warned fiscal
targets will become “increasingly out of reach” unless further
measures are taken. Moody’s rates Malaysia government bonds A3
with a stable outlook.  The government will further cut state subsidies, broaden
its tax base and manage spending “prudently,” said Najib, 60,
who is also finance minister, without elaborating. Cabinet will
meet before the 2014 budget is released Oct. 25 to decide if
there’s enough public support to introduce a goods and services
tax, he said.  Taxing Challenge  “We are quite positive on Malaysia,”  Enrico Tanuwidjaja ,
a Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by
phone yesterday. “They are on a fiscal consolidation path and
they will boost the revenue base if the government can push
through the GST in the coming budget. A sub-3 percent fiscal
deficit could happen in 2016, if not in 2015 as per the official
aim.”  The ringgit has fallen 3.9 percent this year, the fifth
worst performer among 11 most traded Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The currency could gain over time if the nation’s
fundamentals remain strong, central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in an Oct. 12 interview with  Bloomberg News  in
 Washington .  “We believe that, over the medium term, yes, it should
reflect underlying fundamentals, and if the underlying
fundamentals remain strong, then over time it should be an
appreciating trend,” said Zeti, predicting stronger economic
growth in 2014.  The government earlier planned to introduce a 4 percent GST
by 2011. It hasn’t said what the rate may be if it now goes
ahead.  ‘Level Best’  “We are one of the very, very few countries in the world
which doesn’t have a GST,” said Najib, who was returned to
power in a general election in May with a reduced majority as
his coalition lost the popular vote for the first time. “But
there are challenges. Anything to do with any new form of tax,
like  consumption tax  in  Japan , carbon tax in  Australia , these
are big issues that cannot be easily decided.”  The government will “try our level best” not to go beyond
its debt ceiling of 55 percent of GDP, said Najib, a U.K.-
educated industrial economics  graduate . If Malaysia can achieve
5 to 6 percent GDP growth “we should be able to manage the debt
ceiling,” he said. “The weakening external global economy is
of concern to us.”  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest economy withstood faltering
overseas demand in the past year as Najib gave handouts to
voters and boosted investment ahead of the May vote. GDP
expanded more than 4 percent in each of the 15 quarters through
June 2013.  State Guarantees  “This year we should be able to get somewhere between 4 to
5 percent” growth, the prime minister said. “I think probably
slightly beyond 4.5 percent. That’s the best estimate that we
have currently.”  With state guarantees added to public debt the government’s
credit exposure was 70.2 percent of GDP as of the end of the
second quarter, up from 66.6 percent a year earlier, Bank of
America Corp said in a report on Sept. 17.  “It’s not so much the level of debt, it’s the ability to
pay,” said Najib. “Fortunately, most of our debts are long-term debts and are domestic debts, so we think we will be able
to manage it.”  1Malaysia Development Bhd. , a sovereign wealth fund better
known as 1MDB, has accumulated total bonds and outstanding loans
of about  30 billion ringgit  ($9.4 billion) since it was formed
four years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Fees  The Kuala Lumpur-based fund has acquired 12 billion ringgit
of energy assets in the last two years. It is also building a
new financial district in the capital called Tun Razak Exchange,
named after Najib’s late father, Malaysia’s second prime
minister.  “It has borrowings, but its total assets exceed its
borrowings,” Najib said of 1MDB. “We’ve got a few projects and
programs in mind that will really strengthen 1MDB.”  The fund is talking to potential U.S. investors about
venturing into solar energy, said the prime minister, who is
chairman of the fund’s advisory board.  1MDB came under scrutiny in parliament in July after hiring
Goldman Sachs Inc. to help manage $6.5 billion of bond sales to
fund expansion. The  U.S. bank  made about $500 million in
commissions and trading gains, a person familiar with the matter
said May 9.  “If you talk in terms of international scale of fees, I
think that’s within a margin,” said Najib. “Goldman Sachs have
got certain ability and name in the market and they are able to
deliver what’s been required. In terms of that relationship,
1MDB is quite happy with what Goldman Sachs has done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  