-- India Cyclone Ruins 15% of Odisha Rice Area
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n ,   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-10-14T05:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/nine-killed-as-cyclone-strike-shuts-power-roads-in-india.html
India  carried out the largest
evacuation in the nation’s history, shifting one million people
from the path of a cyclone that slammed into its eastern coast
in a move that helped limit fatalities and highlighted the
effective response of the government.  At least 17 people were killed as Cyclone Phailin, Thai for
“sapphire,” made landfall Oct. 12 near Gopalpur in Odisha
about 600 kilometers (373 miles) southwest of Kolkata. Heavy
rains and winds as high as 210 kilometers an hour lashed the
region, flooding roads and uprooting trees. Phailin is the
strongest to hit Odisha since 1999, when a tropical storm with
wind speeds of 260 kilometers per hour killed 9,000 people.  “We must congratulate the government on its handling of an
extremely dangerous situation,” said Manish Choudhary, a
director of the Indian Red Cross Society, who is based in  New
Delhi . “The government has been much better prepared than in
previous disasters and this has saved numerous lives.”  The state administration, which helped restrict casualties
by facilitating the evacuation of people from their homes in
low-lying coastal areas, faces the challenge of restoring power
and opening roads to enable villagers to return, said Surya
Narayan Patro, Odisha’s minister for disaster management. About
15 percent of the state’s rice planting area was destroyed,
jeopardizing the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of
farmers.  Restoring Normalcy  “The cyclone has damaged a lot,” Patro said in a phone
interview. The challenge is to “bring back normalcy. In many
parts of the state, there’s no electricity.”  Food relief is being provided to people who have taken
shelter in public schools and buildings, he said. Television
images showed electricity and telephone-line poles knocked out
by the storm, and roofs ripped off shops and houses.  The Odisha government’s “bold” decision to forcibly
evacuate families from their homes was crucial to keeping the
death toll down, said Devandra Tak, a spokesman for Save the
Children.  “Undoubtedly, the government’s role in terms of disaster
preparedness has been phenomenal,” Tak said by phone from
Bhubaneswar, the capital of Odisha. “The approach has paid rich
dividends in reducing the loss of life.”  The government’s response to the cyclone was much better
than its reaction to flash floods in northern India four months
ago, when more than 5,000 people were presumed dead, he said.
That was the country’s worst natural disaster since the Indian
Ocean tsunami in 2004.  Accurate Predictions  Changes in infrastructure, weather forecasting and
 emergency services  probably mean the death toll from Phailin
won’t be high, according to  Jeff Masters , founder of  Weather
Underground  in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . Twenty-six of the world’s  35
deadliest  tropical cyclones, the storms that include hurricanes
and typhoons, have occurred in the Bay of Bengal, he said.  “As scientists, we stuck to our scientific opinion,” L.S.
Rathore, director-general of the  India Meteorological
Department , said in a briefing yesterday. “Our predictions
proved to be more or less accurate.”  As much as 600,000 hectares of the state’s rice area were
affected, probably destroying an estimated 1 million tons of the
grain, said Trilochan Mohapatra, director at Central Rice
Research Institute based in Cuttack, Odisha.  Crop Contaminated  “The winter-sown crop may be affected because of
inundation with saline water from the sea following the
cyclone,” Mohapatra said. “Most of the standing crop was going
to be harvested in the next 15 or 20 days.”  India is the world’s largest rice exporter. About 10
percent is produced in Odisha, said David Streit, a senior
forecaster for Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
 Maryland .  The  National Disaster Management Authority  dispatched a
1,500-strong rescue force to Odisha and Andhra Pradesh states,
while the government put the military on standby, Home Minister
Sushil Kumar Shinde said.  Airlines changed flight paths on the route between Mumbai
and Bangkok, and between Bangkok and the  Middle East , the
Business Standard reported, citing an air traffic controller it
didn’t identify. India’s railways also canceled or diverted some
trains in the region, the Times Now television network reported.  In Jayapur village, about 40 kilometers from Paradip in
Odisha, several trees were uprooted, said Hare Krishna Barik, a
supervisor at a construction company.  ‘Enough Rations’  “We have purchased enough rations to last a week,” 57-year-old Barik said in a telephone interview. “The two rivers
near the village have swollen up.”  Traffic on the state’s highways toward the high-risk areas
has been restricted by the government, according to the Press
Trust of India news agency.  “The worst is over,” Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, Odisha’s
chief of relief operations, said by phone. The cyclone affected
about 8 million people in 15 districts, he said.  An estimated 320 million people, or about a quarter of
India’s population, are vulnerable to cyclone-related hazards,
according to the NDMA, which says the storms are four times more
common in the  Bay of Bengal  east of the nation than in the
 Arabian Sea  off its west coast.  “What is most important is that lots of lives may have
been saved because they were evacuated,” Mohapatra said from
Bhubaneswar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  