-- One Way Obamacare Could Save You Money
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-13T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/one-way-obamacare-could-save-you-money.html
The opening of the Affordable Care
Act’s state insurance exchanges has produced justified  guffaws 
about the ability of the federal government to build a  working
website . It may also spur something more useful: a
reconsideration, with new information for both employees and
employers, of the tradeoff between greater choice and lower
costs in health care.  One of the main purposes of the exchanges is to offer
people an easy way to compare insurance plans. Because insurers
can’t discriminate based on pre-existing conditions, they have
to compete largely on price. In response, they have created
plans with relatively small networks of doctors and hospitals,
leading to lower premiums.  That’s good news for people who will buy insurance on the
exchanges (and for Obamacare, whose success depends on the
affordability of coverage there). If it leads to lower premiums
for employees and employers -- that is, lower health-care costs
generally -- it could be good news for everyone else, too.  Florida ’s experience is instructive. The state’s largest
health insurer,  Blue Cross Blue Shield , has a narrow-network
plan, Blue Select, for individuals shopping on the Florida
exchange. The plan has also seen increased demand from
companies, which can cut their premiums by 5 percent to 15
percent.  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , which offers exchange plans in 14
states, says it too has seen more interest in narrow networks
because of the exchanges.  This suggests that Obamacare may be softening a
longstanding  taboo  in American health care: Limiting choice,
something associated with health-maintenance organizations. In
the 1990s, such restrictions helped to spark a public backlash
against HMOs. The skittishness remains, as neither of the other
two insurers most involved in the exchanges --  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and
 Humana Inc. (HUM)  -- was willing to talk about the use of narrow-network plans by their commercial customers.  The criticisms are understandable. A limited choice of
doctors and facilities may not be a concern for people buying
insurance on the exchanges, whose alternative may be no
insurance at all. But for those with employer-sponsored coverage
offering an array of options, moving to narrow networks raises
the risk of losing access to the doctor of their choice.  But what is the cost of such unfettered choice?
Increasingly, it is measured in forgone wages. Family premiums
have  more than doubled  since 2002, reaching an average of
$15,581 for small companies and $16,715 for large companies in
2013, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. The question
for workers may be whether they prefer a greater choice of
health-care providers to more money in their pockets.  The difficulty of this question is compounded by the fact
that there’s no guarantee that money would find its way to those
pockets. Nonetheless, the chance to reduce premiums by 5 percent
to 15 percent is one that companies and workers alike need to
consider. The trick, as usual, is getting the details right.  As the exchanges grow and more companies consider narrow-network plans of their own, one way to prevent a repeat of the
HMO wars is to give employees a meaningful role in the decision
to switch -- in other words, give employees a choice about how
much choice they want. Another way is for companies to commit to
putting some of the savings from lower premiums toward higher
wages. Companies could also look for ways to phase in any switch
to narrow-network plans. That would limit the savings, but it’s
worth trying to protect existing workers against the risk of
losing their current doctors.  The return of narrow networks is not an opportunity for
companies to cut worker health benefits with no regard for the
impact of those changes. But if the exchanges demonstrate that
narrow-network plans can provide quality care and affordable
coverage, the country’s businesses would be doing themselves --
and their workers -- a disservice by not considering the same
approach.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 