-- Osborne Pledges Stronger Links With China at Start of Trip
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-14T11:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/osborne-pledges-stronger-links-with-china-at-start-of-trade-trip.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said he’ll use a five-day trade mission to  China  to
boost business links with the world’s second-largest economy.  Osborne is leading a delegation including Bank of  England 
Deputy Governor Charlie Bean, London Mayor Boris Johnson and
representatives of U.K. technology companies, that arrived in
Beijing yesterday.  “I don’t want us to try to resist your economic progress,
I want Britain to share in it,” Osborne said in a speech today
at Peking University. “There is no country in the West that is
more open to investment, especially investment from China, than
the U.K. is.”  U.K. officials are pushing to place the British economy on
a firmer footing by rebalancing activity toward exports and
business investment. Low demand from the euro area, Britain’s
biggest export partner, is spurring interest in other markets
such as China.  During the trip, Osborne will co-host the fifth China-U.K.
economic and financial dialogue with Chinese Vice Premier Ma Kai
to discuss the  economy , trade, investment and financial
management. The talks will include “big steps” in making
London a home for Chinese banks, bonds and finance, Osborne said
before meeting Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  of the People’s Bank of
China.  “It is my personal mission that as you develop an
international role for the  renminbi , you develop that role
through the international center of finance -- London,” he said
at Peking University.  Manchester Investment  The delegation’s arrival came as a Chinese investment in
Manchester Airport, Britain’s busiest hub outside London, used
by more than 20 million passengers a year, was announced.  Beijing Construction Engineering Group Co. formed a venture
with Manchester Airports Group and other partners to build an
international business district in Manchester, the U.K.’s
second-biggest city, the companies said yesterday. The airport
plans to operate a direct airline service to China.  Osborne said it’s one of the country’s biggest developments
since the Olympics, held in London last year.  “It shows our economic plan of doing more business with
China and also making sure more economic activity in Britain
happens outside the city of London is working,” he said in a
television interview yesterday with Sky News from Beijing.  The U.K. energy industry is also of interest to China,  Ed
Davey , Britain’s energy secretary, said yesterday.  Very Interested  “The Chinese, along with the Koreans and the Japanese and
other countries, are very interested in the opportunity in
Britain’s nuclear sector,” Davey said in a BBC Television
interview yesterday. “We’ll see massive Chinese investment, not
just in nuclear, but across the board.”  The Manchester project will be worth about 800 million
pounds ($1.3 billion) when the buildings on the 150-acre (61-hectare) site in the north of England are completed and fully
leased, the partners said in a statement.  Carillion Plc (CLLN)  and the
Greater Manchester Pension Fund are also part of the project,
known as Airport City. It will create as many as 16,000 jobs and
the development will be managed by Argent LLP, the group said.  “We see our involvement in Airport City as an extension of
the memorandum of understanding between China and the U.K.,
where we have been looking to further explore joint
infrastructure opportunities for some time,” Xing Yan, managing
director of Beijing Construction Engineering, said in the
statement.  Equity Investment  Guo Yanhong, vice general manager at BCEG, said at a
briefing with the chancellor in Beijing that the company will
make a 12 million-pound equity investment in the joint venture.  Britain is already the most popular destination in Europe
for Chinese investment, which last year jumped 95 percent,
according to U.K. government data. China Investment Corp., the
country’s sovereign wealth fund, took an 8.7 percent stake in
Thames Water Utilities Ltd. in 2012 and also made a 450 million-pound investment in Heathrow Airport.  “There is much we can do together to improve the standard
of living of the peoples of both our countries,” Osborne said
in a meeting with Ma today. “There is an opportunity here to
both encourage British exports and investment in China but also
to encourage Chinese investment in Britain.”  Expanding Overseas  Chinese developers including ABP Chinese (Holding) and
Greenland Holding Group Co. are expanding overseas as the
government maintains curbs on residential housing to cool price
increases. ABP is involved in the development of a third
financial district in  London  focused on Asian businesses after
the U.K. and China set a target three years ago of doubling
trade to $100 billion by 2015.  “Our aspiration as part of this international joint
venture is to create a world-class business destination that
will open up new connections on a global level,” David Partridge, managing partner at Argent (Property Development)
Services LLP, said in the statement.  Osborne said yesterday Britain will start a pilot program
to allow some Chinese travel agents to apply for visas by
submitting the same form they use for a visit to the European
Union’s Schengen Zone.  Other visa measures include creating a “super priority”
service that will start about the middle of next year. A “VIP
mobile visa” service now operating in Beijing and  Shanghai ,
which reduces the collection process to about five minutes, will
be expanded to other parts of China.  Simplify Process  “These changes will streamline and simplify the visa
application process for Chinese visitors, while ensuring the
system is strong and secure,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  The visit of the Bank of England’s Bean and London Mayor
Johnson comes as London is vying with Frankfurt, Paris and
Zurich to become a trading hub for the Chinese currency. The
Bank of England became the first European central bank to
establish swap facilities with China, announcing a three-year
200 billion-yuan ($33 billion) currency swap line in June to
promote financial stability and trade.  Osborne will be in China through Oct. 18, and will visit
Shenzhen, Guangzhou and Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  