-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Stocks Rally, Meredith Whitney, Default
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-10-13T06:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/most-read-on-bloomberg-stocks-rally-meredith-whitney-default.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Stocks Rally Most Since January, Bill Rates Fall on Debt
Talks  Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks jumped the most since
January and Treasury bill rates tumbled as lawmakers moved
toward an agreement to raise the debt ceiling and avoid a
default. Gold slumped while oil rallied.  2. Meredith Whitney Winds Down Brokerage After Setting Up Fund  Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) --  Meredith Whitney , who built her own
Wall Street advisory firm after winning renown for a 2007 call
on Citigroup Inc., deregistered her brokerage unit following
three unprofitable years and is setting up an investment fund,
according to industry records.  3. A U.S. Default Seen as Catastrophe Dwarfing Lehman’s Demise  Oct. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Anyone who remembers the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. little more than five years ago
knows what a global financial disaster is. A U.S. government
default, just weeks away if Congress fails to raise the debt
ceiling as it now threatens to do, will be an economic calamity
like none the world has ever seen.  4. Brevan Said to Start Fund Run by Ex-Deutsche Bank Team  Oct. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Brevan Howard Capital Management LP
has started an investment fund run by a team of former Deutsche
Bank AG market strategists in  New York , as  Europe ’s second-biggest hedge-fund firm expands its presence in the U.S.  5. RBS Said to Give Currency Trader’s Chats to FCA Amid Probe  Oct. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc has
handed over records of instant messages to U.K. regulators after
concluding a former currency trader’s communications with
counterparts at other firms may have been inappropriate,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  6. JPMorgan’s Dimon Posts First Loss on $7.2 Billion Legal Cost  Oct. 11 (Bloomberg) --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported its
first loss under Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  after
taking a $7.2 billion charge to cover the cost of mounting
litigation and regulatory probes.  7. Brevan Howard Hires Former Goldman Sachs Partner Piplani  Oct. 8 (Bloomberg) -- Brevan Howard Capital Management LP,
Europe’s second-largest hedge-fund firm, hired former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. partner Dhruv Piplani, adding an equity-derivatives trader in  Asia .  8. Yellen Set to Be Named by Obama as First Female Fed Chairman  Oct. 9 (Bloomberg) -- President Barack Obama will nominate
 Janet Yellen  as chairman of the  Federal Reserve , which would put
the world’s most powerful central bank in the hands of a key
architect of its unprecedented stimulus program and the first
female leader in its 100-year history.  9. Morgan Stanley Seen Leading Profit Gains Amid Trading Drop  Oct. 8 (Bloomberg) -- Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp.
and  Wells Fargo & Co . are poised to lead the six largest U.S.
lenders by reporting a jump in earnings that may surprise some
investors fixated on a slump in trading and mortgage lending.  10. Boehner Says He Doesn’t Have Votes for Debt-Limit Bill  Oct. 7 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said
the Republican-controlled chamber can’t pass an increase to the
U.S. debt ceiling without packaging it with other provisions --
something President Barack Obama has labeled a nonstarter.  COLUMNS  1. Debt-Ceiling Derangement: My Chat With Jamie Dimon  Oct. 9 (Bloomberg) -- To paraphrase the old E.F. Hutton
commercials, “When Jamie Dimon talks, people listen.”  2. Republican Insurgents Defy First Rules of Politics: Albert
Hunt  Oct. 7 (Bloomberg) -- “I am not a member of any organized
political party,” the humorist  Will Rogers  said. “I am a
Democrat.”  3. The Tea Party’s Lethal Embrace of a Proven Loser:  Simon
Johnson   Oct. 7 (Bloomberg) -- In any negotiation, it is inadvisable
to make threats that aren’t credible. Probably the only thing
worse is to threaten actions that will end up helping the other
side. Yet the Tea Party-affiliated  House Republicans  aren’t
simply making this very mistake with the government shutdown;
they are gearing up to do it again, on a grander and more fatal
scale, with the debt ceiling.  4. The Chilling Biology of the Debt-Ceiling Standoff:  Mark
Buchanan   Oct. 8 (Bloomberg) -- The showdown over the U.S. debt
ceiling demonstrates a crucial failing of human beings: We are
systematically incapable of understanding how precarious our
existence, or the continuance of our currently familiar
condition, really is.  5. Samsung Smartwatch Isn’t Ready for Prime Time:  Rich
Jaroslovsky   Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) -- In an earlier time, you might have
advertised your tech credentials with a pocket protector and a
slide rule. For late 2013, there’s Samsung’s new Galaxy Gear
smartwatch and Galaxy Note 3 phone.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Obama Warns of Deep Recession If Debt Limit Not Raised  Oct. 8 (Bloomberg) -- President  Barack Obama  speaks about
the U.S. government shutdown and federal debt ceiling.  2. Maserati’s Quattroporte Sedan Takes On Audi, Mercedes  Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) -- The sixth generation Maserati
Quattroporte sedan is seen in a promotional video from Maserati
SpA.  3. Meredith Whitney Winds Down Brokerage Unit, Starts Fund  Oct. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Meredith Whitney, who built her own
Wall Street advisory firm after gaining renown for a 2007 call
on Citigroup Inc., deregistered her brokerage unit after three
unprofitable years and is setting up an investment fund,
according to industry records.  4. Lew Says Debt-Limit Debate Threatens Markets, Payments  Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) -- Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
testifies before the Senate Finance Committee in  Washington 
about the need for Congress to raise the debt ceiling and the
potential risks of a default.  5. IndyCar’s Dario Franchitti Fractures Spine in Crash  Oct. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Dario Franchitti, a four-time IndyCar
Series champion, suffered a spinal fracture yesterday when his
car went airborne after a collision with Takuma Sato’s car and
slammed into a metal safety fence during the final lap of the
Houston Grand Prix.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net  