-- Polish Ruling Party Avoids Warsaw Mayor Recall on Turnout
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-14T13:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/polish-ruling-party-may-avoid-warsaw-mayor-recall-on-low-turnout.html
Poland ’s ruling party avoided the
ouster of Warsaw Mayor Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz as a recall vote
fell short of the minimum turnout required.  Out of Warsaw’s 1.33 million registered voters 25.7 percent
cast ballots in the recall referendum, less than the minimum
389,430, or 29 percent, required to validate the measure,
according to official results from the State Election Commission
today.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk and his ruling Civic Platform
party called on supporters to block the recall by boycotting the
referendum. Of those who voted, 95 percent favored recalling
Gronkiewicz-Waltz, a deputy chairman of the ruling party who had
angered Varsovians with utility-price increases and delays in
public works. Her support is dropping as backing for the party,
the first to win back-to-back elections since the fall of
communism in 1989, dropped below the opposition Law and Justice
for the first time in six years.  “We were given a yellow card. We’ve noticed and are taking
the appropriate steps,” Andrzej Halicki, head of Civic
Platform’s party organization in the greater Warsaw area, said
yesterday in an interview on TVN24. “The referendum was used by
Law and Justice not to talk about Warsaw issues but to attack
Donald Tusk and take the conflict nationwide.”  Economy, No-Confidence  Poland’s economy is poised to grow at its weakest pace
since at least 1997 while the  unemployment  rate was 13 percent
in August, up from 12.4 percent a year earlier. With a plan to
cancel government debt held by private pension funds angering
urban voters, Tusk’s ruling coalition is clinging to a two-seat
majority in parliament.  “This is my vote on no-confidence in the government, which
told us not to take part in this referendum,” Marek Zagenczuk,
a 30-year-old who voted to recall Gronkiewicz-Waltz, said
yesterday. “If the mayor’s accomplished anything, it’s only
because of European Union money, and that wasn’t her doing.”  Snap parliamentary elections before the scheduled 2015
ballot are possible, according to Tusk, who spent the past two
weeks quashing speculation that the ouster of Finance Minister
Jacek Rostowski was imminent, a sign of discord in the
coalition.  Since the referendum was announced on Aug. 20, Gronkiewicz-Waltz had campaigned door-to-door, canvassing support and
promising discounts for public transport and other city
amenities to people who pay taxes in Poland’s richest and most
populous city. Tusk last month said the government will provide
funding to complete a previously shelved beltway around Warsaw.  Local Elections  Poland’s capital, with per-capita income of three times the
national average and home to 1.7 million of the country’s 38.4
million residents, has overwhelmingly voted for the current
ruling party in every election since 2005.  That allegiance will be tested in votes for local
governments and the European Parliament next year and general
elections in late 2015.  While the boycott appears to have staved off Gronkiewicz-Waltz’s recall, it may also damage Civic Platform in a key urban
stronghold, according to Aleksander Smolar, president of the
Batory Foundation, an independent research center in Warsaw.  “Civic Platform’s always had a hard time mobilizing its
support base,” Smolar said in a discussion on TVN24. “Now they
could have a serious problem before the next elections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  