-- Ruling Israel Diminishing for Shas With Death of Founding Rabbi
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-10-13T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/ruling-israel-diminishing-for-shas-with-death-of-founding-rabbi.html
Israelis turned out in unprecedented
numbers to mourn the death last week of Rabbi Ovadia Yosef,
founder of the Shas party. His successors are unlikely to be
able to maintain the group’s political clout.  The funeral of the Iraqi-born Yosef, who energized Jews of
Middle Eastern descent into a potent political force, brought an
estimated 800,000 mourners into Jerusalem’s streets. He leaves
behind a party that’s been in almost every coalition since its
creation in 1984, often acting as the swing party that
determines who gets to head the government. Yet it was excluded
from the current cabinet of  Benjamin Netanyahu , and may struggle
to recapture the influence it enjoyed under Yosef.  “Without Rabbi Ovadia, the days of Shas as the kingmaker
that will decide coalitions is probably over for good,” said
Nitzan Chen, a former journalist who co-wrote a biography of
Yosef. “The party will probably lose a number of its
parliamentary seats, and that will change Israel’s political
map,” said Chen, who now heads the Government Press Office.  Netanyahu left Shas out of his current coalition in favor
of an alliance of parties seeking to limit privileges enjoyed by
the ultra-Orthodox, which Shas typically defended. The
government has passed a law to limit draft exemptions for
religious studies students, and says it will seek to reduce
their  funding .  Divided Leadership  Yosef didn’t designate a clear successor, and the Shas
leadership has been divided between two of his proteges, Arieh Deri and Eli Yishai, neither commanding the public respect and
affection awarded to their mentor. Deri, who took his first
cabinet post at age 24, was convicted for corruption in 2000 and
served 22 months in prison.  “Without Yosef there as Shas spiritual leader, Deri will
try to shift the party’s focus from strictly religious concerns
and more to broader economic and social issues that could
attract working-class voters,” said Chen.  Shas -- a Hebrew acronym for Sephardic Guardians of the
Torah, or Jewish holy book -- holds 11 seats in  Israel ’s 120-seat parliament, the Knesset. While the party focuses on
promoting religious education and observance, including the
running of its own school system and social welfare
organizations, its appeal extends beyond the strictly observant
to Israel’s broader traditional-minded Sephardi population.  ‘Second-Class Citizens’  The party was established by Yosef to redress what its
supporters see as decades of discrimination against Sephardi
Jews of Middle Eastern and Mediterranean descent, by an
establishment dominated by Ashkenazim, or Jews of central and
eastern European heritage.  “Shas was able to capitalize on the feeling of many
Sephardi Israelis that they were second-class citizens, who took
special pride in Yosef rising from humble roots to become the
great rabbinical sage of his generation,” said Batia
Siebzehner, a research fellow at the  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem ’s Truman Institute for the Advancement of Peace, and
co-author of a book on Shas.  Strictly conservative on cultural issues, Yosef
demonstrated greater flexibility regarding the  peace process 
than other Orthodox religious leaders, a stance reflecting more
his personal views than that of his party’s constituency.  During Israel’s negotiations with  Egypt  in the late 1970s
over whether to return the  Sinai peninsula , Yosef, who was the
chief Sephardic rabbi at the time, ruled that saving a life --
“pikuach nefesh” in Hebrew -- took precedence over holding
onto territory. In the 1990s Shas abstained in the initial vote
on the Oslo accords with the Palestinians, enabling it to pass
the Knesset.  ‘More Hawkish’  “Ovadia was able to get Shas votes from a constituency
more hawkish than he was,” said Gideon Rahat, political science
professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. “With him
gone, it may lose voters to more hardline nationalistic parties,
or Shas itself may turn more hawkish.”  Shas voters may defect to the Jewish Home party, which has
opposed all concessions with Palestinians, or to Netanyahu’s
Likud, according to Chen. Four opinion  polls  published in August
showed the party dropping to nine or ten Knesset seats.  In the past decade, Shas shifted its stance and opposed
territorial withdrawal, including the 2005 evacuation of
settlers from the  Gaza Strip . Yosef, who became increasingly
outspoken in his later years, said of Ariel Sharon, the leader
who ordered it: “God will strike him with one blow and he will
die.” Sharon suffered a brain hemorrhage in 2006, and has been
in a coma since then.  ‘Couldn’t Stand Them’  David Glass, a legal adviser to Shas, said Yosef’s earlier
support for peace moves was “not because he loved Arabs. He
even admitted he couldn’t stand them,” according to the Al-Monitor website. “He loved Jews, and determined that peace was
preferable to lands because peace ensures the existence of the
Jewish people,” Glass told Al-Monitor in an interview.  Shas hasn’t let the traditional Jewish seven-day “shiva”
mourning period for Yosef deter it from its political mission.
During a sympathy visit to the Yosef home last week, Netanyahu
was berated by the party’s leaders for forming a government
without them, and for passing the law requiring most Jewish
seminary students to serve in the army.  Two days after Yosef’s death, the Shas Council of Jewish
Sages, a rabbinical board that guides the party’s policy, issued
a statement calling voters to honor their late leader by
supporting Likud  Jerusalem  mayoral candidate Moshe Lion against
incumbent Nir Barkat, who is opposed by the city’s ultra-Orthodox community.  “The Shas leadership will try to capitalize politically on
Yosef’s passing, which may work in the short term,” said Rahat.
“But in the long run they will have to try to stabilize the
party and decide how to divide their cake, which will prove very
difficult without him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  