-- Samaras on Offense as Greek Bailout 3.0 Talks Loom
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-10-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/samaras-on-offense-as-greek-bailout-3-0-talks-loom.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
has gone on the offensive at home and abroad, seeking leverage
as the spotlight in Europe’s financial-crisis drama returns to
the country where it began.  Cracking down on a nationalist party linked to a murder and
telling Europe his budget cuts are ahead of target, Samaras
wants more aid for a nation that has already been showered with
240 billion euros ($325 billion) in pledges. A meeting of euro
finance ministers today in Luxembourg will signal how Europe
will help Samaras, in office for 16 months, remain in power.  Mired in the sixth year of a recession that has driven
unemployment to a record 28 percent, Samaras is positioning for
a third bailout as he clings to a five-seat majority in the 300-member parliament.  “Samaras is under continuous pressure at home because of
the high level of despair and anger among citizens,” Janis Emmanouilidis, director of studies at the European Policy Centre
in Brussels and a regular visitor to  Greece , said on Oct. 11 by
phone. “He needs support from European partners and at the same
time he needs to show Greeks that he’s a hard bargainer. In the
current environment, no Greek government would feel strong and
comfortable.”  After four years and 496 billion euros in pledges for five
nations, euro-area policy makers are still grappling with the
country that sparked the threat of the single currency’s
breakup. While Greece angles for more handouts with its current
program due to end in 2014, Ireland, Spain and Portugal are
preparing to loosen their grip on the cash lifelines.  ‘More Assistance’  “It’s very likely that they will need more assistance,”
Klaus Regling, managing director of the European Stability
Mechanism, the euro rescue fund, said in an Oct. 10 interview
with Bloomberg Television in  Washington .  German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the dominant politician in
Europe, has ruled out offering what Greece may need most: a
write-off of official loans to help the country meet a target
for public debt to fall to 124 percent of gross domestic product
in 2020 from a peak of about 175 percent.  That has left officials holding out the prospect of more of
the same relief that Greece won last November.  “The arsenal would be related to the extension of loan
maturities and a further reduction of interest rates,” European
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said during
an Oct. 10 panel discussion in Washington.  Samaras Advantage  Samaras, Greece’s fourth prime minister in as many years,
can play on two advantages that his predecessors during the
crisis lacked: he expects a budget surplus excluding interest
payments in 2013, a year ahead of schedule, and predicts
economic expansion in 2014 for the first time since 2007. 
Ten-year bond yields have declined below 9 percent from about 
18 percent a year ago.  The fiscal position is significant because finance
ministers agreed last November to “consider further measures
and assistance” once Greece achieves the surplus before
interest costs -- known as a primary surplus.  This fight will play out while Greece holds the EU’s
rotating six-month presidency starting in January and the
European Parliament holds elections in May. Both occasions will
raise the political stakes for Samaras, whose New Democracy
party runs neck and neck in polls with the opposition Syriza.  Funding Gap  Before any third rescue, a decision must be taken on
filling a 2014 Greek financing gap estimated at 4.4 billion
euros by the International Monetary Fund in July. That’s because
the IMF, which is funding the Greek aid program along with the
euro area, requires a 12-month guarantee of Greece’s financing
to continue with its own lending.  Furthermore, the Greek government must still prove progress
on aspects of its economic overhaul including state asset sales
to win the release of a remaining 1 billion-euro tranche from a
5 billion-euro sum approved in July.  Samaras’s government has little domestic political margin
to impose further austerity. Public disaffection in Greece has
grown to the point that its democracy is under “severe
strain,” according to British think tank Demos.  “It is now overwhelmed by extremely high unemployment,
social unrest, endemic corruption and a severe disillusionment
with the political establishment,” Demos said in a report this
year for the European Parliament’s Socialist group.  Golden Dawn  This landscape helped fuel the rise of the nationalist
Golden Dawn party, which has 18 lawmakers in the parliament and
has come in as high as third in recent opinion polls.  Last month, Greek police said a Golden Dawn supporter
confessed to the Sept. 18 killing of a 34-year-old man whom
local media have described as an anti-fascist rapper. The
party’s leader was arrested amid an investigation into its
alleged criminal activity.  The obstacle course for Samaras risks producing replays of
the tensions that have plagued Greece over the past four years.  George Papandreou, the Socialist premier who revealed in
2009 the deficit blowout that triggered the crisis, quit in 2011
after his call for a referendum backfired.  Two caretaker governments and an inconclusive election --
along with the biggest debt restructuring ever -- followed
before the June 2012 vote that installed Samaras and an
unprecedented three-party coalition. The smallest faction,
Democratic Left, then quit over shutting down the state
broadcaster amid European demands that Samaras cut the public
payroll.  Progress on that front will feature in a current review by
the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF -
- the so-called troika -- of Greece’s adherence to the terms of
the bailout.  “The overhaul of the public sector will probably yet again
be at the center of negotiations,” Barclays Plc said in an Oct.
8 research note. “But with some positive growth in sight, the
government will also want to reap political benefits and
pressure the troika to relax the conditions after good results
since mid-last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  