-- Shekel Beating Dollar Means No Win for Israel Governor
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-14T08:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/shekel-beating-dollar-means-no-win-for-israel-governor.html
When Stanley Fischer took over as
Bank of  Israel  governor eight years ago, exports were growing
and home prices were stable. Whoever is chosen as his permanent
successor faces a tougher start.  Paring  interest rates  to cool the shekel’s 8.2 percent
rally against the dollar in the past year risks fueling housing
costs that have surged more than 70 percent since 2007. Lifting
them may strengthen the shekel, already the biggest gainer among
31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and crimp the past
decade’s growth engine -- exports. The central bank forecasts
shipments will drop 1.1 percent in 2013 compared with an about 7
percent gain the year Fischer began.  “The challenge will be to maneuver between these two
opposing problems,” Modi Shafrir, chief strategist of  Mizrahi
Tefahot Bank Ltd. (MZTF) ’s finance division, said in a telephone
interview. “Low interest rates are fueling housing demand and
prices. At the same time, the strong shekel is hurting exporters
and growth is lower than potential.”  The central bank is currently being led by acting Governor
Karnit Flug as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu struggles to
find a replacement for Fischer, who announced about nine months
ago that he was leaving. Netanyahu’s first two choices both
withdrew their names.  Complicated Search  On Sept. 23, policy makers led by Flug, 58, unexpectedly
cut the key rate by a quarter percentage point to 1 percent to
spur economic growth. The central bank forecasts growth will
slow to 3.4 percent in 2014 from an average rate of 4.3 percent
in the past decade.  During his eight years at the helm of Israel’s central
bank, Fischer, who turns 70 tomorrow, led with a U.S. Federal
Reserve-style dual focus on employment and economic growth,
alongside price stability. He gradually lowered the benchmark
rate to 1.25 percent in May from 3.25 percent in 2011 in a bid
to weaken the shekel.  Credited with helping the nation weather the global
economic crisis better than most developed peers, Fischer said
in May the central bank would purchase $2.1 billion in foreign
currency by the end of the year to counteract pressure on the
shekel from natural-gas production and would continue purchases
until a sovereign wealth fund begins operating in the course of
2018. The Flug-led central bank said Oct. 2 it would buy $3.5
billion under this program during 2014.  Stocks Jump  Even with these measures, the shekel, named after a
biblical unit of weight, has continued to rise. Prospects for
talks between the U.S. and  Iran  over the Persian Gulf nation’s
disputed nuclear program have also buoyed the Israeli currency
as the threat of possible military strikes by Israel or the U.S.
recedes. Iran denies it’s seeking to build a nuclear bomb.  The shekel appreciated 0.2 percent today and has weakened
0.5 percent this month. The yield on the country’s 4.25 percent
benchmark bonds rose one basis point to 3.75 percent. Israel’s
 TA-25 stock index  rose 0.3 percent, bringing its gain for the
year to 8.8 percent.  While the benchmark has underperformed  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX) , which rose 19 percent this year, the TA-25 is trading
close to its highest in more than two years.  Housing Action  As policy makers cut rates to bolster  growth , cheaper
borrowing costs have reignited the housing market. Home prices
rose 9.3 percent in the 12 months through July, after the pace
of increases slowed in 2012, said Daniel Hewitt, an economist at
Barclays Plc in  London . In comparison,  inflation  slowed to 1.3
percent in August, the lowest in three months and below the
midpoint of the government’s target range of 1 percent to 3
percent for nine of the past 12 months.  “The housing market is starting to heat up again,” Hewitt
said. “The government has taken action to increase housing
supply, but there will be a lag before this has any effect.”  A cabinet subcommittee approved the formation of a state
company to promote the development of rental housing on Sept.
29, and the government is seeking ways to ease bureaucracy
hindering the marketing of land and the planning process.  The Bank of Israel has also acted, imposing limits on home
loans. The latest step in August capped monthly repayments on
new mortgages at no more than 50 percent of household income.  For the bank, the underlying problem in the housing market
is inadequate supply rather than pumped-up demand.  ‘Forward Guidance’  Even if the next governor decides to continue lowering
interest rates, there isn’t much room, said Alex Zabezhinsky,
chief economist at Tel Aviv-based Meitav DS Investment House
Ltd. The new chief may have to introduce additional monetary
tools adopted by other central banks, such as bond purchases and
“forward guidance,” a promise to keep short-term interest
rates low until specific macroeconomic targets are met, he said.  Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid said Oct. 10 in
 Washington  that the government may nominate a governor as soon
as this week after the withdrawal of the first two nominees.
Acting Governor Flug, who is the first woman to run the bank,
even for an interim period, has said she would leave the bank
once the next head takes office after being passed over twice.  Three new candidates for the job of governor have already
been vetted by a government panel: Mario Blejer, a former
Argentina central banker; Zvi Eckstein, a former Bank of Israel
deputy governor; and Victor Medina, a onetime Finance Ministry
director general and former chief executive officer of United
Mizrahi Bank Ltd. Netanyahu, who turns 64 on Oct. 21, is seeking
other candidates as well, according to an Oct. 1 report in
Yedioth Ahronoth.  “The next governor will find his main arsenal nearly
empty,” said Zabezhinsky. “If there’s no change for the better
in the economy, the Bank of Israel may have to re-examine the
tools it is using.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  