-- Shorten Elected to Lead Australian Labor Party Back to Power
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-10-14T04:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/shorten-elected-to-lead-australia-s-oldest-party-back-to-power.html
Australia ’s Labor elected Bill
Shorten to lead the nation’s oldest political party after  Kevin
Rudd  resigned in the wake of its Sept. 7 election defeat.  Shorten won 52 percent of a combined vote, the party
announced in Canberra yesterday. It was the first time rank and
file party members had a direct say in the leadership choice,
with their vote being given equal weighting to the parliamentary
caucus under new rules introduced by Rudd in July. Shorten
defeated former Deputy Prime Minister Anthony Albanese with 64
percent of the caucus vote and 40 percent of the ordinary
membership vote, the party said.  Shorten becomes Labor’s third leader in five months and has
the task of reuniting a party riven by three years of infighting
between Rudd and Julia Gillard, the nation’s first female prime
minister. The former unionist and party power-broker has said he
can drive Labor to victory against the Liberal-National
coalition government of Prime Minister  Tony Abbott  in three
years, when the next election is due.  “This ballot provides for the first time in a very long
time not only a break with some of the past disunity, but indeed
a very solid platform for the leadership of Labor and for the
Labor parliamentary party to be able to offer a united
alternative to the coalition,” Shorten said at a news
conference in Canberra yesterday.  Female Ministers  Shorten announced today that Tanya Plibersek, a former
health minister, will be the party’s deputy leader in a shadow
ministry that includes 11 women. Six new ministers have been
elevated including Andrew Leigh, a former professor of economics
at  Australian National University . Specific ministries will be
set out later, the opposition leader said.  Shorten, 46, supported Gillard when she ousted Rudd in a
party coup three years ago. He switched allegiances in June,
publicly backing Rudd minutes before a party vote that restored
him to the leadership.  The son of a Melbourne waterside worker was a solicitor
before joining the Australian Workers’ Union as an organizer in
1994. He was national secretary from 2001 to 2007 and was
elected to parliament in November of that year. He has held
ministerial portfolios including industrial relations and
education.  Take Up Fight  “The parliamentary members of Labor wanted someone who
they thought could take up the fight to Tony Abbott directly,”
said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at
the Australian National University in Canberra. “In the short
term they will be criticized for ignoring the popular vote of
members. They’ll have to take a very long-term perspective on
this and probably put up with some short-term pain in the
opinion polls.’  Shorten is married to the daughter of Australia’s Governor-General Quentin Bryce, who as Queen Elizabeth II’s
representative in the nation swore in Abbott and his new
government last month. Bryce said she was willing to leave
office early to avoid perceptions of bias, an offer the prime
minister declined, according to an e-mailed statement from
Abbott’s office yesterday. She is scheduled to retire in March.  With one seat yet to be determined, Abbott’s coalition has
won 90 seats in the lower house with Labor gaining 55, according
to the  Australian Electoral Commission . It needed 76 seats to
form government for the first time since 2007.  Abbott Plans  Abbott, 55, has pledged to revoke the Labor-implemented
carbon-price mechanism and tax on iron-ore and coal profits,
along with toughening rules against asylum seekers arriving by
boat and cutting red tape as signs emerge of a slowdown in the
nation’s $1.5 trillion economy. From July 1, when the new Senate
convenes, he will have to negotiate with a bloc of minor parties
holding the balance of power in the Senate to pass laws.  Under rules introduced by Rudd in July, Labor automatically
holds a leadership ballot if it loses office. The new leader is
chosen in a vote by its lawmakers and ordinary members, with
both groups carrying equal weighting.  Lawmakers voted 55 to 31 in favor of Shorten, while
Albanese was favored by 60 percent of the 30,426 ordinary party
members who cast ballots, the ALP said.  ‘‘This is a very tight result,”  Chris Bowen , the former
Treasurer who has been the party’s interim leader since Rudd
stepped aside, said yesterday. “But it is a result which has
the support of the entire party. There will be branch members
who will be disappointed that their candidate didn’t win, but I
think they’ll be very grateful that they had a say and they’ll
have a say into the future.”  Credibility Gap  Shorten will need to restore the party’s credibility in the
eyes of voters, who were disillusioned by the turmoil that saw
Rudd ousted by Gillard in 2010, only to reclaim the leadership
in June.  Along with infighting and a reputation damaged by
corruption scandals, Labor has struggled to appeal to its
traditional blue-collar base, resulting in a fall in membership
and questions over its relevancy as fewer voters identify
themselves as working class.  “Voters have expressed their dislike of leaders who have
got an association with the brand they don’t like any more,
being Kevin Rudd or  Julia Gillard ,” ANU’s Hughes said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “They need to start recruiting some
other people into the party who might have broader appeal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  