-- SNB’s Jordan Says Cap ‘Crucial Tool’ to Protect Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-10-14T12:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/snb-s-jordan-says-cap-crucial-tool-to-protect-economy.html
Swiss National Bank President Thomas Jordan said ceiling on the franc remains essential to protect
the economy.  “The minimum  exchange rate  is very important,” Jordan
said on Oct. 12 in Washington, where he attended the joint
annual meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World
Bank . “It remains a crucial tool of our monetary policy in
order to avoid a tightening of monetary conditions in
Switzerland.”  The Zurich-based SNB implemented the cap of 1.20 per euro
in September 2011 after the franc came close to parity with the
bloc’s currency. The franc has depreciated about 2.5 percent
versus the euro since the  European Central Bank  announced an
unprecedented bond-buying program in September 2012 to defend
the euro. This has allowed the SNB to hold off from intervening
in  currency markets  to protect the limit for more than a year,
Jordan said last week.  “We still have a very strong currency,” Jordan said.  In an interview with Swiss national broadcaster SRF, Jordan
said the U.S. “fiscal situation,” with lawmakers wrangling
over the budget, didn’t mean the SNB would change its investment
strategy.  “I am not scared that we will lose money on these bonds in
the mid or long term,” he said, referring to the SNB’s  27
percent  foreign-currency holdings in U.S. dollars, most of which
are in highly rated bonds.  Policy Normalization  In 2012, the SNB spent 188 billion francs ($206 billion)
buying foreign currency to defend the ceiling. The central bank
held a total of 432.4 billion francs of  foreign currencies  at
the end of September, equal to about three-quarters of
 Switzerland ’s annual economic output.  The franc has fallen 2.1 percent against the euro this year
as the fiscal crisis in the 17-nation currency union retreats.
It traded at 1.2328 at 2:34 p.m. in Zurich today.  Without the cap, the economy would have suffered a
recession, Swiss policy makers have said, and they have also
repeatedly stressed there is no risk of inflation for the
foreseeable future.  Speaking in the radio interview about the loose monetary
policy of central banks generally, Jordan said he couldn’t
predict when a normalization might be achieved.  “All depends on the developments of the real economy and
inflation,” he said. “It could take a lot of time -- or it
might happen very quickly.”  According to a Bloomberg News survey of nine economists
conducted Oct. 4 to Oct. 9, the SNB will remove the ceiling in
the fourth quarter of 2014 at the earliest. One economist
expects the central bank to exit the cap in that quarter, with
four seeing the ceiling to be dropped in 2015 and four in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Washington  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  