-- Sugar Mills Face Wider Losses as Elections Loom: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-10-13T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/sugar-mills-face-wider-losses-as-elections-loom-corporate-india.html
Sugar mills in India, the world’s
biggest producer after  Brazil , are facing wider  losses  as the
government prods them to pay more for cane in a bid to woo
farmers before elections.  A glut of the sweetener has caused prices to slide to a 15-month low, prompting factories in the top two states accounting
for 65 percent of the nation’s output to sell below cost, said
Abinash Verma, director general of the Indian Sugar Mills
Association. Losses at mills may mount if cane prices are raised
for the crushing season starting this month, he said.  Producers are reeling under a rule that allows states to
fix cane rates to help about 50 million farmers, a powerful
voting bloc, earn more. Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd., the biggest
producer, reported a record loss in the three months to June 30,
while  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM)  posted its first loss in four
quarters. A shortage of working capital may force mills to delay
crushing in Uttar Pradesh state, the nation’s biggest grower,
Verma said.  “There’s cash loss in running the mills and I don’t have
the ability to operate,” said Vivek Saraogi, managing director
of Balrampur Chini, said in a phone interview. “Unreasonably
high cane price, falling sugar prices, higher stocks with
prospects of a large production owing to good monsoon have led
all bankers to withdraw loan limits to Uttar Pradesh mills.”  Dwindling Margins  The operating margin of Bajaj Hindusthan narrowed to 1.75
percent in the quarter ended June 30 from 2.59 percent a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge of
profitability fell for a second straight quarter in the three-month period to 3.28 percent at Balrampur, data showed.  “Higher cane price is already eroding margins and if this
continues it will further erode margins and mills which can’t
start crushing will be in trouble,” said Sanjay Manyal, an
analyst with ICICIdirect.com. “If they don’t get working
capital loans from the banks how will they start crushing.”  Sugar mills in Uttar Pradesh spent an average 36 rupees to
make 1 kilogram of sugar, while prices at the factory gate
averaged about 31 rupees in 2012-2013, according to the
association. Factories in Maharashtra, the second-biggest cane
producer, are selling at 28 rupees a kilogram, compared with
costs of about 31 rupees, it said.  Bank Loans  At current local prices, mills in Uttar Pradesh can only
pay as high as 225 rupees per 100 kilograms (220 pounds) for
cane, about 20 percent less than the state-set price for the
2012-2013 season, Verma said. Mills in the northern state owe
farmers as much as 25 billion rupees, he said.  “If this kind of situation continues, more than half of
the sugar companies in Uttar Pradesh will not be able to run
mills,” said Verma. “Banks have told some mills that they will
not be able to extend working-capital loans.”  Cane costs will climb this year after the federal
government increased the benchmark fair and remunerative price
24 percent. Some farmers in Uttar Pradesh want mills to pay 327
rupees per 100 kilograms for cane this season, compared with 280
rupees a year earlier to meet rising costs of cultivation, said
Sudhir Panwar, president of Kisan Jagriti Sangathan.  “I don’t think the government in Uttar Pradesh will lower
the price as farmers are a large vote base,” said Prerana Desai, head of research at Kotak Commodity Services Ltd. “The
government may compensate mills financially to make up for the
losses and that can be the only bargaining point. There can’t be
any reduction in cane price.”  Opposition Alliance  In July, a Times Now and C- voter survey found that the
Bharatiya Janata Party’s opposition alliance would top Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh’s ruling coalition in next year’s
election, with neither winning a majority. Singh’s government
has raised prices of crops from rice to wheat to soybeans to
bolster farmer incomes.  India  should consider linking cane prices to 70 percent of
the value of sugar and by-products, according to a government
panel that recommended scrapping of state controls on sale of
sugar by mills in the local market.  Mills in Maharashtra are yet to decide on cane prices for
2013-2014 season, said Sanjeev Babar, managing director of the
Maharashtra State Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation Ltd.
Producers in Karnataka have been asked by the government to pay
240 rupees per 100 kilograms as the first tranche to growers,
compared with final price of 240 rupees a year earlier, the
association said.  Production Boost  Production may total 25 million tons this season, compared
with 25.1 million tons in 2012-2013, the association estimates.
Stockpiles will surge to 10 million tons by the end of 2013-2014
if the nation fails to export any sugar, it estimates. Demand
will total 23.5 million tons next year, it said.  Bajaj Hindusthan, which has  tumbled  50 percent this year,
closed at 12.65 rupees on Oct. 11, while Balrampur ended at
43.60 rupees, down  12 percent  this year.  “We are not recommending sugar companies’ stocks to anyone
at the moment until there is some clarity on the cane pricing
issue,” said Manyal at ICICIdirect.com. “If the state
governments continue to increase the price of cane because of
their political reasons then obviously the industry will not be
able to function. It will basically make it unviable for them to
make sugar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  