-- U.K. Manufacturers Appeal to Party Leaders to Keep Britain in EU
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-10-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/u-k-manufacturers-appeal-to-party-leaders-to-keep-britain-in-eu.html
U.K. manufacturers wrote to the
leaders of Britain’s main political parties to urge them to
remain in the European Union.  Terry Scuoler, the chief executive of EEF, which represents
6,000 manufacturing businesses, about a quarter of the total,
said membership in the bloc is “critical” for exports and
investment. A survey of EEF members found the economic benefits
outweigh any concerns about excessive regulation or demands for
a repatriation of powers, he said.  “Britain must not gamble on its future in  Europe ,”
Scuoler said in an e-mailed statement today. “The stakes are
enormous. It is naive to think we can simply pull up the
drawbridge and carry on as normal. The debate must move on to
how we can make Europe work to support jobs, growth and higher
 living standards .”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has promised a referendum
on EU membership by the end of 2017 if a Conservative government
is elected in the 2015 general election. The opposition  Labour
Party  has yet to say whether it would hold a referendum if it
wins. The U.K. Independence Party, which advocates withdrawal
from the EU, has been drawing support from the Conservatives and
attracts backing of about 10 percent in opinion polls.  About 85 percent of the 398 EEF members who responded to
the lobby group’s survey for a report published today said they
would vote to stay in the EU.  A third said they were less likely to increase investment
in Britain if it left the EU, while 37 percent said they would
have to make significant changes to their business plans.  A survey of business leaders published last month by the
 Confederation of British Industry  found almost 80 percent wanted
Britain to remain in the EU.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  