-- U.K. Nears $22 Billion EDF Deal for First Atomic Plant Since ’95
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-14T09:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/u-k-says-deal-on-22-billion-nuclear-plant-extremely-close-.html
The U.K. is “extremely close” to
announcing a deal with  Electricite de France SA  to build
Britain’s first nuclear power station since 1995, Energy
Secretary  Ed Davey  said.  The agreement may be announced as soon as this week after
two or three remaining issues are resolved, said a government
official briefed on the talks, who didn’t want to be identified
before negotiations are completed. Paris-based EDF would build
two reactors at Hinkley Point in southwest  England  at an
estimated cost of 14 billion pounds ($22 billion).  “We’re extremely close for a deal with EDF,” Davey said
in a BBC Television interview yesterday. “If and when we get
that deal I’ll announce it to parliament, and I think I’ll be
able to show it’s extremely good value for money for
customers.”  Davey and EDF have taken almost a year to reach an
agreement on Hinkley point, which hinges on the price the plant
will get for the electricity it generates. Negotiations are
taking place based on a price of about 93 pounds a megawatt-hour, the government official said, almost double the 49-pound
average in U.K. power markets over the past year.  EDF spokesman Jonathan Levy declined to comment.  EDF shares rose as much as 65 cents, or 2.7 percent, to
25.16 euros in Paris today, the highest since Aug. 1. The stock
traded at 25:10 euros at 10:35 a.m. local time.  The shares were also buoyed by a report in Journal du
Dimanche that EDF will allowed to operate reactors in  France  for
50 rather than 40 years.  Raise Earnings  Both developments are “positive,” for the French utility,
according to a report by Banco BPI SA analyst Louis Boujard.
Extending the lives of French atomic reactors would raise
earnings and “trigger a further deleveraging.”  The U.K. wants new nuclear reactors to replace the
country’s existing atomic fleet, which is scheduled for closure
by 2023. When completed, Hinkley Point would be able to generate
more than 3,200 megawatts, according to EDF, or about 7 percent
of U.K. power demand.  As well as helping to replace older plants, the project
would be one of the U.K.’s single largest investments and
pressing ahead would be a boost to the government’s policy of
using large infrastructure investment to spur economic growth.
 EDF says  the project will create 5,000 jobs during construction,
generating 100 million pounds a year for the regional economy.  China Agreement  To help finance the plant, EDF will sell a 49 percent stake
to  China  General Nuclear Power Corp., the Financial Times has
reported. Chancellor  George Osborne  will sign a broad agreement
on nuclear cooperation between the U.K. and China on a visit to
the Asian country this week, the FT said on Oct. 12.  “The Chinese, along with the Koreans and the Japanese and
other countries, are very interested in the opportunity in
Britain’s nuclear sector,” Davey said in yesterday’s interview,
declining to comment on whether China will invest in Hinkley
Point. “We’ll see massive Chinese investment, not just in
nuclear, but across the board.”  At 93 pounds, the guaranteed rate for nuclear power would
be below the 155 pounds a megawatt-hour promised to offshore
wind-power developers for four years from next year. The
offshore rate will decline to 100 pounds by 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  