-- Vettel Nears Formula 1 Title With Career-Best Fifth Straight Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-13T15:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/vettel-wins-japanese-grand-prix-to-extend-formula-1-series-lead.html
Sebastian Vettel moved to within 10
points of a fourth straight Formula One world championship by
winning his fifth race in a row at the Japanese Grand Prix.  Red Bull  driver Vettel recovered after dropping to third at
the start to win a close tactical battle with teammate  Mark Webber , who finished seven seconds back yesterday at Suzuka.
 Romain Grosjean  of Lotus was third.  Vettel, seeking to join his fellow German  Michael Schumacher  and Juan Manuel Fangio of  Argentina  in winning four
consecutive championships, leads Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  by 90
points with 100 points available from the remaining four races.
Alonso finished fourth in Japan to keep alive his slim title
chances heading to the next race on Oct. 27 in India.  “The championship is the big target of course, but the
season is very long still and the best way to wrap it up is not
to think about it,” Vettel, 26, told reporters. “I’m happy to
go home for a bit now and to relax before we go out to India.”  Vettel’s career-best race winning streak, which began Aug.
25 in Belgium, makes him the sixth driver to win five successive
F-1 Grands Prix and the first since Schumacher in 2004. A top-five finish in  New Delhi  would guarantee him the title.  After starting in second place behind pole-position sitter
Webber yesterday, Vettel slipped back as Grosjean catapulted
into the lead from fourth on the grid. Vettel’s front-wing also
clipped  Lewis Hamilton ’s Mercedes on the run down to the first
corner. The touch punctured Hamilton’s tire, which damaged his
rear bodywork and forced him to later quit the race.  Two-Stop Strategy  Grosjean was able to maintain his advantage over Webber and
Vettel for the first half of the race. Vettel made a decisive
pass on the 40th of 53 laps when he moved along Grosjean’s
inside to take second place behind Webber, who then had to make
his third pit stop. Vettel and Grosjean made two stops.  After hitting the front, Vettel was able to cruise to his
ninth victory of the 19-race series as Grosjean held off Webber
until the final laps, denying the Australian driver the chance
to challenge his teammate for the win.  “There were different strategies going on,” Webber said
at the podium presentation. “Seb went longer on the first
stint, then it unloaded his race a bit better than mine at the
end. I got the best out of what I could today.”  Alonso, who won back-to-back world championships with
Renault in 2005 and 2006, clinched fourth place to extend the
title chase. The Spaniard had needed a top-eight finish to
maintain a chance of overhauling Vettel if the series leader won
at Suzuka.  ‘Matter of Time’  To have any chance of finishing top of the standings,
Alonso would have to win three of the four races left and finish
second in the other. Vettel has 297 points to Alonso’s 207.  “Even if Vettel doesn’t finish all of the races I need
to win nearly all,” Alonso told the British Broadcasting Corp.
“It is a matter of time. When it is mathematically settled we
will congratulate him.”  Kimi Raikkonen of Lotus has 177 points in third place after
passing  Nico Hulkenberg  with two laps to go yesterday to take
fifth ahead of the Sauber driver. Hulkenberg’s rookie teammate
Esteban Gutierrez scored his first F-1 points with seventh
place.  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes, McLaren’s Jenson Button and
 Felipe Massa  of Ferrari rounded out the top 10.  Red Bull heads the constructors’ championship with 445
points, 148 more than Ferrari with Mercedes another 10 points
back. Lotus has 264 points in fourth place.  Following India, the remaining races are in  Abu Dhabi , the
U.S. and  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  