-- Volatility Decline Evokes Kospi Rally of 2010
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-10-14T06:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/volatility-decline-evokes-2010-kospi-rally-of-28-korea-markets.html
The last time share-price swings in
South Korea fell this low versus peers in  emerging markets  was
May 2010, when the  Kospi index  surged 28 percent in 12 months.  Volatility in the nation’s benchmark equity gauge has
halved since July, with a measure of 30-day  swings  falling to
8.6 on Oct. 11 versus 14 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  International Monetary Fund 
says South Korea is among nations best placed to weather a cut
in U.S. monetary stimulus because policy makers have room to
boost  government spending  and reduce  interest rates .  Growing demand for the most-stable equities has spurred a
record 31 straight days of foreign inflows into South Korean
shares, while concern over  Federal Reserve  tapering and
America’s debt-ceiling debate sent the benchmark gauge of U.S.
stock volatility to a three-month high on Oct. 8.  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , UBS  Wealth Management  and Bank  Julius Baer  & Co. say
they’re bullish on South Korea as smaller price swings lure
investors to companies from  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  to  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)   “Korea is our biggest overweight market,” Sakthi Siva, a
strategist at Credit Suisse in Singapore, said in an Oct. 7 e-mail. “I always suggest buying on dips.”  The Kospi’s 30-day volatility is 59 percent below the five-year average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The South
Korean gauge outperformed the MSCI emerging markets index by
about 7 percentage points when price swings fell this low versus
the 21-country measure in 2010.  Relative Value  The Kospi  trades  at 1.1 times net assets after gaining 1.4
percent last week. That’s a 33 percent valuation discount
compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets index, which has a
multiple of 1.6. The South Korean index fell 0.2 percent to
2,020.27 at the close in Seoul today.  International investors purchased a net $1.1 billion of
South Korean shares last week, bringing inflows to about $10.4
billion since the buying streak began on Aug. 23. SK Hynix, the
world’s second-biggest maker of memory chips, attracted a net
$1.4 billion. That’s the most after  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
South Korea’s largest company by market value. LG Chem, the
biggest chemicals producer, had $170 million of net purchases.  “The problems in the U.S. and the weakness of equity
markets in general provide a good buying opportunity” in South
Korea, Gary Dugan, the Singapore-based chief investment officer
for  Asia  and the  Middle East  at Coutts & Co., said in an e-mail
interview on Oct. 8. “The market will break to the upside.”  Yields Rise  South Korean shares outperformed  government bonds  last
week. Yields on the nation’s 10-year notes climbed 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 3.52 percent while the won
was little changed at 1,071.40 per dollar. The cost of
protecting the country’s sovereign debt against nonpayment using
credit default swaps fell about 6 basis points to 68 basis
points, according to data provider CMA.  Further gains in stocks this year may be limited amid
investor concern that the world economy will slow, Kwon Hyuk Sang, the Seoul-based chief investment officer at Hanwha Asset
Management Co., which manages $48 billion, said on Oct. 10.  The IMF reduced its global growth forecast for this year to
2.9 percent from 3.1 percent on Oct. 8 and warned that a U.S.
government default could “seriously damage” the world economy.
 South Korea ’s exports dropped 1.5 percent in September,
following a 7.7 percent jump in August.  Global economic risks will fail to derail South Korea’s
growth, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in an interview in
Washington on Oct. 10. He’s sticking with a forecast for 3.9
percent expansion in 2014, which would be the fastest pace since
2010.  Profit Growth  Corporate profits will probably climb as much as 15 percent
next year, according to Nam Dong Joon, the head of equities at
Samsung Asset Management Co., the nation’s biggest private money
manager with $118 billion of assets.  “It’s one of the most-preferred markets for investors that
want to shun high risks,” said Nam, who predicts the Kospi may
climb as much as 14 percent next year. “We’re seeing more long-term investments coming into the Korean market.”  The Kospi 200  Volatility Index , a gauge of expected swings
in South Korean shares derived from options prices, has declined
20 percent during the past three months. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge of U.S.
options known as the  VIX (VIX) , climbed 12 percent in the same period.  Stable Market  Healthy government finances will support South Korea’s
financial markets, according to Yonghao Pu, the Hong Kong-based
regional chief investment officer for Asia Pacific at UBS’s
wealth management unit, which oversees about $1.9 trillion.  South Korea’s gross government debt this year will amount
to 36 percent of GDP, in line with the 35 percent level for
emerging markets as a group, according to IMF estimates. The
nation’s current-account surplus will grow to 4.6 percent of
GDP, compared with 0.8 percent for  developing countries , IMF
projections show. South Korea’s foreign exchange reserves surged
by $5.8 billion to a record $336.9 billion last month.  The country’s inflation rate fell to the slowest pace in 14
years in September, while the central bank left its benchmark
interest rate at 2.5 percent, the lowest level since 2010, for a
fifth consecutive meeting this month.  Bank Julius Baer’s  Mark Matthews  favors companies whose
profits are most tied to economic growth, including LG Chem, as
valuations remain depressed. The chemical maker trades for 15
times earnings, compared with a median of 19 for global peers.  “It makes sense to buy” South Korean shares, Matthews,
the head of Asia research at Bank Julius Baer, which has about
$336 billion of client assets, said in a phone interview on Oct.
8. “A stable market is a positive factor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  