-- ‘Gravity’ Beats ‘Captain Phillips’ to Repeat as Top Film
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-10-14T22:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/warner-bros-gravity-repeats-atop-box-office-with-44-million.html
“Gravity,” the  Warner Bros. (TWX)  space
thriller starring  Sandra Bullock , collected $43.2 million to
repeat as the top movie in U.S. and Canadian theaters this past
weekend, following its record debut for an October film.  “Captain Phillips,” a drama featuring  Tom Hanks  as a ship
captain facing down modern-day pirates, took in $25.7 million
for  Sony Corp. (6758)  to place second, Rentrak said today in an e-mailed statement.  Strong reviews and word-of-mouth have propelled
“Gravity,” about two astronauts cast adrift after an accident,
at the box office and in the eyes of pundits weighing Oscar
contenders. The market has room for both “Gravity” and the
Hanks film, which also has won critical acclaim, according to
Phil Contrino, chief analyst for researcher BoxOffice.com.  “These are two highly rated, well-respected movies that
have both benefited” from positive reviews, said  Paul Sweeney ,
a media analyst for Bloomberg Industries, in a telephone
interview. “It just shows you that A-list stars can still drive
movies in Hollywood.”  Both films have been well received. At Rottentomatoes.com,
which compiles movie reviews, 97 percent of critics rated
“Gravity” “fresh,” while “Captain Phillips” generated 95
percent positive reviews.  Anchoring “Gravity” are Bullock’s performance and Alfonso Cuaron’s direction, which uses 3-D effects to depict the
sensation of being in space.  ‘Captain Phillips’  Bullock plays Ryan Stone, a new-to-space medical engineer,
opposite  George Clooney , a veteran astronaut who talks Stone
through her panic when debris from a satellite hits the shuttle
and damages it. The two are left floating in space and cut off
from communications with Earth, while trying to make it to a
 space station  before their oxygen runs out.  Made for $100 million, “Gravity” collected $55.8 million
last weekend, a record for October, traditionally a quiet month
at the box office. Over two weeks, the movie has brought in
$122.3 million.  It’s also lifted Time Warner Inc.’s studio to No. 1 in
domestic sales this year, moving ahead of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures .  “Captain Phillips” is based on the true story of the
hijacking of a U.S. cargo ship, the Maersk Alabama, by Somali
pirates. It stars Hanks as  Richard Phillips , the real-life
captain of the ship.  Three Shots  Directed by Paul Greengrass, the British filmmaker behind
the second and third films in the “Bourne” franchise from
Universal, the movie casts the heroic figure of Phillips against
the desperate plight of his captors.  After the ship was attacked by the pirates in April 2009,
Phillips agreed to go with them to spare the crew. After five
days in captivity, he was rescued from a lifeboat in the  Indian
Ocean  as Navy snipers killed three pirates with three shots.  “Captain Phillips” was made for $55 million, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo, and was projected to collect $21
million for Sony, according to BoxOffice.com.  The film “has a vital moral immediacy,”  wrote  Manohla
Dargis in the  New York  Times. The movie “deepens, brilliantly,
unexpectedly, into an unsettling look at global capitalism and
American privilege and power.”  “Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs 2,” the animated
sequel from Sony, dropped to third place from second, collecting
$13.8 million. The movie, released on Sept. 27, has taken in
$77.6 million to date in its domestic theatrical run.  ‘Runner Runner’  Another new movie, “Machete Kills,” from Open Road Films,
had sales of $3.84 million to place fourth. The action picture
was projected to collect $7.5 million in its opening weekend,
according to BoxOffice.com.  The follow-up to 2010’s “Machete” from Twentieth Century
Fox, it again stars Danny Trejo as Machete Cortez, a secret
agent who is recruited by the U.S. president, played by  Charlie Sheen , to stop a power-mad arms dealer,  Mel Gibson .  The movie, which was directed by  Robert Rodriguez  and also
features Cuba Gooding Jr.,  Antonio Banderas  and Lady Gaga, faced
critical reviews ahead of its opening, with just a 30 percent
“fresh” rating from Rottentomatoes.  “Runner Runner,” the online poker movie from Twentieth
Century Fox, fell to fifth place after its debut in third last
weekend, collecting $3.77 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 10 films fell 12 percent to
$103.4 million from the year-earlier period, Rentrak said.
Revenue year to date is up less than 1 percent to $8.41 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Rentrak. The amounts are based on gross
ticket sales for Oct. 11 to Oct. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  