-- What If a Flu Breaks Out When CDC Can’t Track It
-- B y   D a v i d   S a t c h e r
-- 2013-10-13T15:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/what-if-a-flu-breaks-out-when-cdc-can-t-track-it.html
As director of the U.S.  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  during the last government
shutdown, in 1995-1996, I can attest to the very real potential
for unnecessary pain, suffering and death when the work of
public-health officials is curtailed.  As a consequence of the current shutdown, the CDC has been
required to furlough two-thirds of its staff, leaving only 4,000
people to conduct vital public-health responsibilities. This
translates into reduced protection for Americans. Here are just
a few examples:  -- Surveillance for detecting and responding to infectious
diseases is weakened: Nine of the 10  Global Disease Detection
Centers  have significantly reduced monitoring for diseases such
as Ebola and new pathogens such as Middle East respiratory
syndrome and H7N9, which could threaten the U.S.  -- CDC doesn’t have the personnel to monitor, track and
provide guidance about seasonal flu activity, even as the season
is beginning. The virus claims thousands of lives in the U.S.
every year, and that’s when the CDC is fully staffed.  -- Although state public-health investigators can detect
disease outbreaks, the CDC’s ability to conduct cross-state
collaboration and lab work for linking these outbreaks is
severely diminished.  -- The CDC isn’t able to conduct routine inspections of
high-security labs to ensure that they are taking appropriate
precautions when handling deadly agents such as anthrax,
monkeypox and Ebola.  -- Staffing at the Emergency Operation Center is minimal.
In the event of a natural or man-made disaster, the CDC will
have difficulty in responding quickly and efficiently to any
public-health challenge.  In 1996, it took CDC on average 167 days to identify an
outbreak. Today, thanks to advances in technology, it takes
about 20 days. The shutdown, however, could greatly reduce the
speed of disease detection and needlessly cost lives.  The shutdown’s effects on public health could have terrible
economic costs, too. A little more than 10 years ago, severe
acute respiratory syndrome was detected relatively quickly,
within a few months of the first outbreak in Asia in November
2002. Still, more than 800 people in 30 countries died, and the
world economy suffered a $30 billion to $40 billion blow.  Importantly, the longer a shutdown lasts, the more
difficult it is to catch up. That’s because it takes any agency
time to get back up to speed when the government fully reopens.
That means days can turn into weeks, and weeks into months.  Shutdowns also take a toll on morale: It’s frustrating for
any organization to try to carry out its vital mission with
inadequate resources, and dedicated staff members are
discouraged when they think their roles have been devalued.  The most critical danger, however, could be the blind spots
in detection that inevitably develop as a result of
understaffing. We may be lucky this time and avoid any severe
outbreaks. But surely we can agree that it is irresponsible to
base our disease detection and response strategy on luck.  I urge our leaders to come up with a solution that ensures
that the men and women of the CDC -- and people throughout the
government and those who work with the government in the private
sector -- are back on the job protecting our nation’s health,
security and economy. The longer the shutdown persists, the more
we are all at risk.  (David Satcher, a physician, is director of Morehouse
School of Medicine’s Satcher Health Leadership Institute. He was
director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from
1993 to 1998 and U.S. surgeon general from 1998 to 2002. He
serves on the board of directors of the CDC Foundation.)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Satcher at  dsatcher@msm.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net . 