-- WTI Falls as U.S. Debt Talks Continue; China Imports Jump
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-10-14T12:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/wti-crude-slides-for-a-second-day-as-u-s-debt-talks-continue.html
West Texas Intermediate fell for a
second day as U.S. lawmakers negotiate an accord to end a
partial government shutdown and increase debt limit, raising
concern a potential default may slow growth and sap fuel demand.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent in  New York  after
ending with a loss for the fourth time in five weeks Oct. 11.
Senate leaders wrapped up almost four hours of debate without
resolution as the government’s borrowing authority is due to
lapse in three days. Net crude imports from  China , the world’s
second-biggest oil consumer, rose to record 25.61 million metric
tons last month, customs data released on Oct. 12 show.  “ Oil prices  are unable to profit for the threat of U.S.
insolvency continues to hang over the markets like the sword of
Damocles,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt .  WTI for November delivery fell as much as 91 cents to
$101.11 and was at $101.52 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  as of 1:18 p.m. in  London . The
contract slipped 1 percent to $102.02 on Oct. 11, ending down
1.8 percent for the week. The volume of all futures traded was
about 5.2 percent above the 100-day average.  Brent for November settlement was $1.02 lower at $110.26 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $8.79 to WTI,
narrowing for the first time in six sessions.  U.S. Default  The congressional deadlock over debt ceiling is threatening
the U.S. and world economies, International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” program. The U.S. is the world’s largest oil user,
accounting for 21 percent of global consumption last year,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Oil traders are losing a key weekly report on supplies
because of the U.S. government shutdown, threatening to reduce
market volume and boost volatility. The Energy Information
Administration ceased operations and furloughed staff, stopping
publications such as the 34-year-old Weekly Petroleum Status
Report on Wednesdays, which includes crude and gasoline data.  The suspension means the market will turn to commercial
reports from organizations such as the  American Petroleum
Institute , an industry-funded group that gives paying
subscribers first access to the information.  Refinery Premiums  The premium for the earliest deliveries of crude from
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the biggest oil storage hub in the U.S., is
declining after averaging a record during the third quarter as
refineries shut for maintenance and the nation boosts output.  The gap between front-month WTI and contracts for delivery
a year later was $6.90 a barrel Oct. 11, after averaging $11.70
in the third quarter, as concern eased that tanks at Cushing,
the delivery point for WTI, would drop to minimum levels and
limit the amount of oil available for delivery right away.  China’s net crude imports are equivalent to an average 6.26
million barrels a day, 25 percent more than in August and 2
percent higher than the previous record of 6.13 million barrels
a day in July, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.K. labor union Unite served a strike notice at
Grangemouth,  Scotland ’s only oil refinery, for Oct. 20 that may
halt crude flows from the North Sea Forties Pipeline System.  The facility, jointly owned by Ineos Group Holdings SA and
 PetroChina Co Ltd. (857) , supplies power and steam to BP Plc’s
neighboring Kinneil processing plant, which handles oil from the
Forties Pipeline System. The FPS network carries 675,000 barrels
a day of crude from more than 50 fields, according to the BP
website.  Unite offered to provide full safety cover or maintain the
North Sea pipeline and fuel terminal operations, according to an
e-mailed statement on Oct. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  