-- Young Italian Winemakers Challenging Old Timers in Barolo
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-10-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-13/young-winemakers-battle-old-timers-in-barolo-wars-.html
To judge how far barolo has come in
the past three decades, check out the prices on some of these
better-known bottlings. Angelo Gaja “Sperss” goes for $315,
Brovia Monprivato, $372, while Giacomo Conterno Monfortino
Riserva costs $638.  Pretty remarkable for a regional wine that some producers
were giving away before 1980. “In the 1970s, if you bought one
bottle of cheap dolcetto in Piedmont, you’d get a bottle of
barolo free,” says Achille Boroli, 36-year-old winemaker and
owner of Boroli winery in Alba in the heart of the barolo
region.  Today barolo, named after a local village and made from the
nebbiolo grape, is now considered one of Italy’s most
prestigious red wines. It was one of only three wines awarded
the government’s Denominazione di Origine Controllata e
Garantita (DOCG) status in 1980, when that classification was
introduced.  Since then, hundreds of newcomers have entered the fray.
Wine-Searcher.com shows 500 different barolo labels on its
 website , and that’s only a partial list. The approved zone for
planting barolo, though not huge, takes in about a dozen
villages in Piedmont, leading to variations in soil and style of
the finished wine.  Chestnut Barrels  Barolo is always a big, highly-concentrated wine, which by
DOCG law must spend at least three years aging, two in oak or
chestnut barrels. A riserva must age for five years, two in
barrel.  Old-style barolos are said to require 10 years of
additional bottle aging to reach their prime.  Newer styles of barolo are usually aged in smaller French
barriques, with less tannins, so the wines are fruitier, a
direction that has pitted the old timers against the new guys in
the “Barolo Wars.”  Boroli’s wines are clearly of the recent camp. Achille’s
father, Silvano, whose family is in the publishing industry,
bought prime vineyard property in the Langhe region of Piedmont
in 1997. Today it is a small production winery with a range of
wines in addition to barolos. The company has also opened
 Locanda del Pilone , a small hotel and restaurant with a cooking
school.  Burrata Cheese  At a tasting with Achille Boroli at  New York ’s Sandro’s
restaurant over plates of gnocchi with burrata cheese and onion-and-bacon rich spaghetti all’amatriciana, I was delighted to
find his barolos were very easy to drink right now; you
certainly wouldn’t need to wait 10 or even five years for them
to achieve their peak. All had a signature of black and white
pepper components.  Starting with the most youthful, the 2008 Barolo ($40),
which spent two years in barrel and 18 months in bottle, showed
the power of the nebbiolo varietal as well as its earthiness,
distinguishing barolo from other Italian reds like chianti
classico or Piedmont’s other great red wine, barbaresco.  The 2008’s tannins are still not softened up but the fruit
is already splendidly forward.  The 2007 Cerequio Barolo ($79), from a First Category Cru
vineyard, was magnificent, reaching every taste bud on the
palate and revealing velvety tannins and the scent of truffles
in the nose. Here you find the explosive power of barolo along
with a finish of great elegance, all at 13.5 percent alcohol.  Full Bodied  Boroli’s Villero Barolo, also from 2007 ($71), comes from
the region of Castiglione Falletto, known to produce a somewhat
fuller bodied wine -- this one has 14.5 percent alcohol -- that
takes its time coming into focus.  I found this, like the other Boroli examples, ripe and
achieving a balance of fruit, acid and tannins that echo older
styles, yet are indicative of the sound modern winemaking
techniques of the region today.  I also got to taste Boroli’s Chinato ($67), an interesting
vermouth-like wine infused with the bark of the South American
cinchona bark, which the people of Piedmont believe helps
prevent malaria.  Though the sickness isn’t much of a problem in  Italy 
anymore, the wine endures as a dessert beverage.  In the “Barolo Wars” I try to remain neutral, though I
have long cherished the chance to savor very old or old-style
barolos that reveal the tastes of another era. As I get older,
however, the happier I am to find young winemakers like Achille
Boroli who have carefully crafted a newer style without
compromising barolo’s essential character.  Many other Giovanni-come-lately winemakers have, and their
sales have suffered as a result.  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Catherine Smith interviews  artist 
Ursula Von Rydingsvard.  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Mariani  at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 