-- ‘Dark Knight’ Posts $36.4 Million to Lead Sales for 3rd Weekend
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-08-05T15:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/-dark-knight-posts-36-4-million-to-lead-sales-for-3rd-weekend.html
“The  Dark Knight  Rises,” the last
film in Warner Bros.’ Batman trilogy, led the U.S. and Canadian
box office for a third weekend, collecting $36.4 million as news
coverage of the shooting at a Colorado theater abated.  “Total Recall,”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s remake of the 1990 sci-fi
adventure, with  Colin Farrell  replacing  Arnold Schwarzenegger  in
the title role, took in $26 million to place second in its
debut,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
debuted in third place with $14.7 million.  Sales for “The Dark Knight Rises” brought the film’s
domestic total to $355 million,  Hollywood.com  said. Its 2008
predecessor had revenue of almost $400 million after three
weeks. The latest Batman film from the  Time Warner Inc. (S5MEDA)  studio
missed forecasts on its first weekend after 12 people were
killed and 58 hurt when a gunman opened fire at a midnight
showing of the movie in Aurora, Colorado.  Boxoffice.com , an industry website, had predicted weekend
sales of $37.5 million for “The Dark Knight Rises.” Box Office
Guru, another industry watcher, was forecasting ticket revenue
of $31 million.  The film marks the third and final pairing of actor
 Christian Bale , playing Batman, with director  Christopher Nolan ,
who combined to create the hit franchise for  Time Warner. (TWX)   Hobbled Batman  In the movie, set eight years after “The Dark Knight,”
the second in the series, an aging Bruce Wayne walks with a cane
because of his many injuries and is facing financial ruin. He
emerges from retirement to fight Bane, a physically and
intellectually powerful villain who isolates Gotham City and
orchestrates class warfare between the haves and have-nots.  Anne Hathaway  stars as Catwoman and  Tom Hardy  as Bane.
Morgan Freeman and Joseph Gordon-Levitt co-star.  “Total Recall” features Farrell as a factory worker,
Douglas Quaid, who starts to think he is a spy after something
goes wrong when he visits a company that gives clients fake
memories of a life they would like to lead.  Kate Beckinsale  plays his wife, Lori Quaid, replacing
 Sharon Stone  from the original.  Rottentomatoes.com , a website that aggregates commentary
from critics, gave the film a 31 percent favorable rating, based
on 101 reviews. The site said the film lacked the wry humor of
the original. Boxoffice.com was predicting weekend sales of $23
million.  ‘Wimpy Kid’  “Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days,” marks the third picture
in a series of Twentieth Century Fox films based on the best-
selling illustrated novels by Jeff Kinney featuring the title
character as he navigates middle school.  In the latest installment, “Wimpy Kid” Greg Heffley,
played by Zachary Gordon, looking forward to enjoying a
leisurely summer, hatches a plan to pretend he has a job at a
country club. Along the way he experiences embarrassing mishaps
at a public pool and a camping trip that goes wrong. Box Office
Guru projected sales of $17 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  