-- ‘Dark Knight’ No. 1 Film Again With $35.7 Million in Sales
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-06T21:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/-dark-knight-no-1-film-with-36-4-million-in-sales-correct-.html
“The  Dark Knight  Rises,” the last
film in Warner Bros.’ Batman trilogy, led the U.S. and Canadian
box office for a third weekend, collecting $35.7 million as news
coverage of the shooting at a  Colorado  theater abated.  “Total Recall,”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s remake of the 1990 sci-fi
adventure, with  Colin Farrell  replacing  Arnold Schwarzenegger  in
the title role, took in $25.6 million to place second in its
debut,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
opened in third place with $14.6 million.  Sales for “The Dark Knight Rises” brought the film’s
domestic total to $353.9 million,  Hollywood.com  said. Its 2008
predecessor had revenue of almost $400 million after three
weeks. The latest Batman film from the  Time Warner Inc. (S5MEDA)  studio
missed forecasts on its first weekend after 12 people were
killed and 58 hurt when a gunman opened fire at a midnight
showing of the movie in Aurora, Colorado.  “It’s had a great run and I suspect it will play well for
the rest of the summer, but it will have a challenge next week
with ‘The Bourne Legacy,’” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  “The Bourne Legacy” is “an action
movie geared toward younger audiences. It’s a little bit more
male oriented so it should challenge Dark Knight next week.”  Hobbled Batman  Boxoffice.com , an industry website, had predicted weekend
sales of $37.5 million for “The Dark Knight Rises.” Box Office
Guru, another industry watcher, was forecasting ticket revenue
of $31 million.  The film marks the third and final pairing of actor
 Christian Bale , playing Batman, with director  Christopher Nolan ,
who combined to create the hit franchise for  Time Warner. (TWX)   In the movie, set eight years after “The Dark Knight,”
the second in the series, an aging Bruce Wayne walks with a cane
because of his many injuries and is facing financial ruin. He
emerges from retirement to fight Bane, a physically and
intellectually powerful villain who isolates Gotham City and
orchestrates class warfare between the haves and have-nots.  Anne Hathaway  stars as Catwoman and  Tom Hardy  as Bane.
 Morgan Freeman  and Joseph Gordon-Levitt co-star.  Factory Worker  “Total Recall” features Farrell as a factory worker,
Douglas Quaid, who starts to think he is a spy after something
goes wrong when he visits a company that gives clients fake
memories of a life they would like to lead.  Kate Beckinsale  plays his wife, Lori Quaid, replacing
 Sharon Stone  from the original.  Rottentomatoes.com , a website that aggregates commentary
from critics, gave the film a 31 percent favorable rating, based
on 101 reviews. The site said the film lacked the wry humor of
the original. Boxoffice.com predicted weekend sales of $23
million.  “Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days,” marks the third picture
in a series of Twentieth Century Fox films based on the best-
selling illustrated novels by Jeff Kinney featuring the title
character as he navigates middle school.  ‘Wimpy Kid’  In the latest installment, “Wimpy Kid” Greg Heffley,
played by Zachary Gordon, looking forward to enjoying a
leisurely summer, hatches a plan to pretend he has a job at a
country club. Along the way he experiences embarrassing mishaps
at a public pool and a camping trip that goes wrong. Box Office
Guru projected sales of $17 million.  “‘Wimpy Kid’ is not a big blockbuster movie, but it will
play well for the rest of the summer with a younger audience,”
Sweeney said.  ‘The Watch’  Among returning films, “Ice Age: Continental Drift,” the
fourth picture in the animated series from Twentieth Century
Fox, came in fourth in its fourth weekend with $8.6 million in
sales.  “The Watch,” a R-rated sci-fi comedy also from Twentieth
Century Fox, came in fifth in its second week with $6.5 million,
Hollywood.com said. The film follows four suburban dads who form
a neighborhood watch group to escape their boring lives and find
themselves defending Earth from aliens.  Ben Stiller , Vince Vaughn and Jonah Hill star in the
feature.  Seth Rogen , star of the comedies “Superbad” and
“Knocked Up,” co-wrote the movie. The picture was made for
about $68 million, according to  Box Office Mojo , another film
researcher.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 28 percent to
$113.8 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
film sales this year have risen 4.2 percent to $6.8 billion,
with attendance up 3 percent. The amounts below are based on
actual ticket sales for Aug. 3 through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  