-- Macau Police Raid Casinos, Hotels After Deadly Attacks
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-08-06T02:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/macau-police-raid-casinos-hotels-after-deadly-attacks-on-guests.html
Macau police raided casinos and
hotels in an operation with Chinese and  Hong Kong  authorities
after a series of murders and attacks targeting guests in the
only part of  China  where the gambling establishments are legal.  Police questioned nearly 1,300 people and detained about
150 of them for further investigation as part of an overnight
operation codenamed “Thunderbolt” between Aug. 3 and Aug. 4,
according to a statement from the  Unitary Police Service  of
Macau sent via mobile text message.  The crackdown on violent crime is an echo of Macau’s deadly
gang wars in the late 1990s, when the territory was still a
Portuguese colony. Criminal groups known as triads fought for
control of casino VIP rooms and loan-sharking operations, most
recently in 1999, when 40 people were killed in shootouts.
‘Broken Tooth’ Wan Kuok-koi, the jailed leader of the 14K triad,
is near the end of a 15-year term he began serving in 1999.  “Crime comes inevitably with casinos,” Au Kam-sun, a
Macau lawmaker, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The
police make a clean-up every now and then to keep the triads in
check.”  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , the Macau casino company founded by
 Stanley Ho , rose 2.8 percent to HK$14.22 at 10:31 a.m. in Hong
Kong trading.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  rose 2.8 percent
to HK$19.54, while  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Asian unit of  Sheldon
Adelson ’s Las Vegas company, advanced 4 percent to HK$24.55.  Gaming Revenue  Macau gaming revenue rose 1.5 percent in July, beating
estimates from some analysts who predicted a little changed or
lower result on declining demand from mainland Chinese gamblers
and the impact of a Hong Kong typhoon.  Gaming revenue in the world’s biggest gambling hub rose to
24.6 billion patacas ($3.08 billion) from 24.2 billion patacas,
a year earlier, the city’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination
Bureau said Aug. 1. The growth beat the expectations of analysts
at Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Macau  police arrested 17 people on Aug. 2 for cheating in
three of the city’s casinos. Those detained were involved in a
scheme in which casino dealers took bribes and used tiny cameras
to take images of cards on baccarat tables, Macau’s Judiciary
Police spokesman Chan Kin-hong said by phone yesterday.  The case involved HK$90 million ($11.6 million) and
centered on three casinos in Macau city and the adjacent Cotai
Strip, Chan said, without identifying them.  Thunderbolt Operation  Hong Kong police arrested 130 people and seized HK$8
million in cash and property on Aug. 2 in anti-triad raids
targeting money-laundering, as part of the “Thunderbolt”
operation with law enforcement agencies in Macau and mainland
China’s Guangdong province.  Officers seized HK$3.4 million in various currencies, 11
watches and two cars and alleged that those arrested were
involved in laundering money, operating illegal gambling
establishments, and other triad-related offenses.  Ng Man-sun, the largest shareholder of  Amax Holdings Ltd. (959) ,
was beaten in a restaurant at a casino operated by his company,
the  New York  Times reported on June 28. The Macau New Century
Hotel stopped accepting guests after the assault because
“certain unidentified persons” had been staying there for a
long time, according to the  South China Morning Post  on July 3.  Ng, also known by his nickname “Market Wai,” requested
that eight of the nine directors of Amax’s board be removed and
replaced by five new directors, according to a company statement
to the Hong Kong stock exchange on July 16.  The attack on him was followed by the killing of a Chinese
woman in a neighborhood near the Venetian Macau casino, and the
murder of two men at the Grand Lapa Hotel, which is operated by
 Mandarin Oriental International Ltd. (MAND) , according to the Hong
Kong-based South China Morning Post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  