-- Afghan Defense, Interior Ministers Dismissed by Parliament
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-08-05T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/afghan-parliament-disqualifies-karzai-s-defense-interior-chiefs.html
The Afghan parliament dismissed
President  Hamid Karzai ’s defense and interior ministers for
failing to stop growing violence in the country and cross-border
rocket attacks blamed on  Pakistan .  Defense Minister Abdul Rahim Wardak and Interior Minister
Bismullah Khan Mohammadi were dismissed after giving
unsatisfactory answers to lawmakers’ questions over recent
attacks from neighboring Pakistan and corruption in their
ministries.  “Despite undermining the security transition process for
Afghan forces, the dismissal will be a good measure for bringing
changes in the leadership of both ministries,” said General
Abdul Hadi Khalid, a former deputy minister who now discusses
security issues. “Parliament’s action is a good move to
disqualify incompetent and corrupted ministers.”  Hours after the dismissal of the ministers on Aug. 4, about
60 rockets were fired from Pakistani soil into Afganistan’s
eastern Kunar province and 32 more hit the area yesterday, Sayed
Fazlullah Wahidi, the provincial governor, said in a phone
interview. There were no casualties in the shelling.  As  Afghanistan  moves toward 2014 when NATO forces leave,
the country “needs to remove all incompetent officials and
replace them with other people favored by Afghan people,”
Khalid said.  New Faces  Afghan President Hamid Karzai acknowledged parliament’s
decision and directed both ministers to stay in their posts
until replacements can be found, Karzai’s press office said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Parliamentarians called on Karzai to introduce new faces to
fill the posts, Shikeba Hashimi, an Afghan lawmaker said in a
phone interview yesterday.  Wardak was removed by a vote of 146 to 72 and Mohammadi by
126 votes to 90 votes. To pass, each motion needed 124, Hashimi
said.  Wardak had served as defense minister since 2004. An ethnic
Pashtun, from the eastern province of Wardak, he was a national
Mujahedeen leader who fought against the  Soviet Union ’s forces
in the 1980s.  Mohammadi was a Mujahedeen leader who fought Soviet and
Taliban forces alongside the Northern Alliance. An ethnic Tajik,
from the Central Panjshir province of Afghanistan, he was
appointed as interior minister by Karzai in 2010 after serving
as chief of staff of the Afghan National Army since 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  