-- Ainslie Captures All-Time Sailing Medal Record With Fourth Gold
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-08-05T17:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/ainslie-captures-all-time-sailing-medal-record-with-fourth-gold.html
Ben Ainslie won the men’s Finn class
sailing event, allowing the Briton to break a 52-year-old record
with his fourth Olympic gold medal.  The 35-year-old crossed the finish line in Weymouth Bay
today in ninth place, ahead of  Denmark ’s  Jonas Hogh-Christensen ,
to win with 46 points. Hogh-Christensen placed second, followed
by  France ’s Jonathan Lobert in bronze.  A week of  competition  pitted Ainslie against this year’s
Danish champion who was going for his first Olympic medal and to
defend the sailing-medal record held by Denmark’s Paul Elvstrom.
Hogh-Christensen placed ahead of Ainslie in seven of the 10
preliminary races leading up to the eleventh and final medal
race today, forcing the British sailor to claw his way back. The
two were effectively tied going into the medal race.  “That race was certainly one of the most nerve-wracking
experiences of my life,”  Ainslie  said to reporters in Portland
Marina after the race. “My main closest rival was Jonas and all
I could focus on was to try to stay ahead of him.”  Ainslie and Hogh-Christensen began fighting for position
even before the race began, chasing one another around the
committee boat marking the starting line. The British sailor
continued to mark the Dane through the rest of the race, letting
much of the fleet past, while keeping his rival pinned behind.  Sailing Tactics  “My tactics were to try to make life difficult for Jonas
in the start, but he did a reasonably good job of just going
round the boat and protecting himself,” Ainslie said. “I
thought the right side would pay,” he said. “Thankfully it did
and then it was just a matter of staying ahead.”  Elvstrom was Olympic champion from 1948 to 1960, winning
his first gold in the firefly class and remaining three in the
Finn. Ainslie has  dominated  the class since 2002, winning a
record six Finn World Championship Gold Cups and gold medals in
Beijing and  Athens . His first gold was in a lighter Laser during
the Sydney games.  Olympic sailors in every event other than women’s match
racing compete in a series of races. The first 10 races are
scored by awarding one point for first place and nine for ninth.
The accumulated scores, minus the worst -- or, for some classes,
two worst -- finishes, are used to determine the athletes and
crews for the medal races. Points scored in that race are
doubled and added to previous scores for the final result.  Finishing Last  Hogh-Christensen finished last in today’s contest, scoring
20 points, which gave him a total point score of 46, equal to
Ainslie’s total. In sailing the final medal race position
decides who wins when points are tied.  “Great week, but bad day,” the Dane told reporters after
the race. “I can definitely find a couple of points where I
could have made my lead going into the medal race bigger. You
have to fight for a week and you make mistakes. I just made one
too many.”  Ainslie began sailing off the coast of Cornwall in
southwest  England  at the age of eight. By 16, he won the world
championships in a Laser Radial, a single-handed, 14-foot
sailing dingy. He won his first Olympic medal, a silver, during
the Atlanta Olympics in 1996 at the age of 19.  “You have to say he is the greatest sailor in the world
now,” New Zealand Finn Dan Slater said, “Paul Elvstrom, what
an amazing feat, but it was in a different era and you can’t
compare eras,” he said. “I can’t really speak highly enough
about his sailing ability. It’s pretty awesome really.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  