-- Taiwan Semiconductor Plans to Invest $1.4 Billion in ASML
-- B y   J o h n   B u c k l e y   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-08-06T09:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/taiwan-semiconductor-agrees-to-invest-1-38-billion-in-asml.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330)  agreed to invest 1.11 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in  ASML
Holding NV (ASML) , joining  Intel (INTC)  Corp. in taking a stake in  Europe ’s
largest chip-equipment maker to secure future technology.  TSMC will acquire a 5 percent equity holding in Veldhoven,
Netherlands-based ASML for 838 million euros and invest a
further 276 million euros in research and development of next-
generation lithography technologies, ASML said.  The purchase will give TSMC access to machines under
development that will reduce manufacturing costs and that the
Dutch company says may prompt consolidation in the industry.
Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, agreed to invest as much
as $4.1 billion last month in ASML’s so-called co-investment
program to fund innovation.  The investment is “long-term positive for TSMC,” Patrick Liao and Jason Ho, technology analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
said in a note today. The investment implies TSMC will have
“joint intellectual property rights of the critical lithography
research and development in the future.”  Stock Prices  TSMC  rose  1.4 percent to NT$80.90 at the close in Taipei.
The stock has gained 6.7 percent this year, more than double the
3 percent advance in the benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index, of which it’s
the largest member. ASML increased as much as 1.4 percent to
47.77 euros and was trading up 0.1 percent at 10:58 a.m. in
Amsterdam. The shares have risen 45 percent this year, valuing
the company at 19.8 billion euros. That compares with an 8.8
percent advance in the Stoxx 600 Index.  The objective of the co-investment program “is to secure
and accelerate key lithography technologies,” ASML Chief
Executive Officer Eric Meurice said in a statement. “These
technologies will benefit the entire industry and are not
restricted to our co-investment partners.”  Meurice said last month that ASML was also in talks with
Suwon, South Korea-based  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to take part in
the investment program.  Lucas van Grinsven, a spokesman for ASML, declined to
comment on talks with Samsung. “What we can say is that the
announcement of a second partner, TSMC, shows that the program
is a success,” he said by phone.  Samsung’s Stance  Samsung Electronics will keep “good” cooperation with
ASML and the collaboration can include investment, a Samsung
official told investors on a conference call July 27.  The South Korean company is still weighing whether it will
invest in ASML, Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for
Samsung, said today.  ASML said that machines using 450-millimeter tools may be
available as early as 2018 and will probably be bought initially
by larger customers who can achieve a critical mass in
production. The machines may promote consolidation in the chip-
making industry, the company said.  “The additional funding for ASML’s research and
development programs will help secure and accelerate EUV
development activities, in parallel with the necessary focus on
improved performance of existing optical lithography tools,”
TSMC Executive Vice President and co-Chief Operating Officer
Shang-yi Chiang said in today’s statement.  It also will “speed up the deployment of new technologies
for 450-millimeter wafers,” he said.  Non-Voting Shares  TSMC, which sold NT$18.9 billion ($631 million) of bonds at
the end of June, had a total of NT$178 billion in cash as of
June 30, according to its second-quarter cash flow statement.
The proceeds from the last bond sale will be added to the
balance sheet of the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company during the
current period.  Under the co-investment program, ASML said it can sell a
total stake of as much as 25 percent to customers. Proceeds from
the share sales are to be returned to ASML shareholders through
buybacks. With TSMC’s participation, 20 percent of equity has
been committed and the remaining 5 percent is being discussed
with other customers, ASML said in the statement.  “The shares to be issued to TSMC, Intel and any other
customers that participate in the co-investment program will be
non-voting except in exceptional circumstances,” ASML said.  The sale of stock under the co-investment program and the
buyback are subject to investor approval at an extraordinary
 shareholders’ meeting  on Sept. 7, ASML said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Buckley  in Amsterdam at 
 johnbuckley@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  