-- Hamptons Scene: Navab, Wambold for Southampton Hospital
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-08-06T16:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/hamptons-scene-navab-wambold-for-southampton-hospital.html
Alex Navab, co-head of KKR & Co.’s
North American private-equity business, and his wife, Mary
Kathryn, had their second daughter at  Southampton Hospital .  “It was planned,” Navab said at a benefit for the
hospital Saturday night, emphasizing their confidence in the
quality of care at the facility located on  Long Island ’s East
End.  “I’ve been taking people to the ER with all sorts of
ailments over the last 20 years,” Harvard Business School
professor  Robert Kaplan  said. “And the hospital has been
extraordinarily helpful.”  The hospital, which is landscaped like the mansions nearby
with tall hedges and hydrangea bushes, has operated since 1909.  “We’re here for everyone who needs us,” Robert S.
Chaloner, the hospital’s president and chief executive officer,
said, standing near a display of race cars and models in Graff
jewelry.  The theme of the 54th annual Summer Party, held in a field
next to the hospital, was the  Monaco  Grand Prix. Guests dressed
accordingly.  Audrey Gruss wore a Chanel checkered print, echoing a
racing flag. She said she’d recently been to Monaco with her
husband, Martin Gruss of Gruss Investments LLC, where they drove
around in a 1963 Ferrari Superfast.  The party’s chairman, Laura Lofaro Freeman, whose executive
search firm, Sterling Resources International, specializes in
financial services, wore a pale blue dress by Wesley Nault and
looked like  Grace Kelly .  James Bond  John Wambold, managing director at Imperial Capital LLC and
a board member at Southampton Hospital, channeled  James Bond  in
a white dinner jacket.  Chaloner came to the hospital nearly six years ago, after
running Cabrini Medical Center in  Manhattan . His initiatives
include a doctor-recruitment program and the digitization of
medical records.  He built a new emergency department with a $5 million gift
from  John Paulson , the hedge-fund manager, and his wife, Jenny,
announced in 2009.  “They were the best donors on the planet,” said Darin
Wiggins, the medical director of the Jenny and John Paulson
Emergency Department. “John said, ‘Here’s my money, please
don’t waste it.’ He let me design the emergency room I dreamed
of.”  The Paulsons didn’t attend the event, leaving Wiggins to
describe its features, which include trauma rooms, a ship in the
waiting room for kids to play in, and seven full-time doctors.  Traumas, Ticks  Emergency visits triple during the months of June, July and
August, Wiggins said. Ocean-related traumas and tick cases are
frequent.  Amanda Grieco, who works at Ogilvy & Mather’s HealthWorld
division, visited the emergency room three weeks ago.  “I was on Flying Point beach, at a lobster and clambake
party,” Grieco said. “Someone knocked over a tiki torch, and I
jumped to get out of the way and landed weird.”  Her sprained and fractured ankle healed well, she said,
showing off a high-heeled shoe at her table, where she sat with
Amelia Ogunlesi, wife of Bayo Ogunlesi, chairman and managing
partner of Global Infrastructure Partners.  Tennis, Biking  Dining with the Navabs were Dusty Philip, co-head of the
Global Industrials Group at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and his
wife, Yesim, co-founder of a luxury tennis-wear brand, L’Etoile
Sport. “It’s for women, so I can’t wear it,” he said, adding
that his sport is biking, not tennis.  Collector Henry Buhl said he is selling his collection of
photographs of hands at a Sotheby’s auction in December. Also
attending the event were Terry Meguid, head of asset management
at Perella Weinberg Partners LP, and Claus Moller, founder and
managing partner of P2 Capital Partners LLC.  Linda Huber, chief financial officer of  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , wore
a floral-print dress by  Banana Republic  that went well with the
Scalamandre tablecloths. They were made with an archival fabric
called “Jour de Juin,” a design that was, according to the
fabric maker’s website, inspired by an 18th-century embroidered
waistcoat.  Steven Stolman, the president of Scalamandre, oversaw the
decor, which included a projection of the Hotel de Paris Monte-
Carlo on the tent ceiling. The Alex Donner Orchestra played
covers of the Black Eyed Peas, which lured even septuagenarians
to the dance floor.  The event is on track to raise $1.8 million for the
Southampton Hospital Foundation; more than 800 guests attended.
The grand prize in the raffle, $25,000 cash, went to Southampton
resident Claire Stephenson. Raffle tickets were $100 each.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 