-- Andy Murray Uses Britain’s Gold Rush as Spur for Rout of Federer
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-05T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/andy-murray-uses-britain-s-gold-rush-as-spur-for-rout-of-federer.html
Andy Murray  said he used Britain’s
best day at the Olympics in 104 years to inspire him to beat
 Roger Federer  in the men’s singles tennis final.  The fourth-ranked player from  Scotland  screamed, jumped and
embraced his family after he overpowered men’s Grand Slam record
holder Federer 6-2, 6-1, 6-4 on  Wimbledon ’s Centre Court
yesterday to become the first British male to win the Olympic
singles title since the 1908 London Games.  The day before, host nation Britain had won six gold medals
and a silver, its biggest single-day haul since 1908. The
victories included three in track and field.  “I was watching the athletics and it was just amazing,”
Murray said in a televised interview after he won the final with
an ace. “It gave me a boost coming into today. The momentum the
team has had the last couple of days has been so good.”  The night before the tennis final, Mo Farah became the
first British male to win the 10,000 meters after Jessica Ennis
claimed gold in the heptathlon and Greg Rutherford became the
country’s first long-jump champion since 1964.  “The way Mo Farah won,” Murray, 25, said. “I do 400-
meter repetitions in my training and, when I’m completely fresh,
I can do it in 57 seconds. His last lap after 9,600 meters was
53 seconds. It’s just an unbelievable fitness.”  Britain has 37 medals in all, including 16 golds. China
tops the standings with 61 in total, including 30 golds. The
U.S. has 60 medals, 28 of them gold.  ‘Getting Closer’  Last month, Murray said he was “getting closer” after he
lost the Wimbledon final to Federer in four sets. Murray won the
first set and squandered two break points for a 3-2 lead in the
second.  Yesterday, Murray took command from the start, never
wavering as he dictated play with his backhand.  Murray dropped one point on his serve in the final set and
won nine straight games against 17-time major singles champion
Federer, from 2-2 in the first set.  Federer, the doubles champion in Beijing four years ago who
has yet to win singles gold, said in a news conference that he
couldn’t remember losing nine games in a row.  The Swiss right-hander, who turns 31 this week, added that
his path to the final had left him “emotionally drained.”  Federer said he’d been on the verge of tears after
overcoming Alejandro Falla of  Colombia  in the opening round. He
then beat  Argentina ’s Juan Martin  del Potro  in 4 hours, 26
minutes, the longest Olympic match, in the semifinals.  Del Potro Match  The win over former U.S. Open winner Del Potro, who
yesterday defeated Serbia’s Novak Djokovic for the bronze medal,
“may have cost me the final,” said Federer, who made 31
unforced errors to Murray’s 17.  Federer was pleased to see his opponent come through.  “I was happy to see that he didn’t have a letdown after
the Wimbledon final,” Federer said. “He came here and he won
gold. That is how champions react.”  A few hours after his singles win, Murray and 18-year-old
Laura Robson lost in the mixed doubles final to Belarussian pair
Max Mirnyi and  Victoria Azarenka , the top-ranked player on the
women’s tour.  Also yesterday, Serena and  Venus Williams  retained their
women’s doubles title by beating Andrea Hlavackova and Lucie Hradecka of the Czech Republic 6-4, 6-4.  They’re the first pair to win the title at successive
Olympics since fellow Americans Gigi Fernandez and Mary Joe Fernandez in  Barcelona  in 1992 and Atlanta in 1996.  Serena, 30, two days ago secured her first Olympic singles
title by beating Russia’s  Maria Sharapova .  Tennis, one of the original nine Olympic sports in  Athens 
in 1896, was withdrawn after the 1924 Paris Games. It returned
in  Seoul  in 1988, when German  Steffi Graf  became the only player
to complete the “Golden Slam” by winning all four majors and
the Olympic title in the same year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  