-- Andy Murray Defeats Roger Federer for Olympic Tennis Gold
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-05T17:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/andy-murray-defeats-roger-federer-for-olympic-tennis-gold.html
Andy Murray  beat  Roger Federer  to win
the Olympic tennis gold medal, a month after the men’s Grand
Slam record-holder reduced him to tears at the Wimbledon final.  The 25-year-old Briton defeated  Switzerland ’s Federer 6-2,
6-1, 6-4 on the  All-England Club’s  Centre Court to become the
first Olympic men’s singles winner from Britain since 1908.  “That’s No. 1 for me, the biggest win of my life,” Murray
said in a court-side televised interview, after winning with his
fifth ace.  “I played a really good match, it was tough conditions, it
was windy, but I did well,” said Murray, who’d climbed over the
broadcast booth on Centre Court to reach his private box, where
he embraced his family. He jumped high into the air after he got
back to Centre Court for the medal ceremony as the crowd shouted
his name.  Top-ranked Federer, the men’s doubles champion in Beijing
four years ago, has yet to win the Olympic singles title in four
attempts. Murray, who lost in the opening round in Beijing, is
competing in his second Olympics.  Longest Match  The Swiss player took part in the longest Olympic tennis
match in this year’s semifinals, beating  Argentina ’s Juan Martin
del Potro in 4 hours, 26 minutes two days ago. Del Potro today
defeated  Serbia ’s Novak Djokovic for the bronze.  “It was tough tournament from start to finish,” Federer
said in a televised interview. “Maybe I was emotionally
drained. But I am happy I’ve got a medal.”  Murray produced 27 winners, three more than Federer. He
made 17 unforced errors, while Federer made 31.  Serena and  Venus Williams  successfully defended their
women’s doubles tennis crown. The American sisters, who also won
the event at the 2000 Sydney Olympics, beat Czech pair Andrea
Hlavackova and Lucie Hradecka 6-4, 6-4.  The doubles gold medal comes almost a year after Venus
Williams withdrew from the U.S. Open, announcing she was
suffering from the energy-sapping Sjogren’s syndrome. They won
the Wimbledon doubles title last month. Serena yesterday also
won the singles gold medal, dropping only one game against  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia .  “I would say this is more special than Wimbledon,” Venus
told reporters. “Serena always said we wanted to win the gold
together. I’m amazed she won the singles and our main goal was
to win the doubles, so we got both and it’s amazing.”  Murray in Charge  Murray dictated play from the start, pushing Federer around
Centre Court with his flatly struck double-handed backhand,
which produced nine winners.  Murray took the first set as Federer struggled with the
wind and twice got broken. The longest game of the match
followed at 2-0 in the second set, with Murray eventually
holding serve after fending off six break points. Federer held
for 1-5, ending a run of nine straight games for his opponent.
The Scot took the second set on another error by Federer as the
crowd screamed “Andy, Andy.”  Murray remained in control in the third set against a
sluggish Federer, breaking for 3-2 as the Swiss dumped a
backhand into the net. Serving for the gold medal at 5-4, Murray
produced a service winner and two aces from 15-15 to win the
match. He sank to his knees, held his head in his hands and then
pointed two fingers at the sky before shaking Federer’s hand at
the net.  Murray last month lost in four sets to Federer, 30, in his
first Wimbledon final. “Getting closer,” Murray said through
tears in a televised court-side interview after losing his
fourth major final.  Previous Defeats  Murray had also lost to the 17-time major champion in the
finals of the 2008  U.S. Open  and the 2010 Australian Open, while
Djokovic beat him in  Melbourne  in 2011. Murray moved to the
Olympic final after defeating the Serbian world No. 2 in
straight sets.  “It’s definitely easier winning in the final then
losing,” Murray said today.  Tennis, one of the original nine Olympic sports in  Athens 
in 1896, was withdrawn after the 1924 Paris Games. It returned
in  Seoul  in 1988, when German  Steffi Graf  became the only player
to complete the “Golden Slam” by winning all four majors and
the Olympic title in the same year.  Later today, Murray plays the mixed doubles final with 18-
year-old Laura Robson against Belarussian pair Max Mirnyi and
 Victoria Azarenka , the top-ranked player on the women’s tour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  