-- Mapping the Cosmos, From Scythes to Superclusters
-- B y   C a l e b   S c h a r f
-- 2012-08-05T22:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/mapping-the-cosmos-from-scythes-to-superclusters.html
Astronomy, the most ancient of
sciences, has always been about mapping.  Australian aborigines looked at the constellation we call
 Orion  and saw a canoe carrying two banished brothers. The Finns
saw a scythe. In  India , it was obviously a deer. For the
Babylonians, it was the heavenly shepherd, and for the Greeks,
it was the hunter, a primordial giant.  Over the centuries, mapping the cosmos has been a gradual
process of locating the brighter objects and then filling in the
gaps. We have helped our eyes along by constructing telescopes,
some gathering much more than just visible light to illuminate
phenomena beyond our wildest imaginations.  Seeing the universe for what it is has required us to
overcome many other blind spots, including the one that places
ourselves at the center of the map. It took the insight and
intellectual conviction of  Galileo  and Copernicus to challenge
the orthodoxy that Earth was at the center of everything. Even
then, the notion that our solar system was nonetheless located
somewhere at the middle of the visible universe lasted into the
first decades of the 20th century.  The discovery, by the astronomer  Harlow Shapley  in 1918,
that our solar system was not even at the center of the Milky
Way galaxy opened the floodgates for more revelations in the
following decades. The Milky Way, it turned out, is merely one
of many galaxies, all flying apart as the universe expands.  Four Dimensions  So what does our current map look like? It is both three-
dimensional and four-dimensional, linked as it is to time. The
farther away objects are, the longer their light has taken to
reach us, all the way back through the universe’s 13.8-billion-
year history. There are so many categories of objects and
phenomena, and so much higgledy-piggledy data from several
hundred years of telescopic astronomy, the best we can do to
begin to grasp what this atlas looks like is to play out a
thought experiment.  Let us pretend that a very large box has just been
delivered to our doorstep, and we have hauled it inside. It
contains an ominous-looking sack filled to bursting. An
occasional wisp of gas escapes through the knotted top, and
every so often a muffled thump or muted glow comes from within.  This sack contains what we could regard as a representative
portion of the universe -- a “fair sample,” a cosmologist
would say. If you divided the total mass in the sack by its
volume, you would obtain a good estimate of the average density
of the universe as a whole. Equally, if you measured just how
lumpy the arrangement of galaxies was within this volume, it
would be a close match to the universal lumpiness of structure.  The first thing that happens when you cautiously untie the
sack is that electromagnetic radiation floods out, together with
particles of all kinds. Photons of light are present in huge
quantities, from extremely low-frequency radio waves, where a
single crest-to-crest distance may span kilometers, to
microwave, infrared, visible and ultraviolet frequencies, on to
the realm of X-rays and gamma rays. Light may not have mass, but
the cosmos is thick with it.  The other particles that come pouring out of the sack are
more difficult to quantify. Neutrinos, with less than about a
millionth of the mass of electrons, come in a variety of
flavors: electron,  muon  and tau. They have been likened to the
“ghosts of the cosmos” because they have very little to do
with normal matter, passing through gases, liquids and solids.
Here on Earth, every second, roughly 65 billion neutrinos from
the sun’s core pass through every square centimeter of your
skin.  Cosmic Pollutants  Most of the recognizable matter is in the form of hydrogen
and helium, in the proportion of roughly seven hydrogen atoms to
every one of helium. The next most abundant element is oxygen,
though there is only one oxygen atom for roughly every 1,500
hydrogen atoms. All the elements that are so critical in making
objects like planets, and the molecules that are part of us and
all living things, are rare -- cosmic pollutants.  Some of these come zooming out of the sack with
considerable speed. In this case they are components of hot
gases, often so hot that most of the electrons that usually
stick to an atomic nucleus have been stripped away, leaving an
electrically positive object known as an ion. A gas in this
state is also referred to as plasma, and it can have a
temperature of tens of millions of degrees. Other normal matter
seeps out at an extremely slow rate -- the components of much,
much colder gases, some barely a few degrees above absolute
zero.  Within this colder gas are molecules, mainly hydrogen, and
traces of compounds such as carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide,
water and even alcohols. Roughly 70 percent of all the heavier
molecules adrift in the universe contain carbon. Many of them
are the same organic compounds we find here on Earth.  There is also something else that we can barely sense: dark
matter. It is most likely some variety of subatomic particle
that has very weak interactions with “normal” matter. Much
like the neutrino, it can drift right through solid material,
but it moves slowly, and each particle carries a significant
mass. This mysterious stuff outweighs all normal matter by a
factor of five, dominating the mass of the universe.  Now let us peel away the sack and see how the major
ingredients are arranged. The first thing we notice is that
space is filled with, well, space. You would have to separate
grains of sand by about 60 miles to make an equivalent
sparseness. Yet if we step back far enough, vast gatherings of
galaxies emerge. The littlest of these may contain 100 million
stars and largest, hundreds of billions. Some stars are red and
dim, barely a 10th the mass of our sun. Others are bright blue,
with 10 times the sun’s mass and 10 to 20 times its girth. The
big stars are rarer, though, and rarest of all are giants 100
times the mass of our sun.  Old Stars  Many more star-like objects exist in the galaxies --
including protostars, not yet ready to fuse elements, and the
remains of dying stars. White dwarfs are cooling dense lumps of
leftover stellar material. Fearsomely dense neutron stars are
the descendants of the most massive stars.  Then there are the black holes. In a big galaxy, small
black holes, a few times the mass of our sun, may number in tens
of thousands. Sometimes matter falls screaming into their
gravitational lairs, releasing its energy as brilliant flares of
electromagnetic radiation. Rarer, but cosmically more important,
are the giant black holes -- the lords of gravity. Billions of
times more massive than our sun, they sit imperiously within the
deep recesses of galaxies, a great mystery for us to explore.  Our own Milky Way is among the largest of galaxies,
containing several hundred billion stars, protostars and stellar
remains. About 15 percent of all the galaxies we see are, like
the Milky Way, great flattened, disk-like structures with huge
curving rivers of stars, as if paint had been dribbled onto a
spinning plate. Most of the rest are dandelion-like spheres of
stars known as ellipticals. In between are all manner of hybrids
and lumpy, distorted galaxies collectively known as irregulars.  Giant ellipticals most often sit at the middle of the great
clusters of galaxies. Spiral galaxies, with their young, hot,
massive blue stars, lurk in the hinterlands, slowly spinning.
Stars in elliptical galaxies fly to and fro like angry hornets
in toward the galactic center and then back out again on the
other side. In a spiral, the stars out in the great disk follow
circular orbits around the center, wobbling as the lumpy system
pushes and pulls on them. Our own sun completes a circuit of the
Milky Way every 210 million years.  Galaxies themselves stay in constant motion, too, flying in
and out of the cluster core. Matter streams along the web-like
threads of larger structures, filling the clusters and
superclusters with material, as gullies feed mountain lakes.  More than half the stars are orbited by big and small
planets, some with their own moons and satellites. Then there
are shadowy brown dwarfs, neither big enough to be stars nor
small enough to be comfortably called planets.  Billions, Trillions  There is something extraordinary almost anywhere we look.
In a remote corner of one galaxy a giant old star is just
minutes away from yielding to gravity’s persistent embrace. When
it does, its core will collapse inward, then rebound and blow
the star apart in a great and brilliant supernova. Over there is
a double pulsar: twin neutron stars, each the mass of two suns
yet less than 8 miles across, racing about each other like the
ends of a furiously spinning dumbbell, beaming radio waves. And
off in a majestic spiral galaxy, a small rocky planet orbits a
moderately bright star. Its three small moons tug at its great
equatorial ocean. On distant shores, water laps over a growing
green carpet, home to countless scuttling microscopic forms.  The total number of galaxies in the observable universe
probably exceeds 100 billion, and may be closer to 200 billion
distinct systems. A single large galaxy such as our own Milky
Way may contain upward of 200 billion normal stars.  Estimation is as much art as science. Nonetheless it’s a
safe bet that there are a billion trillion individual stars in
the observable universe -- and possibly 10 to 100 times more
than that, about 10 billion stars for every human ever born.  Why is it this number? It’s a really intriguing question,
and in trying to answer it, we’ve posited that black holes may
play an active role in sculpting the universe. Our map of
forever gives us a jumping-off point for following this line of
reasoning. The connections between our atlas and the gravity
machines that have helped craft it are there for the taking. We
just need to find them.  (Caleb Scharf, an astrophysicist, is the director of
Columbia University’s Astrobiology Center and author of the blog
Life, Unbounded. This is the first of five excerpts from his
new book, “ Gravity’s Engines: How Bubble-Blowing Black Holes
Rule Galaxies, Stars and Life in the Cosmos ,” which will be
published on Aug. 14 by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  part 2 ,  part 3 ,  part 4 ,  part 5 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why Romney’s and Obama’s  tax
plans  get F’s and on  Romania’s dangerous drift  away from
democracy; William D. Cohan on  Sandy Weill and Glass-Steagall ;
Susan B. Crawford on the  U.S.’s technological lag  at the
Olympics;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  Tea Party’s role  in November;
 Simon Johnson  on why  Mario Draghi can’t save the euro ; Greg
Barton on the power and finesse of  sprint kayaking .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caleb Scharf at  caleb@astro.columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 