-- Apple Needs Sharp with Foxconn Stake as New IPhone Nears
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-06T10:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/appple-needs-sharp-with-foxconn-stake-as-new-iphone-nears.html
Taiwan billionaire Terry Gou built a
manufacturing empire that assembles iPhones and iPads. His
Foxconn Technology Group may be key to ensuring  Sharp Corp. (6753) ’s
survival and a stable supply of components for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Sharp’s shares collapsed to the lowest level in 37 years in
 Tokyo  and its bonds fell after the maker of Aquos TVs forecast
an annual loss of 250 billion yen ($3.2 billion), bigger than
the company’s market valuation. That slump prompted Foxconn to
announce Aug. 3 it will seek a lower price for its 9.9 percent
stake while pledging to forge ahead with the deal.  Foxconn wants a stake in Sharp to secure access to the
latest technology for parts used by its biggest customer, Apple.
In offering a lifeline, Gou is betting that Sharp will continue
to provide it with key components for the iPads and iPhones that
Foxconn assembles, while ensuring one of Apple’s important
suppliers survives.  “Apple needs Sharp,” said Alberto Moel, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in  Hong Kong . “Sharp’s capacity is large
enough that if it were taken offline, it could hurt Apple.”  Gou, the founder and chairman of Foxconn Technology Group,
in March engineered a 133 billion-yen investment that will give
his company a stake in Sharp while injecting 66 billion yen of
his own cash into its display affiliate. A plunge in Sharp’s
shares prompted Foxconn to announce last week it will
renegotiate the deal, seeking more favorable terms.  Apple TV  The stakes are high for all parties involved. In addition
to a new iPhone, a new, smaller iPad and perhaps an Apple TV are
expected to revive profits for Apple after net income and sales
missed estimates for the second time since 2003 in the quarter
ended June.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  has said TVs are an area
of “intense focus” for Apple.  The company is working on a television that may be unveiled
this year and released in 2013, according to  Gene Munster , an
analyst at  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC)   If Apple needs Sharp, the question now is can Foxconn fix
Sharp in order to advance its own ambitions for growth. Foxconn
and its clients compete with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the
world’s biggest maker of phones, flat panels and flat-screen
televisions globally. Gou figures a closer alliance with Sharp
and its technological expertise will put Foxconn on a better
competitive footing with Samsung.  Investor Skepticism  “The Sharp deal will help us to defeat Samsung,” Gou, 61,
told investors on June 18 at the annual meeting of  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317) , Foxconn’s flagship and the business that
does Apple assembly.  Hon Hai gets about 34 percent of its revenue from
manufacturing the iPad and iPhone, according to July 2 estimates
from  Jih Sun Financial Holdings Co. (5820)  Yet some note that Foxconn
having a bigger say in Sharp’s operations may not result in
Sharp boosting sales to Apple, nor provide the profits investors
are looking for.  Shares of Sharp declined 5.7 percent to 181 yen, the lowest
level since November 1974, in  Tokyo trading  today, after
plunging 28 percent Aug. 3. The stock has fallen 73 percent this
year and is the worst-performing member of the Nikkei-225 Stock
Average. Hon Hai jumped 7 percent in Taipei trading, the biggest
jump since Sept. 8, 2008.  Sharp’s “stock price decline shows investor skepticism
that Foxconn can actually help turn the company around,” said
Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei.
“We can see that Foxconn being closely connected to Apple is no
guarantee that Sharp will be able to secure any extra orders.”  Job Cuts  One of the paradoxes of the Apple-Sharp-Foxconn
relationship is that despite intense demand from Apple for its
components, Sharp’s liquid-crystal display division loses money.
Turning around that division, which suffers from industrywide
overcapacity that is driving down prices, may be the sticking
point in returning the company to profit. Worldwide TV
shipments, the major user of display panels, fell about 8
percent in the first quarter as sales of LCD models dropped on
an annual basis for the first time, research company
DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group, said June 20.  “Sharp needs to show that it can fix its LCD unit,” said
Keita Wakabayashi, a Tokyo-based analyst at  Mito Securities Co. (8622) 
“It should be able to improve its small- to medium-sized panel
business because they are used in tablets and smartphones, where
demand is growing.”  Sharp said Aug. 2 it will cut 5,000 jobs as it reels from
lower TV prices and demand, and a yen trading near its postwar
high, reducing the value of overseas earnings. The company’s  net
loss  was 138.4 billion yen in the three months ended June 30,
widening from 49.3 billion yen a year earlier, it said.  Plunging Shares  Even after shares plunged more than 60 percent below the
price both sides agreed to in March, Sharp and Foxconn, which
employs 1.2 million workers on assembly lines in  China , remain
committed to the investment. Foxconn plans to renegotiate to
lower the 550 yen-per-share it had originally agreed, Simon Hsing, a spokesman for Hon Hai said Aug. 3.  Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Osaka-based Sharp,
declined to comment on whether the company has been approached
to renegotiate terms of the 67 billion yen investment Foxconn
originally agreed to make.  When Foxconn Technology Group agreed to buy its stake in
Sharp, Gou also put 66 billion yen of his own money into an LCD
venture with Sharp. The two groups have already agreed to
collaborate, with Hon Hai planning to make the Japanese
company’s smartphones for sale in China, the world’s biggest
market for such devices, and Gou saying June 18 the companies
will cooperate on assembling high-definition TVs.  Profitable Businesses  Investors and ratings companies are not impressed.  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  downgraded their
ratings on Sharp. Standard & Poor’s cut its  ratings  to BBB from
BBB+ and is still keeping the company on watch negative, meaning
further downgrades are possible.  Fitch Ratings  also said the
company’s ratings may be cut to junk level in six to 12 months.  In July, the cost to insure Sharp’s debt against default in
the short term outstripped that for the longer term for the
first time, a signal investors have concerns about the company’s
ability to repay debt. The company’s  net debt  to  shareholders’
equity  was 209.44, higher than its local peers in the country,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Solar, Refrigerators  There could be more than just electronics in the Sharp-
Foxconn deal. The Taiwanese company may be able to use Sharp’s
home appliance and solar businesses to move into China and take
on Samsung, a key supplier and competitor of Apple.  Sharp’s Health and Environmental division makes white goods
including refrigerators, ovens and washing machines. Its
Information Equipment group, that supplies cash registers, makes
point-of-sales machines and printers.  These two are the company’s only profitable businesses and
accounted for about 31 percent of sales in the fiscal first
quarter, according to  company data .  “What needs to be focused on going forward is whether Hon
Hai and Sharp will still have an alliance even if they can’t
agree on the terms,” said  Masahiko Ishino , an analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo. “It
won’t be positive news for Sharp if the alliance isn’t
maintained.” Nor for Apple.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 