-- Mario Draghi Cannot Save the Euro
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-08-05T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/mario-draghi-cannot-save-the-euro.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has been making pronouncements that many have interpreted
as positive for the future of the euro.  I think his words mean things are going to get ugly.  On July 26, Draghi said his institution would do “whatever
it takes” to preserve the euro, and reinforced this with a nice
turn of phrase: “Believe me, this will be enough.” He followed
this up last week with a more official statement that the ECB
“may undertake outright open market operations of a size
adequate to reach its objective,” signaling that the bank is
preparing to buy more bonds to lower the borrowing costs of
struggling governments such as  Italy  and  Spain .  Optimists hope that Draghi is trying to put an end to the
policy uncertainty that has characterized the euro crisis. In
the run-up to 2008, many investors thought there were big
potential bailouts implicit in the structure of the currency
union -- a view reflected in the nearly identical yields on
German, Greek, Italian and Spanish bonds. This confidence
collapsed as events in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  demonstrated
that the ECB would not support all government debt irrespective
of the circumstances. Now, the logic goes, if Draghi could just
restore the promise of unconditional and unlimited “support,” he
would put the genie back in the bottle.  Fish Soup  A better analogy would be that it is easier to make fish
soup from fish than to do the reverse. Once you have understood
that the ECB does not necessarily stand behind euro-area
government debt, it is hard to disabuse yourself of the notion.
Presumably this is why  markets sank last week  when Draghi failed
to offer concrete action to ease monetary policy, either by
lowering the bank’s  target interest rate  or by buying more
bonds.  A broader question is what, if anything, Draghi might
achieve with a looser monetary policy. The euro area has many
problems, including a lack of competitiveness in the periphery,
chronically poor growth in countries such as Portugal and Italy,
deeply damaged public finances in Greece and Spain, and a  labor
force  that’s not mobile enough to go where the jobs are. Which
of these could be resolved by reducing interest rates across the
board?  Perhaps the bet is that easy money will  inflate  nominal
wages and prices in the Germanic core of the euro area while
weakening the euro, so that peripheral countries become more
competitive in relation to  Germany  and the rest of the world.
It’s hard to see how this would work in practice. It certainly
wouldn’t change the fact that Germany keeps getting more
productive and pulling ahead of its partners.  Maybe Draghi’s policies can buy time for deeper “structural
changes” in the periphery, although quite what those are and
what difference they would make in the near term remains
elusive. Firing public-sector workers in the midst of a steep
recession won’t boost growth and transform industrial
productivity. It’s hard to see how providing politicians in
troubled countries with unlimited credit will increase the
likelihood of real reform of any kind.  More likely, a shift in ECB policies would make the
European situation uglier. For one, Draghi would essentially be
conceding fiscal dominance, demonstrating that if governments
run budget deficits, they can count on the central bank to
finance them. More important, the political consequences could
be dire if the ECB actually succeeded in stoking German
inflation and weakening the euro.  Economic History  Inflation is unpopular and very unfair. People who think
that higher inflation would somehow help the poor and hard
pressed in the European Union should study economic history more
carefully. It could lead the Germans to question the viability
of the euro, increasing the risk that the currency will break
apart for political reasons. The Germans didn’t turn over their
monetary sovereignty to the ECB to facilitate bailouts of
irresponsible governments and the crazed banks that funded real-
estate bubbles. Throwing greater fiscal transfers from Germany
into the mix will serve only to worsen the situation.  Perhaps Draghi is planning the same game with fiscal
authorities that the Banca d’Italia used to play with Italian
politicians in the 1980s and early 1990s -- keep  interest rates 
low enough to prevent fiscal collapse, yet high enough to keep
fiscal prudence as a priority. Make no mistake about it,
inflation or not, this is a strategy of high real interest
rates.  But  debt levels  in Italy and other euro area countries are
much higher now than they were then. And relatively high real
interest rates won’t be conducive to private-sector growth,
which is what  Europe  needs more than anything else.  Draghi and the ECB are increasing the risk that the euro
area will fall to pieces. This scenario would be ugly for many
people, and not just in Europe.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is co-author of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why Romney’s and Obama’s  tax
plans  get F’s and on  Romania’s dangerous drift  away from
democracy; William D. Cohan on  Sandy Weill and Glass-Steagall ;
Susan B. Crawford on the  U.S.’s technological lag  at the
Olympics;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  Tea Party’s role  in November;
Greg Barton on the power and finesse of  sprint kayaking ; Caleb
Scharf on the spacey, gassy and lumpy  map of the universe .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 