-- Tasmania Plans Gay Marriage Law, Pressuring Australia’s Gillard
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-05T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/tasmania-to-back-gay-marriage-intensifying-pressure-on-gillard.html
Tasmania’s Premier Lara Giddings will
move to legalize same-sex marriage on the island, making it the
first Australian state to approve gay unions and intensifying
pressure on Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to follow suit.  “We will be leading the way for the rest of  Australia  to
follow,” Giddings, 39, told a ruling state Labor Party
conference in Hobart on Aug. 4, vowing to make the change this
term. “There are nations across the world who have already
taken this step, some of whom that you would not believe would
have done this in advance of a nation like our own.”  Gillard, 50, has drawn fire from gay marriage advocates and
members of her own Labor party over her opposition to same-sex
unions. Giddings highlighted the economic benefits of the change
for Tasmania, which at 7.4 percent has the highest jobless rate
among the nation’s eight states and territories, and more than
double the 3.5 percent of mining powerhouse Western Australia.  “There is strong evidence that legislating for same sex
marriage will provide a significant economic boost and create
jobs for Tasmanians,” said Giddings, the youngest woman ever
elected to an Australian parliament -- at age 23 in 1996 -- and
the first female premier of the state.  Tasmania’s Labor Party governs in a coalition with the
Greens -- like the federal government led by Gillard, the
nation’s first female prime minister.  Greens founder and former leader  Bob Brown  was the first
openly gay leader of an Australian political party. He retired
from the Senate earlier this year. The Greens have been
campaigning across the country in support of same-sex unions.  Gay Cabinet Minister  Gillard’s finance minister,  Penny Wong , is the first openly
gay female Cabinet minister in Australia and has voiced support
for gay marriage. She recently became a parent with her partner.  The federal government plans to allow a conscience vote on
gay marriage, a bill Gillard has said she intends to vote
against. The prime minister reaffirmed her stance after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  lent his support to same-sex unions.  Federal laws were amended in 2004 under conservative Prime
Minister  John Howard  to define marriage as being between a man
and a woman.  Giddings said in a  statement  that 11 countries recognize
same-sex marriage including  Argentina ,  Belgium , Canada,  Denmark ,
Iceland, the Netherlands,  Norway , Portugal, Spain,  South Africa 
and  Sweden . Jurisdictions in  Mexico  and the U.S. have introduced
state-based laws, so there is precedent for the Tasmanian Labor
Party’s position, she said.  ‘Tipping Point’  Giddings said the government has received legal advice that
Tasmania can pursue state-based changes. She also told
conference delegates that the public’s attitudes to same-sex
marriage had changed.  “I believe the community has reached that tipping point
now where more people than not believe that this last form of
discrimination should be removed,” she said.  Greens Leader Christine Milne yesterday urged the prime
minister to rule out any constitutional challenge to the
proposed Tasmanian laws. The party also urged Gillard to back a
federal parliament bill legislating for same-sex unions.  Gillard, speaking in Cairns yesterday to announce the city
will host the Group of 20 nations finance ministers meeting in
2014, reiterated the federal government’s intention to pursue a
conscience vote.  Federal Law  “The Marriage Act is a federal law and we do have a bill
before the federal parliament dealing with same-sex marriage,”
she said. “People will be free to determine how they vote.”  Asked whether she would rule out a challenge to any
possible changes in Tasmania, the prime minister said there
wasn’t yet enough detail to decide on the matter.  Tasmania was the last Australian state or territory to
decriminalize homosexual acts between consenting adult men in
1997.  Rodney Croome, a spokesman for the Tasmanian Gay and
Lesbian Rights Group, said in a  statement  that Giddings’ pledge
is a historic moment for Tasmania and for the gay community
nationally.  “Tasmania will be more socially inclusive, we will build
stronger relationships and families, our economy will benefit
and we will dispel our lingering reputation for intolerance
forever,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  