-- Australia Must Call Inquiry Into Financial System, Deloitte Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-05T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/australia-must-call-inquiry-into-financial-system-deloitte-says.html
Australia ’s  biggest banks  have an
unfair competitive advantage over their smaller rivals, Deloitte
Access Economics said, urging the government to order an
independent inquiry into the nation’s financial system.  Credit unions , building societies and customer-owned banks,
or mutuals, are struggling with increased regulatory and funding
costs following measures designed to stabilize the financial
system during the 2008-2009 global crisis, the Canberra-based
 firm  said in a report released today.  “The major banks are implicitly guaranteed against failure
due to their importance to the financial system,” the company
said, citing estimates of the value of the “too big to fail”
guarantee at between 10 basis points and 50 basis points.
“Perversely, this may encourage the major banks to undertake
riskier lending.” One basis point equals 0.01 percentage point.  Australia’s banks are increasing their reliance on retail
investors, with deposits as a proportion of funding requirements
climbing to the highest level in 14 years, according to the
 Reserve Bank . With access to wholesale funding markets disrupted
in the wake of the global crisis, larger lenders are competing
more intensely to attract domestic deposits due to their
stability and relatively lower cost, Deloitte said.  Effect on Consumers  Smaller Australian lenders emerged from the global crisis
in “reasonably good shape” due to their prudent lending
standards and conservative attitudes toward risk, said the
report, which was commissioned by a body representing the
Australian  customer-owned  financial services industry. Their
reliance on deposits rather than wholesale markets for funding
minimized the impact of the crisis, it said.  Deloitte called for the government to commission a review
of the Australian financial system along the lines of the
1996-1997  Wallis Inquiry . It said a banking system that isn’t
competitive will have significant implications for consumers.  “Lack of competitive pressures will lead to higher prices
for services, limited choice, and ultimately lower levels of
borrowing and deposits for consumers,” according to the report.
“Without competition, there will also be weaker incentives for
innovation and improvements in products/services. A diminished
presence for mutuals will reduce choice and access to financial
services in Australia. The major banks will become even more
‘too big to fail’.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  