-- Bargain Bordeaux 99 Percenters Can Afford: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-08-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/bargain-bordeaux-99-percenters-can-afford-john-mariani.html
Even with some softening of prices
in the past year, first-growth  Bordeaux  wines are still at
levels only one percenters can afford.  While the first growths get all the hype and stratospheric
prices -- a 12-bottle case of 2008 Chateau Lafite-Rothschild
recently sold at a Zachys Hong Kong auction in May for $11,800
-- second through fifth growths have shown little in the way of
price inflation.  But the real story, the bargain bin, for Bordeaux is found
in the estates and appellations that fall into categories 
as Bordeaux Superieur. Look out for local names like
Fronsac, Cotes de Bourg, Cadillac, Cotes de Castillon and others
that make up 95 percent of the region’s wines. After all, it’s
what the French drink on a daily basis.  Owing to a summer sale at  New York ’s  Sherry-Lehmann , I
stocked up on Bordeaux from such unheralded appellations and
have been drinking them with pleasure, sometimes with real
surprise.  It hardly needs noting that none rises to the levels of
complexity that one finds in first and second growths, but I
would be hard put to discern many from an array of third, fourth
and fifth growths. And the prices range from just $13 to $20.  Bordeaux Blends  The vintages went from 2006 to 2010, and all of them were
ready to drink right now, although a year or two more on some of
the more recent vintages will prove interesting. All were
typical Bordeaux blends of  cabernet sauvignon , merlot, malbec,
and cabernet franc.  None had an alcohol level above 14.5 percent by volume.
(The prices below are those I paid on sale, but they may be
higher or lower elsewhere.)  Chateau de Maison Neuve 2009 ($16)  This wine is from Montagne Saint-Emilion, where merlot
dominates, so this had a bold body whose tannins are softened
for balance. If you close your eyes and don’t look at the label,
you may taste a hint of the illustrious  Cheval Blanc  and Ausone
from the same region of Saint-Emilion.  Chateau Labatut-Bouchard 2009 ($13)  Made in a region called Cadillac better known for its sweet
wines, this remarkably-priced red is a juicy glory, full
flavored, deep in color and bouquet, and certainly worth its
label proclamation as a “Grand Vin de Bordeaux.”  Porterhouse Steak  Chateau Jouanin 2009 ($14)  From Castillon, on the right bank of the Dordogne River,
where the wines are known for their structure, this is a blend
of 70 percent merlot, the rest cabernet sauvignon and cabernet
franc that shows a fine equilibrium between its fruits and acids
buoyed by robust tannins. A terrific match with charcoal-broiled
porterhouse steak and corn on the cob.  Chateau Le Bonnat 2008 ($17)  Made from wines that average 30 to 40 years old, Le Bonnat
is a good example of modern French winemaking that brings out
the best from a clay and limestone soil in the Graves region,
known for the silkiness of its wines. Owned since 1997 by the
Lesgourgues family, which also produces Armagnac, it’s not  Haut-
Brion , but has complex density and a lovely smoky quality.  Rustic Charm  Chateau Mayne-Vieil 2009 ($16)  This big blend of mostly merlot and cabernet franc from the
Fronsac region in eastern Bordeaux may take a few years to show
all its virtues, for its tannins are still firm and its
character hearty.  Although modern winemaking has softened up Fronsac reds in
recent years, one can still taste its traditional rustic charm,
which makes it a good choice for a lamb stew or cassoulet this
fall.  Chateau Thebot 2009 ($14)  Though it has a simple Bordeaux appellation, the wine is
made from 75 percent merlot, and the first sip is impressive for
its fist of fruit and tannins -- it’s 14.5 percent alcohol --
but the wine keeps revealing more fruit character as you drink
it with food.  Chateau Haut Maginet 2009 ($11)  For 11 bucks, this is a real winner and has that taste of
brick characteristic of Bordeaux, dark cherries and spices, with
a delicious peppery component and an admirable 13.5 percent
alcohol. Slog it back with anything from a hamburger to roast
chicken and French fries.  Chateau Tour Leognan 2008 ($20)  This is the second-tier wine from Grave’s  Chateau
Carbonnieux , better known for its white wine. Cabernet sauvignon
makes up 55 percent of the blend, but it has mellowed out and
shows the kind of breeding such a respected estate can bring.
It’s the sort of wine I’d bring to a friend’s house to surprise
him with its high quality.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture and
 Mark Beech  on rock music.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 