-- Birth-Control Bill Divides Philippines as Lawmakers Vote
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-08-05T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/birth-control-bill-divides-philippines-as-lawmakers-vote.html
Catholics in the Philippines
campaigned at the weekend to oppose a bill that would provide
free  birth control  to poor families before a vote on the
proposal scheduled for tomorrow.  About 9,000 people gathered Aug. 4 at the shrine of the
Virgin Mary along Epifanio de los Santos Avenue in the capital,
where popular revolts that ousted the late dictator  Ferdinand
Marcos  and ex-President  Joseph Estrada  were held, Police Chief
Superintendent Generoso Cerbo said in a mobile-phone message.  Catholic bishops led thousands in similar prayer rallies in
the provinces of Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Pangasinan and Laguna
and in the cities of Iloilo, Cebu and Lucena, the Philippine
Daily Inquirer reported yesterday. Tonight, supporters of the
bill will light candles in front of Congress.  Lawmakers will vote tomorrow on whether to end debate on
the reproductive health bill, which calls for mandatory sex
education and requires the government to pay for contraceptives
and family planning services for the poor. Ending the debate
would allow the  House of Representatives  to vote on the
legislation. A similar bill needs to be approved by the Senate
and reconciled with the House version before President  Benigno Aquino  can sign it into law.  The bill is controversial in a country where 80 percent of
the population is Roman Catholic and where the church has played
an important role in installing leaders, including late
President  Corazon Aquino , Benigno Aquino’s mother.  “Contraception makes sex cheap without responsibility,”
Henrietta de Villa, a representative of Archbishop Socrates
Villegas, said in a speech in the capital on Aug. 4, an event
attended by Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile. “Contraception
is corruption. Contraceptive pills teach us that it’s all right
to have sex with someone provided you’re safe from babies.”
Villegas gave the same speech in Dagupan City.  ‘Future Prosperity’  “Hopes of future prosperity could turn to dust if the
country is not able to deal with the  population growth  by giving
men and women access to the information and means to freely and
responsibly exercise their human right to have just the number
of children they want,” the  United Nations  said in a statement
yesterday. “If current trends continue, as the country grows
richer, the number of people living in poverty will increase.”  The UN estimates about 20 million Filipinos, or a fifth of
the population, live in slum conditions.  Aquino backs responsible parenthood and he has the support
of Congress, his spokesman Ricky Carandang said on Aug. 2.
Aquino will host a lunch today at the presidential palace for
members of his  Liberal Party , according to his official schedule
released to reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  