-- Apollo Seeks Capital for Asia Funds in Real Estate Push
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-08-05T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/black-s-apollo-seeks-capital-for-asia-real-estate-funds.html
Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO) , the private-equity firm that is seeking to rebuild its real
estate arm, is raising $750 million for a pair of funds that
will focus on commercial properties in Asia.  The AGRE Asia Pacific Real Estate Fund LP filed a private-
placement notice last month with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to seek as much as $600 million of capital.
The New York-based management company is also teaming up with
 Bank of East Asia Ltd . to raise $150 million for a related fund
that will focus on China, according to a separate July filing.  Black spun off Apollo’s real estate operations in 2000,
only to reenter the industry eight years later to help reduce
the firm’s reliance on revenue from traditional  leveraged
buyouts . Apollo has primarily invested in markets such as  Asia 
through its global funds.  “From the institutional perspective, the interest in
investing in the Asia region has increased exponentially,” said
Tara Blackburn, a managing director in the San Francisco office
of Hamilton Lane, a Philadelphia-based private-equity investment
and advisory firm that oversees about $158 billion in assets.
“The big challenge is trying to find the right avenue to gain
exposure.”  Charles Zehren , an Apollo spokesman, declined to comment,
as did Salina Tong, a spokeswoman for Bank of  East Asia , Hong
Kong’s largest family-run lender.  About 388 buyout funds tied to Asia are in the market to
raise a combined $130 billion, according to Preqin, a London-
based firm that provides research on alternative-asset managers.
These include KKR & Co., the private-equity firm run by  Henry
Kravis  and  George Roberts , which got $3 billion in commitments
during the initial fundraising for its second Asia-focused fund.  ‘Less Focused’  “The way we look at the world right now, people want Asia,
they want energy and they want yield,”  Scott Nuttall , KKR’s
global head of capital and asset management, said during a July
27 earnings call with analysts, according to a transcript.  Apollo had about $8 billion in real estate assets under
management at the end of June, or about 7.6 percent of the $105
billion the firm oversees, according to a transcript of the
second-quarter earnings call the company held Aug. 2.  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , the New York-based buyout firm run by  Stephen
Schwarzman , said in a July earnings release that it was managing
$50.2 billion in  real estate assets , or 26.4 percent of its
$190.3 billion total.  Opportunity Fund  Apollo’s latest quarterly report, filed with the SEC in
May, lists a single hedge fund dedicated to Asia. The Apollo
Asia Opportunity Fund, with net assets of $218 million as of
March 31, generated a cumulative return of 9.5 percent since it
began investing in February 2007, according to the filing.
Apollo Asia decided to wind down its offshore unit as AP
Alternative Assets LP, a publicly traded vehicle that invests
alongside Apollo’s private funds, planned to cash out its stake,
the firm said.  “Asia has not historically been a huge focus for Apollo,”
Jason Stewart, a managing director at Compass Point Research and
Trading LLC in  Washington , said in an e-mail. “But it hasn’t
been enormously successful in dollar returns for any
alternative-asset managers either, yet.”  In April, Black’s firm filed two private-placement notices
with the SEC saying it had raised about $255 million for a
private-equity vehicle called Apollo Asia Private Credit Fund LP
and an offshore affiliate. The firm followed up with filings for
the new Asia fund, which plans to make “opportunistic” real
estate investments to recapitalize, restructure and acquire real
estate assets, portfolios and companies, according to an Apollo
 regulatory brochure .  Shooting Higher  “Opportunistic in the real estate world means you are
shooting for higher returns,” said James Corl, managing
director of distressed real estate at Siguler Guff & Co., a New
York-based private-equity investment firm. “But when you shoot
for higher returns in a growthy economy” such as China’s, Corl
said, “you have to take on a lot of risk.”  As  China’s economy  slows, there may be more opportunities
for Apollo to buy income-producing properties, including
apartment buildings, at distressed prices, said Ralph Jaeger, a
managing director in Siguler Guff’s Boston office. Black’s
experience in distressed investing dates back to the early
1990s, when he earned some $2 billion in partnership with Credit
Lyonnais SA by purchasing a high-yield bond portfolio from
insolvent Executive Life Insurance Co.  Since the Chinese government tightened available credit in
2010, particularly for real estate, some local developers have
gotten stuck with half-finished projects that have become
distressed because they can’t get financing, Jaeger said. Many
of the developers listed on Chinese  stock exchanges  trade at
discounts to the net value of their assets.  “There are going to be a lot of problems,” said Jaeger,
who helps run a $1.5 billion private-equity fund that invests
primarily in the so-called BRIC countries of  Brazil ,  Russia ,
 India  and  China . “But the magnitude is somewhat
unforeseeable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  