-- BMW Making Olympian Mini Global Strategy Defending Share
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-08-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/bmw-making-olympian-mini-global-strategy-defending-share.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , which
posted its first earnings drop in almost three years in the
second quarter, is featuring Mini in its sponsorship of the
Olympics as part of a bid to burnish the brand’s sporty image
and defend its profit from mounting competition.  More than 200 vehicles from Mini, which made a cameo
appearance at the opening ceremony in London, are ferrying
around athletes, while a special-edition Mini features the logo
of the 2012 games on the roof. The Olympic effort is flanked by
a new John Cooper Works GP version, billed as the brand’s
fastest car ever, as Audi’s A1 and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s 500 take aim at
the compact.  “Mini is the benchmark in profitability in the small-car
segment,” said  Albrecht Denninghoff , a Frankfurt-based analyst
with Silvia Quandt Research.  Mini is a big part of BMW’s strategy to fend off  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi, which are both
targeting the top spot in luxury-auto sales. The brand,
reintroduced in 2001 after BMW’s failed takeover of Rover, also
wins new customers to the group and adds roughly 200 million
euros ($243 million) to annual profit, according to an estimate
from Juergen Pieper, an analyst with Bankhaus Metzler.  Upscale Small Cars  Other carmakers are taking aim at the upscale small-car
segment. Fiat started production of a wagon version of the 500
this year, adding to the retro-styled compact’s lineup to
bolster its challenge to Mini. The 500L is one of the Italian
manufacturer’s few new models as it cuts spending to conserve
cash amid a market slump in  Europe .  PSA Peugeot Citroen, which currently supplies engines for
the Mini, has expanded its DS line, introducing the rival DS3
compact in March 2010. Mercedes will increase its small-car
lineup to at least five models from two, and Daimler’s Smart
city-car brand is developing a new four-seat model with  Renault
SA. (RNO)  Audi expanded the A1 subcompact with a four-door version and
is adding special high-end editions.  Mini is responding to the competition by expanding. The new
Paceman two-door crossover will arrive in showrooms early next
year, marking the brand’s seventh model in a lineup that spans a
two-seat roadster, a wagon and the classic hatchback. BMW is
discussing producing Mini vehicles at Nedcar, the former
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  factory in the Netherlands, as the
Oxford, England, assembly plant nears its limit.  Lower Emissions  Mini, which helps BMW lower the average emissions of its
vehicles to meet tighter environmental regulations, will be
integrated more closely with other models. The manufacturer
plans to use the same technology to underpin BMW cars when a new
version of the hatchback is introduced in 2014. BMW also may
start using its own engines in the brand’s vehicles after an
agreement with Peugeot expires in 2016, Chief Executive Officer
 Norbert Reithofer  said last week.  “Mini’s profitability will improve when the brand starts
sharing the same small-car platform with a new line of BMW
vehicles,” said Jose Asumendi, an analyst with Baader Bank
based in Unterschleissheim,  Germany . “The small and compact car
segment is a territory in which the luxury carmakers compete
with volume manufacturers. From a marketing perspective, the
Olympic sponsoring is a great tool.”  As part of the Olympic activities, 200 Mini Countryman
crossovers and 40 electric-powered Mini E models will help BMW’s
fleet of vehicles pull boats, serve as mobile camera platforms
and carry medal winners to media interviews. Three so-called
Mini Minis, radio-controlled scale models of the hatchback, will
shuttle javelins, discuses and shots during track and field
competitions.  London Skyline  The  London  2012 edition features the London skyline etched
across the dashboard and a sport stripe in the style of the U.K.
flag. It starts at 17,980 pounds ($27,920), 51 percent more than
the base version.  “Sportiness is an important part of the brand image,”
said Michelle Roberts, spokeswoman for the carmaker’s Olympic
activities. “Sporty driving dynamics and agile handling are the
cornerstones of the Mini product family.”  BMW wouldn’t comment on how much it paid for its Olympic
sponsorship.  Part of the sporty push is Mini’s John Cooper Works badge,
named after the engineer who started tuning Minis in the 1960s
for use in rally races. The hatchback version starts at 22,455
pounds, 89 percent above the base model.  The sport-tuned line accounted for 1.7 percent of Minis
sold last year, beating the 1.4 percent share of BMW’s M
performance models and AMG’s 1.5 percent share of Mercedes
sales. The Daimler luxury brand’s compact-car push will include
an AMG variant of the A-Class hatchback.  The top Mini is the new John Cooper Works GP version, which
will probably outgun the 211-horsepower engine in current
performance models, more than double power of the base model.
The limited-edition GP features a special twin-scroll turbo
engine, adjustable race suspension and a roof spoiler.  Honing its image and expanding to at least 10 model lines
should help Mini continue to grow. Sales are forecast to
increase 30 percent to 370,300 vehicles by 2020 from 285,060
last year, according to IHS Automotive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  