-- Keegan Bradley Wins WGC Event Ahead of PGA Championship Defense
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-06T04:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/bradley-wins-bridgestone-invitational-as-furyk-errs-on-last-hole.html
Keegan Bradley said he may not have
helped his  PGA Championship  title defense by rallying to win the
World Golf Championships Bridgestone Invitational by one stroke.  Bradley shot a 6-under-par 64 during yesterday’s final
round at Firestone Country Club in Akron,  Ohio , where  Jim Furyk 
held the lead until making a double bogey at the last hole.
Bradley finished with an overall score of 13 under 267 to claim
his third career  PGA Tour  title.  The 26-year-old Bradley now heads to Kiawah Island,  South
Carolina , for the Aug. 9-12 PGA Championship, the last of golf’s
four annual major tournaments. The previous two times Bradley
won an event on tour -- both last year -- he missed the cut for
weekend play in his next start.  “My record after I’ve won a tournament isn’t that great,”
Bradley, who also won the 2011 Byron Nelson Championship, said
at a news conference. “I look forward to the challenge and this
is going to be my third time doing it. I’m going to be better
equipped for it.”  Bradley said he plans to speak with  Phil Mickelson  and his
aunt, Hall of Fame women’s golfer Pat Bradley, this week about
the pressure of following up a victory.  “I remember after I won Nelson and I missed the cut
terribly at Memorial, I asked her if she’d ever won back-to-back
tournaments,” Bradley said. “She said one time.  She said it’s
one of the hardest things to do.”  Yesterday, Bradley came to the final hole one stroke behind
Furyk, who was seeking to close out a wire-to-wire victory after
shooting 63 in the opening round.  Furyk’s Struggles  Furyk hit his approach shot over the green and needed two
more shots to get on the putting surface. After Bradley hit out
of a bunker and made a 16-foot putt to save par, Furyk missed
the hole completely with his five-foot bogey attempt to force a
playoff. Afterwards, Furyk dropped his putter to the ground and
put his hands on his head in disbelief.  “When things go wrong, it’s an empty pit,” Furyk, 42,
said in a televised interview. “There’s no way I should have
made any worse than 5 on the last hole and there’s no way I
shouldn’t be, at worst, in a playoff. If I put the third shot on
the green, I put a lot of pressure on him to make that putt.”  Furyk’s last-hole collapse came less than two months after
he blew a final-round lead at the  U.S. Open , where he made three
bogeys over the last six holes and lost to  Webb Simpson .  “The thing I love about golf and this sport is that I have
no one else to blame but myself,” said Furyk, who has 16 tour
wins. “I’ll go to work and try to get ready for the PGA.”  Furyk dropped into a tie with  Steve Stricker  at 12-under
par, while  Louis Oosthuizen  finished fourth at 11 under.  ‘Dialed in’  Tiger Woods , a seven-time winner of the WGC event, tied for
eighth place at 4-under par after a final-round 66.  Woods, a four-time PGA Championship winner, said he heads
to Kiawah Island feeling his tee-to-green game is “dialed in”
after recovering on the weekend in Akron. He was 2-over par
through the first two rounds and tied for 44th place.  “I feel very good about where I’m at,” said Woods, who is
the 7-1 favorite of Las Vegas oddsmakers to win the PGA
Championship even though he won the last of his 14 major titles
in 2008. “I’m excited about it.”  J.J. Henry won his second PGA Tour event and first since
2006 yesterday at the Reno-Tahoe Open in Reno,  Nevada .  Henry, 37, finished with 43 points, one better than runner-
up Alexandre Rocha under the Modified Stableford scoring system,
which awards five points for eagles and two for birdies while
subtracting points for bogeys and worse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  