-- Burgers to Noodles, Top London Eateries Off Olympics Map
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-08-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/burgers-to-noodles-top-london-eateries-off-olympics-map.html
London  has great restaurants and if
you’re staying in a smart hotel, your concierge usually will be
able to get you a good table. How about less glamorous venues,
where your only reservations will be about whether to enter?  For those wanting to escape the Olympics or food hype, here
are 10 inexpensive joints. In each case, the food is hot, the
service warm and the ambience cool. Expect to pay 20 pounds
($31) or less per person for food at most places.  Asian: Sedap is a family-run Malaysian restaurant where mom
and pop cook and the daughters serve their authentic dishes such
as Penang Char kway teow (stir-fried rice noodles with prawn,
bean sprouts, Chinese sausage, egg, fish cake, soy sauce, chives
and chili paste). It’s a destination for fans of Nyonya 
(Chinese-Malaysian cuisine). The set lunch starts at 7.80 
pounds.  http://www.sedap.co.uk/  or +44-20-7490-0200.  Barbecue: Pitt Cue is a tiny restaurant and doesn’t take
reservations, so it’s best to avoid peak times or to be prepared
for a long wait. There are daily specials as well as about five
main courses, which come in an enamel tray with a chunk of bread
on the side. The food is worth the wait. In a city where
barbecue is not the best, Pitt Cue is on another level.
 http://www.pittcue.co.uk/welcome.html  (No phone line.)  Brasserie: Zedel is the baby sister of the Wolseley, where
it can be almost as hard to find a table as an unclogged road
during the Olympics. Zedel looks grand and yet the prices are
low. The fixed-price menu is 8.75 pounds for two courses and
wine starts at 3 pounds a glass. Even if you’re not on a budget,
this is an attractive destination.
 http://www.brasseriezedel.com/  or +44-20-7734-4888.  Burgers: Burger & Lobster is brought to you by the owners
of Goodman restaurants, known for their top-quality steak and
great service. Here, the formula is extremely simple. There’s no
menu, you just order a burger or lobster, with the option of a
lobster roll. They come with fries and a side salad. The price?
20 pounds. That’s low for lobster and high for the burger, but
it’s good. The cuts are chuck, onglet and sirloin cap.
 http://burgerandlobster.com/  or 44-20-7409-1699.  Fish and Chips: Poppies is a little posh and modern for
this sort of cuisine, even if Pat “Pop” Newland has been
frying for more than half a century. Starters may include
whitebait and calamari. A range of sustainably sourced fish --
including halibut -- is served. You can just opt for a
traditional cod and chips with mushy peas, followed by ice
cream. The service is friendly, the place has a great retro feel
and there’s even a basic wine list.
 http://www.poppiesfishandchips.co.uk/  or +44-20-7247-0892.  Indian: Roti Chai is the venue I most often visit when not
reviewing fancy restaurants. The menu focuses on Indian street
food such as tarka dhal (yellow lentils), dhokla (Gujarati
steamed chickpea cake) and samosas. There are also curries,
including the Manchurian, with Chinese influences. My favorite
is hakka chili paneer, a spicy specialty from Kolkota. (There’s
a dining room in the basement for more formal meals.)
 http://www.rotichai.com/index.html  or +44-20-7408-0101.  Japanese Ramen: Tonkotsu is a new ramen bar in the heart of
Soho. The menu is short because this place is all about the
noodles in a rich and meaty stock. (You also can get dumplings
and salads.) Tonkotsu is often crowded and it’s worth squeezing
in and trying the great ramen. It’s owned by the same people as
Tsuru sushi.  http://www.tonkotsu.co.uk/  or +44-20-7437-0071.  Lebanese: Yalla Yalla serves Lebanese street food such as
hummus, falafel and kibbe nayye (lamb tartar with spiced cracked
wheat, spring onions, fresh mint and basil.) There are also
Lebanese wines to sample. The options for Middle Eastern food
aren’t as numerous as you might expect. Yalla Yalla quickly
became a hit and has expanded beyond the original tiny outlet in
Soho.  http://www.yalla-yalla.co.uk/  or +44-20-7287-7663.  Tapas: Morito is a small tapas-and-mezze bar on Exmouth
Market, a street that’s developing a reputation as a dining
destination. Morito is the baby of the owners of Moro
restaurant, and the food is particularly good. Apart from the
usual small plates, dishes may include sweetbreads with
piquillo, gem lettuce and crispy garlic or mackerel with fennel
and capers. The wine list isn’t huge, yet there are interesting
choices.  http://www.morito.co.uk/  or 44-20-7278-7007.  Wine Bar: 28-50 serves more than 30 wines by the glass
along with bistro-style French dishes. It’s the wine workshop
and kitchen of Texture restaurant owners Xavier Rousset and Aggi
Sverrisson, who formerly worked for Raymond Blanc at Le Manoir
aux Quat’Saisons. They’re passionate about food and wine and
service, too. The prices are low and the standards are high.
 http://www.2850.co.uk/  or +44-20-7725-1330.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  John Mariani 
on wine and  James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines, in London, at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 