-- Chidambaram Faces Stalled Parliament in Bid to Revive Growth
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-08-06T05:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/chidambaram-faces-gridlocked-parliament-in-bid-to-revive-economy.html
Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram will face his first test in trying to rejuvenate a
slowing economy when parliament resumes this week and the
government bids to end two years of legislative gridlock.  While the July 31 appointment of Chidambaram, 66, to a
third term in charge of the  finance ministry  brings a veteran
economic manager to the helm, opposition to proposals to lure
foreign investment and hasten road and power projects risks
further policy delays as the rate of growth has slowed to a
nine-year low.  “There are hopes that Chidambaram’s arrival will bring
about change,” said A.K. Verma, a political analyst at Christ
Church College in Kanpur in  Uttar Pradesh ,  India ’s most populous
state. “That’s highly unlikely. We can only live in hope things
will be different.”  Setting the stage for the monthlong parliamentary session
were India’s worst-ever power cuts last week, which highlighted
the added costs of doing business in the nation. The blackouts
also raised pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to break a
logjam with his coalition allies that’s stymied an agenda
featuring a tax-code overhaul, a bump in private spending on
social projects and further opening pension and insurance
industries to overseas companies.  The political deadlock meant lawmakers spent just 14
percent of parliament’s previous session considering new laws,
according to figures from New Delhi-based  PRS Legislative
Research , a monitoring group.  Company Profits  Singh’s government, which faces a general election in less
than two years, will introduce in parliament the Companies Bill
to regulate boardrooms and make businesses spend 2 percent of
their profits on social projects, said Parliamentary Affairs
Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal. It may also press lawmakers in the
session starting Aug. 8 to approve the Direct  Tax Code  bill that
would cut taxes paid by companies by 7.4 percent and simplify a
web of levies.  “We have sought co-operation from opposition parties,”
Bansal said. Lawmakers are likely to demand debates on a weak
monsoon and the power-grid collapse, he said.  Plans to woo foreign investment in India’s multibrand
retail sector and aviation, which don’t require parliamentary
approval, have been rejected by Singh’s biggest ally, the
Trinamool Congress of  Mamata Banerjee . She has been joined by
the ruling parties of two other large states, Uttar Pradesh and
Bihar. Raising overseas investment caps for the pensions and
insurance industries would require votes in the legislature.  Share Gains  Trinamool will continue its opposition to plans to allow
more foreign investment in supermarkets and pensions during this
session of parliament, party leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay said in
an interview with the  Press Trust of India  yesterday.  “Words cannot compensate anymore” after the government
failed to deliver on earlier promises of reform, said
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC  Global
Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  in  New Delhi . “Where is the conviction? They
lack ability and will.”  The sluggish economy, which expanded 5.3 percent in the
first quarter of this year, and stalled policy making hasn’t
impeded an advance in Indian stocks. The BSE India Sensitive
Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , has risen 12 percent in 2012, helped by record
purchases by overseas investors. The rupee is  Asia ’s worst
performing currency in the past 12 months, plunging 20 percent
against the dollar as  Europe ’s debt crisis and India’s trade
deficit hurt demand for the currency.  Chidambaram also faces the possibility of parliamentary
protests over his role in determining rules for the allegedly
corrupt 2008 sale of mobile-phone permits, a graft scandal that
precipitated the paralysis in passing laws.  Auction Urged  The  Bharatiya Janata Party , the main federal opposition,
and its allies pledged in November to walk out each time
Chidambaram, then home minister, addressed the house. The BJP
claims the now finance chief enabled the scam, for which the
former telecommunications minister is on trial, by failing to
insist on a transparent auction of licenses.  Chidambaram said last year he urged an auction of the
permits instead of the sale that relied on fees fixed more than
six years earlier.  Chidambaram becoming finance minister despite the
allegations “is an issue,” Yashwant Sinha, a BJP member of
parliament in the lower house and former finance minister, said
in an interview. Sinha’s party will hold a meeting today to
decide whether to continue protests against Chidambaram.  The government may attempt to push through its new tax
code, which could lower the corporate levy on Indian companies
such as  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  to 30 percent from an effective
rate of 32.4 percent.  Land Law  The companies bill will regulate how businesses should
operate, including setting fixed terms for directors.  The government is also planning to revive legislation
setting higher prices for land it wants to acquire for
industrial and infrastructure projects, including those
involving private companies. The Land Acquisition Bill has been
promoted by ruling Congress party leader  Rahul Gandhi .  Protests over land purchases, currently governed by
regulations dating back to British colonial rule, have delayed
the building of roads and power and steel plants nationwide.
Infrastructure bottlenecks are a significant driver of price
pressures in Asia’s third-largest economy, according to the
 Reserve Bank of India .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  