-- China to Let Workers Choose for Wages to Be Paid in Stock
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-06T05:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/china-issues-draft-rules-to-let-companies-pay-wages-in-shares.html
China  plans to let workers choose for
as much as 30 percent of their wages to be paid in the shares of
their publicly-traded employers as regulators broaden measures
to boost investor confidence in the stock market.  The stock used to pay employees must be acquired from the
secondary market, according to  draft  rules posted on the
China Securities Regulatory Commission’s website yesterday.
Employees who receive shares as salaries or bonuses would have
to hold them for at least 36 months.  The  securities regulator , in the week following a July 31
pledge by the Communist Party’s Politburo to continue adjusting
policies to ensure growth, has cut trading fees for stocks,
expanded a trial for over-the-counter exchanges and allowed
futures companies to start asset management businesses. China’s
stock market is the worst performing this year among the four
largest emerging economies.  “It is not only necessary but also timely now to start
employee shareholding programs at listed companies,” the CSRC
said in a statement yesterday accompanying the draft. Such
programs will allow “the optimal allocation of society’s
capital through the  capital market .”  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  index has fallen 13
percent from this year’s high on March 2 amid concern that
China’s economic slowdown is deepening as  Europe ’s debt crisis
worsens. The index has lost 2.7 percent this year, compared with
gains in Brazil, India and  Russia .  The regulator’s “intention to stabilize the Chinese stock
market will boost investors’ confidence in the long term,”
Fanny Chen, an analyst at Haitong International Research in  Hong
Kong , wrote in a report distributed today about the reduction in
trading fees.  Outside Managers  No more than 10 percent of the total shares of listed
companies may be paid to employees, according to the CSRC draft,
which marks an extension of  rules  introduced in 2006 that
allowed publicly traded companies to pay senior managers with
shares. Employee share programs must be managed by third parties
such as trust firms, asset management arms of insurance
companies, securities firms and fund management companies, the
regulator said.  Guo Shuqing , who took over as chairman of the CSRC last
year, has urged companies to pay more cash dividends and changed
how initial public offerings are priced. China’s equity and bond
markets “seriously” lag behind the demands of the real
economy, Guo said in a March interview with the official
People’s Daily.  Investor Returns  The Securities Times newspaper last month also cited Guo as
saying that listed companies should “pro-actively” seek to
produce returns for investors.  In June, China began a pilot program allowing smaller
companies to sell high-yield bonds through private placements.
The State Council approved the expansion of an OTC market in
Beijing’s Zhongguancun Science Park to three additional high-
tech zones in the cities of Shanghai, Wuhan and Tianjin, the
China Securities Journal  reported  on Aug. 3.  The official Xinhua News Agency also reported Aug. 2 that
China may also cut stamp duty on share trading. The state-run
news service reported today that no arrangement for such a cut
had been made for the near term. Both reports cited China’s
securities regulator.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  