-- Don’t Fall For Sandy Weill’s Crocodile Tears
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-08-05T22:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/don-t-fall-for-sandy-weill-s-crocodile-tears.html
The remarkably ironic pronouncement
from  Sandy Weill  that the U.S. should resurrect some form of the
 Glass-Steagall Act  -- which he worked assiduously to tear
asunder in the 1990s as he created  Citigroup Inc. (C)  -- has touched
off another a debate about how to control the worst instincts on
Wall Street.  There is no question that bankers, traders and executives
need help reining themselves in. After all, it was their
collective actions that brought us the financial crisis in 2007
and -- as if nothing had been learned about irresponsible
behavior -- the current scandals about manipulating the London
interbank offered rate, the $6 billion loss on an ill-advised
proprietary bet by a handful of traders at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and the accusations of money-laundering at HSBC Holdings Plc.  Now, of course, Wall Street’s highly paid lawyers and
lobbyists are working overtime to rewrite the regulations
mandated by the Dodd-Frank law. It’s enough to make you wonder
if the industry, which has been the envy of the world and the
engine for much of the growth and innovation in the  U.S.
economy , has a screw loose and is on a path to self-immolation.  Among others, James Surowiecki, the New Yorker’s financial
columnist, has wondered what could be done. When it comes to
manipulating Libor,  he suggested , the answer is simple enough:
Make it harder for banks to game the system. “Then we need to
admit that fraud is a crime and throw some people in jail,” he
wrote.  This Banksterism  I agree with him there. One of the most distinctive -- and
highly disappointing -- aspects of this period of banksterism is
that, despite repeated instances of malfeasance, prosecutors
seem unable to win convictions (other than in a few high-profile
and egregious insider-trading cases). The jury’s verdict in
favor of Citigroup mortgage banker Brian Stoker on Aug. 1 in a
negligence suit by the Securities and Exchange Commission was
par for the course. And U.S. prosecutors’ record remains
pristine: not a single conviction has been won of a Wall Street
executive, banker or trader for their roles in the financial
crisis.  But what else, besides some much-needed jail time can be
done to change behavior on Wall Street? “We need an attitudinal
shift on the part of regulators, who need to recognize that
their gentleman’s-club ethos is ill-suited to today’s financial
world, and who need to be aggressive not just in punishing
malfeasance but in preventing it from happening,” Surowiecki
suggested. “This new approach would be intrusive and
overbearing, and would make it harder for bankers to do what
they want.”  The idea that tougher regulation is the key to changing
behavior on Wall Street also got support on the op-ed page of
the  New York  Times from reporter-turned-banker-turned-columnist
 Steven Rattner . We should focus on putting the Volcker Rule
“and other new regulations into effect, and devising better
ways to deal with financial giants -- not distractions like Mr.
Weill’s call for reinstating an outmoded concept like Glass-
Steagall,”  he wrote  on July 31.  But guess what? Wall Street has enough regulation. The
calls for more, or tougher, regulation completely miss the mark
of what drives behavior. You want the people who work on Wall
Street to change their behavior? You want them to be held
accountable for their horrific actions? You want them to stop
doing self-serving and fraudulent things that push our economy
to the brink and that undermine what little confidence we have
left in our once-prized  capital markets ? You really want to
shame bankers, traders and executives into doing the right thing
because they seem unwilling to do so on their own?  Different Rewards  Then the answer is simple: Change the way they are
rewarded. Instead of handing Wall Streeters multimillion-dollar
bonuses for taking huge risks with other people’s money -- did
someone say London Whale? -- or for creating and selling
securities they know are fraudulent at best, top bankers,
traders and executives should get paid if and only if there are
pretax profits companywide in any given year. Instead of
skimming their compensation off the revenue they generate, they
should be focused instead of generating pretax income.  This is how  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  rewards its 400 or so
partner managing directors -- they get paid only if from there
are pretax profits. The top 400 bankers, traders and executives
at every “systemically important” Wall Street firm should get
paid exactly this way.  That’s not all. The top 400 at each company should also
have their net worth on the line every day of every year -- just
as they did in the old days when Wall Street was a series of
private partnerships. Returning to that structure would not only
give shareholders and creditors something to survive on in a
worst-case scenario, but it would also hold accountable for
their actions the people who make the important decisions about
how to deploy capital, what business lines to be in, and who
gets fired, promoted and paid. Without this kind of
accountability, Wall Streeters can hide behind the corporate
veil and let others pay the price for their stupidity and greed.
This must stop.  After all, human beings are pretty simple. They do what
they are rewarded to do. That is especially true on Wall Street.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why Romney’s and Obama’s  tax
plans  get F’s and on  Romania’s dangerous drift  away from
democracy; Susan B. Crawford on the  U.S.’s technological lag  at
the Olympics;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  Tea Party’s role  in
November;  Simon Johnson  on why  Mario Draghi can’t save the euro ;
Greg Barton on the power and finesse of  sprint kayaking ; Caleb
Scharf on the spacey, gassy and lumpy  map of the universe .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 