-- Eagles Coach Reid’s Son Found Dead at Team Training Camp
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/eagles-coach-andy-reid-s-son-garrett-found-dead-at-training-camp.html
Garrett Reid, the eldest son of
Philadelphia Eagles head coach  Andy Reid , died yesterday in the
dormitory room he stayed in while helping the National Football
League team at its training camp. He was 29.  A cause of death will be determined after an autopsy is
conducted and the results of a toxicology report are received in
about 30 days, said Edward Shupp, chief of police at  Lehigh
University  in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, where the Eagles train.  Garrett Reid, who had an arrest record for drug violations,
had been assisting the team with strength and conditioning, the
 Philadelphia Inquirer  said on its website. Shupp declined in a
telephone interview to say whether drugs or drug paraphernalia
were discovered at the scene. There were “no suspicious
activities” or evidence of foul play, he said.  “This news is heartbreaking for everyone in the Eagles
family,” Eagles Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Lurie  said in a statement e-mailed by the team.  Northampton County Coroner Zachary Lysek said he will
investigate with the cooperation of the university police.  Andy Reid spent yesterday morning informing family of the
news before leaving camp, Eagles General Manager Howie Roseman
said at a news conference. The coach told team executives to
continue with training and the Eagles held their scheduled
session, Roseman said.  Training Continues  “From a football perspective, I can tell you that Andy has
asked that we go forward with training camp,” Roseman told
reporters.  Training will be run by Offensive Coordinator Marty Mornhinweg and Defensive Coordinator Juan Castillo until the
head coach returns. Lurie said he expects Reid will coach the
Eagles in their Aug. 9 preseason game against Pittsburgh.  Andy Reid is in his 14th season with the team, which he’s
led to nine playoff appearances, six National Football
Conference East division titles, five conference championship
games and one Super Bowl defeat.  “We’ve been together longer than any owner and head coach
tandem in the NFL and I knew Garrett when he was 14, 15 years
old, all of his kids,” Lurie said. “The thing with Andy is
he’s strong and rock solid, but deep down, he’s a teddy bear and
the players who know him know that really well.”  Shupp told reporters that his office received a 911 call at
approximately 7:20 a.m. yesterday reporting an unresponsive male
in the Sayre Park dorms at the university.  “Upon arrival, attempts were made to revive the
individual,” Shupp said. “They were unsuccessful.”  Guilty Plea  Garrett Reid pleaded guilty in July 2007 to recklessly
endangering another motorist and driving while under the
influence after causing a traffic collision. Police found him in
possession of heroin and amphetamines after the accident.  The following May, while incarcerated for those
misdemeanors, he pleaded guilty to trying to smuggle 89
prescription pills into jail, the  Associated Press  reported at
the time.  A month after Garrett Reid pleaded guilty to the driving
and drug-related charges, his younger brother, Britt Reid,
pleaded guilty to charges that included felony possession of a
firearm without a license.  Britt Reid was arrested after a Jan. 30 traffic
confrontation in which he was accused of pointing a handgun at
another driver.  Garrett Reid’s car crash occurred the same day. Police said
his vehicle ran a red light at almost 20 miles an hour above the
speed limit and collided with a vehicle driven by Louise
Hartman, who was treated for cervical strain and a head cut at
the Hospital of the University of  Pennsylvania .  Andy Reid and his wife Tammy have another son, Spencer, and
daughters Crosby and Drew Ann.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  