-- Team USA Deserves No Gold Medals for Internet Access
-- B y   S u s a n   P .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-08-05T22:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/team-usa-deserves-no-gold-medals-for-internet-access.html
The opening ceremony of the London
Olympics showed us the Internet’s history by honoring Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, and featuring a
display of his live Twitter post: “This is for everyone.”  Unfortunately, the games as a whole are providing a less
inspiring vision of the Internet’s future, at least in the U.S.  People in at least 64 territories around the world are able
to watch free live streaming video of every event; 3,500 hours
on 10 separate real-time channels are being made available
online by YouTube. Yet in the U.S., this coverage is only
available to those who pay for a cable, satellite or telephone-
company TV subscription that includes MSNBC and CNBC. (About 7.8
percent of this streamed Olympic content is available over the
air in the U.S.)  If you’re a non-subscriber, almost the only way to get
access to these multiple live streams is through a proxy server
that shields your location -- IP addresses can be tied to
geography -- or through other, possibly illegal, means. The
group  Global Voices Advocacy  reports that the file-sharing site
Pirate Bay, where users could upload video of Olympic events for
all to see, briefly renamed itself “The Olympic Bay,” with the
saucy tagline “This is for everyone.”  Live Streams  Concentration in Internet access and the close corporate
connections between distributors and programmers have brought us
to this point:  NBC Universal  has all the rights to Olympics
coverage. The network’s majority owner --  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the
largest U.S. broadband company -- has decided that Americans
shouldn’t get access to these live streams without paying. In
the U.K., where the British Broadcasting Corp. isn’t trying to
monetize every second of Olympic fervor, the streams are
available over the air and online. (Many Americans have logged
on to virtual private networks that make their computers appear
to be signing on to the BBC site from a U.K. location. The
Special Relationship reborn in zeros and ones.)  Even if Americans were allowed to watch these online
streams, about a third of us don’t subscribe to  broadband . Those
who do are paying more for less: A recent study by the  New
America Foundation  found that about $35 a month will buy
symmetrical download and upload speeds of 500 Mbps in  Hong Kong ;
people in  New York  City or  Washington  pay that much for service
that is as much as 20 times slower.  The U.S. isn’t upgrading to fiber, with its enormous
capacity to support uploads as well as downloads. Only 14
percent of Americans will be able to subscribe to  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS (fiber-optic) service, which offers
the speeds that the rest of the world is used to. The rest of us
will make do with our local cable incumbent’s  cramped uploads .  One of the reasons we love watching the Olympics is its
celebration of competition among nations. We could take a lesson
from the games when it comes to high-speed fiber Internet
access.  Other countries are focusing on wiring their citizens’
homes and businesses. We aren’t: About  5 million  Americans have
subscribed to FiOS, or about 6 percent of all wired broadband
subscribers. Meanwhile, according to the  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development , about 63 percent of
Japanese broadband customers have fiber connections to their
homes; in  South Korea , 58 percent do; in  Sweden , it’s 30
percent.  Australia  plans to reach 93 percent of its population
with fiber.  We seem bent on providing the technological equivalent of
the Olympic sport of dressage -- high-speed  Internet access  only
for rich people. We’re prancing around a core market failure
that is undermining the future of our economy. The Internet was
supposed to be for everyone.  (Susan P. Crawford is a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School . She is a former special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why Romney’s and Obama’s  tax
plans  get F’s and on  Romania’s dangerous drift  away from
democracy; William D. Cohan on  Sandy Weill and Glass-Steagall ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on the  Tea Party’s role  in November;  Simon
Johnson  on why  Mario Draghi can’t save the euro ; Greg Barton on
the power and finesse of  sprint kayaking ; Caleb Scharf on the
spacey, gassy and lumpy  map of the universe .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or @scrawford on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 