-- Lenovo Targets Dell Share of Government, Education Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-06T08:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/lenovo-targets-dell-share-of-government-education-sales.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, is targeting  Dell
Inc. (DELL) ’s share of sales to U.S. schools and governments to keep
growing after boosting its North American corporate business.  Lenovo can achieve “hyper-growth” of more than 20 percent
a year in computer  sales  to elementary and secondary schools as
well as local, state and federal government agencies, Thomas Looney, vice president and general manager for Lenovo  North
America , said in an interview at his office in Morrisville,
 North Carolina .  The company closed the gap to almost pull even with market
leader  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in global shipments in the second
quarter, while Dell dropped to fourth from third a year earlier,
researcher Gartner Inc. said last month. Lenovo’s thrust into
the government and education markets, which account for more
than a  quarter of Dell ’s revenue, follows an Aug. 1 announcement
that it will resell machines made by EMC Corp., replacing a
partnership EMC had with Dell.  “They’re the weakest kid in the playground right now,”
Looney, 60, said of Dell in the Aug. 1 interview. “Dell is
highly penetrated in K-12, federal, state and local. That’s why
I’m attacking now in those segments of the market. I can price
very aggressively, and I’ve got the right products.”  Hewlett-Packard’s 14.9 percent share of second-quarter
global PC shipments was followed by Lenovo’s 14.7 percent,  Acer
Inc. (2353) ’s 11 percent and Dell’s 10.7 percent, Gartner said. Lenovo,
with headquarters in Beijing and Morrisville, increased its
shipments from a year earlier by 14.9 percent in the quarter,
while Dell’s fell by 11.5 percent.  Public-Sector Sales  Dell has its “strongest-ever portfolio of solutions,”
said  David Frink , a spokesman for the  Round Rock , Texas-based
company.  “Lenovo may be putting a lot of its focus on Dell,” Frink
said. “Our focus continues to be on our customers and bringing
them the best IT solutions to improve their operations and
enhance the services they provide.”  Lenovo rose 2 percent to HK$5.99 in Hong Kong  trading 
today, extending the gains this year to 16 percent, compared
with a 20 percent drop in Dell’s  shares  in  New York .  Sales to the  public sector  accounted for about 27 percent
of Dell’s revenue in each of the past three years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Incremental Threat’  Given the sector’s contribution for Dell, any move by
Lenovo to expand sales would put them in closer head-to-head
competition and pose “an incremental threat for Dell,” said
 Brian White , an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc. in New
York.  “Lenovo, when they put their mind to things, have done a
good job because they have good quality -- and another thing is
low prices,” said White. “If Lenovo makes a big push in that
area in the U.S., Dell is going to see the pressure.”  Lenovo’s sales of computers to businesses and other large
organizations in North America are “humming” after having
grown by $1 billion in three years to $2.5 billion, Looney said.  In the education market, Lenovo could more than triple its
share to as much as 25 percent from 7 percent now, he said.  One reason is the ThinkPad X130e laptop, designed for
elementary- and secondary-school students, which was introduced
last year, Looney said. Public schools in  New York City  have
bought “tens of thousands” of the devices, he said.  Tablet for Feds  When  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  releases its Windows 8 operating
system later this year, Lenovo will offer a tablet running the
system that will target U.S. federal government customers,
Looney said. The Mexico-made tablet will be compliant with the
Trade Agreements Act, which says products bought under U.S.
federal government contracts must be made or “substantially
transformed” in a  list of designated countries , which doesn’t
include  China .  Lenovo has a plant in Monterrey,  Mexico , that can produce
laptop and tablet computers in compliance with that law, Looney
said.  “We are now developing products that are specific to
segments of the market,” he said. “That really differentiates
our products.”  Even with conservative projections for the global PC
market, Lenovo’s advantages and “strong  management team ” are
reasons to hold the shares, said Masha Gordon, the London-based
head of emerging-market equity portfolio management at Pacific
Investment Management Co.  “Those qualities should help the company execute in a
tough operating environment,” Gordon said. “We’d expect the
company to continue outperforming its  peers .”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  