-- Europe’s Paralysis Fuels Erosion of Democracy in East
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-05T22:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/europe-s-paralysis-fuels-erosion-of-democracy-in-east.html
The European Union’s failure to
resolve the euro crisis is hammering Greece, Italy and  Spain .
It’s also unraveling the weaker democracies of Eastern Europe.  The most recent example is Romania, where a bare-knuckle
struggle for power is under way, leading to a still unresolved
referendum to impeach President Traian Basescu. Basescu is a
political bruiser, but the rival who is trying to remove him,
Prime Minister Victor Ponta, has trampled the separation of
powers and inflicted  real damage  on the country’s fragile
institutions, for example, firing the ombudsman and seizing
powers from the courts and parliament.  Ponta is taking a page from the playbook of neighboring
 Hungary ’s populist leader, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who
tried to seize control of the central bank and other
institutions. In  Serbia , meanwhile, recent elections elevated a
former senior member of the ultranationalist Serbian Radical
Party to the presidency, and the onetime spokesman for former
Serbian President  Slobodan Milosevic  to prime minister. This as
Serbia is bidding to join the EU.  These politicians owe their rise to the financial crisis.
It made their predecessors -- and Basescu -- deeply unpopular,
because they racked up excessive debt, imposed harsh austerity
measures or simply failed to roll back the tide of high
unemployment and low growth.  ‘Democratic Reset’  Orban and Ponta have drawn the ire of the EU for changes
that risk destroying years of effort to build democratic
institutions in former communist states. The European Commission
last month issued Ponta  a list  of 11 demands to correct the
authoritarian drift. He says he’ll comply, even as he carries
out what he calls a  “democratic reset”  in  Romania . We’re
skeptical.  As incumbent parties fall across Europe, this trend may be
more dangerous for the countries in the east. Romania, Serbia
and to a lesser degree Hungary are much poorer than their
western counterparts and have younger and weaker democratic
institutions. The European Commission laid out in a July
 progress report  the gains that Romanian democracy has made since
2007, including more independent courts and the introduction of
an ombudsman. These are the improvements now being rolled back.  Despite the commission’s best efforts to browbeat Ponta
into line, uncertainty about the future of the single currency
and commitment to the EU project as a whole is making the job
harder, reducing Old  Europe ’s authority and gravitational pull.
If countries that have highly developed infrastructure, hundreds
of years of unbroken democratic tradition and the ability to put
rockets into space can’t keep their fiscal houses in order and
do what it takes to fix the euro, why should the leaders of
Eastern Europe heed their advice?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why Romney’s and Obama’s  tax
plans  get F’s; William D. Cohan on  Sandy Weill and Glass-
Steagall ; Susan B. Crawford on the  U.S.’s technological lag  at
the Olympics;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  Tea Party’s role  in
November;  Simon Johnson  on why  Mario Draghi can’t save the euro ;
Greg Barton on the power and finesse of  sprint kayaking ; Caleb
Scharf on the spacey, gassy and lumpy  map of the universe .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 