-- Fat Is Back as Unilever Magnum Bites Nestle Skinny Cow: Retail
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-08-05T23:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/fat-is-back-as-unilever-magnum-bites-nestle-skinny-cow-retail.html
On a warm summer night in  London ,
 Unilever (UNA)  said it was going to measure buxom starlet Kelly
Brook’s smile and pulse.  As Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman looked on, the
British model got into a black oval device, dubbed the
“Infinity Pleasure Pod,” to eat a Magnum ice cream bar at the
opening of the brand’s London pop-up store. The pod “has all
these lights that react to your brain and the feelings you get
and it’s basically different for everybody,” said Brook.  At Unilever, the feeling about Magnum these days is all
good. With a hint of sex to sell a child’s treat as an adult
indulgence, the chocolate-coated ice cream bars have taken share
from larger rival  Nestle SA (NESN)  in the world’s biggest ice cream
market since their U.S. introduction last year. That will help
Magnum’s sales, which have doubled since 2006, top 1 billion
euros ($1.24 billion) worldwide this year, making ice cream a
standout in Unilever’s sluggish food unit.  “This brand has major legs globally and will be a story
for years to come,” Eric Scher, an  analyst  at  Sanford
Bernstein , said in an interview. In the competitive U.S. market,
where Nestle currently reigns overall, “Magnum has tipped the
balance now to Unilever.”  Global Dominance  With almost $13 billion in sales across brands such as
Cornetto, Breyers, Klondike, and Ben & Jerry’s, ice cream is
Unilever’s single biggest category, accounting for about 15
percent of total revenue, according to researcher Euromonitor.
London- and Rotterdam-based Unilever is also the world’s biggest
maker of ice cream, with about 20 percent of the $85 billion
market, ahead of Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle, Bloomberg
Industries data show.  Conquering America has been a tougher nut for Unilever to
crack. The $12 billion U.S. ice cream market is unique because
more than half of total sales come from packaged tubs sold in
supermarkets and eaten at home, according to  Greg Miller , a
senior principal at Parthenon Group, an advisory firm serving
food and beverage clients. In Europe, more consumption takes
place outside the home in single-serve, more-profitable
portions.  So Unilever and major players such as Haagen-Dazs-maker
Nestle have taken the European playbook to the U.S. and are
increasingly shifting their focus to so-called frozen novelties
-- single-serve treats on sticks or in cones, Miller said.
Frozen novelties command 21.2 percent of the U.S. market, or
$2.6 billion, up from 19.6 percent of the market in 2006,
according to Euromonitor data.  “Novelties make ice cream more of a snack,” Chris
Brockman, an analyst at market research firm Mintel, said in an
interview. “It’s where the market has the most potential to
grow.”  Sacred Cow  To get to the top of the U.S. market, Unilever has to
unseat Nestle’s Skinny Cow, the best-selling novelty in the U.S.
Sales of the world’s biggest food company’s low-fat offering
peaked in 2010 and have gone downhill since, Brockman said, as
consumers seeking indulgent treats have gravitated to break the
calorie bank on full-fat items.  “Taste has come back in,” Brockman said.  That’s where Magnum comes in. Introduced in 1989 and made
with Belgian chocolate, Magnum’s flavors include Double Caramel
and Mochaccino. A typical Magnum has 240 calories and 16 grams
of fat, compared with 100 calories and 1 fat gram in a Skinny
Cow fudge bar. Sold in 50 countries, Magnum is  Europe ’s top ice
cream brand, yet U.S. managers for years didn’t think it was
“strong enough” to bring Stateside, according to Kevin
Havelock, president of Unilever’s Refreshments unit, which
includes ice cream and tea.  ‘Big Bets’  In 2008, the longtime head of Unilever’s U.S. ice cream
business retired, and Havelock prepared to bring Magnum across
the pond. Magnum did so well in U.S. test markets in 2010 that
Havelock pushed up its U.S. debut from 2012 to April 2011.
Supported by a marketing budget of about $15 million, Magnum
became one of Unilever’s “big bets” of last year, Havelock
said.  The bet has paid off. Americans snapped up more than 100
million Magnum bars in the U.S., so many that supplies ran low,
forcing Unilever to send boxes over from Italian factories to
meet demand. Sales hit $100 million in the first year,
surpassing Unilever’s forecasts by 50 percent, Havelock said in
an interview.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  expanded its offering from
four flavors to six, and its warehouse chain Sam’s Club added
the line.  7 Sins  Magnum’s success derives from its appeal as a tasty yet
affordable treat, as well as its racy marketing, which takes a
page from sister brand Axe body spray, according to Scher, the
Bernstein analyst. In 2003, Magnum released “7 Sins” Magnum
bars. Today, its U.K. website says the brand is “For Pleasure
Seekers.”  “The opportunity for Magnum was clear,” Mintel’s Brockman
said. “The focus on the diet brands had dragged the market
down. Magnum could change this stagnation and boost the emerging
premium end of the market, which is not particularly crowded.”  Those sales have come largely at the expense of Nestle,
whose Skinny Cow brand has lost a half-point of market share in
frozen novelties over the past year, Symphony IRI data show.
Even Nestle’s more caloric Haagen-Dazs bars have recorded slower
growth. Unilever has built on the initial U.S. rollout with
Magnum Minis, smaller bars with 150 calories, to tempt the
Skinny Cow defectors.  Fueled by Magnum, along with revamped products from
Klondike and Breyers, Unilever may soon supplant Nestle as the
biggest U.S. ice cream maker, said Havelock. Nestle spokeswoman
Diane McIntyre declined two requests to comment.  Pleasure Pod  Beyond the U.S., Magnum has entered Pakistan, Thailand and
 Malaysia  over the past year, global brand director Sophie
Galvani said in an interview outside the Pleasure Pod in London.
In Asian  emerging markets , Magnum costs about three times as
much as locally produced ice cream bars, lending it cachet among
the emerging middle class, a group projected to increase from
500 million people to more than 3 billion across  Asia  by 2030.  Galvani said Unilever’s global use of temporary Magnum
stores -- they have popped up in Jakarta, Paris and Istanbul --
will hit  Sao Paulo  soon. Galvani said the cafes exist to
generate buzz, as shown by the horde of photographers following
Brook’s every move as she emerged from the Infinity Pod in a
raspberry-colored dress and designed her own Magnum bar topped
with white chocolate and brownies.  Polman, Unilever’s CEO, chose white chocolate as well, with
chili flakes. “Make mine healthy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  