-- Foxconn’s Sharp Investment Plan Undeterred by Share Plunge
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-08-05T13:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/foxconn-determined-to-invest-in-sharp-chairman-gou-says.html
Foxconn Technology Group is
determined to buy a stake in  Sharp (6753)  Corp. even after the Japanese
company widened its loss forecast, causing its shares to plunge.  “I still want to invest,” Foxconn founder and chairman
Terry Gou said today in Taipei. “If you just want to look at
two to three months, then I’m not interested. I’m looking at 10
to 20 years.”  Gou flew to  Japan  Aug. 3 to discuss the deal and set out
terms for Foxconn, the maker of Apple Inc. iPhones and iPads, to
buy 9.9 percent stake in the Osaka-based producer of Aquos
television sets. Sharp prepared a presentation including plans
for better performance, according to a copy Gou showed to
reporters today.  Sharp’s shares plunged 28 percent to 192 yen the same day,
after the company widened its full-year loss forecast eight-fold
to 250 billion yen ($3.2 billion). Foxconn said after the market
closed it had agreed with Sharp to negotiate a price lower than
the 550 yen per share decided in March. Sharp offered Foxconn
the opportunity to renegotiate, Gou said today.  Foxconn, via  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  and  Foxconn
Technology Co. (2354) , had originally planned to invest 67 billion yen
into Sharp, while Gou has put 66 billion yen of his own money
into a display venture with the Japanese company.  Foxconn, which also makes computers for  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
and games consoles for Sony Corp., expects to complete the deal
by the end of March, meeting a timeline to close the transaction
a year after announcing it, Gou said today.  The number of shares and “the money will be the question
to ask, but definitely one plus one will equal 3.5,” Gou said
today. “At the most appropriate time and most appropriate price
we’ll then enter” the company, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nathaniel Espino at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net  