-- Goldman Water Polo’s Hudnut Says Back Injury Led to Finance Job
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-08-05T23:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/goldman-water-polo-s-hudnut-says-back-injury-led-to-finance-job.html
The good thing about having back
surgery if you’re an Olympic athlete, says U.S. water polo
player  Peter Hudnut , is it gives you time to be an intern.  One of 11 members of the American squad returning to the
Olympics after winning a silver medal in Beijing, Hudnut will
join  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s private wealth management
division following the  London  Games, which end Aug. 12.  The job at Goldman may never have happened if a back
injury, multiple fractures in two vertebrae and shoulder
problems hadn’t sidelined the 32-year-old Stanford University
graduate before the 2004 Games in  Athens . While surgery and
months of rehabilitation hampered his athletic career, they gave
him time to get work experience, Hudnut said in an interview at
London’s Athletes Village.  “I was somewhat lucky in that I had so many injuries and
every time I had a surgery it would put me out for a handful of
months,” the 6-foot-5 central defender said. “I was lucky
enough to get some internships -- some through friends, some on
my own -- and that helped guide me where I wanted to go.”  Positions at  CIM Group ,  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. and
Los Angeles developer Ratkovich Co., as well as his 2011
Stanford business degree, awakened an interest in finance, he
said. Twenty-eight interviews with Goldman left him feeling he’d
found a firm where he could both learn and use the skills
gleaned from years of strenuous training.  Desire, Discipline  “Desire, discipline and all the things I’ve used in water
polo are very applicable to finance,” Hudnut said. “The focus
and drive, the ability to communicate effectively with many
different personality types and many different situations, the
ability to adapt and be flexible; these are all traits that team
sport, especially at this level, demand.”  The U.S. squad water polo team trained in  Thousand Oaks ,
 California , for almost a year, giving up professional positions
on teams overseas, Hudnut said. The team spent between five and
seven hours in meetings, five days a week. They watched video,
lifted weights and practiced in the pool. The daily sessions
averaged seven to eight hour as the Olympics neared.  “Peter in Beijing was a really important part of the glue
that kept the team together,” coach  Terry Schroeder  said in an
interview after the U.S. beat Britain 13-7 on Aug. 2. “As he
plays a bit more and feels comfortable with his playing, he’s
taken on that role more and more again and it’s really important
to the team.”  The preliminary round finishes today with the U.S. playing
 Hungary , the 2008 champions. The Americans have won three of
their four early stage matches.  Early Dreams  Hudnut was introduced to water polo as a 10-year-old by
Richard Corso, the assistant coach of the 1984 U.S. team.  “I was this huge uncoordinated kid and he came and handed
me this baby blue bag and on one side it had the Olympic rings
and on the other side it said USA,” Hudnut said, adding that he
could barely swim at the time. “Inside was a water polo ball, a
little suit and a water polo hat.”  Almost 6 feet tall (1.82 meters) at 12, Hudnut began
playing against boys two and three years older than himself. In
1992, Corso became the head coach for the U.S. national team.  “He would drive me down with him to national team
practice, so I would watch the guys and talk to some of the
heroes of that time about what Olympics meant to them,” he
said. “That really lit that fire.”  Better Than Beijing  Ranked ninth in the run-up to the Beijing Games, the U.S.
beat  Serbia  in the semifinals before losing 14-10 in the gold
medal match against Hungary. It was America’s first medal in
water polo in 20 years. The 2012 squad is more tightly knit and
tactically and physically equal to the best teams, Hudnut said.  “I truly believe that this is the first time in a number
of Olympics that any of the  top seven teams  could potentially
win,” he said, adding that playing in professional leagues in
 Europe  has boosted the ability of both American and Australian
players. The U.S. last won a gold medal in water polo in 1904.  Winning silvers in men’s and women’s water polo in Beijing
was the first time a country walked away with two medals in the
event at a single Olympics, Bill Smith, USA Water Polo secretary
and finance committee chairman and the president of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based  Renaissance Capital LLC , said in a telephone
interview.  Whether he wins a second medal, Hudnut is looking forward
to the next stage of his life.  “I know it’s going to be a tough year and that’s one of
the things that inspires me,” Hudnut said. “From a challenge
perspective, my desire to succeed and do well gets me up in the
morning. I hope that Goldman is a true career path for me.” 