-- Greenland Melt Spawns Iceberg Threat in Search for Offshore Oil
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-08-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/greenland-melt-spawns-iceberg-threat-in-search-for-offshore-oil.html
Oil companies  off Greenland’s shores
may be basing risk assessments on outdated information as 
icebergs splinter the island’s coastline at an ever faster pace,
scientists and environmentalists said.  Last month, an iceberg twice the size of  Manhattan  broke
off a glacier on north-western Greenland, and 97 percent of
the island’s surface ice melted. Companies awarded exploration
blocks off the coast of Greenland, which the U.S. Geological
Survey estimates could hold 50 billion barrels of oil and gas,
include  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  Explorers
are turning to the world’s least hospitable areas as resources
in easier-to-access places such as the  North Sea  dwindle.  “When you have a change in the number of icebergs, which
we most probably have now, you’re basing your risk assessment on
outdated information,” Jan-Gunnar Winther, head of the
Norwegian Polar Institute, said in an interview. It’s important
that companies update their knowledge of iceberg formation and
movements if they don’t want to risk being unprepared, he said.  Greenland’s melt follows a rise in average ice discharge of
9 billion metric tons a year from 1992 to 2009, according to a
2011  paper  led by Eric Rignot, a professor of earth system
science at the  University of California  at  Irvine , published in
Geophysical Research Letters. Studies by Russian scientists show
the same trend of more icebergs, Winther said.  Rapid Thaw  Last month’s thaw, observed by a U.S. National Aeronautics
and Space Administration satellite on July 8-12, occurred at
almost twice the average amount seen in the summer months.
While  NASA  estimates the event was in line with a 150-year
cycle, the rapid thaw threatens to accelerate an increase in the
number of icebergs.  In the past decade, Cairn is the only company to have
drilled off Greenland’s shores. The Edinburgh-based company
failed to make a commercial find after a $600 million campaign
in 2010 and 2011, during which Greenpeace activists repeatedly
boarded its rigs to protest what the organization sees as a
threat to one of the world’s most vulnerable environments.  Spokespeople at Cairn, Shell and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , which all
have exploration blocks off Greenland, declined to comment on
whether they expect greater challenges from icebergs.  During its drilling, Cairn deployed six vessels to assist
its two drilling rigs by monitoring and towing icebergs, and
said in its spill plan that rigs should be able to evacuate
within an hour to avoid a collision. Greenpeace called the plan
“outlandish, simplistic and wholly inadequate” because of
optimistic assumptions, and said in a review on its  website  that
“a spill in the Arctic would be devastating, and near
impossible to clean up.”  ‘Ill-Boding’  If the Greenland melt “is a phenomenon that could repeat
more often, it’s a big and ill-boding sign,” Truls Gulowsen,
head of Greenpeace in  Norway , said by phone from Oslo. “It
would lead to accelerated melting and movement of the glaciers
over time, and there will be more icebergs.”  Denmark’s  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , which operates one
license off  Greenland , has now started an iceberg monitoring
project with the Danish Meteorological Institute.  “Environmental conditions are always subject to change,”
Toby Croucher, the company’s head of environment, said in an e-
mail, without elaborating. “The physical environment, including
sea ice coverage and iceberg migration patterns, is evaluated in
the same way as other operational risks.”  ‘Iceberg Alley’  Most assigned blocks are situated off Greenland’s western
coast in waters known as “Iceberg Alley.” According to Cairn’s
prevention and contingency  plan  for 2011, which Greenland’s
autonomous government published last year, 10,000 to 15,000
icebergs break off, or calve, each year from 100 glaciers, while
the U.S. Coast Guard gives an estimate of 15,000 to 30,000.
Icebergs from the western coast account for 85 percent of all
bergs in the northern hemisphere, according to Cairn.  Calving occurs mostly during the summer, coinciding with
the drilling window for explorers. The icebergs range in size
from less than a meter above  sea level  and weighing 100 tons to
more than 75 meters and weighing as much as 10 million tons.  While the exact relationship between warmer temperatures
and iceberg formation remains unclear, Ruth Mottram, an ice
specialist at the Danish Meteorological Institute, said
“there’s certainly a link” and that “more melt usually means
more icebergs.”  Right now, only seismic surveys are being conducted to map
the seabed and it’s unclear whether the next drilling will be in
2013 or 2014 and who will participate, said Joern Skov Nielsen,
managing director of Greenland’s Bureau of Minerals and
Petroleum, by phone from Greenland.  ‘More Accessible’  Offshore production of oil and gas in the world’s Arctic
regions will reach 7 million to 8 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2040, up from 1 million barrels today,
according to Rystad Energy, an Oslo-based oil and gas
consultant. Arctic output will grow as a share of global
production, which should reach 143 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day this year and 187 million barrels in 2040, said
Erik Holm Reiso, a partner at the firm, by telephone on July 30.  While still a “challenge,” managing icebergs has been a
matter of “routine” Nielsen said. “Sea ice has become both
smaller in the area it covers and in thickness. That’s a problem
in many respects concerning the environment and so on, but it
makes certain areas more accessible, not just for oil but for
international shipping.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  