-- Life on the Road for Korean Policy Makers Sent to Sejong
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-08-05T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/life-on-the-road-for-korean-policy-makers-sent-to-sejong.html
South Korea  is spending $20 billion
and uprooting almost 10,000 civil servants in the biggest
relocation of government since communist forces swept through
Seoul in 1951, a move that may disrupt economic decision making.  “We will have to change our way of working and a lot of us
will have to learn to work on the road,” Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said on Aug. 1. “I expect there to be sizable
inconveniences.”  The construction of Sejong City 120 kilometers (75 miles)
south of the capital fulfills the vision of the late President
Roh Moo Hyun, who pledged to reduce the dominance of Seoul and
pump money into a region courted for its swing voters. It also
marks a defeat for his successor  Lee Myung Bak , whose prime
minister resigned after failing to roll back the plan amid
financial headwinds that have cut projected growth in  Asia ’s
fourth-largest economy to 3.0 percent this year from the 7
percent Lee targeted when he took office in 2008.  “We will have a government remote from the financial
markets and business centers,” said Lee Sung Kwon, an economist
at Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul. “The nation needs prompt
policy responses and close policy coordination more than ever.”  The prime minister’s office moves to Sejong next month, the
 Finance Ministry  in December and 36 state agencies by the end of
2014. Seoul will retain both the president’s complex and the
parliament, along with everything from the stock exchange to the
headquarters of the  Samsung Group (005930)  and Hyundai Motor Co.  The government has spent 2.8 trillion won ($2.5 billion) on
Sejong since 2006 and state funding may reach 22.5 trillion won
by the time the project is complete, according to the Finance
Ministry.  Mobile Technology  About 33.8 billion won is being allocated this year for
video conferencing equipment, secure mobile-phone networks and
other technologies to mitigate disruptions, the Ministry of
Public Administration and Security said in an e-mailed statement.
 KT Corp. (030200) , LG CNS Co. and Kolon Benit Co. are among the companies
contracted for the work, said Shin Min Pil, a deputy director at
the ministry.  Of the almost 10,500 full-time officials whose offices will
shift to  Sejong , about 1,260 said they won’t move their homes,
while 3,800 will relocate alone, in many cases leaving spouses
and children in Seoul, according to an April survey by the prime
minister’s office.  “I’m afraid the quality of government could deteriorate,
not just because officials are wasting time commuting, but
because there may be a brain drain,” said Oh Seong Taek, head
of the labor union representing government office workers.
“Many people are applying to move to ministries remaining in
Seoul and female officials are taking maternity leave to
coincide with the relocation.”  ‘Too Centralized’  Deputy Finance Minister Joo Hyung Hwan said policy making
won’t be compromised and that spending for Sejong accounts for
less than 1 percent of the national budget annually. Kim Jung
Min, a deputy minister in the prime minister’s office, said the
nation had become too focused on  Seoul .  “It is unsustainable in the long run to have all
government functions, the legislature, judiciary, corporate
headquarters and factories there,” said Kim.  Park Geun Hye, the leading contender among ruling party
candidates for the presidential election in December,
spearheaded efforts in 2010 to ensure ministries move to Sejong
when Lee proposed saving government money by using the private
sector to turn the area into a hub for technology and innovation.  The last three presidents were all elected with the support
of the two provinces surrounding Sejong, whose swing voters give
the region political power far greater than the 6 percent to 10
percent of the national electorate that they represent,
according to Lee Taek Soo, president of the Seoul-based polling
service Realmeter.  Construction Cranes  To get to Sejong from Seoul, commuters first negotiate the
congested streets of the capital and surrounding Gyeonggi
province, home to half the country’s 50 million people. Then
it’s mostly uninterrupted highway travel until dozens of
towering, orange construction cranes come into view against the
backdrop of green hillsides flanking the Geum River valley.  There are no direct services to Sejong on South Korea’s KTX
bullet trains and a combined rail and bus journey from Seoul
station takes about two hours, the same as driving by car.
Direct express bus services are also planned to ferry civil
servants.  To be sure, the inconvenience and upheaval pales by
comparison to 1951, when government functions were forced by war
to Busan on the southeastern tip of the Korean peninsula. They
returned to Seoul in 1953, when a ceasefire was signed.  Population Projection  The population of Sejong City is projected to grow from
100,000 now to 500,000 by 2030. While land has been set aside,
there is no timetable yet for building a hospital or university,
according to the Multifunctional Administrative City
Construction Agency, which is responsible for the center’s
construction.  “I came here to check if all the buildings were completed
and whether childcare centers were opening,” said Lee Mi Jeong,
a 42-year-old mother of two children who works at the
 Environment Ministry , as she stood at a viewing platform
overlooking Sejong. “All I see is a dusty building site.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  