-- Iranians Seized in Syria Include Military, Rebels Say
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-08-06T07:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/iran-calls-on-rebel-allies-to-help-free-pilgrims-seized-in-syria.html
Syrian rebels said a group of people
captured near Damascus included members of the Iranian
Revolutionary Guard, according to a video broadcast by Al
Arabiya, as fighting raged outside the capital and in Aleppo.  The claim contradicted Iranian descriptions of the abducted
people as pilgrims. Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi 
urged  Turkey  and Qatar, which have backed the Syrian opposition,
to help release the captives, the official  Islamic Republic News
Agency  reported. IRNA said 48 pilgrims were abducted.  Shiite Muslim-led Iran has been the closest regional ally
of President Bashar al-Assad’s government, which is dominated by
officials from the Alawite sect, affiliated with Shiite Islam.
Turkey and Qatar are largely Sunni Muslim states, and the rebels
are largely drawn from the Sunni majority.  “This is embarrassing for” Assad’s government,  Andrew Tabler , author of “In the Lion’s Den: An Eyewitness Account of
 Washington ’s Battle with  Syria ,” said in a phone interview.
“It shows the degree to which things have gotten out of hand.”  Al Arabiya  television’s video showed the Iranians sitting
under a flag of the rebel Free Syria Army and surrounded by
armed men. Their confessions as members of the Iranian guard
will be posted in a video after interrogations, then a list of
demands will be presented for their freedom, Al Jazeera
television said, citing Captain Abdel Nasser Shmer, commander of
the Free Syrian Army’s Al Baraa Brigade. The authenticity of the
videos couldn’t be confirmed.  Damascus Fighting  Government troops are fighting rebels outside Damascus and
in Aleppo, Syria’s largest city and its commercial hub. The pro-
government Al Watan newspaper said the army is bracing itself
for a “decisive battle” to clear Aleppo of rebels.  At least 19,000 people have been killed in the past 17
months, according to the opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights , as a peaceful revolt against Assad’s rule has turned
into a civil war.  Al Jazeera , citing the Syrian Network for Human Rights,
said 113 people were killed across the country yesterday.
Twenty-nine Syrian soldiers also died in the fighting yesterday,
the observatory said on its Facebook page today.  Empowering Extremists  Soldiers clashed with rebels in Aleppo’s Salaheddine
district, attacking them with heavy weapons and killing one
rebel as they tried to retake the neighborhood, the observatory
said. In Damascus province, fighting continued in some towns and
loud explosions were heard in Ein Terma, the group said.  As the fighting escalates, U.S. and European military and
intelligence officials are increasingly concerned that a battle
to the death between Assad loyalists and the opposition could
strengthen Islamic extremists in Syria and neighboring states.  Iranian Defense Minister Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi
denied Israeli media reports that his country had sent troops to
Syria to help Assad, the Tehran Times said. Iran hasn’t
dispatched any soldiers and Syria’s government hasn’t asked Iran
to do so, Vahidi told reporters in Tehran on Aug. 4, according
to the newspaper.  “Assad needs Iran as something of a protector and
adviser,” said  Paul Sullivan , an economics professor
specializing in Middle East security at  Georgetown University  in
Washington. “Iran is also a source of income for Syria in the
form of arms shipments.”  Iranian Denial  The Islamic Republic “firmly” rejects rebel claims that
the people abducted near Damascus include members of the Iranian
Revolutionary Guard, Deputy Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-
Abdollahian said.  “Those who carried out this operation preplanned it, and
they have kidnapped Iranians before,” he said in a report  on
 Iranian state  television’s website. “Their aim is to put
pressure on Iran to end its support for the Syrian nation.”  The abducted Iranians were on a bus from Damascus airport
to a Shiite shrine outside the capital when they were kidnapped,
according to  Iran ’s state-run Press TV. The state-run Syrian
Arab News Agency said “armed terrorist groups” seized a bus
carrying Iranian visitors in the Damascus countryside. “The
authorities are working to handle the situation,” SANA  said .  The captured Iranians were on a mission and at least one
had a military identity card, according to the rebel officer
shown in the video aired by Al-Arabiya.  Earlier this year, rebels kidnapped four Iranian engineers,
releasing two in May and the remaining two in June,  Press TV 
reported. Three Iranian truck drivers were kidnapped in May, the
Iranian station said.  Assad’s Pocket  “This is bound to hit Assad’s pocket hard as they are
probably the only tourists visiting his country these days,”
said  Meir Javedanfar , a lecturer on Iranian politics at the
Herzliya Interdisciplinary Center in  Israel . “What should
particularly concern the Iranian government is that this
kidnapping could cause panic among thousands of Iranians living
in Syria.”  Syria’s first man in space, Mohammad Ahmad Faris, fled to
Turkey and joined the forces fighting Assad, Turkey’s state-run
Anatolia news agency said yesterday.  The U.S. State and Defense Departments have begun planning
for Assad’s fall, the  New York  Times said, citing unidentified
Obama administration officials. The U.S. is preparing for
humanitarian relief for the country and is pressing opposition
forces in Syria not to retaliate against army, police and
municipal arms of Assad’s government, the newspaper reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  