-- Iron Ore Heiress Cashes in on Coal, Dodging 30% Decline
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-08-06T06:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/iron-ore-heiress-cashes-in-on-coal-dodging-30-decline.html
Iron ore magnate  Gina Rinehart ,
Asia’s richest woman, is also no slouch when it comes to making
money from coal, selling most of her assets for $1.26 billion
before the worst price slump for the fuel in four years.  Rinehart, 58, with an estimated wealth of $18.8 billion,
according to Bloomberg’s Billionaires Index, last year sold
thermal coal assets in Australia to Indian billionaire GV Krishna Reddy’s GVK Group, a builder of highways, airports and
 power plants . Since the deal in September, coal prices have
slumped almost 30 percent, just as GVK seeks funding to develop
$10 billion of mines, port and rail.  “It’s a good sale for her, with the way things stand now,
of course it’s a great sale,” Prasad Patkar, who helps manage
about $1 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney,
said by phone, referring to Rinehart’s deal. “At these prices,
projects are genuinely marginal. If you were signing off on
projects, the easiest decision would be to defer.”  For Rinehart, whose father  Lang Hancock  discovered the iron
ore mines that today supply Asia’s steel industry, the coal deal
has freed her up to focus on developing her Roy Hill iron ore
mine in Western Australia with partners including South Korea’s
Posco. Reddy, 75, the self-made son of a farmer, is looking to
sell stakes in the coal projects as well as raise $7 billion in
debt as the euro crisis has made borrowing more expensive and
global mine building costs have soared.  Soaring Fortunes  Rinehart’s fortune soared as China’s voracious demand for
raw materials drove up the value of the assets she inherited
almost 20 years ago. Hancock discovered mines that made
Australia the world’s biggest  iron ore  exporter, while Rinehart,
through her company Hancock Prospecting Pty, has forged further
lucrative joint venture agreements with  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the
world’s second-biggest iron ore shipper, for operations in
Western Australia’s Pilbara region.  Rinehart and Reddy, along with fellow billionaire  Gautam Adani  and Australian mining magnate  Clive Palmer  are all seeking
to develop coal projects in Queensland state’s Galilee basin to
supply long-term forecast demand in China and India, the two
fastest-growing major economies. Slowing growth in these
nations, along with increased exports from the U.S., drove coal
prices down 18 percent during the second quarter, the most since
the last three months of 2008 when the global financial crisis
roiled markets.  “It’s an extraordinarily large correction for a market
that’s famous for being very stable year-on-year,”  Tom Price , a
Sydney-based commodity analyst for UBS AG said by phone. He
expects that high inventories and U.S. exports will continue to
drag on prices. UBS on July 9 cut its thermal coal forecast by
4.5 percent to $105 a ton, and expects prices to average at $98
a ton during 2014. Benchmark thermal coal traded at $89.65 a ton
on Aug 2.  Great Timing  GVK agreed in September to pay $1.26 billion for the 79
percent stake in the Alpha and Alpha West projects of Rinehart’s
Hancock Prospecting Pty, all of Kevin’s Corner project as well
as the 495-kilometer (308-mile) rail line and the port project
at Abbot Point. Rinehart retains a 21 percent stake in Alpha.
Reddy said last month in an interview that he expects to tie up
the borrowings of about $7 billion by December to fund the
development, six months later than an initial time frame.  “She still holds a stake in that and she’s relying on her
partners to be able to add value,” Mike Elliott, global mining
sector leader for Ernst & Young LLP, said in an interview. “If
you look at it as it is today, you’d say she exited at a great
time.”  Syndicated lending  Miners including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest,
and  Rio Tinto (RIO)  are reassessing spending plans as prices drop, on
growth concern in Europe and China, the biggest metals user.
Global banks scaled back cross-border lending to companies,
governments and each other at the fastest rate since 2008 in the
final quarter of last year, the  Bank for International
Settlements  said in June. In Australia, syndicated lending
dropped 38 percent to $32.4 billion this year compared with the
same period of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s clearly harder today than it was a year ago” to
develop multi-billion dollar resource projects, Robin Miller, an
 executive director  at Industry Funds Management Pty who oversees
debt investments of about A$10.5 billion, said by phone. “The
increased cost of money is biting due to the recognition of the
European sovereign debt crisis in late 2011 and its interaction
with banking. That’s the new reality whereas a year ago it was
all still boom time.”  Fairfax, Ten  Rinehart hasn’t been untouched by the decline in commodity
prices. The value of her assets, which ranks her as the 30th
richest person globally, has declined by $1.4 billion this year,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . And her deals
outside the mining sector have yet to make money.  Shares in  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , Australia’s second-largest
media company in which Rinehart is the biggest shareholder with
a 15 percent stake, have slumped 37 percent in the past 12
months. The market value of  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN) ,
Australia’s third-largest TV broadcaster, where Hancock owns a
10 percent stake, has plunged 50 percent in the past year.
Rinehart became a substantial holder of Fairfax stock on Jan. 3,
while buying her stake in Ten in November 2010, according to
filings. Fairfax edged almost 1 percent higher to 52 Australian
cents at the close today in Sydney; Ten climbed 4.6 percent.  Hancock receives a 1.25 percent royalty in perpetuity from
iron ore sales from the Hamersley Iron mine, while the Hope
Downs operation, a 50/50 joint venture with  Rio Tinto  named
after Rinehart’s mother, produced 32 million metric tons last
year, according to Rio’s  annual report . Both operations are
located in Australia’s Pilbara region and operated by Rio.  India Demand  While giving up control of the Galilee coal assets,
Rinehart only sold 30 percent of the Roy Hill iron ore project.
Her Hancock Prospecting, seeking as much as A$7 billion ($7.2
billion) to finance the ore project, hired Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. to help co-ordinate the debt from  export credit
agencies , two people familiar with the matter said in April.
She’s already secured the backing of Japan’s  Marubeni Corp. (8002) ,
which in March agreed to pay $1.5 billion for a 12.5 percent
stake in Roy Hill, with STX Corp. and Taiwan’s  China Steel Corp. (2002) 
also buying stakes along with  Posco (005490) , Asia’s third-biggest steel
mill.  In the long term, Rinehart’s 21 percent stake in the Alpha
project may yet produce the kind of royalty flow she gets from
iron ore, and without large capital expenses. India’s worst ever
power crisis in 60 years, which left more than 640 million
people without electricity, demonstrates the nation’s acute need
for power. India’s demand for seaborne thermal coal may rise to
400 million tons by 2030 from 80 million last year, U.K.-based
consultant WoodMackenzie Ltd. said in a report March 14.  “There’s still going to be a desperate need for coal in
India and in China over a period of time,” said Platypus
Management’s Patkar. “You have to take a long-term view and
hopefully these projects are robust at prices that are far lower
than today’s prevailing spot price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  