-- Israel Prevents Foreign Ministers From Reaching Ramallah
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2012-08-05T14:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/israel-prevents-foreign-ministers-from-meeting-in-ramallah-1-.html
Israel  prevented the foreign
ministers of  Algeria , Cuba, Bangladesh, Malaysia and Indonesia
from reaching the Palestinian city of Ramallah in the  West Bank ,
leading to the cancellation of a diplomatic meeting, officials
said.  Four of the foreign ministers were planning to attend a
meeting today of a committee from the so-called Non-Aligned
Movement dealing with the question of Palestinian independence.
Algeria didn’t send its foreign minister after being informed
Israel was unlikely to let him reach Ramallah.  Israel told Jordan it wouldn’t allow representatives from
the five countries with which it has no diplomatic relations to
cross the border. It allowed seven others to fly by helicopter
from Amman to Ramallah, Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said. The meeting was canceled because of the absence of
the diplomats, the Palestinian Authority’s foreign minister,
Riad Malki, said.  “We believe that we should not need Israeli consent to
hold an international forum in the Palestinian occupied
territories,” Malki said at a news conference in Ramallah. He
said he would meet the diplomats later in Amman.  Israel captured the West Bank from Jordan in the 1967
Middle East war, when it also took over the  Gaza Strip  from
Egypt and the Golan Heights from Syria. It still controls the
air space and border crossings to the West Bank from Jordan.  Palmor said his government acted because officials felt no
need to facilitate access for countries that don’t recognize
Israel.  “That’s really not in the spirit of international
cooperation,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  