-- Jagger Beds Bowie, Allman Insults Cher, Amy Loves Dad
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-08-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/jagger-beds-bowie-allman-insults-cher-amy-loves-dad.html
Just as the Rolling Stones get set to
celebrate their 50 years of rock with a lavish coffee-table
book, along comes a biography that passes over any musical
revelations to gossip about  Mick Jagger .  The breathless “ Mick ” by Christopher Andersen is a tale
of scandal, money, drugs and more than 4,000 sexual conquests,
including  Angelina Jolie ,  Carla Bruni ,  Jerry Hall ’s nanny and
Natasha Terry, who calls Jagger a “sex vampire.”  Brian Jones ,  David Bowie  and Rudolf Nureyev were also
bedded by the singer, Andersen says, with witnesses purporting
to back up these claims. Angie Bowie is quoted saying she found
her husband with Jagger in a state of post-coital exhaustion.
She brought them breakfast in bed: how very English.  The Rolling Stone, blinking awake, said nothing, she
reported. Similarly, we get none of Jagger’s thoughts on this
book’s racy gossip. He did comment on a previous Andersen bio by
simply saying, “My reputation has remained unsullied.”  Given his carefully cultivated bad-boy image, this might
even be a compliment from the least respectable of rock knights.  “Obviously,” Sir Mick is quoted as saying, “I’m no
paragon of virtue.”  The official “ Rolling Stones 50 ” is full of photos that
chart the transformation of Jagger and  Keith Richards ’s
innocently fresh faces into craggy caricatures -- both turn 70
next year.  Charlie Watts keeps his metronomic drumming, banker suits
and trademark scowl throughout. He dryly notes in one picture
caption that the band had an uphill battle to break America,
“but the audience grew every time we went back.”  The Stones’ anniversary party in October will come with a
raft of books including one by Philip Norman, author of an
acclaimed biography of  John Lennon , which may give a better idea
of what drives Jagger and why he still can’t get satisfaction.  Gregg Allman  Gregg Allman’s “ My Cross to Bear ” is another memoir that
speaks of rock excess in all areas, 11 spells in rehab and six
wives including the tabloid-baiting marriage to Cher. Allman
says she was a good lover and a bad singer. There are painful
pages as the couple argues over his addictions.  The book opens with the murder of his father, but never far
away is Gregg’s love for his late brother, Duane -- and
temptation in the form of groupies, drugs and drink: “The first
time we walked onto the plane, ’Welcome Allman Bros’ was spelled
out in cocaine on the bar.”  Allman, looking weak after a  liver transplant  and hepatitis
C treatment, is still touring. The band sounds great, though one
can sadly wonder how much better it would be with slide-guitar
genius Duane.  Amy Winehouse  “I have this dream,”  Amy Winehouse  wrote when she was 12,
“to be very famous. To work on stage.” This was her
application for Sylvia Young Theatre School. “I want people to
hear my voice and just forget their troubles for five minutes.”  The letter is quoted in “ Amy, My Daughter ,” as Mitch
Winehouse recalls with sadness and confusion the Grammy-winning
star’s own troubles. The doting dad watches as his golden girl
tops the charts, marries, spirals into addiction and asks him
for a hug shortly before her death in July last year.  “Mick: The Wild Life and Mad Genius of Jagger” is
published by Gallery Books (364 pages, $27) and Robson (20
pounds).  “The  Rolling Stones  50” is published by Thames & Hudson
in the U.K. (352 pages, 29.95 pounds) and will be published by
Hyperion in the U.S. on Oct. 16 ($60).  “My Cross to Bear,” by Gregg Allman with Alan Light, is
published by Morrow (390 pages, 27.99 or 17.99 pounds.)  “Amy, My Daughter” is published by It Books (304 pages,
$27.99) and HarperCollins (20 pounds).  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining,  John 
Mariani  on wine,  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and  James 
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 