-- Jonas Kaufmann Sports Leopard-Print Gold Suit as Bacchus
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-08-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/jonas-kaufmann-sports-leopard-print-gold-suit-as-bacchus.html
With ballet, fencing and buffoonery
as well as the star tenor  Jonas Kaufmann  in a ghastly gold
leopard-print suit,  Richard Strauss ’s opera “Ariadne auf
Naxos” at the  Salzburg Festival  has something for everyone.  The audience loved it, chortling at the farce and breaking
into applause after Elena Mosuc’s mischievously coquettish,
impressively accurate rendering of Zerbinetta’s “Grossmaechtige
Prinzessin” (Great Princess). One of the trickiest arias for
coloratura soprano ever written is sung by Mosuc in a red pompom
skirt accompanied by lots of pert eyelash-fluttering.  The production by Salzburg’s newly appointed director of
drama Sven-Eric Bechtolf bravely revives the first version of
the hybrid play-opera, which premiered in Stuttgart in 1912 and
was a horrendous flop -- partly because King Karl of
Wuerttemberg insisted on a big reception between the acts that
lengthened the whole evening beyond the audience’s endurance.  “Ariadne auf Naxos” is in two halves. The first part is a
play based on Moliere’s “Le bourgeois gentilhomme.” The
nouveau riche buffoon Monsieur Jourdain is trying to impress a
young widow by staging an opera at his home, then insists that
it is rolled together with Zerbinetta’s comedy troupe’s act and
ends promptly to leave time for a firework display.  Diverting Clownery  This play part, later abridged by  Hugo von Hofmannsthal  to
a prologue, is performed in Salzburg in full, set in the elegant
drawing-room of a stately home with leafy woods beyond tall
windows. The clownery, initially diverting, wore thin before the
end of Act One.  Act Two is the play-within-the-play -- the grief-stricken
Ariadne’s love-at-first-sight meeting with the young god
Bacchus, accompanied by Zerbinetta and her gang of clowns.  Bechtolf adds yet another layer by including Von
Hofmannsthal into the mix. While he was working on “Ariadne,”
the librettist met a young, inconsolably grieving widow with
whom he corresponded the rest of his life.  The staging opens with Hofmannsthal trying to persuade the
widow that she must love again. The two remain on stage
throughout, watching the proceedings. Instead of complicating
the work, it actually adds coherence to the whole by creating a
frame for the opera’s themes of fidelity and love.  Kaufmann, who has had to cancel performances this summer
because of a lingering infection, was back in excellent form in
Salzburg, rolling on stage in a rather ungainly clinch with
Emily Magee as Ariadne. Daniel Harding, standing in for Riccardo Chailly, conducted the Vienna Philharmonic with a light,
transparent touch. Rating: ***  Wooden Flute  The only experimental element of the Salzburg Festival’s
new “ Magic Flute ” is Nikolaus Harnoncourt’s conducting. He
boldly tries out different tempi for this universally known and
much-loved Mozart opera, played here on period instruments by
the Concentus Musicus Wien. It sounds wonderful -- particularly
the softly evocative tones of the wooden flute.  Jens-Daniel Herzog’s production is embarrassingly
traditional and provincial in outlook. Lines like “Women do
little and talk much” are delivered without irony for
chauvinist bankers in the audience to snigger at.  By far the most egregious example of prehistoric thinking
is the lecherous Moor, here an Austrian tenor blacked up with
the modern equivalent of boot polish and clad in a gold suit
with white shoes.  Surely Herzog could have come up with an inventive way to
confront 18th-century racism. Instead he perpetuates it, and
white performers made up to look like blacks are really not 
acceptable. An elderly Japanese lady I met in the intermission 
was equally shocked. “OK in Mozart’s time,” she said. “Not OK 
today.” Quite.  A bright spot was the Swiss tenor Bernard Richter’s Tamino.
He can project to the back of the cavernous Felsenreitschule
theater, and yet every word remains clear.  Rating: * (for production) **** (for music)  The Salzburg Festival runs through Sept. 2. For more
information, go to  http://www.salzburgerfestspiele.at/en   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on rock music,  Richard
Vines  on dining,  John Mariani  on wine and  James Russell  on
architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 