-- Knight Said Focused on Keeping Control After Investment
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-08-05T21:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/knight-said-focused-on-investment-to-add-capital-keep-control.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  executives
are focused on negotiating an outside investment that would
restore the firm’s capital and preserve its independence, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  They hoped to agree on the terms within hours, said one of
the people, who requested anonymity because the discussions were
private. The identity of the investors wasn’t known. One option
under discussion would involve the sale of $400 million in
convertible bonds, one of the people said.  TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. (AMTD)  President and Chief Executive Officer Fred Tomczyk had no
comment on the negotiations as he left Knight’s headquarters in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  Knight, whose market-making unit executes about 10 percent
of U.S. equity volume, has been fighting for survival since a
computer breakdown spewed orders through the stock market Aug. 1
and spurred a $440 million trading loss. Spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons didn’t respond to a request for comment.  “There’s a lot of questions about their liquidity -- do
they have the money to get through the trade settlement on
Monday?” Patrick O’Shaughnessy, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc., said in an interview with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg
Television’s “Taking Stock.” “They have to find somebody to
either invest capital into the company or somebody who’s just
going to buy the company outright.”  Monday Deadline  The market maker turned to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  on Aug.
1 to buy the firm out of trading positions acquired by mistake
when a computer program malfunctioned, a person with knowledge
of the matter said. It has until the close of business on Aug. 6
to complete the transaction.  Possible investors include Getco LLC and TD Ameritrade,
CNBC reported, citing a person involved in the deal. Sophie Sohn, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Getco, declined to
comment.  Kim Hillyer , a spokeswoman for TD Ameritrade, declined
to comment on “rumor or market speculation” before Tomczyk was
seen leaving Knight.  Knight made it to the weekend after receiving short-term
financing for market making, according to a person familiar with
the matter who requested anonymity. TD Ameritrade and Scottrade
Inc., which sent trades elsewhere for execution after Knight’s
software failure, said Aug. 3 they were routing orders back.
 Knight’s stock  surged 57 percent to $4.05 in  New York  after
tumbling 75 percent in the previous two sessions.  Joyce was in meetings at the company’s headquarters,
according to his secretary on Aug. 4, who didn’t give her name.
Joyce did not return a call seeking comment.  Buyout Firms  Citadel LLC and KKR & Co. were no longer exploring an
investment, the people said.  Citadel, a hedge fund that has a market-making and
electronic-trading business, walked away from talks yesterday,
said one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private. Efforts to reach  Ken Griffin , founder
of Chicago-based Citadel, weren’t immediately successful. Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR, declined to
comment.  As the company opened its books to potential saviors,
people with knowledge of the matter said KKR, TPG Capital and
 Silver Lake  were among buyout firms that had an initial interest
-- although one said chances of a private-equity deal are small.
Citadel had expressed interest, as has Two Sigma Securities LLC,
a New York-based market maker, people with direct knowledge of
the matter said.  R.J. O’Brien Report  A spokeswoman for Chicago-based R.J. O’Brien & Associates
declined to comment on an Aug. 3 New York Times report that the
company was among a group of potential buyers in talks about
Knight’s futures brokerage.  “As a matter of policy, RJO doesn’t comment on rumor or
speculation and doesn’t discuss conversations it may or may not
be having with other entities,” Ellen G. Resnick of Crystal
Clear Communications, said on the firm’s behalf.  David Wells , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
said he couldn’t comment; representatives at Silver Lake, TPG,
KKR, Citadel and Two Sigma declined to comment Aug. 3.  People trickled in and out of Knight’s Jersey City
headquarters this morning, with polo shirts and khakis
outnumbering business suits. None would comment on the record to
Bloomberg News. Around noon, platters of sandwiches and salads
from Vito’s Italian Deli in Hoboken were delivered.  “I seriously doubt they will go out of business,” Kenneth
Pasternak, who co-founded Knight in 1995, said in a phone
interview from his Ridgefield Park, New Jersey, private equity
firm Kabr Real Estate Investment on Aug. 3. Pasternak bought
shares in Knight during its two-day plunge. “I just hope they
can maintain the innovation. My fear is they will be bought by
some big bank and become consumed.”  ‘Error Position’  Knight is working with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP as
advisers in the rescue talks, said one of the people, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.  The trading fault, which caused stocks to move as much as
151 percent, left the firm with a “large error position,”
Knight Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce told Bloomberg
Television Aug. 2.  “We’re talking to a lot of capable people, people who are
in touch with situations like this,” Joyce said. “This was an
anomaly, not one we’re proud of.”  Scottrade spokesman Whitney Ellis said the online retail
brokerage began routing orders to Knight Aug. 3. TD Ameritrade
resumed routing with Knight after testing its systems.  ‘Many’ Destinations  “After considerable review and discussion, we are resuming
our order routing relationship with Knight,” Tomczyk, president
and chief executive officer at TD Ameritrade, said in a
statement. “Knight is one of many order routing destinations
for us and has long been a good and trusted partner.”  John Woerth , of Vanguard Group Inc., said in an Aug. 3 e-
mail that the company continued to avoid routing brokerage
orders through Knight.  Fidelity Investments , the second-largest
mutual-fund company, is sending orders elsewhere, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  “Knight may or may not have the ability to withstand this
on a balance sheet basis, but their biggest risk is if people
decide not to do business with them,”  Keith Wirtz , who oversees
$14.7 billion as chief investment officer for Fifth Third Asset
Management in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. Fifth
Third is a client of Knight’s. “Your confidence with a
counterparty like a Knight is only as strong as their skills as
well as their balance sheet.”  About 23 percent of Vanguard’s market orders in NYSE-listed
securities were routed to Knight last quarter, according to a
filing. The figure was 41 percent at Scottrade, 38 percent at
Fidelity’s National Financial Services LLC unit and 9 percent at
TD Ameritrade.  ‘Break Down’  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement that it does not expect
any major counterparties of Knight to suffer large losses even
in a bankruptcy scenario since many have already switched to
other market makers. The issue still may lead to a structural
change in the business, the ratings firm said.  The events precipitated by Knight’s malfunction “pose
risks for equity trading volume as many investors become more
concerned about seemingly unforeseeable risks related to trading
technology problems and the broader market impact of high-
frequency trading systems that periodically break down,” Fitch
said in the statement.  The number of exchange-listed securities changing hands on
average each day fell 11 percent to 6.12 billion in July from a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Knight’s $440 million loss compares with net income of
$115.2 million in 2011 and is more than the company’s market
value as of Aug. 3, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company
was worth as much as $4.8 billion in 2000 and valued at more
than $1 billion before the trading mistakes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Revolving Credit  The loss represents about 40 percent of Knight’s book value
and would “exhaust” the firm’s cash, according to CLSA Credit
Agricole Securities. Knight had $365 million of cash as of the
end of June, with about $70 million in its revolving  credit
line , Robert Rutschow, a New York-based analyst with CLSA, wrote
in a report.  Knight’s market-making unit executed a daily average of
$19.5 billion worth of equities in June, according to its
website. The unit traded 711 million exchange-listed shares a
day in June, according to data compiled by the company and
Bloomberg.  140 Stocks  The NYSE reviewed trading in 140 stocks from Molycorp Inc.
to AT&T Inc. as the market’s Aug. 1 open was disrupted. Trades
that occurred during the height of the volatility were canceled
in six securities, where prices swung at least 30 percent in the
first 45 minutes. Trades in all of the other stocks were allowed
to stand.  The software malfunction was the latest black eye for the
computer infrastructure of an equity market still haunted by the
May 2010 market crash, the botched initial public offering of
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and failed IPO of Bats Global Markets Inc.  George Smaragdis, spokesman for the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, said in an e-mail Aug. 3 that Finra has
examiners at Knight and is working with the firm and other
regulators to review the impact of the incident.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro ,
whose agency is the main market overseer in Washington,
described the Knight event as “unacceptable,” and promised to
issue regulations to help prevent similar mishaps.  Regulations Coming  “I have asked the staff to accelerate ongoing efforts to
propose a rule to require exchanges and other market centers to
have specific programs in place to ensure the capacity and
integrity of their systems,” she said in a statement. The
chairman also said the agency will hold a public meeting with
industry participants in the coming weeks “to discuss further
steps that can be taken to address these critical issues.”  The error highlighted the fragility of an industry spread
across about 50 trading venues. The head of the New York Stock
Exchange said the firm’s crisis is a “call to action” to fix a
market that’s grown too complex to explain to regulators.  “The structure that has evolved over the last decade in
the U.S. has led to inexorable fragmentation, really an emphasis
on speed, a feeling that if something is faster than by
definition it’s better,”  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive Officer
 Duncan Niederauer  said during a conference call after the
company reported earnings Aug. 3. “We are understanding that
speed is not always better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  