-- Knight Gets $400 Million Infusion in Sale of Convertibles
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-06T14:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/knight-said-to-get-400m-infusion-in-sale-of-convertibles.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  received a
$400 million cash infusion through the sale of convertible
securities after trading losses spurred by a software failure
drove the market maker to the brink of bankruptcy.  Investors agreed to buy preferred stock that will be
convertible into about 267 million common shares, the company
said today. Getco LLC, an automated trading firm, Blackstone
Group LP, brokerages Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD) , and the investment banks Stephens Inc. and
Jefferies Group Inc. are investing, according to a statement.  Knight, whose market-making unit executes about 10 percent
of U.S. shares, has been fighting for  survival  since a computer
malfunction spewed orders through exchanges Aug. 1 and led to a
$440 million loss. The mishap spurred calls in Congress to
examine whether increasing automation is damaging markets.  “It’s not too surprising that among the sources of
financing for Knight in their emergency are some of their
customers,” David Whitcomb, founder of Automated Trading Desk
LLC, a competitor of Knight owned by Citigroup Inc., said in a
phone interview from Honolulu. “Their customers want to keep a
diverse set of market makers going so as to maintain a high
level of competition.”  Share Decline  Knight shares slumped 25 percent to $3.05 as of 10:23 a.m.
in  New York . The new preferred stock may be converted into
common shares at a price of $1.50 a share, compared with the
closing price of $4.05 on Aug. 3.  The new investors in Knight will own about 73 percent of
the company once the 2 percent preferred shares are converted
into stock, according to calculations based on Bloomberg data.  Knight said in today’s statement that while the issuance of
the convertibles would normally require shareholder approval,
its  audit committee  determined that the delay would “seriously
jeopardize the financial viability” of Knight.  “We recapitalized the company in a moment of stress and
that’s why we didn’t have a chance to communicate as well as we
would have liked,” Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said in
an interview on CNBC.  Joyce said he had a “frank”
conversation with Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  after the trading glitch.  “We need to remember the SEC’s job, and this is hard for
me to say, is not to save Knight Capital Group, it’s to make
sure there’s no systemic risk to the industry,” he told CNBC.
“And you know what? They did their job.”  Biggest Partners  While owners of Knight stock saw the value of their shares
shrink after a 61 percent plunge last week, the bailout averted
a threat to the equity market where it is one of the biggest
partners for smaller traders. The company accounted for 29
percent of the average monthly volume in the U.S. by individuals
in the first quarter, according to a June 7 presentation.  The dilution to its equity leaves “very little” for
existing shareholders, while likely ensuring the company’s
survival, according to analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who
predicted Knight eventually may be broken up.  “We expect investors will look to value the KCG pieces,
expecting the parts to be divested at more opportunistic
times,” the JPMorgan analysts wrote in a note.  Equity Wholesaling  Knight is the dominant firm in equity wholesaling, the
business of executing orders off exchanges primarily for retail
brokerages, according to  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of
research firm Tabb Group LLC in New York.  Stifel Nicolaus sent 38 percent of its market orders in New
York Stock Exchange-listed shares to Knight last quarter, and TD
Ameritrade did 9 percent, according to a public execution
disclosure statement.  The New York Stock Exchange and NYSE MKT temporarily
switched custodial responsibility for approximately 524 NYSE and
156 NYSE MKT-listed securities from Knight’s designated market
maker unit to Getco, according to a statement today. The
securities will be returned to Knight after the completion of
its recapitalization plan.  “We did it because there was question about whether Knight
would reach a deal,”  Larry Leibowitz , chief operating officer
at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said in a phone interview. “We didn’t want to
walk into Monday and have there be any doubts.”  Obtaining  capital  to fund businesses such as market making
was viewed as necessary to keep Knight afloat. Analysts at CLSA
Credit Agricole Securities wrote last week that bankruptcy was a
possibility if the firm failed to get financing.  Cash Overwhelmed  Knight’s trading loss was bigger than the $365 million cash
balance it reported as of June 30 and exceeded its market value
of $398 million as of Aug. 3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The sale of convertible securities dilutes existing
 shareholders  because they can be exchanged for stock at a preset
price. The deal allows investors to buy new shares in Knight at
about $1.50 apiece.  Knight worked with advisers to line up financing after its
 shares plunged  75 percent over two days last week to $2.58 in
the biggest drop since it went public in 1998. The stock climbed
57 percent the next day to $4.05 as some customers said they
were routing stock orders back to the firm.  ‘Confidence Inspiring’  “This is a confidence-inspiring group, so that’s a good
thing to begin with,”  Michael Holland , chairman of New York-
based Holland & Co., said in a phone interview. His firm
oversees $4 billion. “These businesses really fund overnight.
If you don’t have the confidence, you don’t have the funding.”  The share  decline  brought the company’s market value to
$253 million on Aug. 2, compared with a peak of $4.8 billion in
2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Knight turned to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  on Aug. 1 to buy
the firm out of trading positions acquired when a computer
program malfunctioned, a person with knowledge of the matter
said. It has until the close of business today to complete the
transaction.  Knight’s computers flooded the market with unintended
trades on Aug. 1, sending dozens of stocks into spasms. The
fault caused shares to swing as much as 151 percent and left the
firm with a “large error position,” Joyce told Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” program with  Erik Schatzker  and
 Stephanie Ruhle  last week.  Vito’s Deli  People trickled in and out of Knight’s Jersey City
 headquarters  yesterday as the firm worked on the deal, with polo
shirts and khakis outnumbering business suits. None would
comment on the record to Bloomberg News. Around noon, platters
of sandwiches and salads from Vito’s Italian Deli in Hoboken
were delivered.  Knight made it to the weekend after receiving short-term
financing for market making from Jefferies, according to a
person familiar with the matter who requested anonymity.  TD Ameritrade, the third-largest U.S. retail brokerage by
client assets, helped found Knight with about $700,000 in 1995
as a way to get better execution and held on to a 7 percent
stake after Knight’s initial stock offering in 1998.  “I was curious to see whether it might be one of the
original founders” that invested,  Mike Shea , a managing partner
at New York-based brokerage firm Direct Access Partners LLC,
said in a telephone interview. Shea worked at Knight from 1995
to 2002 as an assistant market maker and sales trader. “Anybody
that was able to make this deal with Knight is going to be
pretty happy with it down the road.”  Net Income  Before the trading error, Knight posted an 81 percent  drop 
in second-quarter net income after saying it lost $35 million in
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering. Revenue from the
market-making unit dropped 52 percent last quarter in the third
straight decline.  The software malfunction was the latest black eye for the
computer infrastructure of an equity market still haunted by the
May 2010 market crash, Facebook’s botched share offering, and
the failed IPO of Bats Global Markets Inc.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the holding company for the
broker-dealer run by ex-Goldman Sachs co-chairman  Jon Corzine ,
filed the eighth largest U.S. bankruptcy in October, days after
a $6.3 billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of
 Europe ’s most indebted nations led to credit downgrades and
margin calls.  Schapiro, whose agency in  Washington  is the main market
overseer, described the Knight event as “unacceptable,” and
promised to issue regulations to help prevent similar mishaps.  Representative Maxine Waters of  California , a senior
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, said the
panel should hold hearings to get to the bottom of the turmoil.  Market Drumbeat  “With a drumbeat of financial market snafus continuing,
it’s clear that the industry, with guidance from regulators,
needs to strengthen their internal controls,” Waters said.  Knight’s investment came one day after the death of John
Phelan, the former chairman and president of the New York Stock
Exchange, who warned of an equity market “meltdown” spurred by
trading technology one year before the crash of October 1987.  “From an overall market perspective, it would be helpful
to not have yet another firm blow up,”  Walter Todd , who
oversees about $930 million as chief investment officer of
Greenwood Capital in Greenwood,  South Carolina , said in a
telephone interview. “If they can come in and structure a deal
to allow the firm to continue to operate and eventually get back
on its feet, that’s a better outcome for the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  