-- Knight Rout Shows Why Banks Shouldn’t Split, Hintz Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-08-06T10:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/knight-rout-shows-why-banks-shouldn-t-split-hintz-says.html
Knight Capital  Group Inc.’s search
for investors in the wake of a $440 million loss demonstrates
why the biggest Wall Street banks shouldn’t be broken up,
according to Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst.  Creditors and counterparties will abandon Knight unless it
quickly finds a way to shore up capital, Hintz wrote in a
weekend research note. As an independent broker-dealer instead
of a bank, the Jersey City, New Jersey-based company can’t turn
to the Federal Reserve as a lender of last resort, Hintz wrote.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , the three-biggest U.S. lenders by assets, are among firms
that some analysts and investors say would be more valuable if
their securities units could be traded separately to avoid bank
capital requirements and proprietary-trading restrictions.
Knight’s predicament illustrates why securities firms need Fed
protection, Hintz wrote.  “Perhaps the Knight story will put an end to the
speculation that spinning off the trading units of the universal
banks would increase  shareholder value ,” Hintz wrote.
“Attempting to free a trading unit from these rules by
returning to the independent broker-dealer model will sharply
increase the wholesale funding and contingent liquidity risk of
these firms.”  Shares Plunge  Knight  plunged 75 percent  in two days after a software
failure in one of its trading systems on Aug. 1, leaving the
company with positions that it later sold at a $440 million
loss. The stock surged 57 percent on Aug. 3 after the Wall
Street Journal reported that the firm had obtained short-term
financing.  The company is selling $400 million of convertible
securities to six investors to shore up its capital base, said
two people with knowledge of the matter. The purchasers --  Getco
LLC , the automated trading firm backed by General Atlantic LLC,
private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LLP (BX) , brokerages  Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. (SF)  and  TD Ameritrade Holding Co. (AMTD)  and investment
banks  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  and  Stephens Inc.  -- will own between
70 to 75 percent of the company, one of the people said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which converted to a bank in 2008
a week after the collapse of competitor Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., agreed Aug. 1 to buy Knight out of its errant positions, a
person familiar with the matter said last week. That transaction
is set to be completed at the end of trading today.  Goldman Sachs  “Knight Capital should remind investors how the investment
banks became bank holding companies four years ago; markets
froze, confidence was lost, funding dried up and a reluctant
central bank was forced to step in to save the U.S. capital
markets,” Hintz wrote. “As investors learned in 2008-2009, the
most significant risk to any major broker-dealer is a loss of
confidence.”  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the other securities firm
that converted to a bank in 2008, are rated outperform by Hintz,
meaning he expects the stocks to beat the broader market by more
than 15 percentage points within a year. Goldman Sachs trades at
about 80 percent of tangible book value, a measure of how much
it could fetch if liquidated. Morgan Stanley trades at about 55
percent of tangible book. Both banks are based in New York.  “Hintz is reminding people of the massive, non-transparent
and dangerous government subsidies that are available to
securities firms that are connected to banks,” said  Simon Johnson , a former chief economist for the International Monetary
Fund who is now a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Sloan School of Management. “Why is this a good
deal for taxpayers?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 