-- Nokia’s Fight for AT&T Shelf Space Shows Hurdle for Lumia
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-08-06T17:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/nokia-fighting-for-at-t-shelf-space-shows-hurdle-for-next-lumia.html
When Angelo Amato, a former  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
customer, went to get a new smartphone at an  AT&T Inc. (T)  store in
 Manhattan  last week, he never got a chance to even see the
Finnish company’s models. The shop didn’t have any of Nokia’s
nine-month-old Lumia line on display and the salesman didn’t
mention it as an option.  “I would consider a Nokia again, but I’ve never heard of
Lumia,” said Amato, 41, who runs Dominick’s Café in New York
and owns an Android phone made by  HTC Corp. (2498)   Amato’s experience underscores what Nokia’s smartphone
chief  Jo Harlow  says is the former market leader’s biggest
challenge as it tries to resurrect the business and reverse
market share losses to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices running
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system. Last quarter, Nokia sold
600,000 handsets in  North America , little changed from the
previous period even after introducing the flagship Lumia 900 in
April at AT&T. Apple sold 5.9 million iPhones in the U.S. in the
quarter, according to Strategy Analytics.  Stephen Elop, the former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive who was
brought in two years ago to revive Espoo, Finland-based Nokia,
is now betting a wave of advertising spending by Microsoft to
push the new Windows 8 software will help accelerate the
momentum for Lumia.  Nokia World  Nokia plans to announce Windows Phone 8-based handsets as
early as next month at its Nokia World event -- ahead of an
expected Sept. 12 unveiling of the next version of the iPhone --
and have them for sale before the year-end holiday shopping
season, said a person with knowledge of the matter, asking not
to be identified because the plan isn’t public.  Officials at Nokia declined to comment on the timing of its
next Windows Phone handsets.  “To come back, they either need to surf on a Microsoft
success in mobile or become cool again -- two complicated
challenges,” said Arnaud Bauduin, a Paris-based  fund manager  at
Ofi Asset Management, which oversees $61 billion in assets.
Bauduin said he sold the last of his Nokia holding in April.  To boost Lumia sales, Nokia has gathered hundreds of
volunteering U.S.  employees  -- from such diverse departments as
finance to human resources -- to work alongside salesmen at
carriers. That group, dubbed the Nokia Army, has allowed the
company to educate consumers as well as retail sales staff, with
the aim that they are willing to mention Lumia as an
alternative, Harlow said.  Comeback Attempt  “The challenges are really around how fast can we build
that awareness,” Harlow said in an interview in New York last
week. “I don’t want to characterize the retail sales associates
as if it’s an insurmountable challenge, because it’s not, it’s
just work, day-to-day work to ensure they have all the
information they need, that they have used the device, that they
are able to tell the whole story.”  Nokia has identified the U.S. as a market where it has to
win over users to gain steam for its global comeback bid. With
carriers such as AT&T and  Verizon Wireless  selling almost all
smartphones circulating in the U.S., the level of support from
their sales teams will help determine Nokia’s success.  Nokia, whose U.S. market share peaked at 32 percent in
2001, accounted for about 2 percent of smartphone purchases in
the second quarter, according to  Strategy Analytics . IPhone and
Android combined made up about 90 percent.  Lumia Shipments  “The moment of truth is that retail sales associate,”
Elop said in an interview in New York.  Nokia has lost more than 90 percent of its market value
since Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007 -- a debut that left
Nokia’s devices looking outdated and sent its sales plunging.
The company has posted five straight quarterly losses and has
its debt ranked  junk  at the three largest rating companies.  While Lumia sales have been dwarfed by competitors, early
shipments have exceeded some analysts’ estimates. Nokia sold 4
million of the devices globally in the second quarter, doubling
from the first quarter and beating the 3.8 million analysts on
average projected.  Nokia’s shares  rose  1.2 percent to 1.98 euros at the close
of trading in Helsinki. Since the company’s July 19 earnings
report, the stock has climbed 45 percent from a near 18-year
low. Microsoft added 1 percent to $30.05 at 1:04 p.m. in  New
York .  Harlow said Nokia’s 2011 decision to move to Microsoft’s
operating system from its home-grown software was an attempt to
differentiate from  rivals . The company is also offering training
to carriers’ salespeople and providing them with sample Lumia
phones to help them convince customers its functions are
superior to the iPhone’s and Android’s.  System Revamp  Microsoft’s operating system revamp is a key catalyst to
enticing consumers, Harlow said. Winning over technology
reviewers in the U.S and in the U.K. is critical to turning
perception and winning back salesmen whose job is to guide
shoppers as they buy their next phone.  “We have to capitalize on those consumers who are looking
for something different and we have to keep Windows Phones in
front of consumers every quarter with new products, new
features, new variants,” Harlow said.  AT&T salespeople are aware that the Lumia is an “important
device” in the carrier’s lineup, said  Mark Siegel , a spokesman
for the Dallas-based company. AT&T is pleased with its sales of
Lumia, he said.  Partners Needed  In addition to AT&T, the second-biggest U.S. mobile
carrier, Nokia has harnessed  T-Mobile USA , the No. 4, to carry
the Lumia. It will need more operator partners, such as Verizon
Wireless, to expand its reach, said Alex Spektor, an analyst at
Strategy Analytics in  Boston . Verizon Wireless, the No. 1, sold
5.9 million smartphones in the latest quarter alone, including
2.7 million iPhones and 2.9 million Android devices.  One thing helping Nokia is the $219.1 billion smartphone
market, which keeps expanding. Even as growth slowed to the
lowest in almost three years, global smartphone shipments jumped
32 percent to 146 million units in the second quarter, according
to Strategy Analytics.  “What’s key for Nokia is to not give up too early,”
Spektor said. “Most are eager to buy an iPhone or an Android,
but this is a long-term play for Nokia. They just have to hang
on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  