-- London Mayor Johnson Preferred by Voters as Premier, Poll Shows
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-08-05T12:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/london-mayor-johnson-preferred-by-voters-as-premier-poll-shows.html
London Mayor  Boris Johnson , boosted
by his role in the 2012 Olympics, would be backed by more voters
at an election than Prime Minister  David Cameron  and is
attracting the support of wealthy donors, the Sunday Times
reported.  A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey for the newspaper showed 37 percent of
voters would be more likely to back the  Conservative Party  if
Johnson were in charge, while 34 percent would back it with
Cameron as leader. The newspaper said donors are urging Johnson
to look beyond London to a national role.  “Boris is doing a great job as mayor of London and people
love him the more they see him and that’s great,” U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  told  Sky News  today. “I’m one of his
biggest fans and campaigned hard for his reelection. But I think
it is also true to say that I hope and believe we are not
looking for a long time for any new leader of the Conservative
Party.”  Pressure is mounting on Cameron and his finance chief
 George Osborne  as they seek to implement the deepest budget cuts
since World War II as the economy suffers its first double-dip
recession in four decades. Cameron is also having trouble
controlling Tory lawmakers in parliament who last week forced
him to drop plans to overhaul the House of Lords.  The YouGov Poll showed Johnson was preferred by voters when
asked who they would like to lead the Conservatives were Cameron
to step down. The poll showed 24 percent backed him, 14 backed
Hague and 3 percent backed Osborne. YouGov interviewed 1,744
people from July 31-Aug. 1.  “We have got the best leader and best prime minister we
have had in a long time and I think it will be a long time
before we Conservatives are looking to replace him,” Hague
said.  Still, the Sunday Times, citing unidentified people, said
“powerful financial backers” would rather Johnson were prime
minister. It cited financier  Peter Hall  as saying Johnson should
lead the country should the U.K. economy enter a “very, very
serious recession.”  Stanley Fink , former deputy chairman of the
 Man Group Plc (EMG)  and co-Treasurer of the party, is quoted as saying
Johnson would be a “strong candidate” to lead the party.  Cameron is set to abandon plans to overhaul the House of
Lords amid opposition from rank-and-file members of his party, a
person with knowledge of the matter said on Aug. 3. The move
threatens to inflame tensions with Cameron’s Liberal Democrat
coalition partners, for whom the introduction of a largely
elected upper chamber of Parliament is a priority.  Cameron had promised “one more try” to rescue Lords
reform after almost a third of Conservative lawmakers in the
House of Commons voted against fast-tracking the legislation
last month. The Liberal Democrats have threatened to block
changes to electoral boundaries that may help the Conservatives
at the 2015 general election unless the Tories back the bill.  Figures last month showing the economy contracted for a
third quarter between April and June prompted renewed questions
about Osborne’s economic plans and the pace of deficit
reduction. Cameron and Osborne also drew criticism in the
popular press for imposing a value-added tax on hot takeaway
snacks in the annaul budget.  The backlash saw Conservative colleague Nadine Dorries
deride Cameron and Osborne as “arrogant posh boys who don’t
know the price of milk.” Many of the budget decisions,
including the tax on hot takeaway food, have since been
reversed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  