-- Hong Kong $2.8 Billion Arts Hub to Fill Cultural Void
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-08-05T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/hong-kong-2-8-billion-arts-hub-to-fill-cultural-void.html
Lars Nittve will never forget the
first time he visited a museum alone.  “There was this enormous sculpture of a woman and you
walked into her between her legs,” he recalls. “It was like a
museum within a museum there. For a 13-year-old boy, that was a
memorable experience.”  Freudian considerations aside, that unorthodox encounter
with the work of Swiss artist Jean Tinguely at  Stockholm ’s
 Moderna Museet  in 1966 taught Nittve early on to challenge
accepted norms of art and how it is meant to be displayed.  Now, at 58, as executive director of Hong Kong’s new
contemporary museum M+, he has the chance to test his vision,
starting from scratch. Nittve, a former director of  Tate Modern 
in  London , says M+ will “raise the bar” for Asian museums when
it opens in 2017.  Also known as the Museum of Visual Culture, M+ will house
20th- and 21st-century art, design, architecture, video and
sound installations.  M+ is intended to be Hong Kong’s answer to the  Centre
Pompidou  in Paris or the  Guggenheim in Bilbao , and will address
the longstanding complaint that  Hong Kong  remains something of a
cultural desert.  Culture Gap  “Hong Kong offers almost everything a metropolis can offer
to its inhabitants or citizens or visitors, but not in the case
of culture,” Nittve says in an interview at his office
overlooking the future site. “You don’t have anything remotely
close in terms of offer as you have in London or New York or
Paris.”  The museum will anchor the government-backed HK$21.6
billion ($2.79 billion)  West Kowloon Cultural District , a 40-
hectares (98.8 acres) project that will encompass 15 performing-
arts venues and a large public park on a piece of reclaimed land
across from  Hong Kong island .  After more than a decade of delays, West Kowloon finally
started moving forward in March 2011 when a master plan by
 Foster + Partners  was chosen.  To get a sense of the project’s scale, imagine  New York ’s
 Lincoln Center , the  Museum of Modern Art  and a chunk of  Central
Park  rolled into one.  There’s still something of the 13-year-old about Nittve (he
uses smiley emoticons in e-mails). Yet dressed in a gray linen
suit and open shirt with black-rimmed designer glasses, he looks
very much the part of a museum director.  Uli’s Gift  Since taking his job in January 2011, the Swede has already
scored a major success thanks to a generous donation announced
in June by Swiss businessman Uli Sigg.  Sigg, who amassed one of the foremost collections of
Chinese contemporary art, is giving 1,463 works worth HK$1.3
billion to M+, including pieces by leading artists such as Ai Weiwei,  Zhang Xiaogang  and Fang Lijun. M+ is purchasing an
additional 47 works from Sigg for about 22 million Swiss francs
($22.5 million).  Nittve, who has experience tapping wealthy donors as
founding director at Tate Modern and later as head of the
Moderna Museet, says Sigg’s gift will make fundraising easier.  “This is a signal that it’s a trustworthy project that’s
actually happening,” he says. “Uli Sigg is respected as a
collector, so it’s a fantastic signal besides the fact that it’s
a fantastic collection.”  Hungry Art  M+ has received about HK$6 billion from the government, of
which HK$4 billion is for construction and another HK$1.7
billion to build a collection and cover costs such as storage.  It’s an ambitious undertaking. Planned exhibition space
will total around 17,000 square meters, more than twice that of
Tate Modern, in part because much Chinese contemporary art is
“space hungry,” he says.  Nittve says the museum’s design should reflect the fact
that distinctions between art, design, architecture, video and
sound installations have become blurred, particularly in  Asia .  “Anyone who has spent any time in Asian art will see there
is more fluidity in these categories,” he says.  He reckons Asian contemporary art will make up about 75-80
percent of the collection.  Nittve says M+ also will help put Hong Kong’s unsung
artists on the international map, by providing them with a
platform to boost visibility.  Artists elsewhere typically get recognition first in local
museums and then become noticed by curators in the rest of the
world, he says, which is why Hong Kong needs “a place that’s
trusted by the international art community as something that
sets the standard.”  I circle back to Nittve's formative experience with “She 
-- a Cathedral”) by Tinguely, Per Olov Ultvedt and Niki de 
Saint Phalle. Does he plan to include Tinguely in the 
collection? His e-mail reply said it all. “:-)” was all he 
wrote.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Richard Vines 
on dining,  John Mariani  on wine and  James Russell  on
architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour, in Hong Kong, at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 