-- Monti Calls for More Crisis Urgency in ECB Standoff
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-08-06T17:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/monti-warns-germany-that-euro-crisis-threatens-europe-s-future.html
(Corrects fifth paragraph to show newspaper report was in
Corriere. See TOP CRIS for more on  Europe ’s financial crisis.)  Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
warned of a potential breakup of Europe without greater urgency
in efforts to lower government borrowing costs, as a standoff
over European Central Bank help for Italy and  Spain  hardened.  Monti, in an interview with  Germany ’s  Der Spiegel  magazine
published yesterday, said that disagreements within the 17-
nation euro area are detracting from the policy response to the
debt crisis and undermining the future of the European Union.  “The tensions that have accompanied the euro zone in the
past years are already showing signs of a psychological
dissolution of Europe,” Monti told Der Spiegel. While he backed
the ECB’s willingness to address “severe malfunctioning” in
the government bond market, Monti said the problems “have to be
solved quickly now so that there’s no further uncertainty about
the euro zone’s ability to overcome the crisis.”  Spain and Italy, whose surging borrowing costs have shunted
them to the heart of the turmoil in the euro area, are resisting
pressure from ECB President  Mario Draghi  to formally request aid
in return for strict conditions before the central bank will buy
their bonds. Monti and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  have
both said they will await further details as the ECB works up
its plan. The German government said for the first time today
that  Chancellor Angela Merkel  supports Draghi’s proposals.  French President  Francois Hollande  is pushing Monti and
Rajoy to request aid from Europe’s bailout fund to help ease
markets and protect  France  from speculation, Italian newspaper
la Corriere della Sera reported, without citing anyone. Monti
may speak with Draghi today, the newspaper said.  Kiss of Death  “Italy has, to all intents and purposes, been hung out to
dry,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy Ltd., said in an e-mailed comment. “As far as  Rome  is
concerned any external assistance would be the kiss of death.
This puts Mr. Monti in an untenable situation.”  Monti isn’t under pressure from Hollande to request
international rescue funds and has no plans to meet Draghi
today, an Italian government official said, who asked not to be
identified because any such discussions would be private.  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 6 basis point to 5.98
percent as of 2:15 p.m. in Berlin after rising to 6.28 percent
as Draghi outlined his plan on Aug. 2. Spain’s 10-year bond
yielded 6.76 percent, down 9 basis points, after rising as high
as 7.44 percent. Equivalent German debt yields 1.36 percent.  The euro dropped 0.2 percent to $1.2362.  Troika Talks  Greece , the country at the nexus of the debt crisis, agreed
after more than a week of meetings with representatives of the
so-called troika of international creditors -- the  International
Monetary Fund , the ECB and the European Commission -- on the
need to strengthen policy efforts to support the economy and
comply with its bailout terms.  “We made a lot of good progress,”  Poul Thomsen , the IMF’s
representative to  Athens , said after a meeting with Finance
Minister Yannis Stournaras ended yesterday. The troika will
return to Athens in early September.  Investors and politicians are meanwhile grappling with the
significance of Draghi’s comments on sovereign debt purchases.
While markets initially tumbled after Draghi said Spain and
Italy would have to formally request a resumption of the bank’s
bond buying in conjunction with Europe’s bailout fund, thus
entering into a rescue program with tough conditions, they
rallied the following day as investors concluded that ECB action
would happen, albeit on an unknown future date.  Liquidity Backstop  “If the arrangement sketched out is fully implemented, the
ECB will provide an effective liquidity backstop, enabling
sovereigns to retain access to markets for a large portion of
their funding needs,” Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in an Aug. 3 note to clients.  The German government is “not worried” by Draghi’s
announcement, Georg Streiter, Merkel’s deputy spokesman, told
reporters in Berlin today. Draghi “clearly addressed the
primacy of politics in the euro crisis and the government has no
doubt that everything the  European Central Bank  does happens
within the framework of its mandate,” Streiter said.  Spain and Italy suggested that bailout requests may not be
imminent or necessary.  Monti told Spiegel that he intends to stay in office until
April 2013, when Italy is due to hold elections, and he hopes he
“can save Italy from financial ruin until then, with the moral
support of some European friends, and Germany foremost. But I
say very clearly: moral support, not financial.”  Draghi Misunderstood  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told ABC newspaper
at the weekend that his country awaits details of the ECB’s
bond-buying proposals before deciding whether to request aid.
Both Italian Bank of  Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco and Minister
for Economic Development Corrado Passera said in separate
newspaper interviews that the country doesn’t need a bailout.  Visco told La Repubblica that markets had initially
misunderstood Draghi’s comments.  “Not only did the ECB not take any steps backward, but it
took decisive steps forward to correct the functioning of
monetary policy transmission, and therefore of the stability of
the single currency,” he told the newspaper.  Euro-area finance chiefs won’t meet until Sept. 3 to
discuss possible Spanish bond buying and the economic situation
in Greece, Italian news agency Ansa reported Aug. 3, citing
unidentified European officials. European governments would not
confirm the meeting. The next meeting of the ECB’s governing
council is scheduled for Sept. 6.  German Criticism  Draghi’s plans to reactivate the ECB’s bond-buying program
prompted some criticism in Germany. Former ECB Chief Economist
 Otmar Issing  said  price stability  is “massively threatened,”
Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported yesterday, while
 Juergen Stark , Issing’s successor who is now retired from the
ECB, said the central bank is being asked to act outside its
mandate, faces conflicts of interest and is losing its
independence, the same newspaper said.  Monti garnered criticism from German lawmakers over his
comments in Spiegel calling on governments to exercise greater
autonomy from national parliaments in taking crisis decisions or
risk making a euro-area breakup more likely. German lawmakers
have a veto right on disbursements from Europe’s bailout fund.  Alexander Dobrindt, general secretary of Merkel’s CSU
Bavarian sister party, said in an interview with the Rheinische
Post newspaper Monti’s comments were an “attack on democracy.”  Merkel sees Germany as having had positive experiences with
“the right degree of support by the parliament and the right
degree of participation by parliament,” Streiter said. “It
would be good if the debate was guided by a bit more calm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  