-- House Republicans Don’t All Claim Their Tea Party Ties
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-08-05T15:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/house-republicans-don-t-all-claim-their-tea-party-ties.html
Sean Duffy  and Chip Cravaack are the
emblematic politicians of the 2010 congressional elections: Tea
Party-backed Republicans who won in heavily Democratic districts
and succeeded two of the most powerful figures in the U.S. House
of Representatives.  Duffy, a sports commentator and former  district attorney ,
won the Wisconsin seat held for 40 years by the Democrat David
Obey, chairman of the Appropriations Committee, who retired.
Cravaack, a Navy veteran and commercial-airline pilot, narrowly
defeated House Transportation Committee Chairman James Oberstar,
the longest-serving House member from  Minnesota .  These upsets reflected the energy of the Tea Party in 2010.
Duffy’s campaign was fueled by his opposition to President
 Barack Obama ’s stimulus package, which Obey helped craft;
Cravaack was powered by his rejection of Obama’s health-care
proposal, which Oberstar strongly backed.  While neither was an official Tea Party member, both rode
the wave. Duffy praised the movement and the right-wing talk-
show host  Glenn Beck . Tea Party rallies in Oberstar’s sprawling
northern Minnesota district sparked Cravaack’s campaign.  Political Realities  Both now face tough re-elections and have tempered their
tone, illustrating the political realities facing a number of
the 84 newcomers to the House in the Republican tide two years
ago. Duffy has said he isn’t a Tea Party member; he occasionally
bucks his party, for example by voting to continue federal
funding for public broadcasting. When asked if he’d cut his own
$174,000 salary -- a favorite Tea Party target -- the father of
six said he would do so only if all government employees cut
theirs, too, saying he was “struggling” to get by.  Cravaack, in a recent  interview  with the  Associated Press ,
depicted himself as a centrist. He has cast a number of pro-
labor union votes in line with his working-class district. The
conservative  Club for Growth  has rated him the least
conservative of the four Republican House members from
Minnesota.  Neither congressman was willing to be interviewed.  The freshman Republicans, many of whom were embraced by Tea
Party activists, are a force. While they don’t form a monolithic
bloc, they have pushed their party and the House to the right.
It’s very probable that Speaker  John Boehner  would have
finalized a spending-cut and tax-increase  debt deal  with Obama
last summer if he hadn’t felt the heat from this group.  They consistently pressured the leadership and the spending
committees to pare back outlays. The House has voted 33 times to
repeal Obama’s health-care law, a signature Tea party issue in
2010.  Yet substantive changes have been minimal. The health-care
overhaul remains, as does the  Dodd-Frank  financial regulatory
measure. The vast reduction in the size of government, promised
in scores of campaigns two years ago, hasn’t materialized.  Almost all these freshmen continue to stress conservative
issues in the House and in seeking re-election. More than a few
from safe districts are singing the same tune as last time. A
few, who are in serious danger of losing, such as Congresswoman
Ann Marie Buerkle from Syracuse,  New York , continue to embrace
the  Tea Party .  Others are moving away. Another Republican congresswoman
from New York, Nan Hayworth, who only a year ago said she
“belonged to a Tea Party group,” more recently has bragged
about voting with Democrats and Obama: “I’m one of the members
of the House majority, who has voted most frequently -- actually
about a third of the time I voted the way President Obama has
also supported voting.”  Tax Cuts  For most Republicans, especially the freshman House
members, there is nothing more sacrosanct than tax cuts, or not
raising taxes. Representative Rick Crawford of  Arkansas  recently
proposed a surtax on millionaires, a variation on an Obama
initiative. Last week, Crawford also voted to extend the Bush-
era tax cuts for the wealthy; hardly the first time a U.S.
politician had it both ways.  Another of the recurring themes of many Tea Party-backed
Republican challengers in 2010 was their antipathy to  Wall
Street , particularly what they termed the “federal bailout” of
big banks. Representative Stephen Fincher of  Tennessee , a gospel
musician, ran successfully as an advocate for “Main Street,”
as opposed to Wall Street. Since arriving in  Washington , he has
found harmony with Wall Street money. He has received more than
$11,500 from the political action committees of Bank of America
Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells
Fargo & Co.  There’s no record of any Fincher legislation that goes
after Wall Street.  With most of the Tea Party candidates holding firm,
tensions suddenly are bursting out among the much-smaller group
of more centrist House Republicans.  Some have gone public, complaining that the leadership pays
too much attention to the right-wing elements. One of the more
prominent centrists, the nine-term Ohio Congressman Stephen LaTourette, a Boehner ally, announced his retirement last week,
saying he was fed up with the rightward drift.  He’s the exception. Barring some unforeseen change, the
Republicans are expected to keep control of the House in this
year’s elections. That is likely to embolden Tea Party
conservatives to be even more forceful, possibly pushing the
remaining more-traditional Republicans to break ranks. Just when
we thought the gridlock in Washington couldn’t get any worse.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 