-- Palm-Oil Stockpiles in Malaysia to Jump Most in 10 Months
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-08-06T10:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/palm-oil-stockpiles-in-malaysia-to-jump-most-in-10-months.html
Palm-oil  stockpiles in Malaysia, the
world’s second-biggest producer, probably climbed the most in 10
months in July as output increased and exports fell, easing
supply concerns as a drought cuts U.S. soybean yields.  Stockpiles gained 10 percent to 1.87 million metric tons
from 1.7 million tons in June, which was the lowest since April
2011, according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of four
analysts and one plantation company. Production rose 9.5 percent
to 1.61 million tons, the survey showed. While that’s the
highest in eight months, it’s 8 percent below the 1.75 million
tons a year earlier. Exports declined 9.8 percent to 1.38
million tons. The Palm Oil Board releases the data on Aug. 10.  Rising supplies of palm oil, used in everything from candy
to instant noodles and fuel, may help curb a surge in global
food costs as the worst U.S. drought in a generation wilts crops
from soybeans to corn. Futures have fallen 20 percent since
reaching a 13-month high in April, cutting costs for users such
as  Nestle SA (NESN) , the largest food company, while potentially
hurting profits at producers including  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)   “If demand picks up from China and  India , we probably
won’t see too big of an increase in stockpiles,” said Alvin
Tai, an analyst at OSK Investment Bank Bhd. Inventories may
reach as high as 2 million tons before falling, he said. Tai
expects prices to average 3,000 ringgit this year.  Weakening demand for palm oil may outweigh the impact of a
year-on-year drop in Malaysian output and prices may decline to
2,700 ringgit by year-end unless the U.S. does more to stimulate
growth and boost demand, according to Dorab Mistry, director of
Godrej International Ltd.  Sagging Exports  Exports from  Malaysia  dropped 15 percent to 1.23 million
tons last month, surveyor Intertek said July 31. Sales were 1.53
million tons in June, according to the palm oil board.  “Sagging export-demand will keep weak prices intact”
although output fell about 8.9 percent in the the first seven
months of the year, said Nagaraj Meda, managing director of
Hyderabad, India-based TransGraph Consulting Pvt.  The production estimate for 2012 was cut to 18.5 million
tons from an 19 million tons earlier, Malaysia’s Plantation
Industries and Commodities Ministry said on Aug. 1. Output was a
record 18.9 million tons last year, board data shows.  Palm oil for October-delivery ended unchanged at 2,918
ringgit ($940) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange today.
Futures reached 2,838 ringgit on June 14, the lowest level since
October 2011.  Record Soybeans  Soybeans advanced to a record $16.915 a bushel on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade on July 23. The rally lifted soybean
oil’s premium over palm to $263.43 a ton, the highest level
since September, and compared with this year’s low of $56.04 in
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. December-
delivery soybean oil fell 0.5 percent to 52.61 cents per pound
in Chicago at 6:47 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  “Despite the wider spread in soyoil, crude palm oil prices
have troughed at elevated levels since 2008, underlining robust
structural support for the edible oils complex,”  Abah Ofon , an
analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in a report Aug. 1.
Demand from China and India, the biggest consumers, and the
 Middle East  will pick up in the third quarter as inventories are
drawn down, he said.  Malaysia’s decision to increase a duty-free export quota
for crude palm oil to 5 million tons this year may limit gains
in prices as it expanded supplies, said TransGraph’s Meda.  The temporary plan is aimed at reducing inventories amid
the seasonal increase in output, Malaysia’s plantation ministry
said Aug. 1. The nation is seeking to reverse a slowdown in
shipments after  Indonesia  cut export taxes in October.  Shipments from Indonesia, the largest producer, probably
gained 23 percent to 1.4 million tons in July from 1.14 million
tons in June, as companies took advantage of a lower export tax,
according to the median of five plantation executives in a
Bloomberg News survey published July 31. Output may fall 5
percent to 2 million tons, three of the respondents said. The
executives didn’t provide estimates for inventories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  