-- Power, Speed and Finesse Win Medals in Sprint Kayak
-- B y   G r e g   B a r t o n
-- 2012-08-05T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/power-speed-and-finesse-win-medals-in-sprint-kayak.html
The still surface of the water seems
to explode as the paddlers strike, and, in an instant, nine
four-man teams are moving their narrow vessels fast enough to
pull water-skiers. This is Olympic  sprint kayaking .  It is an obscure competitive sport in the U.S., but sprint
kayaking is very popular in other parts of the world -- top
paddlers in  Hungary  are regularly featured on the front of
newspaper sports sections -- and it has been part of the
Olympics since 1936.  Men race in 200- and 1,000-meter events, and women in 200-
and 500-meter races -- in one-, two- and four-person boats. A
series of heats and semifinals condenses the field until only
nine paddlers or teams are left to vie in the medals race.  (Slalom, a second form of Olympic canoe-kayak is raced on a
whitewater course. Added as a one-time event in 1972, it has
been a permanent part of the games since 1992.)  Sprint kayakers use a paddle with double blades modeled
after airplane wings to generate lift. With stroke rates
exceeding 160 a minute, races are often won and lost in a photo
finish by hundredths of a second. The men’s double kayak 200-
meter event, new to the Olympic program this year, will last
just longer than 30 seconds.  The races can appropriately be compared to running or
swimming. The 1,000-meter kayak event is like the mile (or the
Olympic 1,500-meter run). Aerobic conditioning, pacing and
strategy are paramount. Some racers are faster off the start;
others conserve energy for a powerful finish. Five-hundred-meter
race strategy is comparable to running 800 meters or swimming
200 meters.  Pure Sprint  The 200-meter races are a pure sprint. The bow of each boat
is placed in the gate, which drops below the water’s surface as
the starter’s gun sounds. After bursting out of the gate, the
paddler keeps going full blast to the end. In a close finish,
competitors “shoot” their boats across the line by taking a last
powerful stroke and then throwing their bodies back.  The U.S. team has two sprint kayakers in  London . San Diego
native Carrie Johnson will compete in her third Olympics, in
both the 200- and 500-meter singles events. In Beijing in 2008,
sadly, a flare-up of Crohn’s disease kept her out of the finals.  Tim Hornsby of Gainesville,  Georgia , learned to kayak at
the venue built for the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. This will be
his first Olympic 200-meter kayak singles. He’s usually only 1
second off the pace of the world’s best.  Vying for top of the podium in the men’s 1,000-meter kayak
singles will be  Adam van Koeverden  of  Canada  and Max Hoff of
 Germany  -- two athletes who show a nice contrast in racing
styles. Van Koeverden likes to take the lead early and extend it
by midrace to the point where nobody can catch him. Hoff races
from behind, letting others take the lead, then accelerating to
pass in the final 250 meters. That strategy paid off in both the
2009 and 2010 World Championships, as Hoff’s final kick took the
gold. Last year, though, van Koeverden had the upper hand,
pulling into a comfortable lead at the halfway point, and then
keeping up a blistering pace to the end.  A handful of other competitors aim to spoil the Hoff-van
Koeverden duel, including Tim Brabants of the U.K., the 2008
gold medalist, and Erik Veras Larsen of  Norway , the 2004 winner.
Aleh Yuyrenia of Belarus, an up-and-coming youngster at age 22,
is another threat.  Familiar Favorite  The biggest story on the women’s side is  Natasa Janics . A
native of  Serbia , Janics competed for the Federal Republic of
 Yugoslavia  in the 2000 Olympics and then moved to Hungary. In
2004, she won gold medals for Hungary in both the 500-meter
singles and 500-meter doubles (with partner Katalin Kovacs). In
2008, Janics and Kovacs repeated their gold-medal performance in
Beijing. After taking time off to have a child in 2011, Janics
is again the gold-medal favorite in the 200-meter singles and
has a chance for a third Olympic victory with Kovacs in the 500-
meter doubles.  The Olympics are a chance to see the world’s best athletes
in events both familiar and strange. Rather than watch another
replay of swimming or the dream team’s latest game, why not
catch the excitement of sprint kayak? The competition begins
Monday.  (Greg Barton, the president of Epic Kayaks Inc., in
Charleston,  South Carolina , won two gold medals in sprint
kayaking at the 1988 Olympics in  Seoul , a bronze medal at the
Los Angeles Olympics in 1984, and a bronze medal at the
Barcelona Olympics in 1992. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why Romney’s and Obama’s  tax
plans  get F’s and on  Romania’s dangerous drift  away from
democracy; William D. Cohan on  Sandy Weill and Glass-Steagall ;
Susan B. Crawford on the  U.S.’s technological lag  at the
Olympics;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  Tea Party’s role  in November;
 Simon Johnson  on why  Mario Draghi can’t save the euro ; Caleb
Scharf on the spacey, gassy and lumpy  map of the universe .  To contact the writer of this article:
Greg Barton at  greg@epickayaks.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 