-- Trade Deficit Probably Narrowed in June: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-05T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/trade-deficit-probably-narrowed-in-june-u-s-economy-preview.html
The  trade deficit  in the U.S.
probably shrank in June as cheaper oil reduced the import bill
and slower global growth led to reduced demand for American-made
goods, economists said before a report this week.  The gap narrowed to $47.5 billion, the smallest in four
months, from $48.7 billion in May, according to the  median 
forecast of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Commerce Department issues the data on Aug. 9. Another report
may show worker productivity rose and labor costs eased in the
second quarter.  Slowing economies in  Europe  and  Asia  means customers
overseas may cut orders to American manufacturers, depriving the
expansion of one of its mainstays. In the U.S., unemployment
that’s exceeded 8 percent for 42 straight months may prompt
consumers to slow purchases of goods made abroad.  “Trade had definitely made an outsized contribution thus
far in the economic cycle, but that phase is rapidly drawing to
a close,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York . “Global trade has
been slowing. Imports are not booming by any stretch.”  The strain on exports comes as countries in Europe teeter
near recession and the Chinese expansion cools. The U.K.’s
economy  shrank  0.7 percent in the second quarter, the most since
2009, a government report showed July 25.  China ’s growth slowed to the weakest pace since 2008,
expanding 7.6 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said July 13.  Share Prices  Slower global economies help explain why shares of
equipment makers have lagged behind the broader market. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH) , which includes
companies like  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  and Deere & Co., has gained 3.5
percent this year while the  S&P 500 (SPX)  index has risen 11 percent.  “Our guidance for the full year really constitutes a
recalibration of global growth prospects,” Eaton Chief
Executive Officer Sandy Cutler said during a July 23 earnings
call. “Global growth has clearly slowed, and the European and
Chinese recovery, we think, has pushed out of 2012.”  The Cleveland-based company projects its markets, including
electrical, hydraulics, auto and aerospace parts, will expand 8
percent in the U.S. this year while dropping 1 percent in the
rest of the world, Cutler said.  On the other end of the trade ledger, retreating  oil prices 
probably restrained the value of imports in June. The cost of
imported petroleum  decreased  11 percent from the prior month,
the biggest decline since December 2008, the Labor Department
said July 12.  Oil Prices  Oil prices started to rebound in July and a sustained
pickup may hurt consumers’ buying power.  Brent crude  on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London  rose as high as $109.13 a
barrel on Aug. 3, up from a low this year of $88.49 on June 21.  The cost of all imported goods rose 0.1 percent in July
after falling 2.7 percent the prior month, economists surveyed
projected a Labor Department report on Aug. 10 will show.  Imports may be limited as the U.S. labor market struggles.
The jobless rate unexpectedly rose to 8.3 percent in July from
8.2 a month earlier, Labor Department figures showed Aug. 3. A
163,000 gain in payrolls followed a 64,000 increase in June.  Federal Reserve officials “will closely monitor incoming
information on economic and financial developments and will
provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a stronger
economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market,”
according to an Aug. 1 statement from the  Federal Open Market
Committee . The policy makers left unchanged their statement that
economic conditions would likely warrant holding the benchmark
interest rate target near zero at least through late 2014.  On Aug. 8, Labor Department figures may show the
productivity of American workers  grew  at a 1.4 percent annual
pace from April to June after dropping 0.9 percent in the first
quarter, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
The report may also show expenses per employee rose at a 0.5
percent rate after a 1.3 percent first-quarter increase.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  