-- Recent Heat Waves Caused by Global Warming, Hansen Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-08-06T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/recent-heat-waves-caused-by-global-warming-hansen-says.html
The drought in  Texas  last year, the
heat wave in  Russia  in 2010 are among weather extremes that
“certainly would not have occurred” without global warming,
according to a paper by a U.S. government climate scientist.  Abnormal weather episodes were so rare from 1951 to 1980
that the recent events can only be explained by the effects of
the increasing accumulation of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere,
according to research being published today. If  carbon emissions 
continue unchecked, such events will become routine, with more
extremes common within 50 years.  “We now know that the chances these extreme weather events
would have happened naturally -- without  climate change  -- is
negligible,”  James Hansen , the top climate-change scientist at
the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the
main writer of the paper, said in a statement. “The natural
changes in weather from day-to-day and year-to-year” don’t
explain those events.  The paper by Hansen and two co-authors, to be published in
the peer-reviewed Proceedings of the  National Academy of
Sciences , was written before the recent record heat waves and
drought across the U.S. Once that data is analyzed, it probably
will show links to global warming as well, Hansen wrote in the
Washington Post.  Keystone Protest  Hansen was one of the first scientists to identify threats
from climate change, and to advocate for action to counter
carbon-dioxide emissions. He testified to Congress in 1988 that
global warming had begun, and last year was arrested during a
protest in front of the White House against the proposed
Keystone XL pipeline. In 2008, a government watchdog agency,
responding to a complaint from Hansen, said political appointees
in  NASA ’s public-affairs office from 2004 through early 2006
“reduced, marginalized or mischaracterized” information on
climate-change science for political advantage.  Hansen wrote the paper on extreme weather with Makiko Sato,
also of NASA and the  Columbia University ’s Earth Institute, and
Reto Ruedy, of Arlington, Virginia-based Trinnovim LLC, which
provides support for U.S. agencies such as NASA.  They looked for examples of “weather anomalies,” defined
as three standard deviations away from normal based on a
statistical history. From 2006 to 2011, areas meeting the
criteria covered about 4 percent to 13 percent of the Earth.
Those types of extremes were basically nonexistent in the three
decades prior to 1980, it said.  “Probably the most important change is the emergence of a
new category of ‘extremely hot’ summers,” the researchers
concluded.  Drought and heat waves struck at least six states last
year, and in Texas and Oklahoma are blamed for losses as high as
$10 billion in crops, livestock and timber, according to the
U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in a
report.  The 2010 drought and heat wave in Russia destroyed 13
million hectares (32.1 million acres) of crops, Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  