-- Rogoff Sees World Wishing It’s America Year After S&P Downgrade
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r ,   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-08-05T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/rogoff-sees-world-wishing-it-s-america-year-after-s-p-downgrade.html
Global investors can’t get enough
American securities a year after Standard & Poor’s Corp.
downgraded U.S. government debt.  The dollar has outperformed its peers in the past 12
months, rising by 10 percent against a basket of six currencies.
U.S. stocks have been the best performing equity market in terms
of dollars, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average advancing  14
percent. (INDU)  Treasuries also have done better since the S&P action
late on Aug. 5, 2011, returning 6.7 percent to investors
compared with 6.1 percent for other government bonds.  “We’re seeing negative data come in from a lot of parts of
the world,” said  Kenneth Rogoff , a professor at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and a former chief
economist at the International Monetary Fund. “The rest of the
world is looking at the United States and saying, ‘I wish we
were the United States.’”  With the largest economy and deepest financial markets, the
U.S. is seen as the safe haven for investors at a time when
Europe is struggling to contain its sovereign-debt crisis and
Chinese growth is slowing. Low yields -- 10-year Treasuries fell
to a record  1.379 percent  on July 25 -- show that most money
managers have faith the government will meet its obligations, in
spite of S&P’s decision to strip the securities of their AAA
rating.  Token Gesture  The downgrade “was more a token gesture but didn’t mean
anything to the credit quality of the U.S.,” said Paul Zemsky,
the New York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $160 billion.  S&P spokesman John Piecuch defended the company’s action.  “Credit ratings are an opinion on relative risk of
default, not a prediction of market behavior,” he said in an e-
mail. “We began downgrading Greece in 2004 and Italy in 2005
for example, but for several years markets continued to value
their bonds nearly on par with those of Germany.”  U.S. businesses are benefiting from the rush into American
securities by global investors. Fifteen of the top 20 companies
worldwide in terms of market capitalization are American, led by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s up from 11 a year ago. New to the top 20 from
the U.S. are  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   Safety Preferred  U.S. corporate bonds also reflect investors’ preference for
safety at a time of global economic trouble. Dollar-denominated
bonds of high-grade borrowers have returned 8.4 percent since
Aug. 5, 2011, exceeding the 7.8 percent return in the 12 months
before S&P’s downgrade, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Investment-grade corporate debt worldwide has
returned 7.6 percent in the past year.  Companies are taking advantage of the record low bond
yields, selling $103 billion of debt last month, the busiest
July on record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ,  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  and Morgan Stanley all raised $2
billion each, the latter with its first fixed-rate 30-year debt
in a decade.  “There was a lot of fear that the downgrade would result
in higher interest rates overall within the U.S. because of the
perceived lack of fiscal responsibility,” said  Thomas Chow , a
money manager at Delaware Investments in Philadelphia with about
$170 billion under management, including $130 billion of fixed-
income assets. “The reality of it is that this world is based
more on relative valuations.”  Better Performing  While the U.S. has slowed, it’s still performed better than
most other advanced nations since the S&P move last year. The
economy expanded at an average annual pace of about 2.5 percent
from the third quarter of 2011 through the first quarter of
2012.  That’s double the rate of Germany and more than five times
that of France. It’s also better than the U.K. and Italy, both
of which are mired in recessions. Among the Group of Seven
industrial nations, only Canada and Japan, which has been
recovering from the ravages of the March 2011 earthquake and
tsunami, grew more.  “The U.S. is the best-looking horse in the glue factory,”
said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist in Lexington,
Massachusetts, for IHS Inc. “We have our problems, but the rest
of the developed world has far, far worse problems.”  While unemployment rose to  8.3 percent  last month from 8.2
percent in June, U.S. employers added 163,000 workers, the Labor
Department reported Aug. 3, exceeding the 100,000 median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Housing Revival  Housing, the epicenter of the financial crisis in the U.S.,
is showing signs of life. Residential construction contributed
 0.2 percentage point  to economic growth in the second quarter
and 0.4 point in the first, the biggest first-half role since
2005, before the 18-month recession that began December 2007.  Residential real-estate prices in 20 cities rose a
seasonally adjusted  0.9 percent  in May from April, the largest
increase in almost three years, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values.  “It really has turned what was a big headwind for us into
something of a tailwind,”  Karl Case , a professor emeritus at
Wellesley College in Massachusetts and co-creator of the index,
told  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio’s July 31
“Surveillance.”  On its own, S&P’s downgrade doesn’t seem to have mattered,
with Treasury yields down and the stock market up, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Newport Beach, California. Even so, the market
moves should be seen against the backdrop of record monetary
stimulus from the Federal Reserve, which has helped hold down
yields, and the crisis in Europe, he said.  ‘Massive Outflows’  “There has been absolutely massive outflows out of Europe
into Switzerland and the U.S.,” said El-Erian, whose firm
manages the world’s largest bond fund.  He said the U.S. is stuck with a sluggish economy, with
growth during the next 12 months likely to be 1.5 percent.
Europe’s economy, though, probably will contract by that much
over the same period, he added.  S&P lowered the U.S. long-term credit rating to AA+ last
August after months of wrangling between President Barack Obama
and congressional Republicans over whether to raise the federal-
debt limit. While the impasse ended with Obama signing a debt-
ceiling increase on Aug. 2, S&P downgraded the U.S three days
later, citing political gridlock in Washington and the nation’s
long-term fiscal challenges.  Justified Reduction  Sixty-seven percent of global investors polled by Bloomberg
the following month said the rating reduction was justified.
U.S. investors were less supportive, with 57 percent approving,
compared with about three-fourths of respondents in Europe and
Asia, according to the survey of 1,031 Bloomberg subscribers.  Democrats and Republicans are heading for another showdown
at the end of the year, after the November election, when more
than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts are slated
to take effect in the absence of action by Congress.  Obama wants to raise taxes on households making $250,000 or
more, while keeping them on hold for everyone else. Republicans
say no taxes should go up.  “Both parties realize there is a fundamental mismatch
between taxes and spending on entitlements,” such as Social
Security and Medicare, said  Bob Bixby , head of the Concord
Coalition, whose Arlington, Virginia-based nonprofit group
advocates balanced budgets. “The next administration is going
to have to deal with it.”  Budget Deficit  The White House has forecast a  $1.2 trillion  budget deficit
for the year ending Sept. 30, equivalent to 7.8 percent of gross
domestic product. Outside of 2010 and 2011, that would be the
biggest shortfall as a share of the economy since World War II.
The deficit in 2011 was $1.3 trillion, or 8.7 percent of GDP.  S&P said in June that political and fiscal risks could lead
to a second downgrade by 2014. While Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings have kept their top grades on the U.S., both
have a negative outlook.  Not so global investors. In May, 46 percent of respondents
in a Bloomberg poll chose the U.S. as one of the markets with
the most potential during the next year, up from 31 percent a
year earlier.  “We’re overweight the U.S. relative to emerging markets
and Europe in equities, and we keep thinking about when we
should take that position off but can’t find a good reason to do
so,” Zemsky said.  More Flexible  U.S. companies are more flexible than their counterparts in
Europe, with an ability to lay off workers and “get
productivity growth out of what remains,” said Hayes Miller,
who helps oversee about $48 billion as head of asset allocation
in  North America  at Baring Asset Management Inc.  “That underlying flexibility allows companies to continue
to grow profits and run returns on equities that are in excess
of what the European economies are able to do,” Boston-based
Miller said.  American banks also have made more progress than those in
Europe in rebuilding their balance sheets, he said.  “You can begin to see the return to normalcy for banks in
the U.S. to have a capital structure to lend again to the
private sector,” Miller said.  Commercial and industrial loans have climbed about 15
percent in the past year, in spite of concerns voiced by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  that
credit would be constricted by new regulations.  In terms of dollars, U.S. financial stocks have risen about
10 percent since S&P’s action, compared with declines of about 8
percent for Asia and 16 percent for Europe.  “It’s quite an ironic downgrade,” said Brett Wander,
chief investment officer in  San Francisco  for fixed income at
Charles Schwab Investment Management Inc., which oversees about
$200 billion. “Investors will pay a significant premium for
safety, and there’s probably no greater safe haven than the
U.S., regardless of the rating that S&P assigns the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  