-- Romney Says Fed Should Hold Off on Buying More Bonds
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-08-05T14:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/romney-says-federal-reserve-should-hold-off-on-more-bond-buying.html
Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  said the  Federal Reserve  should refrain from a third
round of large-scale asset purchases.  Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee for president,
said that while the first round of bond buying by the U.S.
central bank may have had a positive effect, a new round of
quantitative easing will not help the economy.  “I am sure the Fed is watching and will try to encourage
the economy,” Romney said in an interview broadcast on  CNN ’s
“ State of the Union ” program. “But I don’t think a massive
new QE3 will help the economy.”  The Fed last week moved a step closer to pumping more
stimulus into an economy plagued by weakening growth and a
jobless rate that has stayed at 8 percent or higher for more
than three years. The  Federal Open Market Committee  on Aug. 1
said it will “closely monitor” economic data and financial
developments, suggesting it is focused on the economy’s near-
term performance.  The Fed combatted the financial crisis through two rounds
of quantitative easing. In the first round starting in 2008, the
Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed securities, $175
billion of federal agency debt and $300 billion of Treasuries.
In the second round, announced in November 2010, the Fed bought
$600 billion of Treasuries.  Fed Announcement  The FOMC “will provide additional accommodation as needed
to promote a stronger economic recovery and sustained
improvement in labor market conditions in a context of  price
stability ,” it said in a statement last week at the end of a
two-day meeting in Washington.  Representative  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a Florida Democrat
and head of the Democratic National Committee, said it is “up
to the Federal Reserve” to decide whether to commence a new
round of asset purchases.  “The Federal Reserve is an independent financial
institution,” Wasserman Schultz said in an interview on ABC’s
“This Week” program. “It’s important that we not dictate from
the White House, or certainly from candidates for president of
the United States, what the Federal Reserve should be doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  