-- Saudi Industrial Jumps as Riyad Capital Says Buy: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-08-05T13:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/saudi-industrial-jumps-as-riyad-capital-says-buy-riyadh-mover.html
Saudi Industrial Investment Group (SIIG) 
climbed to the highest since May after Riyad Capital started
coverage of the investor in petrochemicals projects with a buy
recommendation.  The shares of the seventh-largest petrochemicals company in
 Saudi Arabia  by market capitalization rose 1.9 percent to 21.95
riyals at the close in  Riyadh , the highest since May 30. Riyad
Capital set a price estimate of 29 riyals.  Sahara Petrochemical
Co. (SPC) , which was also started with a hold recommendation, gained
2.2 percent to 13.95 riyals. The stocks pushed the Tadawul All
Share Petrochemical Industries Index 0.3 percent higher,
trimming the drop in the Tadawul All Share Index to 0.1 percent.  Saudi Industrial Investment, or SIIG, “derives strength
from its long-standing partnership with Chevron particularly in
terms of plant operations,” analysts including Muhammad Faisal Potrik and Kamal Al-Aithan said in today’s report. “Although
petrochem startup was delayed by a few months, its commercial
operations from June will boost gross margins to 25 percent next
year and double revenues this year as it benefits from fixed
feedstock.”  SIIG last year said it set up a joint venture with Arabian
Chevron Phillips Petrochemical Co. with a capital of 150 million
riyals ($40 million). The company said at the time it expected
the joint venture to develop a number of conversion projects
with an estimated investment cost of about 2 billion riyals.  The Riyadh-based company may post a  60 percent increase  in
profit this year to 846 million riyals, according to the mean
estimate of four analysts on Bloomberg. Three analysts excluding
Riyad Capital have a  buy rating  on the stock, while one has a
hold rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  