-- Senator Graham Says Reid Is ‘Lying’ About Romney Taxes
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-08-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/senator-graham-says-reid-is-lying-about-romney-taxes.html
Republicans, including  Senator
Lindsey Graham , accused Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
lying by saying Mitt Romney hasn’t paid taxes for 10 years.  Graham said Reid was “making things up,” and Republican
National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus called Reid a “dirty
liar” for leveling the accusations against Romney, the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee.  “I just cannot believe that the majority leader of the
 United States  would take the floor twice, make accusations that
are absolutely unfounded in my view and, quite frankly, making
things up to divert the campaign away from the real issues,”
Graham, a South Carolina Republican, said yesterday on  CNN ’s
“ State of the Union .”  Republicans and Democrats spent much of the Sunday talk
shows sparring over Reid’s claims about Romney’s taxes --
accusations the former Massachusetts governor has denied.
Democratic President  Barack Obama ’s advisers and supporters have
pressed Romney to release his tax returns in the wake of Reid’s
claims. Romney, who has released one year of personal income tax
returns and has promised a second, has challenged Reid to “put
up or shut up” and reveal his source for the claim.  Reid, a  Nevada  Democrat, made the allegations in a Senate
floor speech last week. His office repeated the claim in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Credible Source  The e-mail, from Reid spokesman Adam Jentleson, said the
information comes from “an extremely credible source” and
called it “sad” that Republicans were being forced to defend
Romney’s decision not to release more tax returns.  Romney has released one year of personal income tax
returns, from 2010, showing that he paid an effective tax rate
of 13.9 percent on investment income that year. He has promised
to release his 2011 returns when accountants are finished with
them, and has rejected calls by Democrats and some within his
own party to disclose more of his tax returns.  Republican Priebus on ABC’s “This Week” said he wouldn’t
respond to a “dirty liar who hasn’t filed a single page of tax
returns himself.”  David Axelrod, an Obama campaign strategist, said on “Fox
News Sunday” that he didn’t “know who Harry was talking to.”
Romney “can resolve this in 10 seconds,” Axelrod said. “Why
don’t they just put this to rest? What is it he’s hiding?”  Reckless and Slanderous  Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell , a Republican, said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” that Reid had made a “reckless and
slanderous charge.”  “People don’t care about Mitt Romney’s tax returns,”
McDonnell said. “They care about their own tax returns.”  Former Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat, said
on “Face the Nation” that, while voters want to know whether
presidential candidates “pay their taxes fairly like everybody
else,” Romney’s tax returns are “not a central issue” in a
campaign that has focused on the economy.  Romney, in an interview broadcast on CNN’s “State of the
Union,” attacked the Obama’s administration’s economic record
and said that it is time “for something dramatic and it is not
the time to grow government.”  “It’s the time to create the incentives and the
opportunities for entrepreneurs and businesses big and small to
hire more people and that’s going to happen,” Romney said.
“You’re going to see that happen in this country but not under
this president.”  Federal Reserve  Romney said the  Federal Reserve  should refrain from a third
round of large-scale asset purchases aimed at boosting the
economy. While the first round of bond buying by the U.S.
central bank may have had a positive effect, a new round of
quantitative easing won’t help the economy, Romney said.  “I am sure the Fed is watching and will try to encourage
the economy,” Romney said in the CNN interview. “But I don’t
think a massive new QE3 will help the economy.”  The Fed last week moved a step closer to pumping more
stimulus into an economy plagued by weakening growth and a
jobless rate that has stayed at 8 percent or higher for more
than three years. The  Federal Open Market Committee  on Aug. 1
said it will “closely monitor” economic data and financial
developments, suggesting it is focused on the economy’s near-
term performance.  The Fed has fought the financial crisis with two rounds of
quantitative easing. In the first round starting in 2008, the
Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed securities, $175
billion of federal agency debt and $300 billion of Treasuries.
In the second round, announced in November 2010, the Fed bought
$600 billion of Treasuries.  Economic Doldrums  The economy remains in the doldrums. The government said
Aug. 3 that employers added 163,000 jobs in July, more than
forecast. The jobless rate, based on a separate survey of
households, increased by about four hundredths of a percentage
point to 8.3 percent, a five-month high, according to the Labor
Department.  Obama and Romney both tried to turn the jobs report to
their advantage. Romney called the unemployment figure “another
hammer blow to the struggling middle-class families of America”
in an Aug. 3 speech in North Las Vegas, Nevada. Alan Krueger,
the chairman of Obama’s  Council of Economic Advisers , said Aug.
3 that the report “provides further evidence that the  U.S.
economy  is continuing to recover from the worst downturn since
the Great Depression.”  The economy has added private-sector jobs for 29 straight
months, he said, a total of 4.5 million positions. He noted in a
blog post on the White House website that the  unemployment rate 
rose only because of rounding; the actual change was from 8.217
percent to 8.254 percent.  Blaming Bush  David Axelrod , an Obama campaign strategist, blamed the
country’s lingering economic woes on former President  George W. Bush ’s administration. Axelrod said the U.S. economy lost six
million jobs in the six months before Obama took office in
January 2009.  “You’d have to go back to Great Depression to see a crisis
like the one we walked into in 2009,” Axelrod said on “Fox
News Sunday.”  Axelrod said Romney’s tax plan would increase taxes by an
average of $2,000 on middle class families.  “Do we think that raising taxes by $2,000 on the middle
class is the way to get the economy moving?” Axelrod said.  A study released by the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington 
this week said Romney’s plan would shift some burden from those
with incomes exceeding $200,000 a year to those earning less.  The Romney campaign has pushed back against the study,
saying it doesn’t fully analyze portions of his tax proposal and
ignores others. Priebus, the Republican National Committee
chairman, said the study doesn’t take into account all of the
factors included in Romney’s plan.  “The growth rate that will come out of  Mitt Romney ’s plan,
of reducing taxes on small businesses, reducing taxes on
individuals and cutting spending in Washington, that, together,
creates growth, will increase individual income rates and jobs
and get America moving again,” Priebus said on ABC’s “This
Week” when asked about the study.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  