-- Williams Sisters Beat Czech Pair to Win Tennis Doubles Gold
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-05T14:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/serena-and-venus-williams-beat-czech-pair-to-win-doubles-gold.html
Serena and  Venus Williams 
successfully defended their women’s doubles tennis crown at the
London Olympics today.  The American sisters, who also won the event at the 2000
Sydney Olympics, beat Czech pair Andrea Hlavackova and Lucie Hradecka 6-4, 6-4 at Wimbledon’s Centre Court.  The siblings embraced and jumped up and down after Venus
won the match with a backhand volley after a well-placed serve
by her partner.  They’re the first women pair to win back-to-back Olympic
titles since fellow Americans Gigi Fernandez and Mary Joe
Fernandez took gold in  Barcelona  in 1992 and Atlanta in 1996.  “The first one, I didn’t realize what was happening,”
Venus Williams said. “The second one, I realized what was
happening. But this one, it was definitely a fight. This is
probably the sweetest one, I can’t wait to touch the medal and
put it around my neck.”  The doubles medal comes almost a year after Venus Williams
withdrew from the  U.S. Open , announcing she was suffering from
the energy-sapping Sjogren’s syndrome.  Although the five-time Wimbledon champion has since
struggled in singles, she’s done well in doubles, also winning
the Wimbledon title with her younger sister Serena a month ago.  Serena yesterday also won the singles gold medal, beating
 Maria Sharapova  of  Russia .  ‘So Amazing’  “Venus has been going through so much and she’s so strong
and she’s so amazing,” she said. “To win this here was my goal
all year, to get to the Olympics and win doubles gold. I wanted
to win singles but my main goal was doubles.”  Venus Williams now has her sights set on the 2016 Olympics
in Rio de Janeiro.  “I’ve always been thinking Rio, I think that would be a
great way to go out on a high note,” she said. “I’ve got four
more years of great tennis ahead of me, to figure out my life
and get as well as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  