-- Seven Die in Wisconsin Sikh Temple Shooting; FBI Probing
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f ,   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-08-06T02:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/six-dead-in-shooting-at-sikh-temple-in-wisconsin-police-say.html
A shooter took the lives of six
people at a Sikh temple near  Milwaukee  before being killed by a
police officer, in what the FBI said may have been an act of
“domestic terrorism.”  The suspect hasn’t been identified. The gunman was
described as about six feet tall, light skinned, bald, and with
a “9-11” tattoo. He appeared to target men wearing turbans as
he moved through the temple and fired without speaking,
Kanwardeep Singh Kaleka, a temple member, told CNN.  “In my view, it’s a hate crime,” Kaleka said. “Obviously
this man had no regard for human life.”  The killing in Oak Creek, about 12 miles (19 kilometers)
south of Milwaukee, was the second mass shooting in the U.S. in
less than a month, and followed a request by more than 90
members of Congress for the FBI to monitor hate crimes directed
at Sikh adherents. The lawmakers cited a “growing concern” in
the April 19 letter to Attorney General Eric Holder and FBI
Director  Robert Mueller . Men who follow the Sikh faith, which
originated in  South Asia , often wear beards and turbans.  Targeting Sikhs  “Numerous reports have documented how those practicing the
Sikh religion are often targeted for hate violence because of
their religiously-mandated turbans -- i.e. because of their Sikh
identity, regardless of whether the attacker understands the
victim to be Sikh or not,” the said lawmakers, led by U.S.
Representative Joseph Crowley, a New York Democrat.  “Sikh-Americans are too often the victims of intolerance
and hate,” Crowley said today in a statement. “We all grieve
for those lost in this tragic event.”  A handgun used by the shooter was recovered at the scene,
according to a federal official with knowledge of the
investigation. Law enforcement investigators are now tracing the
origin of the weapon, said the official, who requested anonymity
to discuss details of the investigation.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  has taken over the
investigation,  John Edwards , chief of the  Oak Creek Police
Department , said in a televised briefing.  “While the FBI is investigating whether this matter might
be an act of domestic terrorism, no motive has been determined
at this time,” Teresa Carlson, the Special Agent in Charge of
the FBI’s Milwaukee office, said in a prepared statement.  Home Searched  Authorities searched a home in nearby Cudahy, roping off
four blocks in a residential neighborhood, the  Associated Press 
said. Cudahy police referred questions about the activity to the
FBI in Milwaukee.  Four of the dead were found inside the temple and three
outside, including the shooter, police said.  The shooter “went into the holy room and opened fire on
some of the individuals there,” Kaleka told  CNN . “Most of the
people I’ve heard have been shot or killed were all turbaned
men.”  Three injured men, including the police officer, and the
seven dead were taken to  Froedtert Hospital  in Milwaukee, the
Associated Press said. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported
that among those shot was Satwant Kaleka, the temple president.  Critical Condition  The three wounded men remained in critical condition at
Froedtert Hospital as of 8:30 p.m., Lee Biblo, the chief medical
officer, said in a statement. Two had surgery and one was still
“undergoing a complex procedure,” according to the statement.  One was wounded in the abdomen and chest, another in the
extremities and face, and the third in the neck, according to
the statement. It didn’t specify the police officer’s injuries.  The shooting prompted authorities to tighten security
around Sikh temples in New York as a “precaution,” according
to a statement from the city. The AP reported similar steps were
taken in  Chicago .  Started 500 years ago, Sikhism has about 27 million
adherents, mostly in India, according to the AP. It said
estimates put the number of Sikhs in the U.S. at about 500,000.  The Sikh Temple of  Wisconsin  purchased land in Oak Creek
for a larger temple that was set for completion in April 2007,
according to the temple’s  website . The first temple was
established in Milwaukee.  City Demographics  Oak Creek is a city of about 34,000, with a median
 household income  averaging more than $66,000 a year in 2006 to
2010, almost 29 percent more than the state average, according
to the U.S. Census Bureau. About 6.7 percent live in poverty,
compared with almost 12 percent statewide.  The Oak Creek temple is in a neighborhood of small office
buildings and businesses. Down the street at the Oak Creek Plaza
strip mall, the Prime Table Family Restaurant advertises its
Friday fish fry, a Wisconsin tradition. Below that it says:
“God bless The USA.”  “When we heard about it we didn’t believe it,” said
Varinder Singh, 23, a local cab driver who had prayed at the
temple earlier in the day. He stood with his family at the side
of a street a block from the temple, after news of the shooting
spread.  “It’s a nice city, clean, no crime,” said Singh’s uncle,
Lakhwinder Singh, 39.  Indian Response  Indian authorities have been in contact with the U.S.
National Security Council, and the Indian consulate general in
Chicago is monitoring the incident, according to a statement
from the Indian embassy in  Washington . An embassy official has
been sent to Oak Creek as well, according to the statement.  President  Barack Obama  said he and First Lady  Michelle
Obama  were “deeply saddened” by the shooting and pledged
support for the investigation.  “Our hearts go out to the families and friends of those
who were killed and wounded,” Obama said in a prepared
statement. “As we mourn this loss which took place at a house
of worship, we are reminded how much our country has been
enriched by Sikhs, who are a part of our broader American
family.”  Consoling Leaders  Obama spoke by telephone with Charanjeet Singh, a trustee
of the Sikh Temple, as well as Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker ,
a Republican, and Oak Creek Mayor Steve Scaffidi, the AP
reported.  Mitt Romney , the probable Republican nominee for the
presidency, also deplored the shooting.  “This was a senseless act of violence and a tragedy that
should never befall any house of worship,” Romney said in a
statement, according to the AP. “Our hearts are with the
victims, their families, and the entire Oak Creek Sikh
community.”  Less than a month earlier near Denver, a masked gunman
opened fire at a midnight showing of “The Dark Knight Rises”
in suburban Aurora theater, killing 12 and injuring 58. James
Holmes, a former graduate student in neuroscience at the
 University of Colorado  in Denver, faces multiple murder charges.  That was the deadliest shooting in  Colorado  since the
Columbine High School massacre in April 1999, and the worst mass
shooting in the U.S. since November 2009, when 13 people were
killed at Fort Hood,  Texas .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing,  Michigan , at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Oak Creek at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  