-- South Africa’s ANC Considers Pushing for Telkom Delisting
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-08-06T16:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/south-africa-s-anc-considers-pushing-for-telkom-delisting.html
South  Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  is considering a push to end  Telkom SA Ltd.’s (TKG) 
listing on the Johannesburg stock exchange and taking the
company private, a party official said.  The party wants Pretoria-based Telkom, which the government
privatized in 2003, to expand services in Africa’s biggest
economy. The company, which is the continent’s biggest fixed-
line operator, is 39.8 percent owned by the government. Public
Investment Corp., which oversees the pensions of state workers,
held another 10.6 percent as of July 27, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are discussions about delisting inside the party,”
ANC Treasurer General Mathews Phosa said in an Aug. 3 phone
interview, declining to comment further other than to say that
the discussions were “private.”  The government in June blocked a proposed sale of 20
percent of Telkom to  KT Corp. (030200) ,  South Korea ’s biggest phone and
Internet provider, for 2.7 billion rand ($331 million), saying
that the company is a strategic asset in the government’s plan
to increase broadband and telecommunications services to all of
the nation’s population.  Turnaround Plan  After rejecting the bid, the Cabinet asked Communications
Minister Dina Pules communications minister, to consult with
Telkom and report back after three months with a turnaround plan
for the company. The three months expire at the end of this
month.  “The ANC is having its own internal discussions, which are
separate from the government’s policy, which I’m heading,” Pule
said in an Aug. 3 phone interview. Any decision from the party
discussions is likely to be raised at an ANC conference in
December and implemented at a later stage, she said.  Telkom’s board has not discussed delisting, Telkom Chief
Executive Officer Pinky Moholi said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  “We have met Telkom’s management three times in the past
two months,” said Pule. Officials from her ministry, together
with a Cabinet committee that includes Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan , Public Enterprises Minister  Malusi Gigaba  and two other
ministers, is on schedule to report back to the cabinet by the
end of the month. “We are engaging with Telkom as the
government and shareholder,” said Pule.  Telkom shares fell 1.4 percent to 18.05 rand at the close
in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 9.4
billion rand ($1.15 billion). Telkom sold shares at 28 rand each
in a March 2003 initial public offering, the only IPO of a
state-owned company since the end of apartheid in 1994, with the
stock peaking at 90.42 rand on Sept. 3, 2007.  Failed Expansion  Increased competition in South Africa and a failed
expansion into  Nigeria  have cut profit excluding one-time items
at Telkom every year since 2006.  South Africa ’s Competition
Tribunal will in October begin hearings into an eight-year-old
complaint by  Internet service providers  that Telkom abused its
domestic-market dominance, which could result in a 3.25 billion
rand antitrust fine. Telkom has denied the allegations.  In March last year, Moholi became Telkom’s fifth CEO since
its IPO. In February, the company asked Lazarus Zim, the
company’s fourth chairman since listing, to stay until Aug. 31,
2013.  Cash Returns  “This talk of delisting is not an indication of
privatization of state assets having failed,” Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at Cape Town-based Afena Capital,
said. “Quite the contrary in fact, the government has made an
astounding amount of money out of Telkom since it was listed.”  The company has paid dividends each year since 2004 with
special cash payments in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2010.
“Those payments alone can easily pay for an additional 60
percent of the shares the government doesn’t already own,”
Dlamini said.  In 2009, the fixed-line operator sold a 15 percent stake in
 Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)  for 22.5 billion rand to Newbury, England-
based  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , reducing its 50 percent stake before
spinning it off to its own shareholders.  “The government has really done well financially out of
Telkom,” said Dlamini, who helps manage about $2.4 billion in
client funds.  ‘Social Returns’  The government is considering a rights issue or an increase
in debt to help Telkom return to profit, Pule said on June 5.  “What the ANC committee is doing now is only just a
discussion,” Pule said Aug. 3. “There is no decision yet.”  While the ANC’s talks about delisting the company indicate
that the market has lost confidence in Telkom, it doesn’t spell
the end of privatization of state assets, Afena Capital’s
Dlamini said. “Vodacom is still listed and flourishing.”  As a result of Telkom’s listing, the government liberalized
the telecommunications industry, Dlamini said. “That would
never have happened in an environment where Telkom remained a
state entity,” he said.  -- With assistance by Janice Kew in Johannesburg. Editor: Antony
Sguazzin,  Gordon Bell .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 sikonathim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  