-- Speculators Lift Wagers in Longest Streak on Record: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-06T21:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/speculators-lift-wagers-in-longest-streak-on-record-commodities.html
Speculators increased wagers on
commodities for an eighth consecutive week, the longest streak
on record, just before a report on U.S. job growth sparked the
biggest price rally in a month.  Hedge funds  raised their net-long positions across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 4.9 percent to 1.22 million  contracts  in
the week to July 31, the highest since Sept. 6, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. Bets more than doubled
since reaching this year’s low on June 5, capping the longest
increase since the data began in June 2006. Gold holdings
climbed by the most since November 2008, and cocoa wagers
reached a one-year high.  Commodities rose 2.7 percent on Aug. 3, the most in a
month, as the Labor Department said jobs at carmakers and
healthcare providers boosted employment. U.S. service industries
that make up almost 90 percent of the world’s largest economy
expanded at a faster pace in July. Contracts outstanding in  raw
materials  climbed last month for the first time since April as
investors speculated growth may accelerate and boost demand for
everything from cotton to pork to zinc.  “The U.S. may be exiting its soft patch, and that could
certainly bring a bid back into commodities,” said  James Paulsen , the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at
Wells Capital Management, which oversees about $320 billion of
assets. “With better economic momentum, and with the drop of
the dollar, there might be more evidence of a more sustainable
force that continues” to boost prices, he said.  Commodity Rally  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index rose 0.9 percent last
week, and reached a two-week high Aug. 3. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities advanced 0.8 percent and the dollar
slipped 0.4 percent against a measure of six trading partners.
Treasuries lost 0.1 percent, according to a Bank of America
Corp. index. The GSCI climbed 0.4 percent to settle at 650.34 in
 New York .  Thirteen of the 24 commodities tracked by S&P rose last
week, led by cotton and cocoa. Corn reached an all-time high of
$8.205 a bushel on July 31 as the worst Midwest drought since
1956 wilted U.S. crops.  U.S. payrolls rose by 163,000 last month, following a
revised 64,000 gain in June, the Labor Department said Aug. 3.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast an increase of
100,000. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S.
non-manufacturing businesses jumped to 52.6 in July, also
beating estimates.  Raw Materials  The number of  contracts  outstanding across the 24 members
of the S&P GSCI rose 0.3 percent in July, the first increase
since April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Inflows to
raw-material funds totaled $564 million in the week ended Aug.
1, snapping a five-week streak of outflows, according to EPFR
Global, which tracks the funds.  Commodities are attracting more money in part because of
speculation the  Federal Reserve ,  European Central Bank  and other
policy makers will do more to shore up growth.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  failed to deliver on the
speculation, saying Aug. 1 he “will provide additional
accommodation as needed,” without specifying a plan. A day
later, ECB President  Mario Draghi  left the benchmark interest
rate unchanged, having promised July 26 to do whatever it takes
to preserve the euro.  ‘Sluggish Economy’  “Without the central bank intervention, and a still
sluggish economy, commodities should be weaker,” said Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in  San Diego  at  LPL Financial , which
oversees $350 billion of assets.  American manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in July for
a second month, the Institute for Supply Management said Aug. 1.
China’s non-manufacturing  industries  expanded at a slower pace
last month, government data showed Aug. 3. Economic confidence
in the euro area fell more than economists forecast to the
lowest in almost three years in July, the European Commission
said July 30.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest oil and corn consumer, and
 China  is the top user of metals, soybeans and cotton.  Europe 
consumes 18 percent of the world’s copper and accounts for 22
percent of oil demand, data from Barclays Plc and BP Plc show.  Even as American payrolls rose last month, the unemployment
 rate  increased to a five-month high of 8.3 percent from 8.2
percent in June, the Labor Department data showed. The report
leaves the U.S. in a “sweet spot” as it signals recovery while
leaving room for the Fed to step up stimulus efforts, according
to Samarjit Shankar, a managing director for the foreign-
exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon.  ‘Unexpected Inflation’  “With continued economic stimulus from central banks
globally, it still does maintain the possibility of inflation,”
said Christopher Burton, a  fund manager  at Credit Suisse Asset
Management in New York who helps oversee $10.7 billion in
commodity related assets. “When there is unexpected inflation,
that could be a good period for commodities.”  The S&P GSCI surged 92 percent from the end of December
2008 through June 2011 as the Fed kept  interest rates  near zero
and bought $2.3 trillion in government and housing debt.  Investors increased bullish gold bets by 35 percent to
96,200 contracts in the week ended July 31, the CFTC data show.
That’s the biggest advance since Nov. 25, 2008. JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, told investors to buy gold
in a report Aug. 3, forecasting an average of $1,725 an ounce in
the fourth quarter. Futures closed at $1,609.30 that day.  Corn Holdings  A measure of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators
increased bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 3.3
percent to 884,477 contracts, the most since Sept. 6, 2011.  Money managers raised corn  holdings  for an eighth
consecutive week to 285,385 contracts, the longest increase
since September 2010, CFTC data show. Soybean wagers climbed for
the seventh time in eight weeks.  Corn surged 59 percent since June 15 and soybeans are up 21
percent as the worst drought since 1956 sears millions of acres
of U.S. cropland and pasture. Dry conditions are expected to
persist through October and spread in parts of  North Dakota  and
 Texas , the U.S. Climate Prediction Center predicts. Trading of
agricultural futures and options averaged 1.384 million
contracts a day last month, from 951,000 in July 2011, according
to CME Group Inc., the world’s largest futures market.  “Talk and speculation about monetary easing coming over
the next few months will continue to put a wind behind
commodities,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage
$17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,
 Alabama . “Fundamentals are favoring the agricultural pack. In
the near term, we will see commodities rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  