-- Swiss Banks Face Slow Death as Taxman Chases Assets
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-08-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/swiss-banks-face-slow-death-as-taxman-chases-undeclared-assets.html
Swiss banks must lure affluent
clients from  emerging markets  or face a “slow death” as the
pursuit of tax dodgers by U.S. and European authorities results
in outflows of assets, industry officals and investors said.  Western Europeans may pull as much as 135 billion francs
($139 billion), or 15 percent of their holdings, from Swiss
banks, said Herbert Hensle of Cap Gemini SA. Bank Sarasin & Cie.
AG reported last week that private clients withdrew 3 billion
francs from Swiss locations in the 12 months through June.  Switzerland  built the world’s biggest offshore wealth
center during an era of “black money” that ended when the U.S.
sued  UBS AG (UBSN)  three years ago. Many of the highest fee-generating
European and American customers are withdrawing funds as the
hunt for tax evaders widens. As many as 100 Swiss banks will
vanish, according to Vontobel Holding AG Chief Executive Officer
Zeno Staub.  “It will not be a big bang, but an erosion as amnesty
programs are put together and as clients declare themselves and
come clean,” said Francois Reyl, chief executive officer of
Geneva-based Reyl Group, which manages 5.5 billion francs of
assets. “Those banks which don’t adapt will die a slow death.”  Some banks are already under pressure. EFG International
AG, the Swiss bank controlled by billionaire Spiro Latsis, last
month reported outflows from continental  Europe  in the first
half, while net new money from private clients at Vontobel fell
86 percent to 100 million francs from a year earlier.  Secret History  Switzerland passed bank secrecy laws in 1934 after bankers
of Basler Handelsbank were arrested in Paris two years earlier
for aiding  tax evasion  by wealthy French clients. Swiss banks
amassed one-third of the world’s offshore wealth over the next
75 years, before the U.S. government sued UBS on Feb. 19, 2009,
to force the disclosure of 52,000 American customers who
allegedly hid undeclared assets in Swiss accounts.  Five days after the U.S. filed the UBS lawsuit, Ivan Pictet, then managing partner of Geneva’s biggest wealth manager
Pictet & Cie., told Le Temps newspaper that Switzerland’s
banking industry may shrink by half if the country abandons
secrecy.  Three years on, Raymond Baer, honorary chairman of Julius
Baer Group Ltd., said “banking secrecy, as we know it, is
history.”  “Swiss institutions are preparing to tackle an outflow of
assets and are developing white-money strategies,” said Zurich-
based Hensle of  Cap Gemini , with Europeans repatriating funds to
their home countries. “The number of banks will decrease.”  Fewer Banks  Almost one in three banks will disappear or merge with
other firms over the next five years as fees fail to compensate
for rising regulatory costs and difficult market conditions,
Vontobel’s Staub told Handelszeitung this month.  The number of overseas banks in Switzerland fell to 145
from 154 last year, according to the Association of Foreign
Banks in Switzerland. There were 312 banks in Switzerland at the
end of 2011, according to the  Swiss Bankers Association .  Onshore deposits by individuals in Europe are failing to
compensate for Swiss outflows in the last 12 months, Sarasin
said July 30, when the Basel-based bank reported a 27 percent
decline in first-half profit. Sarasin, which has six offices in
 Germany , is implementing a strategy to ensure all clients are
tax-compliant by the end of 2012.  “Sometime in 2013 or 2014 we will have a drop in assets
under management of something like 25 percent of the undeclared
money,” Bernard Droux, a managing partner at Lombard Odier &
Cie., Geneva’s oldest bank, said June 29, adding that it’s
difficult to give precise estimates of undeclared money.  Asset Risk  As much of one-third of the $3 trillion of private wealth
managed in Switzerland may be undeclared and at risk from
foreign tax collectors, said Benedict Hentsch, chairman of
Geneva-based Banque Benedict Hentsch & Cie. SA.  That figure is probably too high, according to Droux, who
said that a maximum 15 percent of client money at Lombard Odier
and other private banks is undeclared.  UBS said in November that as much as 30 billion francs of
assets may be  at risk  amid changes in tax rules for European
clients living outside Switzerland. Switzerland has ratified a
withholding tax accord with the U.K. on Britons with bank
accounts in the Alpine country, while Germany and  Austria  have
also signed agreements.  Julius Baer , Sarasin and other Swiss banks are investing in
onshore branch networks to retain European clients repatriating
money. Compliance and regulatory costs, plus competition from
local banks, mean the profit margins on those customers are
lower.  Margin Squeeze  Margins on onshore assets in Germany may be less than half
the 120 to 150 basis points earned on non-resident funds in
Switzerland, according to Booz & Co., a consultancy. A basis
point is one one-hundredth of a percentage point.  “Non-declared offshore assets were traditionally the most
profitable assets,” said Andreas Lenzhofer, of Booz & Co. in
Zurich. “There was very little client interaction, very little
cost of compliance and the clients weren’t sensitive to prices.
Now offshore clients are becoming the most expensive,
challenging the profit model of the banks tremendously.”  UBS,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Baer and Sarasin have in the
past two weeks reported declines in their gross margin, or the
revenue they generate on assets under management. The second-
quarter margin at UBS’s wealth management unit for clients
outside the U.S. fell to 89 basis points from 97 basis points a
year earlier.  Smaller banks may struggle to adapt and some foreign-owned
wealth managers are looking to leave, said Hensle. Julius Baer
is in talks with Bank of America Corp. about buying its Merrill
Lynch businesses outside the U.S.  U.S. Probe  An “avalanche of legislative and regulatory changes” from
Europe and the U.S. and difficulties in accessing foreign
markets could lead to the loss of 15 percent to 30 percent of
Swiss wealth management jobs, said Nicolas Pictet, a managing
partner at  Pictet & Cie .  North American offshore assets in Switzerland have declined
70 percent to about 40 billion francs since 2009, according to
 Boston Consulting Group .  UBS avoided prosecution in February of that year by paying
$780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion and giving the
IRS data on more than 250 accounts. It later turned over data on
another 4,450 accounts.  Credit Suisse, Julius Baer and eight other banks being
investigated by the  Department of Justice  may follow UBS in
reaching a deferred prosecution agreement after Wegelin & Co.
was indicted on Feb. 2 on charges of helping customers hide
money from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Liechtenstein Deal  One of the banks, Liechtensteinische Landesbank AG, said
it’s already negotiating an agreement with the U.S. to prevent
it being prosecuted. LLB’s American clients declared less than 4
percent of $795 million of assets, according to a DoJ
information request dated May 11 to Liechtenstein’s tax
authority.  “It takes time to sort out the U.S. offshore money,” said
Peter Damisch of Boston Consulting in Zurich, adding that
American clients will probably hold less than 10 billion francs
in Swiss cross-border accounts by 2015.  Swiss banks’ hopes that they can counter outflows from
traditional offshore markets by building networks across  Asia ,
the  Middle East  and  Latin America  may be optimistic, said  Beat
Bernet , a professor of banking at the University of  St. Gallen .  “It’s wishful thinking to assume the industry can
compensate outflows by targeting emerging markets,” said
Bernet. “Banks ought to face up to the situation that
profitability will shrink and adapt their business models
accordingly to cope with lower margins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  