-- U.K. Pledges 100 Million Pounds for Energy Investment Funds
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-08-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/u-k-pledges-100-million-pounds-for-energy-investment-funds.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  will
pledge 100 million pounds ($156 million) for two investment
funds that seek to back renewable and energy efficient projects.  The government will channel the money through Equitix and
Sustainable Development Capital, two funds that will aim to
attract foreign investment to nurture clean and renewable energy
companies. Clegg will also welcome the creation of the world’s
first food-grade plastic bottle recycling plant in east  London 
and the expansion of  Spain ’s Grupotec Tecnologia Solar SL solar
panel works in the west of the capital.  “We seek nothing less than a clean, green, low-carbon
economy,” Clegg will say in a speech in London, according to
remarks released by the government’s business department.
“There is a global energy revolution under way. And the U.K. is
not going to be left behind.”  Last month, the government granted tax relief for natural
gas drillers and cut subsidies for renewable energy, signaling
more reductions in the months ahead as it balances demand for
cheaper power against a goal to lower pollution from fossil
fuels. The Department of Energy and Climate Change cut subsidies
for onshore wind by 10 percent, offered less financial support
than expected for biomass and said it may cut solar further.  Drax Group Plc (DRX) , owner of the U.K.’s largest power station
and biomass consumer, fell by a record 15 percent on July 25
when the government published the plan. Gas drillers get a tax
credit worth 500 million pounds.  Clegg will make the comments at an investment conference
attended by company executives including Sam Laidlaw, chief
executive of  Centrica Plc (CNA) , Steve Holliday, chief executive
office of  National Grid Plc (NG/)  and Keith Howells, chairman of Mott
MacDonald Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  