-- UBS Predicts 20% Gain for China Stocks as Haitong Sees Loss
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-06T08:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/ubs-sees-20-gain-for-china-s-stocks-as-haitong-forecasts-losses.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  says  China’s benchmark stock
index , this year’s worst performer in the largest  emerging
markets , will jump as much as 20 percent by year-end, while
Haitong Securities Co. expects the measure to keep tumbling as
economic growth slows.  At least one more interest-rate cut by Chinese policy
makers in the third quarter will help the  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP) 
Index rebound from a 13 percent drop since early March, Chen Li,
UBS’s head of  China  equity strategy, said in an Aug. 3
interview. Chen Ruiming, an equity strategist at Haitong
Securities, China’s second-biggest brokerage by market value,
said he expects the  Shanghai  Composite to fall below 2,000 this
year, or another 6 percent, as exports slump and government
measures to curb property prices hurt the industry.  “We are cautious on the market and there won’t be too many
investment opportunities this year,” Haitong’s Chen said in an
Aug. 1 interview in Shanghai. “China’s decade-old growth model,
led by exports and the  property market , is having a big change
and I don’t see a bottom for the economy this year.”  The divergent views underscore the challenge China faces in
convincing investors its policies will help stem a slowdown in
the world’s second-largest economy. The Shanghai Composite is
trailing benchmark stock measures in  Brazil , India and  Russia 
the past three months and has dropped 2 percent this year.  China’s benchmark index jumped 1 percent to 2,154.92 at the
close today, the biggest advance Since June 29. The measure rose
last week for its first gain in seven after regulators reduced
transaction fees on share trading by 20 percent to help revive
demand for equities. Chen at UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, is
recommending investors buy machinery makers and property
developers on prospects the economy will start to rebound.  Rebounding Growth  “Growth will bottom in the third quarter,” he said in an
Aug. 3 interview at his office in Shanghai. “We expect 15-20
percent upside for stocks.”  Chinese stocks have tumbled this year as the economy grew
7.6 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace since 2009.
The People’s Bank of China cut  interest rates  twice since early
June and lowered lenders’ reserve requirement ratios three times
starting in November as part of the government’s efforts to spur
credit growth and support the economic expansion.  UBS’s Chen said on Sept. 22 that the Shanghai Composite
would extend declines in the fourth quarter after losing 15
percent in the third quarter. The index slid 6.8 percent in the
final three months of last year. Haitong’s Chen predicted a drop
for equities in the second quarter of last year. The Shanghai
Composite dropped 5.7 percent in that period.  ‘Reasonable Valuations’  The Shanghai Composite is valued at 9.7 times estimated
profit, compared with the three-year average of 14.6. That
compares with a multiple of 13.6 times for the BSE  India 
Sensitive Index, 10.9 for Brazil’s Bovespa Index and 5.3 for
Russia’s Micex Index. A gauge of  property  stocks in the Shanghai
Composite trades at a record low of 6.9 times estimated earnings
even after climbing 12 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Most stocks have reasonable valuations,” UBS’s Chen
said. “In the short term, investors should focus on cyclicals
such as property and machinery” because they will benefit first
as economic growth picks up, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  