-- Vietnam to Ease Rules to Lure Stock Investors: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-06T07:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/vietnam-to-ease-rules-to-lure-stock-investors-southeast-asia.html
Vietnam (VNINDEX)  plans to ease rules on equity
trading and accelerate initial public offerings of state-owned
companies this year to attract investors to a market that’s
valued about 15 times less than  Singapore ’s.  The State Securities Commission is preparing to cut the
minimum holding period for stocks, Nguyen Doan Hung, vice
chairman of the commission, said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg on Aug. 2. The regulator is also
considering widening stock trading bands and starting an online
auction system to boost volumes and speed up sales, he said,
without specifying when the measures may be started.  “These are the right steps to make the market more
competitive and as attractive for traders as its regional
peers,”  Attila Vajda , a broker at ACB Securities Ltd., the
nation’s third-largest brokerage, said in an interview.  Vietnamese stocks are valued at $37 billion, compared with
$558 billion in Singapore,  Southeast Asia ’s largest market, even
after the benchmark VN Index jumped 19 percent this year through
last week. The value of stocks changing hands on the Ho Chi Minh
City Stock Exchange slumped 40 percent last month from June.
Vietnamese companies raised about $10 million from IPOs in the
first half of this year, while  Malaysia ’s IHH Healthcare Bhd.
raised $1.98 billion in an IPO in July.  The VN Index rose 1.2 percent today. The gauge is  Asia ’s
third-best performer this year, after a 27 percent slump in
2011, amid speculation the central bank would ease monetary
policy to bolster growth. The  gauge  is valued at 10 times
estimated profit, from a record low of 7 times in January. The
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index traded for 10.6 times.  Trading Bands  The value of Vietnam’s equity market has jumped 40 percent
this year, the biggest expansion after  Venezuela , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s market is valued at $435
billion and  Indonesia ’s $407 billion, while  Japan , Asia’s
biggest market, is worth $3.42 trillion. Vietnam’s stock market
is classified by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  as a  frontier market , which denotes
an average stock-market value of about $27 billion.  To help lure investors, the State Securities Commission
wants to cut the minimum period investors must hold shares to
two days from three days by the end of this year, and reduce it
further to one day next year, said Hung. The limit on daily
share-price gains or losses may be widened from 5 percent on the
main Ho Chi Minh City exchange and 7 percent on the Hanoi Stock
Exchange, he said.  “Wider bands would help increase circulation of stocks in
the market, bringing more trading options,” Giang Trung Kien,
Hanoi-based head of research at FPT Securities Joint-Stock Co.
said by phone on July 31. “Liquidity would definitely rise.”  GDP Growth  The government said on July 24 that it will lift from Sept.
15 the amount of registered capital companies must have to list
on Vietnam’s exchanges in a bid to improve the quality and size
of publicly traded equities.  The combined value of stock changing hands climbed 65
percent this year through Aug. 1 from the same period last year.
The total slumped to 14 trillion dong ($671 million) last month
on the  Ho Chi Minh City  Stock Exchange, from 23.45 trillion dong
in June, according to data from the bourse.  The VN Index has fallen 13 percent from a May 8 peak as
data on June 29 showed Vietnam’s gross domestic product grew
4.38 percent in the first half, compared with 5.63 percent a
year earlier. The government’s Deputy Minister of Planning and
Investment Cao Viet Sinh said in June that full-year expansion
may be as low as 5.2 percent.  ‘Sluggish Growth’  The value of Vietnamese IPOs sank by 50 percent in the
first six months of 2012 from a year earlier to a combined 206
billion dong, Hung said.  Companies from Graff Diamonds Corp. and  Vietnam  Airlines
Corp., Formula One and Manchester United Ltd. have shelved or
postponed planned IPOs in Asia this year amid equity-market
volatility. Bank for Investment & Development of Vietnam, the
country’s second-largest bank by total assets, delayed listing
its shares until no later than Sept. 30 from its planned June 26
debut, the lender’s Deputy General Director Pham Quang Tung said
June 19.  “Because of unfavorable macro conditions in the early
months of the year, when the economy showed signs of slowing and
businesses faced a lot of difficulties, companies found it hard
to raise funds through share sales,” Hung said.  Vietnam’s stock exchange in Ho Chi Minh City started
trading in 2000 with shares of four companies that began as
state-controlled businesses. The first private company was
listed four years later and a second bourse in Hanoi opened in
2005. The two exchanges now have about 700 stocks.  As well as easing rules on trading, the regulator wants the
nation’s two exchanges in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City to set up
online auction systems to speed up IPO activity, Hung said.
Currently, investors taking part in IPOs have to register bids
with securities companies, which take the offers to the exchange
to input into its system.  “An online system would help shorten the auction time and
save time for investors, making IPOs more attractive,” Nguyen
Thi Hoang Lan, deputy general director of the Hanoi Stock
Exchange, said by phone on Aug. 1. “Now investors are still
doing it manually.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  