-- Bolt Retains Olympic 100-Meter Title as Murray Defeats Federer
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-08-05T23:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/williams-sisters-get-olympic-doubles-gold-gelana-wins-marathon.html
Usain Bolt ran an Olympic record 9.63 
seconds yesterday to retain his 100-meter title after  Andy Murray  
eased past  Roger Federer  to become the first British male to win 
the tennis singles gold since 1908.  Bolt’s Jamaican countryman Yohan Blake, the world champion,
was second in 9.75 seconds, and 2004 Olympic champion Justin Gatlin of the U.S. took the bronze medal in 9.79 at the Olympic
Stadium in  London .  “When it comes to business I know what I need to do,”
Bolt, 25, said in a televised trackside interview. “I felt extremely
good and I’m happy.”  Bolt and  Carl Lewis  of the U.S. are the only men to
successfully defend the Olympic 100 meters title. Lewis won in
1984 and finished second four years later behind Ben Johnson
before being awarded the gold after the Canadian was
disqualified for failing a drug test.  After the first nine days of the games, China tops the
medals table with 61 total, including 30 golds. The U.S. has
60 medals, 28 of them gold. Britain has 37 in all.  Today on the track, medals will be awarded in the men’s 400
meters and 400-meter hurdles and the women’s 3,000-meter
steeplechase. Men’s sprint cycling and the equestrian team
jumping competition will be decided along with the men’s rings
and vault in gymnastics.  Pistorius Eliminated  Yesterday, Sanya Richards-Ross of the U.S. won the women’s
400 meters, with defending champion Christine Ohuruogu of
Britain finishing second and DeeDee Trotter of the U.S. third.
South Africa’s  Oscar Pistorius , who runs with prosthetic blades,
failed to reach the men’s 400-meter final.  Murray, 25, beat Federer for the host nation’s 16th gold
medal. The Scot won 6-2, 6-1, 6-4 a month after losing to the
30-year-old Swiss in the Wimbledon final on the same Centre
Court as his wait for a Grand Slam title continued.  “It’s the biggest win of my life,” Murray told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “I’ve had a lot of tough losses in
my career. This is the best way to come back.”  Murray was unable to add the gold in the mixed doubles,
finishing as runner-up with Laura Robson to Belarus’s Victoria Azarenka and Max Mirnyi.  Federer, a 17-time Grand Slam singles champion, had been
aiming to win the singles title for a first time. He won the
men's doubles gold in Beijing.  Serena Williams , 30, and her sister  Venus Williams , 32,
beat Andrea Hlavackova and Lucie Hradecka of the  Czech Republic 
6-4, 6-4 in the women’s doubles final.  They’re the first to retain the title since fellow
Americans Gigi Fernandez and Mary Joe Fernandez in  Barcelona  in
1992 and Atlanta in 1996. Two days ago, Serena secured her first
Olympic singles title by beating Russia’s  Maria Sharapova .  Marathon Record  Ethiopia’s Tiki Gelana won the women’s marathon in an
Olympic record time of 2 hours, 23 minutes, 7 seconds.  The 24-year-old crossed the finish line, on the Mall near
Buckingham Palace in central London, five seconds ahead of
Kenya’s Priscah Jeptoo, with Russia’s Tatyana Petrova Arkhipova
third.  Kenya’s Ezekiel Kemboi took gold in the men’s 3,000-meter
steeplechase. The women’s triple jump was won by Olga Rypakova,
27, of  Kazakhstan  and Krisztian Pars of  Hungary  won the men’s
hammer throw.  In a repeat of the 2008 men’s singles final in badminton,
 China ’s Lin Dan defended his title against Chong Wei Lee of
 Malaysia . China also had success in the men’s doubles as Cai Yun
and Fu Haifeng defeated  Denmark ’s Mathias Boe and Carsten
Mogensen in the final.  Best Sailor  Britain’s Ben Ainslie won the men’s Finn class to become
the most successful Olympic sailor of all time. The 35-year-old
now has four Olympic gold medals and a silver.  Jonas Hogh-Christensen of Denmark, who led Ainslie going
into yesterday’s medal race, took silver, with France’s Jonathan
Lobert winning the last race to secure the bronze medal.  In the Star sailing category, Sweden’s Fredrik Loof and Max
Salminen got gold, with Britain and Brazil also winning medals.  China’s Zou Kai, 24, retained his floor gymnastics title at
the North Greenwich Arena for his fifth Olympic gold medal.
Three-time world champion Kohei Uchimura and  Russia ’s Denis
Ablyazin finished in a tie, with the Japanese awarded silver
because of a higher execution score.  Gymnastics  Hungary’s Krisztian Berki won gold in the pommel-horse
event, with Britain’s Louis Smith and Max Whitlock taking silver
and bronze. Sandra Izbasa of Romania won the women’s vault,
McKayla Maroney of the U.S. was second and Russia’s Maria Paseka
third.  China’s Wu Minxia won the women’s 3-meter springboard
diving. Denmark’s Lasse Norman Hansen won the men’s Omnium
cycling, with Bryan Coquard of France getting silver, and
Britain’s Edward Clancy bronze.  Italy won the gold medal in the fencing men’s team foil
event, defeating Japan 45-39 in the final. China’s Zhou Lulu, 24,
hoisted a world-record 333 kilos (734 pounds) to win the women’s
over-75 kilo weightlifting.  Roman Vlasov of Russia defeated Arsen Julfalakyan of
Armenia to win the gold medal in men’s Greco-Roman 74-kilogram
wrestling, with Iran’s Hamid Soryan winning in the 55-kilogram
category.  Jin Jongoh of South Korea retained his Olympic 50-meter
pistol title, which he added to the 10-meter gold.  In women’s basketball, the U.S. beat China 114-66, Brazil
defeated Britain 78-66, Turkey got past Croatia 70-65 and Canada
lost 73-62 to Australia. The Czech Republic eased to an 82-47
rout of Angola.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 