-- Euro Falls as Italy’s Monti Warns of Crisis Divisions
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-08-06T11:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-05/yen-remains-lower-versus-peers-on-stock-gains-boj-speculation.html
The euro weakened against the yen and
the dollar after Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said
divisions within the 17-nation currency bloc are threatening the
European Union’s future.  Europe ’s currency fell from its strongest level in more
than three weeks against the yen after a report showed  investor
confidence  in the region dropped for a fifth month in August as
the it grapples with the almost three-year-old financial
turmoil. Sweden’s krona declined against all 16 major peers
after data showed service production slid in June.  “The euro is looking wobbly again,” said  Jeremy Stretch ,
head of foreign-exchange strategy at  Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce  in  London . “There’s still a great deal of residual
uncertainty about all events European.”  The euro dropped 0.3 percent to 96.91 yen at 7:44 a.m.  New
York  time, after touching 97.80, the strongest level since July
12. It lost 0.1 percent to $1.2371, after gaining as much as 0.5
percent to $1.2444, the most since July 5. The U.S. currency
slipped 0.2 percent to 78.34 yen.  “The tensions that have accompanied the euro zone in the
past years are already showing signs of a psychological
dissolution of Europe,” Monti told  Germany ’s Der Spiegel
magazine in an interview published yesterday. He urged swift
action to lower bond yields in the region’s peripheral nations.  Greater calm “would be good” in the debate over policy
responses to the crisis, Germany’s deputy government spokesman
Georg Streiter told reporters in Berlin today, when asked
whether tensions in Europe were worsening.  Draghi Plan  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  outlined a
plan last week under which the central bank may buy debt in
tandem with the euro area’s bailout fund, while saying the
details still need to be worked out over the coming weeks.
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said in an interview
published a day before Draghi’s comments that the ECB shouldn’t
exceed its mandate.  While Draghi’s pledge on July 26 that he would do
“whatever it takes” to defend the euro succeeded in stemming a
slide that pushed the 17-nation currency down about 6 percent
since late March against its major counterparts, traders in the
options market raised bets against the currency.  Three-month options show that the premium for puts, which
grant the right to sell the euro versus the dollar, over calls,
which confer the right to buy, increased to 1.62 percentage
points at the end of last week from 0.85 percentage point on
July 20. The gain is the biggest since the period through May
18, when  Greece  headed toward elections critical for its
continued membership in the currency union.  ‘Worsening Fundamentals’  An index measuring sentiment in euro bloc slid to minus
30.3, from minus 29.6 in July, Limburg, Germany-based Sentix
said in a statement today.  “There are worries about worsening economic fundamentals
as European countries move toward austerity,” said Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co.,
a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market value. “The euro
will grind lower in the medium-to-longer term.”  Germany’s factory  orders  fell 7 percent in June from a year
earlier, what would be the steepest drop since October 2009,
according to economist estimates before the figure is released
in Berlin tomorrow.  Italy ’s national statistics office will say
industrial output declined in June by 6.5 percent from a year
earlier, a separate Bloomberg survey of economists showed before
the release, also scheduled for tomorrow.  Krona Weakens  Europe’s common currency has depreciated 5.2 percent this
year, the biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The
dollar is unchanged while the yen fell 2 percent.  The Swedish krona dropped 0.6 percent to 6.7431 per dollar
and was 0.4 percent weaker at 8.3433 against the euro.  Service production fell 0.2 percent from May, when it
gained 2.3 percent,  Statistics Sweden  said today in a press
release. Production rose an annual 1.1 percent, compared with
May’s 1.9 percent jump.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six U.S. trading
partners, advanced 0.2 percent to 82.458, rising from the
weakest level since July 4, before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks at a conference in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  The Fed said on Aug. 1 that it “will provide additional
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic
recovery.” The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage
and Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing to lower borrowing costs.  Outlook ‘Constructive’  The Labor Department said on Aug. 3 that U.S. payrolls
increased by 163,000 in July, the most since February and
exceeding the 100,000 gain estimated by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The  unemployment rate  rose to 8.3 percent from
8.2 percent in June.  The euro’s technical outlook is “constructive” after the
five-day moving average crossed above the 20-day moving average,
said Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy in New York
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  “A convincing move above the $1.2400 area should be
respected in anticipation of another 2-3 cent advance in the
coming weeks,” Chandler wrote in a research note.  South Korea ’s won strengthened against all 16 most actively
traded counterparts, rising 0.5 percent against the dollar to
1,129.23. Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.7 percent versus the
greenback to 3.1074.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  