-- ‘Lincoln’ Leads 2013 Golden Globe Nominations With Seven
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-13T16:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/-lincoln-gets-7-golden-globes-nominations-for-drama.html
  Steven Spielberg ’s “Lincoln,”
about the 16th U.S. President’s political battle to end slavery,
was nominated for seven  Golden Globe  awards, including best
motion-picture drama and best director.  “Argo,” distributed by Warner Bros., and “Django
Unchained,” from Weinstein Co. and  Sony Corp. (6758) , tied for second
with five nominations each. They included best director for Ben Affleck and Quentin Tarantino, the Hollywood Foreign Press
Association said today at an NBC telecast from Beverly Hills,
California. “Lincoln” was produced by Spielberg’s DreamWorks
Studios and distributed by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   Golden Globe nominations provide an early peek at possible
favorites for Academy Awards, Hollywood’s top honor. They
generate publicity that can lift box-office sales for films
still in theaters and others on DVD. More of the films
generating award buzz this year are major studio releases. They
include four of the five nominated for best drama.  “You’re going to have five, maybe 10 strong candidates for
best picture that are from major distributors, and that’s
usually not the case,”  Jeff Bock , film analyst for Exhibitor
Relations Co., said in an interview before today’s announcement.  Major studio films nominated for best drama included
“Argo,” Twentieth Century Fox’s “Life of Pi,” “Lincoln,”
and “Zero Dark Thirty,” produced by Annapurna Pictures and
distributed by Sony. Annapurna was founded by Megan Ellison, the
daughter of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison .  Daniel Day-Lewis, who portrays Lincoln in the fight to
amend the U.S. Constitution and slavery, was nominated for best
actor in a drama. Sally Field, who plays his wife, Mary Todd
Lincoln, was nominated for best supporting actress.  ‘Les Miserables’  Box-office success isn’t a prerequisite for a nomination,
especially with some talked-about 2012 films such as Universal
Pictures’ “Les Miserables” still to open. The movie, a big-
screen version of the Broadway musical, received four
nominations, including best comedy or musical, best actor for
Hugh Jackman, who plays reformed convict Jean Valjean, and best
supporting actress for  Anne Hathaway , who plays the ill-fated
Fantine.  “Zero Dark Thirty,” a movie about the hunt for  Osama Bin Laden  that will be released next week, also garnered four
nominations, including best drama and best director for Kathryn Bigelow.  Unlike the Oscars, Globe nominations include two best-
picture categories, one for drama and another for comedies and
musicals, as well as honors for work in TV. There also are
separate acting nominations for each of the film categories.  Box Office  The 70th Annual Golden Globe Awards show, to be hosted by
actors Amy Poehler and Tina Fey, will be broadcast live Jan. 13
on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network starting at 8 p.m. New York time.
The nominations for 25 categories were read today by actors
 Jessica Alba , Megan Fox and  Ed Helms .  Ticket sales in the U.S. and Canada  are expected to rise
about 6 percent this year to a record $10.8 billion, according
to Los Angeles-based Hollywood.com Box-Office, helped in part by
major studio award contenders that are enjoying wide appeal.  The Golden Globe nominations, and winners, are determined
by the foreign press association’s members, which number about
90, according to its website. The group is comprised of foreign
journalists based in Southern California, the site said.  The Academy of Motion Picture Arts will announce the Oscar
nominations on Jan. 10, followed by a telecast of the awards
ceremony on Feb. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  