-- ‘Naomi Campbell’ Clock, Lego Art Adorn Singapore Casino
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-12-13T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/-naomi-campbell-clock-lego-art-adorn-singapore-casino.html
A blonde in shorts and a tank top
slouches in a chair and stares right at the camera. Her toenail
polish is pink, as are the wall and the brassiere hanging
outside her closet. Behind her is a Marilyn Monroe poster.  The 19-year-old hails, not from  Stockholm  or  Santa Barbara ,
but from Beirut -- and is captured by Lebanese-American Rania
Matar, a 48-year-old ex-architect based in  Boston  who in 2002
started photographing in Lebanon.  “Girls at that age are the same, whether they wear a veil
or are dying their hair pink,” says Matar in an interview at
her “Ordinary Lives” show at  Singapore ’s  Sana Gallery .  There are other photos of girls in their bedrooms. “The
room is an extension of the girl and the girl is an extension of
her room, it’s universal,” says Matar. The images are powerful
because of their intimate nature, and because they challenge
stereotypes about Middle Eastern women and modesty (some of the
girls wear headscarves, some don’t).  Matar also shows black-and-white photographs of refugees in
 Beirut  that extend beyond photojournalism to capture the
resilience of the human spirit in times of war and upheaval.  The photographs come in different sizes and are all priced
at S$3,800 ($3,113). The show runs through Jan. 27 at the Sana
Gallery, which is in a renovated 1930s shop house at 12 Blair
Road. Information: +65-6689-7968 or  http://www.sanagallery.com .  Louis XV  The lobby of the  Marina Bay Sands  hotel is a far cry from
the tranquil charm of Sana Gallery. Longer than two soccer
fields, it bustles with casino goers, and is an unlikely choice
for an exhibition of 18th-century French antiques -- which is
precisely why the show is being held there, says dealer Mikael
Kraemer. His aim: to create a “24 hours a day, seven days a
week, free museum.”  “ The Final 100 Days of the Year of the Dragon ” consists
of 13 different items of 18th-century Asian-inspired French
furniture from the Kraemer family’s Paris-based  gallery .  The pieces include a Louis XV marquetry clock adorned with
gilt bronze garlands, winged dragons and putti. Standing more
than seven feet tall, it’s valued at 3.2 million euros ($4.18
million) and is almost identical to one commissioned by King
Frederick II of Prussia.  ’Naomi Campbell’  One of the highlights of a tour led by Kraemer -- a fifth-
generation dealer -- is an early-18th-century long-case clock
standing 2.8 meters high (110 inches). It’s made of black ebony,
and gilt-bronze dragons flank the pendulum, which narrows in the
middle like a woman’s waist.  Kraemer calls it the ‘‘Naomi Campbell” clock because it’s
“tall, thin, distinguished, black and gold, and powerful.”
Other items include a rococo commode depicting traditional
Chinese scenes in lacquer, and a pair of Louis XIV pots made of
blue Chinese porcelain.  The exhibition runs through Feb. 9 at Marina Bay Sands.
Personal tours with Kraemer can be booked. The gallery is at 10
Bayfront Ave. Information: +65-6688-8868;  http://bit.ly/U7nQ7v .  Next door at the ArtScience Museum, check out “The Art of
the Brick,” 52 works by New York-based Lego artist Nathan
Sawaya. His pieces range from a six-meter-long T-rex dinosaur
skeleton to a sculpture of man who has ripped open his chest to
let Lego-shaped guts spill out. There’s also a portrait of
 Jasper Johns .  Lego Blocks  The show’s interactive nature will appeal to all ages (I
saw a couple of guys in their twenties handling Lego blocks.)
You can even go barefoot and walk on the Lego reflexology mat.  The Art of the Brick runs through April 14 at ArtScience
Museum, Marina Bay Sands. Information:
 http://www.marinabaysands.com/Singapore-Museum/About/ .  If you have time to venture further out of town, head for
Gillman Barracks, a former British military garrison that now
houses 13 art galleries scattered across a lush tropical setting
including  Sundaram Tagore  Singapore , Tomio Koyama  Gallery and
ShanghART.  Partners & Mucciaccia  gallery has an all-Italian exhibition
featuring 20th-century works by Picasso, Giorgio de Chirico, and
Cristiano Pintaldi, who uses tiny daubs of paint as “pixels”
to create his figurative images.  Fans of Yayoi Kusama will enjoy her show at  Ota Fine Arts .
The Japanese artist has abandoned her signature polka dots in
favor of lively black-and-white silkscreen drawings with
primitive art motifs. Open through Dec. 20.  Information:  http://www.otafinearts.com/singapore/   (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse Highlights include Farah Nayeri on London arts and
Richard Vines on mince pies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 