-- ‘True Blood’s’ Chris Bauer Stars in ‘America’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-12-13T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/-true-blood-s-chris-bauer-stars-in-america-review.html
Dads are really taking it on the
chin this season (see “The Heiress”), none more so than Hank,
the mackintosh-wrapped sad-sack trying hard to connect with his
estranged teenage daughter in “What Rhymes With America.”  Melissa James Gibson’s funny and engaging, if acrid, play
at the  Atlantic Theater Co.  begins with Hank and daughter
Marlene on either side of an invisible door.  By the time the door opens just a crack in another
conversation 90 minutes later, Hank has been exposed as a loser
with anger management issues.  Played by Chris Bauer (Andy Bellefleur on “ True Blood ”),
he’s a shlub who can’t do anything right. An economist without
portfolio, his zero-success prediction rate has sunk his
marriage and access to research funding.  Booted out and penniless, he can come up with all of $6
when Marlene asks for the $240 he owes her in back allowance.  Gibson gives him a saving grace, however: In his bountiful
spare time, Hank is an extra at the opera, where he has
befriended Sheryl, an aspiring actress. She’s played by the
wonderful Da’Vine Joy Randolph, who made a big splash last
season in the very terrible “Ghost.”  Horned Helmets  In their first scene together on Laura Jellinek’s stark
multi-purpose set, Hank and Marlene appear in Valkyrie regalia
with horned helmets and furry tunics, puffing away during a
break and discussing life in non-operatic terms. In another
scene they continue their conversation as Egyptian slaves from
“Aida.”  These interludes provide relief from Hank’s desperate
efforts to move on with his life.  As Marlene, Aimee Carrero has the vacant look of a girl
who’s lost her moorings. But she’s spookily articulate and the
folksongs she writes and performs are brittle and sad. She wants
to love her father despite his giving her every reason to turn
and run.  In one of the more humiliating scenes I’ve watched on
stage, Hank picks up a grieving, damaged woman (the affecting
Seana Kofoed) at the hospital where Marlene volunteers.  As their lovemaking heats up in his shabby room, he takes a
call from his ex-wife that quickly escalates into angry shouts,
as he pleads with her to take him back while the woman finally
beats a horrified retreat.  Daniel Aukin has staged Gibson’s dark ride with levity and
sympathy for everyone -- even unlikable Hank. It’s a pleasure to
hear such a strong new voice.  Through Dec. 30 at the Atlantic Theater Company, 336 W.
20th St. Information: +1-212-279-4200;
 http://www.ticketcentral.com .
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 