-- MTA Seeks $5 Billion in Sandy Aid After Firing Lobbyists
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-12-13T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/mta-seeks-5-billion-in-sandy-aid-after-firing-its-lobbyists.html
New York ’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority  fired its Washington lobbyists six
months before  Hurricane Sandy  inflicted the most damage in the
108-year history of the  subway system . Now the agency is trying
to get at least $5 billion in federal aid without them.  The MTA jettisoned its four lobbying firms in March and
April, according to  federal disclosure reports . The terminations
were “all about cost cutting,” Chairman Joseph Lhota said in
an e-mail message, part of a drive to cut administrative
spending as the biggest U.S. transit agency battles rising debt
and labor costs.  The state authority is already underfunded compared with
other mass-transit providers, and the firings may exacerbate
that, said Andrew Albert, a member of New York City Transit
Riders Council and the MTA board. Federal aid for MTA capital
projects fell to $6.3 billion in the 2010-2014  capital budget 
from $9.1 billion in the previous five-year plan, according to
the agency’s  annual financial report .  “I’m very surprised that they have nobody there right now,
especially at this time when so many municipalities are
clamoring to get Sandy aid,” said Albert, who wasn’t aware of
the firings until contacted by  Bloomberg News . “To have nobody
there strikes me as a big mistake. Maybe you don’t need four,
but you certainly need more than zero.”  Tidal Surge  Sandy struck New York on Oct. 29, triggering a tidal surge
that inundated rail stations and tunnels. It coated electrical
and communications equipment with corrosive saltwater, and
destroyed  Manhattan ’s newest subway stop.  MTA Chief Financial Officer Robert Foran pegged the
infrastructure damage at $4.75 billion and operating losses
incurred while the system was shut down, including lost revenue
and increased operating costs, at $268 million. The agency is
also seeking funds to protect against future storms.  Last year, the MTA paid a combined $440,000 to three
registered Washington lobbyists:  Porterfield & Lowenthal LLC ,
 Chambers, Conlon & Hartwell LLC  and Vierra Associates Inc.
 Patton Boggs LLP , another firm registered to lobby for the
agency, wasn’t active that year, records show.  “The lobbyists on retainer by the MTA were not providing
an adequate return on investment,” Lhota said in the e-mail,
without elaborating. The agency will rely on the “legislative
prowess” of Cuomo and New York’s congressional delegation in
the quest for federal dollars, he said.  Obama’s Request  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 8 asked Congress for $60.4
billion to pay for storm damage, $22.6 billion less than the
amount sought by Governors  Andrew Cuomo  of New York and  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey .  Of the president’s request, $6.2 billion is targeted to
repair and restore public-transportation infrastructure
controlled by the MTA, the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey,  New Jersey Transit  and New York City’s Transportation
Department. Obama asked for $5.5 billion to prevent damage to
transportation infrastructure from future storms.  Efforts to secure aid for the states hit by Sandy may be
complicated by the U.S. government’s own fiscal strains. Obama
and congressional Republicans are attempting to negotiate a deal
to stop more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts from taking effect starting in January. Those
talks are focused on steps to shrink the federal  budget deficit ,
which is projected at about $1.1 trillion this year.  In addition to the rebuilding aid, the MTA is also seeking
a $3 billion loan from the Federal Railroad Administration to
help complete an $8.2 billion project giving suburban Long
Island Rail Road commuters access to Grand Central Terminal on
the east side of Manhattan.  As Necessary  Lhota, a former  New York City  budget official who took
control of the MTA in November 2011, made the decision to
terminate the lobbying firms. No board resolution or vote was
required, according to Aaron Donovan, an agency spokesman. All
four had been working for the agency since at least 2006, he
said.  “We will use lobbyists if necessary on an as-needed
basis,” Lhota said. “There’s no reason to have lobbyists on
retainer unless there’s a specific purpose.”  The MTA, which moves 8.4 million passengers each weekday,
has a $12.4 billion operating budget and faces deficits of $333
million through 2016, according to a  financial plan  released
last month.  Dennis Vierra, chairman of Vierra Associates, didn’t return
calls seeking comment on the firm’s firing. Adam Nordstrom, a
partner with Chambers, Conlon & Hartwell, and Dawn Callaghan, a
vice president with Porterfield & Lowenthal, didn’t respond to a
request for comment. Elliott Freider, a spokesman for  Patton
Boggs , declined to comment on the MTA’s decision.  Other Agencies  Agencies smaller than the MTA, including operators of the
Los Angeles County,  Chicago  and Washington transit systems, have
Washington lobbyists, according to federal disclosure data.  New Jersey Transit, which suffered damage to 30 percent of
its locomotives and 22 percent of its rail cars after parking
them in yards that flooded, also fired its lone lobbyist this
year, federal records show. The agency runs bus and train
service across the state and into New York City.  Without any outside representatives on  Capitol Hill , the
job of promoting the MTA falls on David Garten, who has served
as director of federal affairs since February 2011, said
Donovan. It’s his job to keep track of transportation policy and
build relationships with elected officials. Garten, 36, also
serves as a senior adviser to the executive director of the  Port
Authority .  His $180,000 salary is split between the MTA and the port
agency, which runs the New York City region’s three major
airports, the PATH trains and six marine-cargo terminals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  