-- Abe Set for Victory as Japanese Vote in Election
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-12-15T23:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/abe-heading-for-japan-victory-faces-7-month-window-to-keep-hold.html
Voters in  Japan  choose a new lower
house of parliament today in an election forecast to return
Shinzo Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party to power after a landslide
loss in 2009.  The LDP and its coalition partner New Komeito may win more
than 300 of the 480 seats in the lower house, according to a
Nikkei newspaper poll published Dec. 14. Prime Minister
Yoshihiko Noda’s Democratic Party of Japan may secure fewer than
70, the least since the party was formed in 1998. The newspaper
surveyed 26,231 people in 70 constituencies and gave no margin
of error.  A victory would give Abe a second chance to lead the
country five years after he quit his first term for health
reasons. He will inherit a country in recession, a split
parliament, and an electorate still reeling from the 2011
earthquake and nuclear crisis.  With elections for the upper house being held in July,
Abe’s plans for aggressive monetary easing and fiscal stimulus
need to produce results or he may last no longer than five
predecessors, none of whom stayed in office longer than 15
months.  “If he fails on the economy, there’s no doubt he will face
a drubbing in the July upper house election and be forced to
step down,” said independent economic analyst Tsukasa Jonen.
“The real test is next year.”  A central bank report two days ago illustrated the
challenges Abe will face, with confidence among large Japanese
manufacturers sliding to the lowest level since the aftermath of
the global recession. The quarterly Tankan index fell to minus
12 in December, the fifth straight release in which pessimists
outnumbered optimists.  Sales Tax  The DPJ retreated from pledges to shrink the bureaucracy
and boost child welfare, and public support for Noda dropped as
he passed a bill doubling the sales tax and restarted atomic
power plants after the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Now, more than half the electorate supports neither the LDP
nor the DPJ, allowing the rise of several smaller parties,
including one led by former  Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara and
Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto. Six prime ministers since 2006 all
started with approval ratings at or above 50 percent only to see
their popularity evaporate.  Revolving Door  To escape the same fate, Abe will have to negotiate with
the Diet’s upper house, where the LDP and Komeito lack a
majority. While the government can pass budgets without the
upper house, it will need opposition support for other
legislation.  “The people of Japan don’t want their leader to change
every year,” said Kazuhisa Kawakami, professor of political
science at Meiji Gakuin University in Tokyo. “But they want
someone who can follow through on policies, and that will create
demands on Abe.”  The world’s third-largest economy contracted in the second
and third quarters, meeting the technical definition of a
recession, hobbled by more than a decade of falling prices.
Sputtering growth underscores the risk that the planned doubling
of the five percent sales tax by 2015 to rein in record debt may
have to be postponed.  Abe has called on the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to provide “unlimited
easing” and set an inflation target of at least 2 percent.
Stocks have gained and the yen has fallen in the past month on
the prospect of more stimulus, helping exporters like Sharp
Corp., whose overseas earnings are hurt by the strong currency.  At the same time, the LDP is promising to increase public
works spending to boost the economy and maintain the country’s
aging infrastructure, a need highlighted this month by the
deaths of nine people in the collapse of a 1970s expressway
tunnel.  Extra Budget  “As soon as Abe takes up his post, I think he will
introduce a large extra budget,” independent political analyst
Minoru Morita said. “That’s what the electorate is hoping for,
so I think it will boost his support.”  The yen has fallen to a nine-month low of 83.96 per dollar
on expectations of an LDP victory and more central bank easing.
The Nikkei 225 Stock Average has gained about 12 percent in the
past month, and bonds have rallied, with 10-year government-debt
yields falling to a nine-year low of 0.695 percent on Nov. 30.  Focusing on the economy may force Abe to shelve foreign
policy measures that include strengthening control over islands
at the heart of a territorial spat with  China , and revising
Japan’s pacifist  constitution  to enshrine the right to maintain
armed forces.  “The first priority is the economic situation,” said
Etsuro Honda, a professor at Shizuoka University and former
diplomat who is an adviser to Abe. Changing the constitution
“takes some time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  