-- Adobe Advances as Revenue, Profit Top Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-12-14T16:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/adobe-revenue-profit-top-estimates-on-software-demand.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  shares climbed
the most in one year after the  software company  reported fiscal
fourth-quarter sales and profit that topped analysts’ estimates
as customers embraced its flagship Creative Suite.  Profit excluding some items for the period, which ended in
November, was 61 cents a share on sales of $1.15 billion, the
 San Jose , California-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts on average had projected profit of 56 cents
a share on revenue of $1.1 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen is transitioning
the world’s largest maker of graphic design software to offer
more of its products over the Web and on mobile devices such as
tablets in addition to personal computers. A subscription
version of Creative Suite that costs less than the software sold
for desktop computers is helping the company add users, said
Peter Goldmacher, an analyst at Cowen & Co.  “The move to subscriptions is happening faster,”
Goldmacher said in a research report this month. Adobe “is
investing aggressively to accelerate the transition.”  Adobe advanced 5.1 percent to $37.33 at 11:03 a.m. in  New
York , and earlier touched $38.10 for the biggest intraday gain
since Dec. 16, 2011. The stock has gained 26 percent this year
through yesterday.  Net income increased 28 percent to $222.3 million, or 44
cents a share, from $173.7 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier.  Product Shift  Through the end of November, Adobe  signed up  about 326,000
paying customers for its Creative Cloud tools, which include the
Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Illustrator products, the company
said earlier this week.  Revenue for the current quarter will be $950 million to $1
billion, Adobe said in a statement. That compared with the
average analyst estimate of $1.07 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding certain items will be 26
cents to 32 cents a share, less than the 57-cent estimate.  Adobe expects profit for the full fiscal year 2013 to be
$1.40 per share on sales of $4.1 billion. Paid subscribers to
the Creative Cloud service will grow to more than 1.25 million
by the end of next year, the company said, meaning revenue
should become more predictable.  “You could look at this as we’re guiding well below where
the Street was, but that’s the wrong way of looking at it,”
Chief Financial Officer Mark Garrett said in an interview
yesterday. By 2014, Adobe’s sales will benefit from keeping
subscribers in its fold instead of users “skipping versions and
disappearing for a while.”  Narayen, CEO for five years, has also been making
 acquisitions  such as Omniture Inc. and Efficient Frontier Inc.
to move the company into software for online marketing as Adobe
moves beyond the PC era.  On Dec. 5, the company added Kelly Barlow, a partner at
investor ValueAct Capital Partners LP, to its board. ValueAct, a
San Francisco-based investment firm with more than $8 billion
under management, has a 6.3 percent  stake  in Adobe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  