-- AirAsia Unveils 100-Jet Order for Airbus to Drive Expansion
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-12-14T08:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/airasia-unveils-100-jet-order-for-airbus-to-help-drive-expansion.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
discount airline, unveiled an order for 100 additional Airbus
A320 jets as the carrier expands to fend off rising competition.  The order includes 36 current-generation A320s and 64 fuel-
efficient A320neos, Airbus said in a statement yesterday. U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  joined AirAsia Group Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes  at Airbus’s wing-manufacturing
facility in Broughton,  Wales , for the announcement of the
contract, valued at $9.4 billion at list price.  AirAsia, which has fallen 29 percent in Kuala Lumpur this
year, is Airbus’s biggest customer for single-aisle aircraft
worldwide. The airline ordered 200 Airbus A320neo aircraft
valued at $18 billion at the  Paris Air Show  last year. Airbus
had already booked the latest order in its tally last month,
without disclosing the customer.  “This order is primarily about expansion,” Fernandes said
in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “Business has
been very strong in Southeast  Asia , especially  Thailand ,
 Indonesia  and  Malaysia , coupled with very robust demand out of
China and India.”  The airline should have no trouble implementing the new
order amid the growth in the regions it serves, said Arnaud Bouchet, a Singapore-based analyst for BNP Paribas SA. Pan-Asian
low-cost carriers also have fewer planes than U.S. and European
counterparts, despite Asia’s higher population and increasingly
affluent middle classes, he said.  ‘Not Worried’  “I’m not worried about overcapacity,” Bouchet said. “Asia
can comfortably absorb additional aircraft in the next 10 years,
particularly if these airlines start replacing their current
fleet.”  AirAsia fell 0.7 percent to 2.69 ringgit at 3:53 p.m. in
 Kuala Lumpur  trading. It’s one of two stocks that will be
removed from the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index from
Dec. 24 after seeing its market capitalization fall this year,
the country’s exchange operator said yesterday.  The carrier has slumped 18 percent since Sept. 10, erasing
more than 1.5 billion ringgit ($491 million) from its market
value, amid concern competition may intensify after Indonesia’s
PT Lion Mentari Airlines said it would help set up a rival low-
cost carrier in Malaysia named Malindo Airways.  “I think we’re trading at a ridiculously low level,” said
Fernandes, who bought back shares last month. “There’s been a
massive over-reaction on some of the impending competition.
We’re very cash positive. We’re going into a have a fantastic
fourth quarter. 2013 looks very good.”  Keeping Momentum  The AirAsia contract has helped Airbus maintain order
momentum for the more fuel-efficient A320neo. Incorporating the
classic A320s into contracts is a bonus, as the manufacturer can
trim the number of unfilled delivery slots for a model that will
be phased out gradually. Production of A320neos will start in
late 2015. Taking some of the existing model will allow it to
get planes faster, Fernandes said.  AirAsia competes with the budget or regional arms of flag
carriers including Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Qantas Airways
Ltd. The airline, based in Sepang, Malaysia, has set up ventures
in the Philippines, Japan, Thailand and Indonesia, and also
faces growing competition from emerging low-cost carriers
seeking to win passengers who demand low-cost travel options.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  