-- Airline Profit Outlook Raised 63% by IATA on Capacity Cut
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-13T11:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/airline-profit-outlook-raised-63-by-iata-on-capacity-cut.html
Airline earnings this year are
likely to be 63 percent higher than previously forecast as
capacity cuts and mergers prompted by the economic slump take
hold, the  International Air Transport Association  said.  Industry-wide net income should reach $6.7 billion, versus
a forecast of $4.1 billion in October, IATA said. Profit next
year may increase to $8.4 billion, $900 million more than last
predicted though still short of the $8.8 billion return in 2011.  Sluggish growth and fuel costs have weighed on earnings for
the past two years, triggering efforts to reduce capacity, cut
costs and accelerate consolidation. The biggest improvement has
been in  Europe , where airlines that were forecast to lose $1.2
billion will break even in the wake of job cuts and takeovers.  “There are further opportunities for consolidation in
Europe,” IATA Chief Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said. Smaller
airlines may find a home in the big three groups of  Air France-
KLM Group (AF) ,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  International Consolidated
Airlines Group (IAG) , though others could also go bust, he added.  The forecast performance for Europe’s airlines would still
represent a $400 million decline from a year ago. North American
carriers will be among the few to see gains on last year, with a
likely collective profit of $2.4 billion, IATA said.  Narrow Margins  Asia-Pacific operators may see the largest drop, the trade
body said, with a profit of $3 billion, down from $5.4 billion.  Margins remain “perilously close” to the point where the
industry turns to a loss, IATA said. Net income is expected to
reach 1 percent of revenue this year and 1.3 percent in 2013,
when carriers may carry more than 3 billion passengers for the
first time.  “Things are moving in the right direction, but the positive
shift is not moving airlines anywhere to the 7 percent to 8
percent that would be needed to cover the industry’s cost of
capital,” Tyler said at a briefing in Geneva.  European airlines are not expected to return to profit next
year, with the region the weakest global performer as the impact
of its efficiency measures is offset by a worsening economic
outlook, IATA Chief Economist Brian Pearce said in an interview.  North American airlines are likely to continue gains in
2013, with profit reaching $3.4 billion, compared with $3.2
billion in the Asia-Pacific and $1.1 billion in the  Middle East .  “We have seen a number of mergers on the U.S. domestic
markets and that has achieved economics of scale that have
benefited investors and consumers,” Pearce said of the North
American revival. Capacity also has been constrained, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  