-- Allscripts Sues NYC Health & Hospitals Over Contract Award
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-13T23:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/allscripts-sues-nyc-health-hospital-over-contract-award.html
Allscripts Healthcare Solutions
Inc. (MDRX) , a provider of electronic medical records, sued New York
City Health and Hospitals Corp. over a $303 million contract
given to another company.  The complaint was filed today in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan over a contract for computer hardware and
software awarded this year to  Epic Systems Corp. , a closely held
medical-software provider based in Verona,  Wisconsin .  The award is “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of
discretion and lacks a rational basis,” according to the
complaint.  “HHC failed to follow evaluation criteria which required
that award be based, in part, on the comparative total cost of
ownership of offerors,” according to the document. “Properly
calculated, the TCO of Allscripts’ proposal represents savings
of up to $535 million in comparison to Epic’s proposal.”  New York  City Health and Hospitals Corp. said in a
statement that it will “defend its well-supported decision”
and prevail in the lawsuit.  “Allscripts’s claim that it underbid Epic by more than
half a billion dollars is absurd and strikes us as an ill-fated
attempt to reassure investors and inflate its sagging stock
price,” the corporation said in the statement. “Unfortunately,
as our multi-year review has revealed, Allscripts lacks a truly
integrated EMR solution and has repeatedly lost business to Epic
and other vendors as a result.”  Board Upheaval  Allscripts, based in  Chicago , began seeking a sale earlier
this year after a board upheaval and shareholder lawsuit earlier
this year that questioned its leadership. In September, the
company lost the New York City contract, and last month it
reported third-quarter revenue declined.  Epic Systems is also named as a defendant in the complaint.
Shawn Kiesau, a spokesman for Epic Systems, declined to comment
on the suit in an e-mail. The company was founded in 1979 by
Judy Faulkner, who is listed 764th on Forbes Magazine’s list of
billionaires with a net worth of $1.7 billion as of September,
 according  to the magazine’s website.  The case is Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc. v. New
York City Health and Hospitals Corp., 654362/2012, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 