-- Amazon, Diane Von Furstenberg, AOL: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-13T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/amazon-diane-von-furstenberg-aol-intellectual-property.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, received a patent on a technology that provides
airbags and other forms of impact protection for mobile phones
and other portable devices.  Patent 8,330,305, which was issued Dec. 11, covers both
airbags and safety monitoring systems that can detect when a
device is dropped.  According to the patent, one in three mobile phones is
damaged or lost in the first year of ownership. Damages
typically occur when the phone has an impact with a hard surface
or becomes submerged in liquid.  Seattle-based Amazon said that “with the number of
cellular phones in use exceeding several billion and repairs
typically exceeding $25, the costs of damage and loss of
cellular phones amounts to billions of dollars per year.”  The patent also covers a “rotational modifier” that could
reorient the falling device so that the impact is less likely to
cause damage because of the cushioning effect of the airbag.  Amazon applied for the patent in February, with the
assistance of  Novak Druce & Quigg LLP  of Washington.  Cipla Gets Revocation of Merck’s Indian Asthma Drug Patent  Merck & Co. (MRK) , the New York-based pharmaceutical company, has
lost patent protection for an asthma drug, the Times of India
 reported .  The Merck patent had been challenged by  Cipla Ltd. (CIPLA)  of
Mumbai, according to the newspaper.  In revoking the patent it granted in 2011, India’s patent
office said the drug was “not inventive,” the Times reported.  The patent revocation was made in the light of
interpretation of 2005 patent rules devised so that India could
comply with regulations of the World Trade organization.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Diane Von Furstenberg Sues Distributor Over Deep Discounts  Diane von Furstenberg Studio LP sued a former distributor
claiming it is selling the luxury brand’s inventory too cheaply
to discounters such as TJ Maxx,  Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  and
Marshalls.  Von Furstenberg terminated a license agreement with London-
based ID Beauty International Distribution Ltd. on Nov. 5. The
distributor has since disregarded its demands to cease sales of
formerly licensed products, according to the complaint, which
seeks a temporary restraining order until an arbitration panel
can hear the case.  “ID Beauty’s malfeasance has not only destroyed the value
of the fragrance brands, it also is spilling over to DVF’s core
luxury ladies’ clothing and footwear brands,” lawyers for DVF
said in the complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery
Court.  Diane von Furstenberg’s company’s products, including
accessories and apparel, are sold at specialty and high-end
retailers such as  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)   ID Beauty’s license agreement required the company to
consult DVF for any retail channel less prestigious than the
high-end space, according to the complaint. Lawyers for DVF said
such consultation never occurred before ID Beauty sold products
in Canada and the U.S. to mass market retailers, including  TJX
Cos. (TJX) , the owner of TJ Maxx and Marshalls, without honoring a
six-month exclusivity period of sale to specialty and high-end
retailers.  ID Beauty sold DVF’s fragrance Love Diane to TJ Maxx and
Marshalls before the October 2012 date it would have been
available to first-tier stores, according to the complaint.  ID Beauty continued to sell products after the termination
of the license agreement and failed to remove references to DVF
and von Furstenberg from its websites and marketing literature,
according to the complaint.  “I don’t think we are going to comment,” Armineh Lascu,
ID Beauty’s vice president of sales, said in a telephone
interview.  The case is Diane Von Furstenberg Studio LP v. ID Beauty
International Distribution Ltd., CA8097, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  Group Seeks ‘Peace Through Strength’ Mark’s Cancellation  A conservative advocacy group based in Washington has
responded to a trademark-infringement lawsuit brought by a
similar organization.  The  Center for Security Policy  said in a Dec. 9 filing that
its use of President  Ronald Reagan ’s stock phrase “Peace
Through Strength” is legal and doesn’t infringe the trademark
of the  American Security Council .  The council, also based in Washington, filed the suit Nov.
7 in federal court in that city, saying it registered the phrase
as a trademark, and that the center’s use of the phrase confused
and deceived the public. The public was likely to assume,
falsely, that a connection existed between the two groups, the
council said in its pleadings.  It asked the court to bar any use of the phrase by the
center, and for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.
The council didn’t seek money damages.  In its court papers, the center argued that Reagan’s phrase
is used by “politicians, political parties, think tanks, the
media and a wide range of organizations and individuals who
identified with Reagan’s policy. That use has been “ongoing
without interruption” since the Reagan presidency, the center
said.  Co-defendant with the center is its founder  Frank Gaffney ,
who was the acting assistance secretary of defense for
international security policy during the Reagan administration.
The center argued that Gaffney has also been publicly identified
with the use of the phrase since 1988. Other national security
specialists have also used the term in the past 24 years, the
center said.  The center accused the council of falsely claiming it was
the owner of the trademark, overlooking the fact that others had
used the phrase. It asked the court to order the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office to cancel the registration for the trademark
and for a declaration that it didn’t infringe.  The case is American Security Council Foundation v. Center
for Security Policy, 1:12-cv-01486-RC, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  AOL’s Dismissal of Bloggers’ Lawsuit Upheld by Appeals Court  AOL Inc. (AOL)  won an appeals court ruling upholding the
dismissal of a lawsuit by unpaid bloggers seeking $105 million
for their work on the  Huffington Post .  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York yesterday upheld a
March ruling by a lower-court judge throwing out the suit, in
which writers were seeking a share in AOL’s $315 million
purchase of the news and opinion website run by Arianna
Huffington. The appeals court agreed that the bloggers submitted
pieces to the Huffington Post for the exposure, knowing they
wouldn’t be paid.  “Plaintiffs were perfectly aware that the Huffington Post
was a for-profit enterprise,” the appeals court said in a
summary ruling. “Plaintiffs understood that they would receive
compensation only in the form of exposure and promotion.”  The lawsuit was filed by a group of writers, led by
Jonathan Tasini, who were seeking to represent a class of about
9,000 unpaid Huffington Post bloggers. The appeals court
rejected claims that AOL, an online publisher based in New York,
unjustly enriched itself by using their work and that the
company engaged in deceptive business practices.  “We’re obviously disappointed,” Jeffrey Kurzon, a lawyer
for the bloggers, said in a telephone interview after the
ruling, adding that he will be “reviewing options.”  The case is Tasini v. AOL Inc., 11-2472, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  Same-Sex Marriage Opponent Gets Protective Order in Case  A federal court in Chicago has issued a protective order in
a copyright case brought against an organization that promotes
school prayer and is opposed to same-sex marriage.  The order, requested by  the Public Advocate of the United
States  of  Falls Church , Virginia, was granted “to protect the
discovery and dissemination of confidential information which
will improperly annoy, embarrass or oppress any party.”  Two residents of Montclair,  New Jersey , sued Public
Advocate in federal court in Denver in September after a photo
of the two of them kissing was used without permission on
mailers opposing same-sex marriage. According to court papers,
the two plaintiffs had chosen that photo to commemorate their
engagement and posted it on their blog to share details about
their upcoming wedding with friends and family.  The mailers to which they objected were sent to Colorado
residents as part of a campaign against state legislators who
had supported a measure granting same-sex couples the right to
enter into civil unions.  Co-plaintiff with the couple is  Kristina Hill  of Brooklyn,
New York, the photographer who took the photo. According to
court papers, Hill said in a blog posting that it was “heart-
breaking” to see her photo used that way.  In a Nov. 2 court filing, Public Advocate argued that its
use of the photo was political speech permitted under the First
Amendment and fell into copyright law’s “fair use” provisions.  The plaintiffs have asked the court for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Kristina Hill v. Public Advocate of the United
States, 1“12-02550-WYD, U.S. District Court, District of
Colorado (Denver).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Legislation  Putin Vetoes Proposed Breaks for Medvedev’s Innovation Hub  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  vetoed legislation passed
by parliament on changes to the Skolkovo innovation hub, a
project championed by Premier  Dmitry Medvedev , threatening to
widen a rift between the two men.  The bill, which proposed delaying mandatory residency
requirements for Skolkovo, needs additional work to determine
measures for evaluating the program’s effectiveness, the Kremlin
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The law also raises
questions related to safeguards and regulations of intellectual-
property rights, according to the statement.  Skolkovo, unveiled in 2010 and based outside Moscow, was a
hallmark of Medvedev’s efforts to modernize the world’s biggest
energy exporter by weaning Russia off its reliance on
commodities and nurturing a knowledge-based economy that can
compete globally. Medvedev, who was president before swapping
jobs with Putin in May, has sought to model the technology hub
after Silicon Valley, offering tax breaks and other incentives
to lure investment.  “This may signal another fight between elite groups, and
it’s a blow for Medvedev, who masterminded the project,”  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a Moscow-based political analyst, said by
phone. “It’s unprecedented for Putin to veto a law that passed
both houses of the parliament.”  IP Moves  Kilpatrick Hires Kellogg’s Brian O’Donnell for IP Group  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP hired Brian O’Donnell
for its IP practice, the Atlanta-based firm said in a  statement .  O’Donnell joins the firm from the  Kellogg Co. (K)  of Battle
Creek, Michigan, where he oversaw the company’s patent and
trademark portfolio. He also did IP-related transactional work
for the cereal company.  He has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
Illinois , a master’s degree in international relations from the
 London School  of Economics and a law degree from Loyola
University Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 