-- AmEx Earnings Forecast Resiliency Among U.S. Consumers
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-12-13T05:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/amex-earnings-forecast-resiliency-among-u-s-consumers.html
Shares of  American Express Co. (AXP)  are
poised to rally as analysts signal its earnings growth will
outpace companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, even as
investors have yet to reflect such optimism.  The stock -- which closed at $57.67 yesterday -- is still
12 percent below its 2007 high of $65.55, even though the New
York-based company is more profitable and consumers are in
“better shape” than five years ago, said David Yucius, who
oversees $250 million in assets as president of Aurora
Investment Counsel in Atlanta. The company’s  shares  peaked five
months before the 18-month recession began in December 2007.  “While the stock is not the most expensive it’s been, it
may not be the cheapest, either,” Yucius said. It probably
could rally into the $60 range “without breaking too much
sweat.”  As the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases,
American Express is a “good proxy” of investor sentiment about
discretionary spending, particularly among high-income
Americans, Yucius said. That’s because its revenue is derived
directly from the amount cardholders charge, he added.  It also “owns,” or is responsible for, the credit risk
associated with some of the purchases on its cards, said Sanjay Sakhrani, an analyst in New York at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.  Consumer spending in the U.S. climbed at a  1.4 percent  rate
in the third quarter, the smallest gain in more than a year and
down from a previously reported 2 percent advance, according to
data released Nov. 29 by the Commerce Department.  Tax Increases  The key to American Express’s outperformance is a
resolution in the impass between Congress and President  Barack Obama  on more than $600 billion in higher taxes and spending
cuts scheduled to take effect in January 2013. This has been a
drag on investor optimism, partly because the company’s
customers -- affluent consumers who typically earn more than
$100,000 and corporations both small and global -- “arguably
are disproportionately affected by potential tax increases,”
Sakhrani said.  American Express has lagged behind the S&P 500 by 7.1
percentage points since July 6 as the analysts’ forward-looking
consensus estimate for earnings has outpaced the stock benchmark
by 2.9 percentage points. While the stock’s performance
historically has tracked earnings forecasts on a relative basis,
this relationship has collapsed recently. That’s one reason why
“American Express presents an interesting opportunity for
investors right now,” Sakhrani said.  Rising Income  The credit-card issuer’s net income rose to $1.09 a share
in the three months ended Sept. 30 from $1.03 a year earlier,
the company reported Oct. 17, matching analysts’ estimates.  If the stock trades above the relative peak of Oct. 11 --
six days before the company reported third-quarter results --
this would signal investor sentiment toward the stock is
becoming more bullish, said Jim Stellakis, founder and director
of research at New York-based research company Technical Alpha
Inc. and a chartered market technician. Since mid-October, the
shares have been “tracking the broader market,” a reflection
of investor indifference.  Even if Congress and Obama can reach an agreement, the
result might be only temporary outperformance for American
Express shares, according to Lance Roberts, who oversees $500
million as chief executive officer of Streettalk Advisors LLC in
Houston.  ‘Initial Pop’  Any “initial pop” probably would be psychological, rather
than driven by fundamentals, because the company’s “top-line
sales have been decelerating” this year as sluggish growth in
the U.S. and a  recession  in the 17-nation euro area hurts
earnings and profit margins, he said.  An agreement that includes higher taxes would restrain
consumer spending, which also could cause American Express to
start “under-earning” the market, Roberts said, adding that
his fund has never owned shares of the company.  When the relationship between American Express’s stock
price and earnings estimates detached in the past, the shares
rebounded to catch back up with the analysts’ forecasts, he
said. That occurred earlier this year and in 2011 as investors
anticipated aggressive monetary policy from the Federal Reserve,
creating a bullish influence on their asset-allocation
decisions.  Diminishing Impact  “This time could be different,” however, because there’s
a diminishing impact from the Fed’s third round of quantitative
easing, announced Sept. 13, and future policy action, Roberts
said. The central bank said yesterday it will expand its asset-
purchase program to buy $45 billion of Treasury securities a
month starting in January.  One question investors are asking themselves is “how much
to pay for earnings growth that’s driven by operating leverage”
from lower expenses, which is “finite,” Sakhrani said. While
they await more substantial signs of economic improvement,
American Express shares seem “somewhat under-appreciated.”  The stock is trading at about 12 times earnings on a
forward-looking basis, which compares with a historical average
multiple of 15.5 since January 2000, said Sakhrani, who
maintains an “outperform” recommendation on the company.  Even though the U.S. expansion is slow, “we’re not in a
2007-era precipice” and the next three to five years probably
will “look at least as good as the last three to five years,”
Yucius said. His fund doesn’t currently hold shares of American
Express, though the  consensus analysts’ earnings estimates  of
$4.37 this year and $4.71 for 2013 “at least support” the 2007
share-price high, he said.  “This stock has the financial characteristics that pass
our screens as growth-at-a-reasonable-price investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  