-- Amnesty International Urges Sudan to Halt Crackdown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   G u n n
-- 2012-12-13T11:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/amnesty-international-urges-sudan-to-halt-crackdown.html
Sudan ’s police used “excessive
force” to quell protests that erupted this week following the
death of four students who were arrested for participating in a
peaceful sit-in at their university,  Amnesty International  said.  Police beat protesters calling for an end to President Umar al-Bashir’s government, dispersed them with tear gas and
arrested “scores” in the capital, Khartoum, London-based
Amnesty said late yesterday in a  statement . About 100 students
were wounded in clashes on Dec. 11, the state-run Sudanese Media
Centre said. Sudanese police spokesman al-Ser Ahmed Omar had his
mobile phone switched off when called for comment.  The demonstrations were sparked by the death of the four
students from the western region of Darfur after they were
arrested by the National Security Service following the Dec. 3
sit-in at their university in Jazeera state, Amnesty said. Their
bodies bore signs of beatings, it said.  “Sudanese security services have clearly used excessive
force since the first peaceful murmurings of dissent at last
week’s student sit-in,” Audrey Gaughran, Amnesty
International’s Africa director, said in the statement.  The Minister of Justice promised to set up a commission of
inquiry to investigate the deaths of the four students, Amnesty
said. In the past, the government has failed to conduct
impartial probes, it said.  The authorities also used force to clamp down on a wave of
protests that started in mid-June against austerity policies,
Amnesty International and New York-based Human Rights Watch  said 
at the time. The government imposed them after Sudan lost about
three-quarters of its oil production when  South Sudan  gained
independence last year.  “The economy is doing horribly, corruption is a problem,
prices are increasing,” EJ Hogendoorn, East Africa analyst with
the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “The student protests are not a
threat in and of themselves, but if they expand they would put a
huge amount of pressure on the regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Gunn in Khartoum at 
 mgunn14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  