-- Amtrak Acela Replacement Plan Creates Bombardier Rivalry
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-12-14T17:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/amtrak-plans-to-replace-all-high-speed-acela-trains.html
Amtrak ’s plan to replace its fleet
of Acela trains provides an opportunity for  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) ,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and others who
want to compete with  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the supplier of equipment
used since the service’s start.  “There’s not that many companies that build the trains,”
said Andy Kunz, president and chief executive officer of the
U.S. High Speed Rail Association, a Washington-based group whose
members include Bombardier,  Alstom SA (ALO) , Siemens and Patentes
Talgo SA. “But the handful that there are would all be ready to
bid.”  Replacing the Acela, which can operate at speeds of as much
as 150 miles per hour, may be Amtrak’s biggest equipment
purchase since it bought the original trains in a contract
valued at $1.2 billion when signed in 1996. Amtrak doesn’t have
a cost estimate because it’s at “the very beginning of this
process,”  Steve Kulm , a railroad spokesman, said.  Montreal-based Bombardier worked with Alstom, based in
Levallois-Perret,  France , to build the 20 Acela train sets that
consist of locomotives integrated with passenger cars. “We
would love to work with Amtrak on their next generation of
trains,” Maryanne Roberts, a Bombardier spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail yesterday.  Bombardier rose 2 cents to C$3.42 as of 12:52 p.m. in
Toronto.  Bullet Trains  The 12-year-old Acela, which operates between Washington
and Boston, is by far Amtrak’s fastest and most profitable
service. It produced about a fourth of the taxpayer-supported
railroad’s $2 billion in ticket revenue for the year ended Sept.
30. About 3.4 million passengers rode Acela trains during that
period.  Amtrak’s decision to buy new trains comes as it develops
long-range plans to offer service as fast as 220 miles per hour
(354 kilometers per hour) in the Northeast, an effort it has
said will cost $151 billion. The railroad doubled its share of
air-rail travel between  New York  and  Washington , to about 75
percent, between 2000 and 2011 after the Acela was introduced
and airport security became more time-consuming after the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks.  In announcing the fleet replacement yesterday, Amtrak said
it scrapped a plan to buy 40 Acela passenger cars from
Bombardier and lengthen each train set by two cars to increase
capacity.  “What we really need to do is replace the Acela with new
equipment,” Amtrak Chief Executive Officer Joseph Boardman told
a congressional committee in Washington. “I told our folks they
need to get this done by the time I’m 70, and I’ll be 64 next
year.”  Increased Demand  The Washington-based railroad is already buying new
equipment for its slower, long-distance train services,
replacing cars made as long ago as the 1940s. In July 2010, it
announced a $298.1 million contract for 130 passenger cars with
the U.S. unit of CAF, based in Gipuzkoa,  Spain . Three months
later, it said it would spend $466 million on 70 new electric
locomotives made by Siemens, based in Munich.  In a fleet plan issued in March,  Amtrak  estimated the
lifespan of Acela trains to be 20 to 25 years.  “By the time they get to be replaced, they’ll be 18 to
20” years old, Kulm, the Amtrak spokesman, said. “It’s not
that the equipment is wearing out; it’s that the demand has
increased.”  Amtrak gets rid of passenger rail cars too quickly, said
Michael Weinman, an operating officer at Amtrak in the 1970s,
said in an e-mail. He is managing director of PTSI
Transportation, a consultancy based in Rutherford,  New Jersey .  Car Retirement  “Only Amtrak insists on retiring cars prematurely, and has
gone through 1,000 or 2,000 fine cars, simply scrapping them and
never maintaining them,” Weinman said. “This should be
considered fiscal imprudence, as they are the stewards of the
taxpayer largess which was used to pay for these vehicles.”  Amtrak has continued to work with Bombardier despite a
series of mechanical and design failures in the early years of
Acela service that embroiled the companies in litigation. Its
start was delayed almost a year and twice, in 2002 and 2005,
Amtrak parked the entire Acela fleet to fix cracks in brakes and
shock absorbers.  Other defects included the passenger cars being four inches
too wide to use tilting mechanisms that allow for higher speeds
while rounding corners, and restroom doors that “frequently
trapped passengers from exiting the toilet,” author Frank Wilner wrote in “Amtrak Past, Present, Future,” published this
year.  Wilner has worked as a spokesman for the United
Transportation Union and as chief of staff for the U.S. Surface
Transportation Board, which regulates rail rates and mergers.  Old Technology  Amtrak abandoned its plan to buy more Acela passenger cars
after its inspector general questioned the “high dollar value
and Amtrak’s plan to award a sole-source contract,” according
to a Dec. 4  report .  “They were too expensive,” Boardman said.  The cost of replacing the Acela will be higher than the
fleet’s original cost because of rail safety regulations imposed
since 1996, Tom Simpson, president of the Washington-based
Railway Supply Institute, said in an interview.  Those include higher standards for crashworthiness of
passenger rail cars and a requirement for technology, known as
positive train control, that can automatically stop a train
before a collision.  The Acela is built with technology that dates back 15 years
so it makes sense for Amtrak to look at newer options, David Gunn, Amtrak’s president from 2002 to 2005, said in an
interview.  ‘Best Face’  The Acela is heavier than bullet trains in  Europe  because
it was built to stringent U.S. crash standards, he said. That’s
necessary in part because U.S. passenger and freight trains
share tracks, even on the Amtrak-owned Northeast Corridor.  Because just two rail tunnels lead into New York’s  Penn
Station , the only way to get more passengers on the popular
service is to add rail cars, and the Acela was built to operate
at one length, Gunn said. Maintenance facilities in New York,
Washington and Boston won’t accommodate longer trains, he said.  “You can create a longer Acela, but it would create a
bunch of additional problems,” Gunn said. “If you were going
for new equipment, you wouldn’t just dust off the Acela.”  While Acela trains can travel as fast as 150 miles per hour
(241 kilometers per hour), the limitations of tracks and tunnels
along most of the route dictate that they move more slowly.
Seventeen are in operation on weekdays with trains leaving
Washington and  Boston , and New York in both directions, about
hourly.  Replacing the Acela rather than making the trains longer
could delay getting additional capacity on the popular route,
Ross Capon, president of the National Association of Railroad
Passengers, a Washington-based advocacy group, said in an
interview.  “My concern is, when all is said and done, the additional
capacity will be farther in the future,” Capon said. “I just
wonder if it’s trying to put the best face on a bad situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  