-- Mozilo Unbowed Says Countrywide Was ‘World-Class Company’
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-13T19:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/angelo-mozilo-unbowed-says-countrywide-was-world-class-company-.html
Countrywide Financial Corp. co-
founder  Angelo Mozilo  said under oath last year that he had “no
regrets” about how he ran the mortgage firm and that he only
agreed to a record $67.5 million regulatory settlement in 2010
to protect his children.  Mozilo, who led the lender blamed by lawmakers and
regulators for contributing to the housing collapse, spoke in a
June 2011 deposition as part of a lawsuit between his firm,
which was bought by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , and  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ,
according to documents filed this week in  New York . MBIA, once
the biggest bond insurer, claims Countrywide committed fraud by
securitizing loans that were riskier than promised.  The crisis was “not caused by an act of Countrywide,”
said Mozilo, 73, according to a transcript of the deposition.
“This is all about an unprecedented, cataclysmic situation,
unprecedented in the history of this country. Values in this
country dropped by 50 percent.”  Bank of America , the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by  assets ,
has spent more than $40 billion to clean up mortgages inherited
from the 2008 Countrywide purchase. Congressional investigators
released e-mails from Mozilo, the Countrywide chief executive
officer, showing that as  early  as 2004 he was concerned about
the decline in quality of mortgages the lender was originating.  Mozilo was responding to questions from an MBIA attorney
who asked if he regretted how Calabasas, California-based
Countrywide was run after “all the foreclosures and ruined
lives and lawsuits.” Mozilo called the lawyer’s question
“nonsensical and insulting.”  Mortgage Mess  “I have no regrets about how Countrywide was run,” Mozilo
said. “We were a world-class company in every respect.”  Mozilo sought to defend his company’s role in  the mortgage
mess  even before the U.S. housing market showed signs of
recovery from the bursting of the housing bubble. Had he known
that unemployment would surge and housing prices would collapse
during the financial crisis, Mozilo said he would’ve attempted
to sell his company years earlier than he did.  The firm only made loans that it was confident would be
repaid, Mozilo said. Countrywide was the third-largest subprime
lender in 2006, with about $40.6 billion in the mortgages,
compared with $44.6 billion in 2005, according to data from
Inside Mortgage Finance.  “We never made a loan knowingly -- and it would be stupid
to do so -- that we knew the borrower could not pay. Never,”
Mozilo said. “All our loans had that one standard from 1968 to
the end of my reign at Countrywide.”  ‘Dire’ Warnings  While publicly reassuring investors about the quality of
his loans, Mozilo issued “dire” internal warnings and engaged
in  insider trading  accelerating stock sales to reap about $140
million, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleged in
a 2009 lawsuit. In one e-mail, he described a “particularly
profitable subprime product as ‘toxic.’”  He also wrote that Countrywide was “flying blind” and had
“no way” to determine the risks of some adjustable-rate
mortgages, the SEC said.  In 2010, Mozilo agreed to a $67.5 million settlement to
resolve SEC claims that he misled investors, without admitting
or denying the allegations. The  Justice Department  ended a
criminal investigation of Mozilo without bringing charges, a
person familiar with the investigation said in February 2011.  He paid the $22.5 million fine included in the SEC deal to
protect his nine grandchildren and five children from the
effects of his notoriety, Mozilo said.  ‘Really Proud’  “It had nothing to do with anything that I did at
Countrywide or anything I did in my personal life,” Mozilo
said. Relatives “were being harassed in school. My name was in
the paper every day nationally and internationally, accusing me
of things that were absolutely untrue. I could not have my
family go through it anymore, and that’s why I settled.”  Mozilo “remains really proud of his company and this
institution he built,” said his attorney,  David Siegel . “It
would be unfair to say he doesn’t feel a great deal of empathy
for the honest, hard-working Americans who suffered in the
financial crisis.”  Information in the public record contradicts Mozilo’s
contention that Countrywide never knowingly made a bad loan,
said  Joel Bernstein , the lead lawyer for plaintiffs in a
shareholder lawsuit that  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America settled for $600 million.  “A lot of people would find a different solution for their
grandchildren being pestered than agreeing to a $67 million
settlement,” Bernstein said.  ‘Friends’ Program  If he were in Mozilo’s position, Bernstein said, he would
have found a different school for them.  In the 2011 deposition, Mozilo also denied that there was a
program called “Friends of Angelo” to reward high-profile
customers, including elected officials, with below-market rates
for home loans. Instead, he said that he gave people including
taxi drivers, stewardesses, and gardeners his business card.  “Almost everybody I come in contact with, that was my job,
was to originate loans,” Mozilo said. “That’s who I was.
That’s why I started the company.”  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to
comment, as did  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman. Lawrence
Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, didn’t respond to a
telephone call seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  