-- Tank-like Mercedes-Benz G Wagon Ideal for Baby on Board
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-12-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/tank-like-mercedes-benz-g-wagon-ideal-for-baby-on-board.html
This was it, my first big decision
as a dad. What car would I bring my newborn son home in?  Though I live in New York City, a taxi or subway didn’t
feel quite right. Since I review cars for a living, the world is
my automotive oyster.  My son, Max, was born two months premature and after
spending several weeks in intensive care, he still seemed
fragile. I wanted something tough, something impregnable.  A tank, perhaps. But also something with a dash of style
and speed.  So my wife, Miranda, and I arrived at the hospital in a
2013  Mercedes-Benz G550 SUV . This hulk weighs more than 5,500
pounds and is 6.3 feet tall.  The $113,900 G-Class, or Gelandewagen as it’s known in
Deutschland, started life in the late 1970s as a military
vehicle, serving a number of international armies. In 2007 the
Vatican got a customized one for use as the Popemobile. Good
enough for that Father, good enough for this one.  The civilian version has been around for more than 30 years
and its exterior has changed little. It has body-on-frame
construction, like a truck. The front window is upright, the
hood, roof and sides flat. Boxy? Well, it’s the only $100,000-
plus vehicle I can think of that could be easily replicated
using Lego blocks.  Yellow Cabs  It stands atop knobby tires and its tall, brutish fenders
could brush aside boulders. Crown Victoria taxis should present
little problem.  On the big day, car seat secured in the rear, I slapped
down on the gas pedal and the G550 bolted, laying a streak of
rubber on the street, courtesy of a bison-esque 391 pound-feet
of torque. Miranda looked at me pointedly. None of that once we
pick up Max.  The G-Class’s interior has gotten a recent upgrade,
including a thin navigation screen and nice leather. There’s
even a  Harman Kardon  stereo system that nearly washes out the
sound from the engine bay, where it sounds like the machinery is
masticating a dinosaur.  In a sense, it is. The 2013 model has a very rowdy 5.5-
liter V-8 with 382 horsepower and it gets an abominable 12 miles
per gallon in the city, 15 highway. The EPA estimates that over
five years the G550’s annual fuel cost will run $10,300 more
than an average new vehicle.  Wide Berth  On Park Avenue, we drove around Grand Central Terminal and
then through the tricky, narrow corridor of the Park Avenue
viaduct. The G550 leaned heavily in the turn; other cars gave us
a wide berth. Past 46th Street, taxis parted like the yellow sea
as we bucked up the avenue.  At the hospital, we valeted the SUV at the attached
underground garage, and retrieved our squawking bundle of joy.  We made it home safely.  Still, the Gelandewagen was originally designed for off-
road use, not Park Avenue. It has three separate locking
differentials, the kind of 4X4 gear which would allow you to
climb a towering cliff.  I didn’t want to do a disservice to the machine, Max or
myself, so several months later I got hold of the fancier,
faster and more expensive version, the  G63 AMG . It starts at
more than $135,000, and wrings 536 hp from its twin-turbocharged
V-8.  Loud, Brash  If anything, the G63 is louder, brasher and even less
sensible: a heavy SUV built to ford rivers, which can also drag
race sports cars. Ideal for drug dealers or “Housewives of
Beverly Hills,” presumably.  A bigger, healthier Max strapped down in the rear, we
headed for the hills. I wanted to get the G63 to a place it
rarely goes: the dirt. In the miles it took to get into the
backcountry, I tried to ignore both the fuel gauge and the slack
steering, which discourages you from getting too aggressive in
corners.  Eventually I found an unpaved road that led into state game
land. It was a narrow track through thick trees, where I
discovered, happily, the first of many deep mud holes. I
probably should have crept through the thick, goopy mire.  Instead I gave a hoot and blasted into the pit, spraying
mud in all directions.  Sadly there were no mountains or boulder-strewn hills to
climb, where I could have tested the three differentials to
their full potential (I did engage them, and they do function).  Back on asphalt, the G63’s underside was caked with muck,
and the twin exhaust pipes were sending out plumes of steam.  I stole a look into the back to see how Max had enjoyed his
first off-road excursion.  He was sound asleep.  The 2013 Mercedes-Benz G550 and G63 AMG at a Glance  Engines: 5.5-liter V-8 with 382 horsepower and 391 pound-  feet of torque; 5.5-liter V-8 with 544 hp and 560 lb-ft of  torque.  Transmissions: Seven-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 6 seconds; 5.3 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 12 city, 15 highway; 12, 14.  Price as tested: $118,155; $138,000.  Best features: Imposing nature; off-road ability.  Worst features: Bouncy ride; unrepentant gas hog.  Target buyer: Military commandos with kids.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 