-- Anxious Pigeons, Big Swingers, Chains Bring Fun to Armory
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/anxious-pigeons-big-swingers-chains-bring-fun-to-armory.html
“Let’s run right to a swing!” a man
in his early sixties said to his companions.  We were all there to participate in Ann Hamilton’s multi-
sensory installation, and the anticipation outside New York’s
Park Avenue  Armory  was palpable.  I wanted to be among the first to enter when “the event of
a thread” was activated -- to experience the artwork in its
stillness and then to watch it set sail and take flight.  Just inside the Wade Thompson Drill Hall was a long wooden
table at which sat two handsome people in stylish, blue-denim
jackets and wooly capes.  They read Aristotle, Darwin and Ralph Waldo Emerson from
unfurled scrolls into vintage microphones. Their monotone
whispers emanated from numerous radios, each wrapped like a
school lunch in a brown paper bag tied up with string. You could
hold the bags to your ears and carry them about.  Sharing the table were a dozen small stacked cages holding
homing pigeons. The authoritarian-barnyard tone -- “Animal Farm”
meets “Ninety Eighty-Four” -- was retro-futuristic. Cramped and
startled, the pigeons defecated prodigiously. My first impulse
was to contact the  ASPCA , but art spurred me onward.  Beyond the table, bisecting the 55,000-square-feet hall was
a diaphanous white curtain. Scalloped at top and bottom, arcing
across the center, it remained motionless until visitors began
to mount the 42 wide-planked wooden swings that hung around the
room, interconnected by chains, ropes and pulleys.  Billowing Sail  As more and more participants began to swing, the curtain
increasingly billowed, fell and rose in response. At times it
resembled sails or a giant sheet flapping in the wind. At
others, it looked like a silken wall of rain, white rapids and a
waterfall.  Up above, ropes danced and creaked like ship’s rigging.
Some were attached to sleigh bells and rang like cell phones, so
it sounded like an orchestra warming up.  Empty swings, inviting yet restless, rocked and swayed, and
as I began to swing I felt cooling breezes as well as the tug of
others’ swings. The curtain pushed and pulled, as if linked to
my feet by invisible threads, and I felt the airy snap-and-
rhythm of its deep breathing.  Playful, graceful -- a return to childhood -- “the event of
a thread” was soothing, yet Hamilton’s installation fell far
short of spectacular. Its theatricality was all preamble and
overture.  Beauty and lightness were weighed down by the pretentious
philosophical ballast of the spoken word. Hamilton’s “event” was
a curtain that never fully rose on a performance that never got
under way.  “The event of a thread” runs through Jan. 6 at the Park
Avenue Armory, 643 Park Ave. Information: +1-212-616-3930;
 http://www.armoryonpark.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and Jason
Harper on  cars .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 