-- Apple, LG Electronics Defeat Alcatel-Lucent Patent Claims
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2012-12-13T20:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/apple-lg-electronics-defeat-alcatel-lucent-patent-claims.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
didn’t infringe an  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  unit’s patents for
electronic devices including phones and computers, a jury said.  The verdict today came after a trial that began Nov. 27 in
federal court in  San Diego  over a 2010 lawsuit by the Paris-
based company’s Multimedia Patent Trust accusing Apple and LG
Electronics of copying video-compression technology that allows
data to be sent more efficiently over communications media,
including the Internet and satellites, or stored on DVDs and
Blu-Ray disks.  The trust claimed its patents were infringed by products
including multiple versions of Apple’s iPhone, iPod, iPad and
MacBook, as well as LG Electronics’ Chocolate Touch VX8575,
Bliss UX700, Touch AX8575, Lotus Elite LX610, Mystique UN610 and
Samba LG8575.  Alcatel-Lucent’s attorney, Frederick Lorig, asked jurors to
award $172.3 million in royalty damages from Apple and $9.1
million from LG Electronics. Apple was accused of infringing
three Alcatel-Lucent patents and LG Electronics was alleged to
have infringed two of the patents.  Industrywide Pool  Attorneys for Apple and LG Electronics told jurors that
their companies had already paid the Multimedia Patent Trust for
the technology covered by the patents from an industrywide
“pay-as-you-go” pool.  They said the trust is trying to broaden the scope of its
intellectual property to cover new electronic advances in the
allegedly infringing products based on technology that
supersedes the patents.  Lorig declined to comment on the verdict as did Michael
McKeon, an attorney for LG Electronics.  “We are very pleased with the verdict,” said Apple’s
attorney, Juanita Brooks. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for
Apple, declined to comment.  Apple today lost an infringement case brought by patent-
licensing firm MobileMedia Ideas LLC when a federal jury in
 Delaware  decided the iPhone maker misappropriated protected
technology for the handheld devices. The panel found
infringement of three patents. The judge hasn’t yet scheduled a
trial on damages.  The case is Multimedia Patent Trust v. Apple, 3:10-
cv-02618, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California 
(San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  