-- Apple Infringes Three Patents With the IPhone, Jury Says
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-12-13T23:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/apple-infringes-three-patents-with-the-iphone-jury-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost an infringement case
brought by patent-licensing firm  MobileMedia Ideas LLC  when a
federal jury decided the maker of the iPhone misappropriated
protected technology for the handheld devices.  Jurors in Wilmington,  Delaware , deliberated about four
hours after a weeklong trial before also concluding today that
the three patents aren’t invalid.  “We’re very pleased,” MobileMedia Chief Executive Officer
Larry Horn said in a courtroom interview after the trial. “We
think it’s justified.”  The Apple iPhone is the No. 1 smartphone in the U.S.,
outselling all handsets using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software
combined in the 12 weeks through Oct. 28, according to Kantar
Worldpanel ComTech. The device, once offered exclusively by AT&T
Inc. in the U.S., is offered by  Verizon Wireless ,  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  and beginning in 2013, T-Mobile USA Inc.  U.S. District Judge Sue L. Robinson hasn’t yet scheduled a
trial on damages, which Horn said could be “substantial.”  Apple declined to comment on the verdict, spokeswoman
 Kristin Huguet  said in an e-mail.  MobileMedia, based in  Chevy Chase , Maryland, sued
Cupertino, California-based Apple in 2010 contending it
infringed 14 patents for electronics. Robinson took the case to
trial after the number of patents was whittled to three.  ‘Irreparable Injury’  In its complaint, MobileMedia contended it would suffer
“irreparable injury” if Apple was allowed to use the patented
inventions in its iPhone without paying royalties.  “We’re not in the litigation business” and just want to
license the patents, Horn said. The patents in the suit were
originally owned by Sony Corp. and Nokia Oyj, according to court
filings.  Horn said one patent is for the camera phone and others
cover call handling and call rejection. He said MobileMedia has
a portfolio of about 300 patents.  MobileMedia told Robinson in a court disclosure statement
that 10 percent or more of its stock is owned by Nokia,  Sony
Corp. (6758)  of America and MPEG LA, a patent-licensing authority.  “This was a very difficult case,” Steve Bauer, a partner
at Proskauer Rose LLP, said in an e-mailed statement. “It
required us to take the jury back to 1994-1998, when these
technologies were first invented.”  Apple fell $9.31, or 1.7 percent, to $529.69 today in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  The case is MobileMedia Ideas LLC v. Apple Inc., 10-cv-258,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). To see
the patents, click: 6,070,068; 6,253,075; and 6,427,078.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  