-- Taqa Seeks to Remove Abu Dhabi From Rating Equation: Arab Credit
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-12-13T14:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/taqa-seeks-to-remove-abu-dhabi-from-rating-equation-arab-credit.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , a
utility whose bonds would be rated junk without government
backing, wants to reduce its debt burden within five years so
its investment-grade status is justified by operations alone.  “Our aim over the medium term is to pay down our debt so
that we can take ourselves to a stand-alone investment-grade
credit rating,” Chief Financial Officer Stephen Kersley said in
an interview at his Abu Dhabi office on Dec. 10. “At the moment
we’re an investment-grade credit, but on the back of government
support. We want to get our underlying metrics to investment
grade.”  Without backing from its 75 percent owner Abu Dhabi, Taqa
would be  regarded as junk , according to Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service. Instead, the utility is ranked A at
S&P, the sixth-highest investment grade. Taqa, which last month
bought stakes in North Sea oil fields from  BP Plc (BP/) , shaved 2.25
percentage points off its 10-year borrowing costs at a $1.25
billion bond sale this month, compared with a similar 2011 sale.  The company, which has  $10 billion in outstanding bonds 
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, aims to reduce debt by
eventually letting notes mature without refinancing or by buying
back bonds, Kersley said. The North Sea additions are set boost
daily output from that region by 21,000 barrels, or about 50
percent, helping the company, which gets about half of its
revenue from oil and gas, generate revenue.  State Bailouts  The yield on its 5.875 percent notes due December 2021
bonds dropped 246 basis points, or 2.46 percentage points, since
Taqa sold the securities in December 2011, to 3.42 percent
today. That outpaced the 140 basis-point decrease to 4.61
percent on Dec. 6 in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI Broad
Utilities Blended Yield index. Abu Dhabi’s $1.5 billion of 2019
bonds, rated AA at S&P, yield 1.98 percent, down 131 basis
points this year.  Abu Dhabi, holder of most United Arab Emirates oil
reserves, stepped in to bail out its biggest developer,  Aldar
Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , last year with a $9.8 billion lifeline after
the global credit crisis caused properties in the emirate to
lose more than half their value. The government also granted $5
billion to Dubai in 2009 as part of a $20 billion rescue package
to help its neighbor stave off a default.  Financial Support  The government has “made very clear, explicit statements
that they would provide financial support on a timely basis to
the four government-related entities,” Kersley said, naming
Taqa, Mubadala Development Co. International Petroleum
Investment Co. and Tourism Development & Investment Co. “The
financial support is explicit, but short of a guarantee.”  Taqa aims to change the ratings equation as the assets it
owns in the Middle East,  India , North America and  Europe 
generate revenue in the coming years. Utility assets usually
provide stable, predictable returns, while most of Taqa’s
hydrocarbon holdings are producing already, thereby avoiding
exploration risk, Kersley said.  “We have about $30 billion in our balance sheet, about
half are power and water assets and about half are oil and
gas,” he said. “In oil and gas, the bulk of what we own are
producing assets.”  U.K., Kurdistan  Hydrocarbon production from the new assets can add to
income quickly, mitigating the effect of any additional
investment costs, he said. The company’s  sales rose 43 percent 
to 8.83 billion dirhams ($2.4 billion) in the third quarter,
although it swung a loss due to higher operating expenses and
one-time costs.  Taqa hasn’t modified a plan to invest about $2 billion a
year on projects following this year’s purchases, including the
$1.1 billion it’s paying BP for the offshore U.K. fields,
Kersley said. The utility also spent about $600 million last
month to gain control of the Atrush deposit in  Iraq ’s northern
Kurdistan region, while it sold its interest in Kurdish producer
 WesternZagros Resources Ltd. (WZR)  for about $86 million.  “If you look at what we invested there, it’s net just
north of $500 million if you net the proceeds of the sale of the
Western Zagros stake,” Kersley said. “Just under $600 million
was the amount we paid to buy in” to the Atrush block, he said.  ‘Structural Shift’  Without state support, S&P’s grade would be eight levels
lower at B+, the fourth-highest junk score, the ratings company
said in a Nov. 30 note. Moody’s rating on Taqa would be four
levels lower at Ba1, the highest junk score, Martin Kohlhase,
Moody’s assistant vice-president, corporate finance, said by
phone yesterday.  Achieving a stand-alone investment-grade rating would
require “a real long-term structural shift, whereby they would
have to over the years change their capital structure,”
Kohlhase said. “Asset sales could be a part of the strategy if
it is material.”  Taqa’s net debt to equity ratio is  536 percent , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 308 percent
for Qatar Electricity and Water Co.  Taqa will seek to cut the ratio of net debt to Ebitda--or
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization--to
4 from 5.3 now, Kersley said. It will also aim to raise the
Ebitda-to-net-interest ratio to 4.5 from less than 3.  “As a fixed income investor you’re looking for companies
that manage the downside risk,” Kersley said. “We’re quite
confident about the future and how we think our bonds will price
and trade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  