-- Arcelormittal South Africa, Kumba Reach Iron Ore Pact for 2013
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-12-13T16:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/arcelormittal-south-africa-kumba-reach-iron-ore-pact-for-2013.html
Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  agreed a one-
year deal to supply raw material to  ArcelorMittal South Africa
Ltd. (ACL) , the continent’s largest steelmaker, less than three weeks
before the current contract expires.  Kumba, a unit of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , will sell a maximum
annual volume of 4.8 million metric tons of iron ore from its
Sishen mine at a weighted average price of $65 a ton to the
steelmaker, the company said in a statement. The pact ensures
supply for another year after Kumba canceled a long-term
agreement in 2010.  “We committed to reaching an agreement,” Themba Hlengani,
a spokesman for ArcelorMittal South Africa, said by phone. The
price the company will pay for the ore is the same as in the
current contract.  The steelmaker on Aug. 23 said Kumba would continue to
supply it with 1.5 million tons of iron ore at below-market
prices until Dec. 31. Kumba in March 2010 canceled a 2001
agreement to supply Arcelor with 6.25 million tons of ore a year
from the Sishen mine in the Northern Cape.  The new interim pricing agreement will last through Dec. 31
or until the conclusion of the legal processes in relation to
the 2001 Sishen Supply Agreement, whichever is sooner, Kumba
said.  Cheaper Steel  ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa faces other challenges as the
country’s cabinet this month endorsed measures that seek to cut
local steel prices, including the possibility of new export
taxes on steel and iron ore.  A group set up by the Department of Trade and Industry in
2010 to study how to put local steel prices into the “lowest
quartile” of global levels to spur manufacturing and jobs
recommended policies including promoting new steel projects by
offering priority access to electricity, the Cabinet said Dec.
6.  Hebei Iron & Steel Group, China’s biggest steelmaker, is
leading a group including the Industrial Development Corp. of
South Africa to buy Palabora Mining Co.  The Phalaborwa-based company has magnetite resources used
in making steel, Mandla Mpangase, a spokesman at Industrial
Development Corp., said by e-mail yesterday. The deal secures
raw material for South African projects including the IMBS
scrap-substitute project being built in Phalaborwa, Mpangase
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  