-- Argentina’s Restructured Bondholders Join Appeal in U.S.
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-12-13T21:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/argentina-restructured-bondholders-ask-to-join-appeaal.html
Investors who hold  Argentina ’s
restructured bonds were granted permission by a federal court in
 New York  to join their challenge with an appeal filed by
Argentina in a case involving the country’s defaulted bonds.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan  accepted a request
by the Exchange Bondholder Group, which agreed to trade its
defaulted debt for new bonds, to consolidate the appeals and to
consider its arguments alongside Argentina’s at a Feb. 27
hearing.  The one-sentence ruling came in response to a request filed
by the group yesterday.  Argentina and the exchange bondholders are fighting rulings
by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in New York that would have
required the country to pay $1.3 billion owed to defaulted
bondholders into an escrow account when it makes payments on the
restructured debt.  The exchange bondholders, who aren’t parties to the
litigation between Argentina and the defaulted debt-holders,
claim that a ruling against the South American nation would
threaten their ability to collect.  Argentina won a delay of Griesa’s orders while it appeals.
The delay permits it to make scheduled payments on the exchange
bonds this month without making the escrow payments.  Also today, the U.S. government said it may wish to file a
brief supporting Argentina’s request for a rehearing of the
appeals court’s Oct. 26 decision that the nation must pay
holders of its defaulted debt if it pays holders of the
restructured bonds. The U.S. had supported Argentina’s position
on the so-called pari-passu issue.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 12-
105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  