-- Arizona’s Brewer May Challenge State Constitution to Run
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-12-13T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/arizona-s-brewer-may-challenge-state-constitution-to-run-again.html
Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, who
signed the nation’s strictest immigration law in 2010 and once
wagged her finger in President  Barack Obama ’s face, may
challenge the state constitution to run for another term.  The 68-year-old Republican is weighing a bid for four more
years in office even though a voter-approved 1992  constitutional 
amendment limits the state’s top officials to  two consecutive
terms , including “any part” of one served. Brewer was elected
in 2010 after completing the remaining two years of Democrat
Janet Napolitano’s term.  “I haven’t ruled anything out,” Brewer said yesterday
after a ceremonial bill-signing in Peoria, Arizona, a suburb of
Phoenix. “I’m doing my job as governor. I have two more
years.”  Her spokesman, Matthew Benson, said Brewer “enjoys being
governor and there is a lot more that she would like to
accomplish.”  Since Brewer replaced Napolitano, who resigned to become
U.S. Homeland Security secretary,  Arizona  has become a testing
ground for Republican ideas on immigration, health care and gun
rights. Brewer has emerged as a key foe of the Obama
administration, leading the fight to preserve the immigration
law and drawing national headlines for her confrontation with
the Democratic president on a Phoenix-area tarmac in January.  Some Ambiguity  Thirty-five states  limit governors  to two consecutive
terms, though the provisions vary, according to the National
Governors Association. Brewer has said there is ambiguity about
whether she could run again.  “The constitution is not really clear,” she told The
Arizona Republic last year. “It’s never been challenged.”  That argument was advanced last month in  an op-ed  by
Brewer’s long-time attorney, Joe Kanefield, a partner in the
Phoenix office of Ballard Spahr LLP who previously worked for
her in both the governor’s and secretary of state’s offices.
Kanefield said the partial-term phrase was meant to apply only
to elected or appointed terms, not a situation in which a
secretary of state becomes governor through  constitutional
succession . He advocates letting Brewer run.  “It comes down to, what does a term mean?” Kanefield said
in a telephone interview. “This debate will be very robust if
she decides to run. If they believe she is violating the spirit
and purpose of their law, they can decide at the polls.”  ‘Quite Clear’  Others said they don’t see ambiguity and expect the Arizona
Supreme Court to block any attempt by Brewer to stay in office.  “The constitution is quite clear,” Paul Bender, a law
professor at Arizona State University in Tempe, said in a
telephone interview. “She cannot run again, and I don’t think
there is any real significant doubt about it.”  The state’s No. 2 Republican, Secretary of State Ken Bennett, said he agrees. Bennett, a former senate president who
was appointed by Brewer to his post in 2009 and then elected in
2010, has been among the most public in his interest in Brewer’s
job, forming an exploratory committee last year.  Bennett, whose position makes him the state’s election
chief, has said the constitution clearly prevents him from
running again for his current post -- the same as Brewer.  “Would I accept paperwork from someone who wasn’t
qualified to hold office in Arizona?” Bennett told the Arizona
Republic this week. “I’ve never had to make the decision.”  Bennett didn’t return phone calls and e-mails to his
communications director, Matt Roberts.  ‘One-Eyed Jack’  Brewer isn’t the first elected secretary of state to ascend
to Arizona’s top post. Of the last nine governors, three have
resigned, one was removed through impeachment and one died in
office. No Arizona governor since John “One-Eyed Jack”
Williams, who served from 1967 to 1975 and wore glasses with one
frosted lens to conceal an empty right socket, has served two
complete terms and entered and left office in the traditional
fashion.  The term-limit question arose before when Governor Jane Dee Hull, Napolitano’s predecessor, contemplated running for a
second time. Hull, a Republican who was elected secretary of
state in 1994 and became governor when Fife Symington resigned
following a criminal conviction in 1997, was elected to a full
term in 1998. She decided not to run again.  Brewer won election after championing an education sales-
tax increase and signing the immigration law, which drew
boycotts and was mimicked by other states before the U.S.
Supreme Court struck down most of its provisions this year. The
moves helped her earn more than 54 percent of the vote over
former Phoenix Mayor and state Attorney General Terry Goddard.  Budget Cuts  As the state was hit hard by the recession with one of the
highest home-foreclosure rates in the nation, Brewer and
lawmakers made  deep budget cuts  to primary education,
universities and social services. They cut Medicaid, eliminating
some transplant coverage, closing the program to childless
adults and freezing enrollment for poor children.  Benson, Brewer’s spokesman, said the governor ranks among
her biggest accomplishments turning the state around fiscally.
When she took office, the state was facing a $3 billion deficit
for the coming fiscal year, according to reports from the Joint
Legislative Budget Committee. The state ended fiscal 2012 with a
$397 million surplus.  In Spotlight  Last year, Brewer tried to fire the independent chairwoman
of the state’s redistricting commission, a move reversed in
court. Her super-political action committee, Jan PAC, which gave
donors copies of her 2011 book “ Scorpions for Breakfast ,” made
more than $276,000 in  independent expenditures  in Arizona
congressional races this year, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics’ OpenSecrets.org.  Brewer may be floating the idea of running again to stay in
the national spotlight and avoid appearing as a lame duck, said
Luis Heredia, executive director of Arizona’s Democratic Party.  “The governor is only engaging in this conversation to
save her political relevance,” Heredia said. “Her national
profile helps her consolidate more support in the state. She is
selling books. She is becoming a conservative superstar. It gets
her more appearances on Fox.”  A  poll in October  by Raleigh, North Carolina-based Public
Policy Polling found Arizonans were about evenly split in their
opinion of the governor, with 47 percent saying they approve of
her job performance and 46 percent disapproving.  “No matter what she does, she will continue to be a very
influential figure in Arizona and national politics,”
Kanefield, the attorney, said. “She will not just fade into the
sunset. She will be a force for many years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  