-- Arizona Sheriff Arpaio Loses Bid to Dismiss U.S. Bias Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/arizona-sheriff-joe-arpaio-must-defend-u-s-suit-judge-says-1-.html
Joe Arpaio, the sheriff of  Arizona ’s
Maricopa County, lost a bid to dismiss a lawsuit by the U.S.
Justice Department that accuses him and his officers of
systematically discriminating against Latinos.  Chief U.S. District Judge Roslyn Silver in Phoenix, without
ruling on the merits of the government’s allegations, yesterday
rejected Arpaio’s request to throw out the claims on legal
grounds. Arpaio claimed the U.S. failed to provide sufficient
statistical evidence that his practices had a disparate impact
on Latinos in Arizona’s biggest county by population.  “At the motion to dismiss stage, a complaint need not
allege statistical data,” Silver said. She said the U.S. has
alleged “sufficient factual matter, accepted as true, to state
a claim to relief that is plausible on its face.”  The  Justice Department , in its May complaint, accused the
sheriff of targeting Latinos through pretextual traffic stops as
part of crime-suppression sweeps, denying constitutional
protections to Hispanic prisoners with limited English skills
and retaliating against critics with baseless criminal actions
and unfounded civil lawsuits.  The alleged discrimination was the product of “a culture
of disregard for Latinos that starts at the top and pervades the
organization,” the Justice Department said at the time.  Silver granted the request to dismiss the Maricopa County
Sheriff’s Office from the case because it isn’t a separate legal
entity under Arizona law. The judge rejected the county’s
request to be dismissed from the case.  “Under Arizona law, the sheriff has final policy-making
authority with respect to county law enforcement and jails, and
the county can be held responsible for constitutional violations
resulting from these policies,” Silver said.  William Jones , a lawyer for Arpaio, declined to comment on
the judge’s ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Maricopa County, 12-00981, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 