-- Arrested Deutsche Bank Staff to Be in Court: Prosecutor
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-12-13T17:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/arrested-deutsche-bank-staff-to-be-in-court-prosecutor.html
Four  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  employees
arrested on allegations of obstruction of justice and  money
laundering  were ordered to remain in custody while the
investigation is pending.  The fifth suspect arrested yesterday was released because
of health issues, Guenter Wittig, a spokesman for the Frankfurt
General Prosecutor, said by phone today. He declined to explain
the court’s ruling or identify any suspects.  The case is part of a criminal probe over tax-evasion
allegations linked to the sale of carbon-emission certificates
in which prosecutors are investigating a total of 25 people at
Deutsche Bank. The lender’s German offices were raided yesterday
and Co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen  and Chief
Financial Officer  Stefan Krause , who weren’t arrested, are
subjects of the probe.  Under German law, a court can only detain suspects in non-
murder cases if there is a risk they may flee or tamper with
evidence.  Deutsche Bank  fell  2.7 percent, closing at 33.345 euros in
Frankfurt trading. Deutsche Bank said earlier today fourth-
quarter profit will be “significantly” reduced as it offloads
riskier assets and faces higher restructuring costs.  The tax probe has been pending for more than two years and
led to Europe-wide raids in 2010, including at the offices of
Deutsche Bank. People at the bank were warned ahead of the 2010
raids.  Tax Statements  Fitschen and Krause are under investigation because they
signed value-added tax statements for 2009 that prosecutors
claim were wrong, Deutsche Bank said yesterday. The document was
voluntarily corrected in a way that rules out any violations,
the bank said. Prosecutors say the correction came too late, the
lender said.  Prosecutors are investigating about 190 people in total,
according to Wittig. Six men linked to small trading or sham
companies were convicted of aggravated tax evasion by a
Frankfurt court a year ago over sales of carbon-emission
certificates to Deutsche Bank. The lender should have known the
securities were designed to illegally evade value-added tax,
Presiding Judge Martin Bach said at the time.  Deutsche Bank chose not to claim back about 310 million
euros ($405 million) of VAT refunds as the case evolved. Last
year, the lender made a provision in that amount as a
“precautionary measure on legal advice” and reserved the right
to reclaim the tax at a later date, a position the bank
subsequently gave up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  