-- Arsenal CEO Apologizes to Fans, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-13T06:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/arsenal-ceo-apologizes-to-fans-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Arsenal Apology  Arsenal Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Gazidis  apologized to
supporters at a meeting for the team’s loss of form and said
they deserve better after this week’s League Cup quarterfinal
defeat to fourth-tier Bradford City, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Manager  Arsene Wenger , who is overseeing Arsenal’s worst
start to a Premier League season since he took charge in 1996,
retains the total support of the club’s board, the Mirror added.  Bould Breakdown  Arsenal players fear Wenger’s relationship with his
assistant Steve Bould is breaking down and some are questioning
the team’s commitment to its passing style of play when a more
direct approach may be a better option, the  Sun reported .  Everton Moves  Everton is ready to move for Manchester City defender  Joleon Lescott , Paris Saint-Germain striker Kevin Gameiro and Toulouse
forward Wissam Ben Yedder in January, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Toffees want to bring Lescott back to the club on loan
and would be willing to sell Dutch defender  John Heitinga  to
help raise funds to sign Gameiro and Ben Yedder, both of whom
have been monitored by club scouts in recent months, the
newspaper added.  Hernia Hold Up  Manchester United ’s bid to sign Torino’s Angelo Ogbonna as
defensive cover next month is on hold after the player had
surgery on a hernia, the  Daily Mail reported .  United has had the the 24-year-old Ogbonna, who is rated at
18 million pounds ($29 million), watched three times, the Mail
added.  Anti-Racism Plan  English soccer will introduce quotas for referees and
coaches from ethnic minorities as part of a 92-point plan to
tackle racism in the sport, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Football Inclusion and Anti-Discrimination Action Plan,
which will be adopted early in the new year, also includes the
setting up of confidential telephone hot-lines for players to
report bullying and discrimination, and the use of video and
audio technology to identify supporters guilty of racist
gestures or chanting at matches, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  