-- As China Rises, So Do Australia’s Anxieties
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-12-13T17:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/as-china-rises-so-do-australia-s-anxieties.html
One of the most immediately apparent
features of Australia is its vast emptiness. A mere 23 million
people are spread over a landmass the size of the continental
U.S.  Actually, not spread over at all: Almost half the
population lives in just two cities, Sydney and  Melbourne . The
capital, Canberra, makes  Washington  seem like Paris and  Rio de
Janeiro  rolled into one. And then there’s Perth, Adelaide,
Darwin and Brisbane, and that’s about it. (Pre-emptive apologies
to Hobart.)  So when I was in Parliament in Canberra recently, speaking
with the prime minister,  Julia Gillard , about the unfixable
Middle East mess, a solution came to mind: Why not move the
Israelis and the Palestinians to a couple of Australia’s most
underpopulated states? Australia could use the collective moxie
of these two well-educated and neurotic peoples.  Gillard, who is one of the  Australian Labor Party ’s few
remaining stalwart Israel supporters, had a quick comeback:
“Funny you should say that. As history recalls there was an
active debate about giving the Jewish people a section of
Australia as a resolution of their desire to have a state, but
there’s a reason they wanted their homeland where it is. Policy
makers may have misunderstood the nature of the aspiration.”  Opening Gates  OK, so no wholesale transplant of Israelis (or, presumably,
Palestinians). The fact remains: Australia is an empty country.
Yet there’s much anxiety there about refugees and migrants from
 Afghanistan ,  Pakistan ,  Sri Lanka  and all across Asia.  To an American visitor, that anxiety seems a bit overblown
-- last year,  according to  the  United Nations , Australia
admitted only 9,200 refugees. I asked Gillard why her country
couldn’t open its gates a bit wider. After all, Australia seeks
to be a top-10 world economy (it is the 12th biggest now, by
most counts). An influx of Asian immigrants could be beneficial.
Her response was telling.  “We’ve done all right when it comes to landmass,” she said.
“We’ve got a lot of land, but it’s dry land. One of the biggest
domestic political issues we debate is water. In terms of
migration settings, we run a sizable migration program, and we
do that to meet our nation’s economic needs, but it will always
be calibrated to those needs, and the core of it is a skilled
migration program.”  Although there is limited appetite in  Australia  for Asian
immigrants, in other words, there is no limit to the Australian
appetite for Asian money. Most of the country’s political and
economic elite, led by Gillard, seem eager to pivot their
economy toward Asia. A substantial amount of China’s industrial
growth is already fueled by minerals extracted from that dry
Australian soil. Gillard’s government  recently issued  a white
paper that labeled the coming era the Asian Century, and
promised that every Australian school would teach at least one
Asian language.  In 10 days of conversations across Australia, however,
apprehension about China’s rise among many in the country’s
middle class was a consistent theme. One junior officer in the
Australian military who I spoke to put it this way: The
government can try to make Australia as Asian as it wants, but
most people are happier believing their country is solidly in
the American sphere of influence, rather than the Chinese.  The Marines  Australians who are sensitive about their country’s
sovereignty have been grumbling about the stationing of 2,500
U.S. Marines in Darwin. On the whole, though, most of those I
spoke to thought that the Marines will help check Chinese
political ambitions in their region.  When I asked Gillard if the Chinese were right to suspect
that the Marine contingent was part of an American-led strategy
to limit  China ’s reach, she scoffed.  “We are not engaged in a containment strategy of China. The
idea that the Chinese would be flummoxed by 2,500 Marines is a
little bit of an odd proposition.” She quickly added: “I know
the Marines are a very elite force, but 2,500 of them do not
pose an emerging threat to China.” She said the Marines were
being stationed in Darwin primarily because they wanted a tough
terrain on which to train.  It’s fairly obvious, though, that this was a fine bit of
spin. The U.S. clearly has tough training terrain as well.
Stationing Marines in Darwin can’t be interpreted any other way
except as a signal from Australia to the Chinese: We want your
business, and we will learn your language, but we will not be
subsumed by you.  This is an unprecedented moment for Australia. In the words
of Michael Fullilove, the executive director of the Lowy
Institute for International Policy in Sydney, “For the first
time in our history, our largest trading partner is a potential
peer competitor of our great strategic ally.”  I asked Gillard if she thought her country was walking too
fine a line. As Australia grows more and more dependent on the
Chinese market, can its historical alliance with the U.S. really
remain unchanged?  “ Asia ’s rise -- China,  India ,  Indonesia  -- the continuing
strength of  Japan  and  South Korea , the emergence from poverty of
many nations toward more advanced economies, all means that we
need to grasp the economic opportunities coming our way,” she
said. “We have the ability to map out a course in this century
so that we all benefit from this time of change. But none of
this detracts from a long-term pivotal alliance with the  United
States , and we want the United States to be on this journey in
our region as it changes, as a partner with us and a partner in
the region.”  It seems plausible that China, which at times conducts its
foreign policy in a carelessly prickly and aggressive manner,
could one day confront Australia (and other U.S. allies in the
region) with unpredictable national-security challenges. As
Australia pivots toward China, then, it makes eminent sense to
keep the U.S. very close by.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 