-- Stocks Drop Amid Budget Deadlock; Treasuries, Gold Fall
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-12-13T21:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/asian-stocks-gain-an-11th-day-as-yen-weakens-after-fed-stimulus.html
U.S. stocks fell, halting a six-day
rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the standoff in
 federal budget  negotiations overshadowed a drop in jobless
claims and growth in retail sales. Treasuries declined while
precious metals led losses in commodities.  The S&P 500 lost 0.6 percent to 1,419.45 at 4 p.m. in New
York, ending its longest rally since August, and Europe’s
regional benchmark stock index retreated from an 18-month high.
Ten-year Treasury yields rose for a third day, adding three
basis points to 1.73 percent. Gold lost 1.2 percent and silver
slid 4.2 percent as the  Dollar Index (DXY)  halted a three-day slump,
with the U.S. currency stronger against 12 of 16 major peers.  Stocks  turned lower  as Republican House Speaker  John
Boehner  said the White House is not serious about cutting
spending. President  Barack Obama  said the negotiations are
“still a work in progress.” Equities pared losses as the two
planned to meet at the White House later today.  “We’ve had good economic data yet people are still anxious
to see what comes out of the negotiations in Washington,” said
 Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee $3 billion of assets as co-
chief investment officer at Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook
Investments LLC. He spoke in a telephone interview. “We’ll see
a range-bound market until we get something definitive.”  The deadlock in talks to avoid the so-called fiscal-cliff
of automatic spending cuts and tax increases has whipsawed
markets since the Nov. 6 election, sending the S&P 500 down as
much as 5.3 percent before a rebound that erased most of the
decline.  Market Leaders  Newmont Mining Corp. and Mosaic Co. dropped at least 1.4
percent to pace losses in commodity shares. Phillips 66, the
crude refiner that was spun off from ConocoPhillips in May,
dropped 1.6 percent on plans to raise as much as $400 million in
an initial public offering. CVS Caremark Corp., the largest
provider of  prescription drugs  in the U.S., climbed 2 percent
after forecasting profit that beat analysts’ estimates. Best Buy
Co. jumped 16 percent on a report that founder Richard Schulze
will offer to take the company private by Dec. 15.  The  S&P 500  rose as much as 0.2 percent in early trading
and 10-year yields climbed more than four basis points.  First-
time claims for  unemployment insurance  declined by 29,000 to
343,000 last week, the lowest level since early October and
adding to evidence the labor market is improving. U.S. retail
sales increased 0.3 percent in November amid rebounding demand
for automobiles and holiday shopping.  Treasury Auction  Treasuries remained lower following an auction of $13
billion of 30-year bonds that drew a yield of 2.917 percent,
compared with a forecast of 2.889 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of six of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 2.5, versus an
average 2.61 at the past 10 sales.  “It was a good set of data,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief
U.S. economist in New York at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit, a primary dealer. “It appears the labor market
got a little bit of a boost in November. Combine that with a
better sales outcome, and the Treasury market reaction is
appropriate.”  The Fed said yesterday it will buy $45 billion of
Treasuries per month starting in January, in addition to its
existing $40 billion monthly purchases of mortgage debt.  Interest rates will stay low “at least as long” as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and if inflation is
projected to be no more than 2.5 percent, the central bank said.  ‘Horrific’ Forecasting  “The  unemployment rate  is declining just about 1 percent a
year for the past two years, and could be not far off 6.5
percent in 12 months,”  Fred Goodwin , a strategist at State
Street Corp. in London, wrote in a research note. “The Fed is
horrific at forecasting. They have completely underestimated how
fast the unemployment rate would fall from the beginning of this
cycle. Why are they suddenly going to get this right?”  While the Fed’s announcement sparked a brief rally in U.S.
stocks yesterday, most of the gains were erased after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that monetary stimulus can’t fully
offset the effect of the fiscal cliff.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.4 percent, ending the
longest run of gains in 19 months.  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-
largest truckmaker, slid 4.3 percent as Renault SA sold its 6.5
percent stake for 12.8 billion kronor ($1.92 billion) to boost
funding. Renault, France’s second-biggest automaker, climbed 1.5
percent.  ‘Critical Levels’  Centamin Plc (CEY) , a gold producer in Egypt, plunged 47 percent
in London trading after halting production as a diesel dispute
cut supplies to “critical levels.” Centamin said that it was
sent an “illegal retrospective claim” by Egyptian General
Petroleum Corp. for $65 million for diesel and won’t receive
fuel for its Sukari mine until the amount is paid.  The Egyptian pound dropped as much as 0.3 percent to 6.1786
per dollar, the weakest level since Dec. 2004.  Silver, coffee, gasoline and natural gas declines led
declines in 20 of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
Index, which slipped 0.9 percent. New York-traded crude oil fell
1 percent to $85.89 a barrel.  The euro strengthened against 14 of 16 major peers after
European Union finance ministers agreed to put the central bank
in charge of all euro-area lenders in a deal that will pave the
way for a firewall fund to provide direct bailouts.  Euro-area finance ministers approved the release of the
next aid payment to Greece today, Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters in Brussels. He said money
should start flowing as soon as next week.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  was little changed following a
six-day rally that drove it to the highest level since April 3.  The MSCI  Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index climbed 0.2 percent for an 11th
straight gain, the longest-winning streak in more than three
years. China’s  yuan  appreciated the most since March,
strengthened 0.2 percent to 6.2326 versus the dollar. The yen
weakened against all but two of its 16 major peers, sliding most
against the Swiss franc and South Korean won. The  Bank of Japan (8301) 
is due to hold a policy meeting on Dec. 19-20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  