-- Asian Borrowers Break From Marketing U.S. Debt as Year-End Nears
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-12-13T06:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/asian-borrowers-break-from-marketing-u-s-debt-as-year-end-nears.html
Borrowers in  Asia  outside of  Japan 
took a break from marketing new dollar-denominated bonds today
ahead of year-end holidays, even as the  Federal Reserve ’s
commitment to low rates burnished the outlook for higher
yielding assets in the region. Debt risk was little changed.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co. started
marketing 10-year securities yesterday at a yield of about 6.25
percent, a person familiar with the matter said. Earlier in the
week, Vingroup JSC was offering five-year debt to yield 12
percent to 12.5 percent, according to another person who also
asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  The Fed announced further monetary stimulus yesterday,
saying it will buy $45 billion of  Treasury securities  a month
starting in January to spur the economy. Rates will stay low
“at least as long” as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent
and if inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent,
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement.  “I expect U.S. Treasury yields will stay low through the
first half and as a consequence, credit spreads will continue to
grind tighter as investors globally reach out for yield,” said
Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit desk analyst at Credit
Agricole SA. “Asia will outperform other markets as a higher
yielding market.”  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 112 basis points
as of 8:48 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The gauge, which has ranged from 109.2 basis points
to 175.3 basis points this half, is down 1.8 basis points this
week, according to RBS and data provider CMA.  Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased 2 basis points to
169 as of 9:23 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
measure is on track for its lowest close since Dec. 5, according
to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 0.5 to 123.5 as of
11:21 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking Corp. The
index closed at 123.5 yesterday, the lowest since August 2011,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  