-- Asian Stocks Rise, Led by Japan’s Exporters, as Yen Falls
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2012-12-13T10:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/asian-stocks-rise-led-by-japanese-exporters-as-yen-falls.html
Asian stocks  rose , with the regional
benchmark index extending its longest rally in more than three
years, as Japanese exporters advanced after the yen touched an
almost nine-month low versus the dollar.  Canon Inc., the world’s biggest camera maker, climbed 2.1
percent in  Tokyo  as the yen boosted exporters. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. rose 1.1 percent as  Japan ’s No. 1 lender is
poised to announce the purchase of Bank of America Corp.’s stake
in their banking venture.  Chimei Innolux (3481)  Corp., Taiwan’s largest
maker of liquid-crystal displays, jumped 6.9 percent on a report
it will return to profit next year as sales increase.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.3 percent to 127.37 as
of 7:35 p.m. Tokyo time, poised to advance for an 11th day, the
longest winning streak since July 2009. The measure rose 11
percent this year through yesterday as central banks took steps
to support economic growth and Japanese shares rallied ahead of
an election next week that polls suggest opposition leader
Shinzo Abe will win.  “The overall environment is quite supportive for Asian
equities,” said Grace Tam, Hong Kong-based global market
strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management Ltd., which oversees
about $1.3 trillion globally. “We expect to see more inflows
coming towards the region, particularly from the Western foreign
investors. Investors have a high expectation that if Abe wins
the elections, they’ll do more aggressive monetary easing and
people expect the yen to weaken.”  Samsung Surges  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it will expand asset
purchases and central bank officials forecast it will maintain
near zero  interest rates  until 2015.  South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 1.4 percent to close at
the highest since since Sept. 24. The nation’s central bank held
borrowing costs unchanged before next week’s presidential
elections.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the country’s first company
to surpass $200 billion in market value, surged 2.9 percent to a
record 1.533 million won.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  increased 1.7 percent to
the highest in eight months. Taiwan’s Taiex Index added 0.9
percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed.  Hong
Kong ’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.3 percent, while  China ’s Shanghai
Composite Index dropped 1 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2
percent today. The gauge  gained less than 0.1 percent yesterday
as optimism about Federal Reserve plans to buy more bonds faded,
with investor focus returning to the budget deadlock in
 Washington .  The Fed for the first time linked the outlook for its main
interest rate to unemployment and inflation and said it will
expand its asset purchase program by buying $45 billion a month
of  Treasury securities  starting in January to spur the economy.  ‘Serious Differences’  Republicans in Congress hardened their resistance to
President  Barack Obama ’s proposed higher taxes for top earners
and demanded a spending-cut plan. Lawmakers in both parties said
it’s becoming less likely an agreement can be reached before the
Christmas holiday. “We’ve got some serious differences,” House
Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters yesterday in Washington.  A budget agreement will help avert the so-called fiscal
cliff, which would result in more than $600 billion of spending
cuts and tax increases. The prospect of this happening is
clearly having an effect on the economy, Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said at the end of the central bank’s two-day policy
meeting yesterday.  Japanese exporters advanced as the yen weakened to as low
as 83.67 per dollar, the least since March 21. A weaker currency
boosts the value of overseas income at Japan’s carmakers and
electronic manufacturers when repatriated.  Universal Entertainment  Canon rose 2.1 percent to 3,140 yen in Tokyo. Sony Corp.,
the maker of Bravia televisions and PlayStation game consoles,
advanced 6.4 percent to 886 yen.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , which makes
televisions, cameras, home appliances and solar panels, jumped
7.9 percent to 481 yen. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest
carmaker, gained 1.1 percent to 3,600 yen.  Universal Entertainment Corp. increased 6.5 percent to
1,409 yen in Osaka after the Japanese pachinko-machine maker
signed a preliminary agreement with Robinsons Land Corp.,
controlled by Philippine billionaire John Gokongwei, to build a
casino in Manila.  Relative Value  Mitsubishi UFJ increased 1.1 percent to 382 yen. The bank
is close to purchasing 49 percent of Mitsubishi UFJ Merrill
Lynch PB Securities Co. from Bank of America for 39 billion yen
($471 million), according to two people with knowledge of the
matter. Separately, the lender is seeking to buy a 20 percent
stake in VietinBank, according to two officials from the Tokyo-
based lender, without disclosing terms of the agreement.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced in the past three
weeks amid signs the world’s biggest economies are improving.
The gauge traded at 14.3 times estimated earnings, compared with
13.8 times for the  S&P 500 Index  and 12.7 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  Chimei Innolux, a supplier of panels to Apple Inc., Sony
and Dell Inc., climbed 6.9 percent to NT$15.55 in Taipei. The
company is targeting net income of NT$30 billion to NT$50
billion ($1 billion to $1.7 billion) next year when sales are
expected to increase 10 percent, the Economic Daily News
reported, citing targets set by Chairman Tuan Hsing-Chien at an
internal meeting.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  advanced 4.1 percent to 287.9 rupees in
Mumbai, heading for its highest close since May 15, after the
automaker said November retail sales of its Jaguar Land Rover
unit climbed to a record, helped by demand in China.  Among stocks that dropped,  Iluka Resources Ltd. (ILU)  sank 5.6
percent to A$8.16 in Sydney as the world’s largest zircon
producer said prices for the mineral will continue to decline.  CLP Holdings Ltd. slipped 3.6 percent to HK$64.80 after
Hong Kong’s biggest electricity producer sold HK$7.6 billion
($981 million) of shares at a discount to finance power
projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  