-- Asian Stocks Post Longest Rally Since 2009 on Stimulus
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2012-12-13T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/asian-stocks-post-longest-rally-since-2009-on-stimulus.html
Asia’s  benchmark stock  index is
posting its longest streak of gains in more than three years
amid signs  China’s economy  has stopped deteriorating and that
three rounds of economic stimulus may be reviving U.S. demand.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.3 percent yesterday,
extending gains to an 11th day, the longest run since July 2009.
Exporters from Samsung Electronics Co. to Toyota Motor Corp.  led
the advance  on speculation improvement in the U.S. housing and
labor markets will spur more sales. Mining companies increased
as Chinese industrial production accelerated.  “We are increasing investments in Asia,” Grace Tam, Hong
Kong-based global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management
Ltd., which oversees about $1.3 trillion globally, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “When we began to see
improvements in  China , we thought right now was a really good
time to buy Asian equities. This is just the start of a rebound,
and valuations are still pretty cheap.”  A 6.6 percent rally in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index since
mid-November has added almost  $580 billion  to the value of the
measure. The gauge rose 12 percent this year through yesterday
as central banks took steps to support economic growth. The flow
of funds to the region, and the anticipation of even more
stimulus in the U.S.,  Japan  and China, has sent gauges of large
and small companies surging.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index has gained 12 percent since the
U.S.  Federal Reserve  began a third round of so-called
quantitative easing in September. Measures of Chinese shares
have jumped as industrial  output  and retail sales added to signs
the world’s second-largest economy is improving.  Election Rally  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average is up 8 percent since Nov.
16 on speculation an election this weekend will result in a
change of government and more policies to boost growth and
weaken the yen.  Shares on the MSCI Asia-Pacific gauge traded at 14.4 times
analyst earnings estimates yesterday, compared with 13.8 times
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.7 times for the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which trades for 10 times
estimated profits, rebounded from a four-year low this month.
The nation’s gross domestic product may expand 7.7 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Growth was 7.4 percent in the
three months through September, the least in three years. The
government’s 2012 target is for 7.5 percent growth.  Very Cheap  “China particularly in  Asia  looks very cheap,” said Bill Maldonado, chief investment officer for Asia Pacific at HSBC
Global Asset Management, which oversees $417 billion.
“Definitely the tone of what you hear about China, about the
U.S., about the investment picture in general is a lot less
bearish than it was three months ago or six months ago.”  The  U.S. economy  is showing signs of recovery following
three rounds of quantitative easing, with the jobless rate
falling to a three-year low and the housing market recovering.
The Federal Reserve announced on Dec. 12 it will expand its
asset purchase program by buying $45 billion a month of  Treasury
securities  starting January.  “Tail risks with the global economy had receded,” said
 Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“A year ago, there was an intense concern that Europe will blow
apart. That hasn’t happened and the European recession is not
the disaster that had been feared. The U.S. economy sort of
muddles along with the Fed pumping more and more money in.
China’s economy looks to be stabilizing.”  Asian Titans  The  Dow Jones Asian Titans Index (DJAT) , which tracks the region’s
50 biggest companies, rose 4 percent in the 11 days through
yesterday, the longest streak of advances since May 1997,
according to data compiled by  Bloomberg News .  Among companies in the Titans Index, Samsung Electronics,
the world’s biggest smartphone maker, posted the biggest advance
this year, closing at a record yesterday. The first South Korean
company to exceed $200 billion in market capitalization, it is
now the world’s 15th-largest listed firm.  “Samsung is doing well both in the high-end and lower-end
sectors,” Lee Sun-Tae, an analyst at NH Investment & Securities
Co. in  Seoul , said. “The main reason behind this seems to be
the company’s brighter fourth-quarter earnings outlook, largely
helped by its handset business.”  Weaker Yen  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average jumped 1.7 percent
yesterday to its highest close since April as exporters rallied
after the yen dropped to an almost nine-month low.  The world’s No. 2 equity market has rallied as polls
suggested opposition leader Shinzo Abe, who has called for more
aggressive monetary easing, will win. A weaker currency boosts
the value of overseas income at the nation’s car makers and
electronics manufacturers.  Canon Inc., the world’s biggest camera maker, rose 2.1
percent to 3,140 yen in  Tokyo  yesterday. Sony Corp., the maker
of Bravia televisions and PlayStation game consoles, advanced
6.4 percent to 886 yen. Panasonic Corp., which makes home
appliances and solar panels, jumped 7.9 percent to 481 yen.
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, gained 1.1
percent to 3,600 yen.  “People are now pretty excited with the Japanese election
coming up this weekend,” JPMorgan Asset Management’s Tam said.
“Investors have a high expectation that if Abe wins the
elections, they’ll do more aggressive monetary easing and people
expect the yen to weaken.”  Small Caps  It’s not just big companies enjoying gains. Singapore’s
 FTSE Straits Times Small Cap Index (FSTS)  climbed for 20 days through
yesterday, a record, and is at the highest level since August
2011. A similar  gauge  in  India  capped its longest winning streak
on Dec. 10. The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Small Cap
Index is trading at the highest since March.  A strong rally in small companies may herald the start of a
broad-based bull market, said AMP Capital’s Oliver.  “When you go into a bull market investors tend to take on
more risks and they buy more small caps,” Oliver said. “The
small cap rally is a good sign because that’s a confirmation
that what we might be seeing is the beginning of a  bull
market .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  