-- AstraZeneca’s Arthritis Drug Fails to Top Standard Therapy
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-12-13T21:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/astrazeneca-s-arthritis-drug-fails-to-top-standard-therapy-1-.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  said its
experimental drug for rheumatoid arthritis didn’t show a benefit
against  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’s Humira as a stand-alone therapy in
a mid-stage trial.  Fostamatinib, which AstraZeneca is also testing in late-
stage trials in combination with other drugs, showed some early
benefit over a placebo in the trial, the London-based company
said in a statement today. The six-month study looked for
improvements in symptoms among 280 patients with rheumatoid
arthritis, a disease where the body’s immune system attacks
tissues and can cause painful swelling in the joints.  The result was “disappointing” and raises questions about
whether fostamatinib can be competitive with Pfizer Inc.’s
recently approved Xeljanz, which showed “substantially better”
efficacy over Humira in another study,  Seamus Fernandez , an
analyst with Leerink Swann & Co., said in a note to investors.  AstraZeneca fell 2.8 percent to 2,958.50 pence at the close
of trading in London. The drugmaker’s partner on the medicine,
 Rigel Pharmaceuticals Inc. (RIGL) , fell 35 percent to $5.51, the most
in four years, in New York trading.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker is scouting licensing
and acquisition deals as it seeks to replace revenue lost as
exclusivity on its best-selling drugs expire. Fostamatinib is
one of only a few in the company’s late-stage pipeline and is
estimated to generate $2 billion in 2017, Jefferies analyst
Thomas Wei said in a note Nov. 7.  Data from the late-stage trial is expected during the first
half of 2013 which will form the basis of AstraZeneca’s
application for marketing approval,  Martin Mackay , head of
research and development, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  