-- Tata Motors Climbs After Record November Jaguar Sales
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-12-13T04:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/tata-motors-climbs-after-record-november-jaguar-sales.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  rose to the highest
in almost seven months in Mumbai trading after the automaker
said November retail sales of its Jaguar Land Rover unit climbed
to a record, helped by demand in China.  Tata Motors climbed as much as 3.1 percent to 284.95
rupees, headed for its highest close since May 15, and were
changing hands at 284 rupees as of 9:52 a.m. in Mumbai. The
shares have surged 59 percent this year, compared with a 25
percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Retail deliveries at Jaguar Land Rover rose 14 percent to
29,893 units last month, the luxury carmaker said in a statement
yesterday. Surging sales of Land Rover vehicles in  China , where
sales increased 43 percent, and the Asia Pacific region, helped
offset a 7 percent decline in North American deliveries, the
automaker said.  “These sort of numbers should continue as the fourth
quarter is usually a good quarter,” said Umesh Karne, an
analyst at Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “And Jaguar Land
Rover has new models such as the Range Rover and the F-Type that
will begin being delivered next year.”  Land Rover sales increased 17 percent to 25,862 vehicles
last month, while Jaguar sales declined 5 percent to 4,031
units, the company said.  Jaguar Land Rover is turning to  emerging markets  such as
China, Russia and  South Africa  to pursue growth. The luxury unit
this month signed a letter of intent with  Saudi Arabia ’s
government to study the feasibility of setting up a factory in
the nation.  The automaker also received written approval from China’s
main industry planner to form a venture with Chery Automobile
Co. and begin making cars in the world’s biggest auto market,
Chief Executive Officer Ralf Speth said in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  