-- Australia, N.Z. Dollars Fall Before Chinese Manufacturing Data
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-12-13T22:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/australia-n-z-dollars-fall-before-chinese-manufacturing-data.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars weakened against their U.S. peer as risk appetite fell
before a private report that’s forecast to show Chinese
manufacturing is strengthening.  The Aussie dollar declined versus the majority of its most-
traded counterparts as U.S. stocks dropped amid concern a budget
standoff will push the world’s biggest economy into recession.
The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, fell versus the
greenback as commodities declined. A Bloomberg survey forecast a
report will show  China ’s  purchasing managers’ index  rose to 50.8
in December from 50.5 the prior month. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. China is  Australia ’s biggest trading
partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export market.  “A near-term agreement on the U.S. fiscal cliff is
becoming increasingly unlikely, in our view, and continued
political deadlock is likely to have a negative impact on
financial-market confidence and risk-sensitive assets, including
the Australian dollar,” Jose Wynne, head of North America
foreign-exchange research for Barclays Plc’s investment banking
unit in  New York , wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  Australia’s currency depreciated 0.3 percent to $1.0528
yesterday in New York, after earlier falling 0.5 percent, its
biggest intraday drop since Nov. 29. It rose 0.2 percent to
88.06 yen.  The kiwi declined 0.1 percent to 84.33 U.S. cents. It
climbed 0.4 percent to 70.53 yen and touched 70.67 yen, its
highest level since October 2008.  U.S. Showdown  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 0.9 percent
as U.S. lawmakers from both political parties expressed renewed
pessimism about the prospects for resolving a budget showdown
before more than $600 billion automatic in tax increases and
spending cuts start taking effect in January. The  Congressional
Budget Office  has said that if nothing changes, the stalemate
probably would lead to a recession.  S&P’s GSCI Index of raw materials fell 0.9 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar has strengthened 6.4 percent this
year, the biggest increase among the 10 developed-nation
currencies monitored by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The Aussie has gained 0.6 percent, and the  U.S. dollar 
has fallen 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  