-- Australia Tax Office Steps Up Pressure on Tinkler
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-12-13T05:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/australia-tax-office-steps-up-pressure-on-tinkler.html
Australian authorities applied to
liquidate eight companies of Nathan Tinkler including his sports
teams. The mining magnate last month lost ownership of his jet
and helicopter over unpaid debts.  Australia ’s Deputy Commissioner of Taxation filed
applications in the past two days to recover taxes owed by
moving into liquidation the companies including Newcastle Jets
Football Operations Pty and Newcastle Knights Pty, Tinkler’s
soccer and rugby teams respectively.  “We are surprised by the move by the ATO as we have not
received notification,” Hunter Sports Group Pty, the Tinkler-
controlled owner of the Jets and Knights, said in a statement on
the Football Federation Australia  website . The company said the
money will be repaid and “it is business as usual” at the
Newcastle, New South Wales-based teams.  Tinkler owes as much as $700 million to lenders including
Farallon Capital Partners, Credit Suisse Group AG and Kuok
Group, three people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News
last month. His creditors may seek to take control of his  stake 
in  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , worth about A$703 million ($742
million) at the current share price, if he fails to make
payments on a loan, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the details are private.  The ATO filed six applications to liquidate Tinkler’s
companies, including the sports teams, yesterday and two more
today, according to court filings. The Sydney Morning Herald
earlier reported some of the applications.  February Hearings  Hearings on the ATO applications are scheduled in the
Federal Court of Australia for Feb. 20 and Feb. 22.  The ATO claims in court papers that it’s owed A$1.42
million by the Knights, A$1.06 million by the Jets, A$184,258 by
Hunter Sports, A$524,226 by Hunter Valley Sports Group Pty, as
well as A$111,535 by Buildev Development (QLD) Pty, A$162,164 by
Buildev Group Pty, A$218,794 by BD (QLD) Project G075 Pty and
A$132,103 by Buildev Aviation Pty.  The defendant failed to comply with a demand to pay the
debt within 21 days of the request, the ATO said in all the
applications. Hunter Sports Group was ordered to repay the taxes
owed on Sept. 28, according to the court filing.  Tim Allerton of City Public Relations, a spokesman for
Tinkler, declined to comment on the ATO application beyond the
statement issued by the sports teams.  Tinkler lost ownership of his personal jet and helicopter
after a financing company pushed TGHA Aviation Pty into
receivership on Nov. 23.  Tinkler’s Mulsanne Resources Pty was ordered liquidated by
a New South Wales state judicial officer on Nov. 20 after the
company failed to pay A$28.4 million for shares in coal
developer Blackwood Corp. His Patinack Farm Administration Pty
was put in liquidation a day later by a federal judge in
Adelaide over a debt to Workcover Corp. of South Australia.  The sports group case is Deputy Commissioner of Taxation v.
Hunter Sports Group Pty. NSD2073/2012. Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at  