-- Hughes Makes 86 on Comeback as Australia Reaches 299-4 in Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-14T06:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/australia-bats-first-in-cricket-series-opener-against-sri-lanka.html
Phil Hughes  scored 86 on his
comeback and  Michael Clarke  and David Warner also made half-
centuries as Australia reached 299-4 against Sri Lanka on the
opening day of their Test cricket series.  Hughes, playing his first Test in a year after replacing
the retired  Ricky Ponting , was dismissed after the tea break by
 Chanaka Welegedara , who took three of the Australian wickets to
fall on the first day of the best-of-three contest.  “It would have been nice to get the three figures and
beyond but that’s how it goes,” Hughes said in a televised
interview with Channel Nine. “It was a good day for the team.”  Australia captain Clarke, who won the toss at Bellerive
Oval in Hobart, combined with  Mike Hussey  for an unbeaten 101-
run stand to guide the home team to stumps without further loss.
Clarke will resume on 70, with Hussey on 37.  Australia lost Shane Watson, who had dropped down the order
to No. 4 to accommodate Hughes, for 30 in the afternoon session
when Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene took a diving one-
handed catch at second slip. Warner was run out for 57 following
a mix-up with Hughes, a dismissal that triggered the lunch
break. Welegedara earlier removed Ed Cowan for 4 when the opener
miscued a pull shot to Shaminda Eranga at mid-on.  Ponting, who retired from international cricket as
Australia’s leading run-scorer last week after playing a record-
tying 168 Tests, did a farewell lap at his home ground in
Tasmania on the back of a pick-up truck during the lunch
interval. He was also given guards of honor by his local cricket
club and his former Australian teammates.  The teams are also scheduled to play matches in Melbourne
and Sydney.  Sri Lanka  failed to win any of its previous 10 Tests
in Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  