-- Australian Bonds Drop on Fed Policy, Currency Near 3-Month High
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-12-13T05:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/australian-bonds-drop-on-fed-policy-currency-near-3-month-high.html
Australia ’s bonds fell, pushing 10-
year yields to the highest since September, after a Federal
Reserve decision to stimulate the economy by expanding Treasury
buying crimped investor appetite for safer assets.  The Australian dollar traded near the highest level in
almost three months versus its U.S. peer, which tends to be
debased by expansionary monetary policy. The Federal Open Market
Committee said interest rates will stay low as long as U.S.
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation is in
check. The Australian and New Zealand dollars were buoyed as
global equities gained and before a private report tomorrow
forecast to show Chinese manufacturing is strengthening.  “The market is starting to reflect the global economic
backdrop that is looking somewhat better than it had over recent
times,” said Gavin Stacey, chief interest-rate strategist in
Sydney at Barclays Plc, referring to Australian bond yields.
“We think yields in general across the curve are likely to
grind higher.”  The 10-year Australian rate rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 3.31 percent as of 4:10 p.m. in Sydney. The
equivalent U.S. yield reached 1.72 percent, the most since Nov.
7.  Australia’s dollar was at $1.0551 from $1.0555 yesterday,
when it climbed as high as $1.0586, the strongest since Sept.
14. The Australian dollar dropped versus its New Zealand
counterpart to NZ$1.2491, the weakest since Oct. 12. The New
Zealand dollar fetched 84.43 U.S. cents from 84.36 yesterday,
when it touched 84.54, the most since Feb. 29.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares rose 0.3 percent,
following a 0.2 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  yesterday.  Economic Target  The Fed said it will buy an additional $45 billion of
Treasuries a month from January to spur growth. The central bank
said interest rates will stay low “at least as long” as the
unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent and if inflation
“between one and two years ahead” is projected to be no more
than 2.5 percent.  “Some changes in the Fed’s language on economic targets
were a bit surprising,” said Yasuhiro Kaizaki, vice president
of global markets at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. in New
York. “The U.S. dollar sold off and stocks gained, pushing
currencies such as the Aussie dollar and the euro higher.”  Benchmark interest rates are 3 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  Yearly Performance  The Australian dollar has risen 0.8 percent so far in 2012
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The kiwi
dollar’s 6.5 percent advance over the same period is the best
performance among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
the gauges. The U.S. currency has lost 2.8 percent.  Australia’s dollar “has been an extremely resilient
currency over 2012 and looks set to finish the year in stellar
form,”  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong based head of currency strategy
at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , wrote in a note to clients today. “Aided
by a relatively attractive yield, diversification flows and a
bounce-back in  China ’s economy, the AUD has gained substantial
support and looks to maintain this going into 2013.”  HSBC Holdings and Market Economics will release a
preliminary reading of a  Chinese manufacturing  survey tomorrow.
The index probably rose to 50.8 in December from 50.5 the
previous month, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. China is Australia’s biggest trading
partner and New Zealand’s second-biggest export market.  The Chinese data “can often give the Australian market
some guidance on how the global story is playing out,” said
Barclays’ Stacey. “If we continue to see improvements there, it
would support the Australian dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  