-- Boehner Says Obama’s Budget Plan ‘Anything But’ Balanced
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-12-13T18:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/lawmakers-warn-budget-impasse-may-last-through-holiday.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner 
repeated his insistence that President  Barack Obama ’s budget
proposal is “anything but” balanced, and accused the president
of being “not serious” about cutting spending.  Still, the speaker today didn’t rule out allowing a House
vote on extending tax cuts for income up to $250,000 a year for
married couples, as Obama has demanded, if a broader tax-and-
spending deal isn’t reached soon.  “The law of the land today is that everyone’s income taxes
are going to go up on Jan. 1,” Boehner said when asked by
reporters if he would rule out such a vote. “I have made it
clear I think that is unacceptable. Until we get this issue
resolved, that risk remains.”  More than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
are scheduled to start taking effect in January unless Congress
acts to avert them. Obama is seeking to retain the tax cuts for
most Americans while letting them expire for the top 2 percent
of earners.  “He wants far more in tax hikes than spending cuts,”
Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , said of the president.  Obama, responding to questions from reporters as he walked
to a holiday event across the street from the White House, said
the negotiations are “still a work in progress.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
today he is “really mystified that we haven’t had significant
movement from the Republicans” in the talks. He said Obama has
indicated he would agree to “take some looks” at spending cuts
once Republicans agree on higher tax rates for top earners.  Deeper Cuts  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said that talk of deeper spending cuts demanded by Republicans
should await discussions on a tax overhaul next year.  “Don’t even think about using” an increase in the
Medicare eligibility age to cut spending, Pelosi said. Democrats
won’t throw “America’s seniors over the cliff to give a tax cut
to the wealthiest in America,” she said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  snapped a six-day gain
after Boehner spoke, offsetting a better-than-estimated jobless
claims report.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,425.56 at 11:38 a.m.  New York  time. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  dropped 21.02 points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,224.43. The
benchmark 10-year Treasury bond  yield  rose three basis points to
1.73 percent and touched 1.74 percent, the most since Nov. 7.  Bernanke Warning  Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned
that Fed monetary stimulus can’t offset the full effect of
higher taxes for all earners and federal spending cuts, and that
doubts about the White House and Congress reaching a deal are
having a chilling effect on the economy.  “It’s already affecting business and hiring decisions by
creating uncertainty,” Bernanke, who popularized the term
“fiscal cliff” to describe the deadline for action, said at a
news conference. “Clearly this is a major risk factor.”  “People finally realized that we still have the fiscal
cliff waiting in the wings,” Thomas Garcia, head of equity
trading at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment
Management Inc., said in an e-mail.  While administration officials said both sides are in
contact and talking, they remain hundreds of billions of dollars
apart on taxes and spending. The parties also continue to
disagree on whether a year-end deal should include an increase
in the debt limit and stimulus measures to boost the economy.  Hampering Agreement  Democrats say Boehner’s unwillingness to let income tax
rates increase for the top 2 percent of earners is hampering an
agreement, while Republicans blame Obama’s refusal to offer
additional spending cuts to programs like Medicare.  Obama this week reduced his demand for new  tax revenue  to
$1.4 trillion from $1.6 trillion. Even still, Boehner said the
plan wouldn’t pass the Republican-controlled House.  “We’ve got some serious differences,” Boehner told
reporters yesterday, after what he described as a “frank”
conversation with the president on Dec. 11.  Republicans said their offer on taxes remained largely
unchanged from last week. Though they oppose raising rates,
Boehner has offered to raise $800 billion in revenue by limiting
deductions and other breaks for wealthy taxpayers.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the president
will hold firm on his insistence that the tax rates for top
earners must rise. He dismissed the Republican argument that
their proposal could raise enough revenue to help close the
 deficit  without the increase.  ‘Magic Beans’  “Those magic beans are just beans, and that fairy dust is
just dust,” he said. “It is not serious.”  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican who is
stepping down early next month to head the  Heritage Foundation ,
a conservative think tank in Washington, said today that Obama
will “probably get his tax increases one way or another.”  “We’re going to be raising taxes not just on the top
earners,” he said on CBS’s “This Morning” program.
“Everyone’s going to pay more taxes next year.”  DeMint, a businessman most of his life, said that economic
uncertainty because of the protracted debate over spending cuts
and tax increases means “you’re already going to see some
downturn in our economy, because of what’s going on here.”  “We can’t fix it Christmas Eve and expect it all to bounce
back in January,” he said.  Poll Data  Administration officials and Democratic lawmakers maintain
they have the upper hand in negotiations because Obama won re-
election on a promise to increase taxes on the top earning
Americans. That view is backed by polls.  Sixty-five percent of Americans say Obama has a mandate for
his stance, according to a Bloomberg National Poll of 1,000
adults conducted Dec. 7-10. Majorities of about 2-to-1 also see
the election results as an endorsement of Obama’s pledge to
protect Social Security and Medicare benefits.  Republicans are demanding cuts in entitlement programs as
part of a deal. In a Dec. 11 interview with ABC News, Obama
signaled some flexibility. “The current path is not sustainable
because we’ve got an aging population and health care costs are
shooting up so quickly,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  