-- Bankers Don Reindeer Tops to End Gloomy 2012 With Ironic Fashion
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/bankers-don-reindeer-tops-to-end-gloomy-2012-with-ironic-fashion.html
Once a holiday gift from granny to
be consigned to the closet, reindeer and snowflakes on retro
Christmas sweaters are the latest cool in British fashion.  Company executives and bankers who in the past wouldn’t
have dreamed of sporting such garish attire are among those who
this year are donning the knitwear for anything from parties to
charity events.  “It’s a big trend,” said Nick Robertson, chief executive
officer of U.K. online fashion retailer  Asos Plc. (ASC)  “It’s
slightly tongue-in-cheek, but they are doing really well,” said
the 45-year-old CEO, who admitted to wearing a red-and-black
reindeer sweater, known as a jumper in the U.K., to Christmas
work events this year.  Asos shifted “thousands” of 30-pound ($48) festive knits
within two weeks of putting them on its website this season,
head of buying James Barron said, while billionaire  Philip Green ’s Topman and department-stores  John Lewis  and Debenhams
Plc have reported a surge in purchases. Luxury retailers
Selfridges and Harrods have also got in on the act.  “It’s a light-hearted, ironic thing,” said  Charlotte 
Casey, knitwear editor at fashion forecaster WGSN. “Men are
becoming more extrovert in what they are prepared to wear,” she
said, citing a shift toward items previously considered
untouchable such as the “onesie,” an all-in-one jumpsuit made
popular by boy band One Direction and stars from “The Only Way
Is Essex” television series. “Partly, it’s a confidence
thing.”  Jumpers for Bankers  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the biggest U.K. mortgage lender,
expects most of the staff at its London head office to come to
work wearing a festive sweater tomorrow as part of its efforts
to raise cash for  Save the Children . The charity is tapping into
“the current trend,” while asking for a 1-pound donation per
person, Save the Children spokesman Terence Lovell said.  James Cassidy, who works in digital banking at Lloyds
“will be rocking my Christmas jumper” for the event, he said
in an e-mail. His wife bought the navy blue item with white
snowflakes around the chest at the budget Primark chain last
year and the banker has already worn it this season.  At  Debenhams, (DEB)  the U.K.’s second-largest department-store
chain, sales of Christmas jumpers are up 1,420 percent this year
after the retailer tripled its range of products, according to
spokeswoman Helen Lacey.  “The Christmas jumper is a fashion hit this year, and
we’ve seen men’s festive knits flying off the shelves,” Lacey
said by e-mail. “They’re definitely the trend of the season.”  ‘Really Cool’  Asos, the U.K.’s largest online-only fashion retailer, has
a whole section on its website dedicated to men’s Christmas
jumpers to help young shoppers “keep your knitwear the right
side of cool,” according to advice on the website. Ninety-six
jumpers are on offer, including a 30-pound own-brand version.  SuperGroup Plc’s (SGP)  Superdry Fairisle knits “are big sellers
and aren’t tongue-in-cheek,” said Julian Dunkerton, CEO of the
Cheltenham, England-based retailer. “They are actually really
cool versus one with a reindeer on it.”  Christmas jumpers didn’t use to be hip. Bridget Jones, the
perennially single heroine of the best-selling novels, was
famously unimpressed by the first sighting of her soon-to-be
boyfriend Mr. Darcy as he was wearing a festive reindeer knit.  TopMan  increased its range of the seasonal warmers by 10
percent this year in anticipation of stronger demand. The
enhanced offer has lifted sales of Christmas sweaters by 54
percent, with close to 6,000 items being sold online, including
the best-selling, 38-pound navy reindeer jumper, the chain’s
personal shopping manager Giles Farnham said.  Harrods, Selfridges  “It’s a fun way to look good at Christmas without taking
yourself too seriously,” Farnham said. “Our customers said
they would spend hours trawling vintage shops looking for a fun
Christmas inspired piece of knitwear.” Now “we have such a
wide variety they come to us.”  Even the wealthy are getting into the spirit of things.
Harrods has a Brunello Cucinelli cashmere snowflake jumper for
1,150 pounds available on its  website , while Selfridges is
selling a 255-pound Ralph Lauren toggle mock-neck  jumper  with a
red, green and white fair-isle pattern around the chest.  The shift toward knitted attire for men is something that
WGSN expects to last beyond December. Gone are the days when
children were bullied for wearing knitted jumpers, according to
Casey.  “Now knitwear is more a trendy fashion statement for
men,” she said. “They are much less ashamed about wearing
statement jumpers.”  At Lloyds in  London , all manner of garments will be on show
at the charity event and not just by the men. Sophie Gregory,
who works in the digital banking team, said she will be sporting
a 9-pound Primark version with a big Santa face and furry beard.  “It’s fun, festive and everyone can join in,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  