-- Bank of Korea Holds Rates After N. Korea’s Rocket Launch
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-12-13T03:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/bank-of-korea-holds-interest-rates-after-n-korea-rocket.html
The  Bank of Korea  held borrowing
costs unchanged before next week’s presidential election and
after North  Korea  launched a rocket in defiance of international
sanctions yesterday.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 2.75 percent after 25 basis-point
cuts in July and October, the central bank said in a statement
in Seoul today. Fourteen of 15 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  predicted the decision and one forecast a 25 basis-point
reduction.  South Korea’s economic data has given mixed signals and a
rapid rebound in growth is “unlikely,” Kim told reporters
today after the bank’s unanimous decision. At the same time, the
nation is poised for a  “moderate”  export -led recovery and
inflation will remain low, the BOK said in a statement,
bolstering the view that policy makers will remain on hold.  “The economy is still weak but not worsening,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in
 Seoul . “The Bank of Korea will likely hold the rate throughout
next year, unless there is a clear and strong signal of economic
recovery.”  South Korea’s won appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,071.75 per
dollar as of 12:38 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency earlier rose to 1,071.08, a 15-month
high. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of shares gained 0.6 percent after closing
yesterday at the highest level since Oct. 9.  ‘No Reason’  “The Bank of Korea has no reason to cut rates further
unless the won continues to appreciate to levels that invite hot
money inflows,” said Park Jong Youn, a fixed-income analyst at
Woori Investment & Securities in Seoul. “I expect no change in
 interest rates  until the end of next year.”  Much of the outlook for  South Korea ’s economy depends on
the strength of a recovery in  China , said Ronald Man, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. China’s new  yuan   loans 
trailed forecasts last month, while industrial output and retail
sales exceeded forecasts.  “Rising production and stabilizing manufacturing
conditions show that Korea remains on track for a gradual
recovery,” Man said. “This, however, requires the upward
momentum in China to be sustained, as Korea’s growth in 2013
will likely be export led.”  Growth Target  South Korea is unlikely to meet the central bank’s growth
estimate of 2.4 percent for this year, Bank of Korea Director
Jung Yung Taek said on Dec. 6. The economy expanded 1.5 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest since
2009. The central bank projects 3.2 percent growth for 2013.  President  Lee Myung Bak , whose five-year term ends in
February, has resisted pressure from lawmakers for an extra
budget to support growth, submitting a 2013 budget that targets
a fiscal deficit equal to 0.3 percent of gross domestic product,
a six-year low. Both ruling-party candidate Park Geun Hye and
opposition nominee Moon Jae In have promised to boost social
spending and increase aid to lower-income families.  While the country’s exports rose for a second month in
November,  consumer confidence  was below 100 for a fourth month,
a level seen during 2009, when the nation was recovering from
the worst of the financial crisis. An index measuring
expectations of manufacturers for December fell to the lowest
since April 2009, the Bank of Korea said last month.  ‘Preemptive’ Measures  South Korea’s Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said yesterday
that any turmoil in financial markets after  North Korea ’s rocket
launch would be limited. The government is ready to take
“speedy and preemptive” measures if needed, Bahk said.  The North Korean test deployed an object that appeared to
achieve orbit, the North America Aerospace Defense Command said
in a statement yesterday. The development followed a failed
rocket test in April under new leader Kim Jong Un.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  