-- Barclays Vindicated as Blown Chavez Call Redeemed: Andes Credit
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-12-13T20:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/barclays-vindicated-as-blown-chavez-call-redeemed-andes-credit.html
When  Barclays Plc (BARC)  recommended
investors buy Venezuelan bonds on the bet President Hugo Chavez
would lose his re-election bid in October, the bank said his
cancer battle could drive him out of office even if he won.  While Chavez rolled to an 11 percentage point victory that
sparked the worst one-day bond rout in four years, the call is
now rewarding investors with a 7 percent  return  this month that
is more than 20 times the average for emerging-market debt. The
surge pushed returns to 49 percent this year as Chavez’s cancer
recurrence fuels speculation he’ll be replaced by a president
who seeks to lure the investment he drove away.  Barclays’s New York-based analysts, led by Venezuelan-born
Alejandro Grisanti, say the rally isn’t over because the
government’s debt remains cheap versus developing-nation peers.
Venezuela’s dollar bonds due 2020 yield 8.76 percent, compared
with yields below 5.5 percent on similar-maturity notes issued
by Vietnam and Mongolia, countries that share the South American
nation’s B+ credit rating from Fitch Ratings.  “We always stuck to our Venezuelan bond position because
we believe there’s the possibility of a peaceful and democratic
change of office,” Grisanti, 46, said in a telephone interview.
“We weren’t wrong and we continue to believe in that. This bond
rally will continue.”  Cancer Surgery  The gains in Venezuelan dollar debt are the second biggest
in  emerging markets  this month after Argentine bonds and the
second best this year, trailing only Ivory Coast notes,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index. Yields on
Venezuela’s benchmark bonds due 2027 have plunged 4.55
percentage points this year to 8.94 percent.  Chavez, a self-declared socialist who has seized more than
1,000 companies since taking office in 1999, underwent six hours
of surgery in Cuba on Dec. 11 for cancer he first said he had in
June 2011.  The 58-year-old former paratrooper, who has never specified
what kind of cancer he has, is making a “favorable” recovery
after bleeding caused complications during the surgery,
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said in a nationally
televised address today. Villegas said yesterday that Chavez may
not recover in time to make it back for the Jan. 10
inauguration.  Speculation began to mount in late November that Chavez’s
health was faltering as he disappeared from public view five
weeks after his Oct. 7 election victory over opposition
candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski. Chavez reappeared in the
early morning hours of Dec. 7 and announced a day later that he
would need more surgery. He urged Venezuelans to back Vice
President Nicolas Maduro as his successor if he is unable to
continue in office.  ‘Very Sick’  Venezuelan law stipulates that if Chavez steps down before
the Jan. 10 inauguration, Maduro would serve the rest of the
current term before handing over power to the National Assembly
president, Diosdado Cabello, who must call for elections within
30 days. If Chavez starts his new six-year term and then steps
down within the first four years, the vice president takes over
while elections are arranged within a month.  “There’s a change in Chavez’s behavior that makes one
think he’s very sick,” said Grisanti, who raised Venezuelan
debt to overweight in September and predicted Capriles would
“likely” win the October vote. “The naming of Maduro by
Chavez indicates that a peaceful transition rather than a
chaotic one is possible in  Venezuela  in 2013.”  Grisanti said in an October interview that he uses his
experience in Venezuelan politics to help guide his bond market
calls. He has run unsuccessfully for public office as a member
of Primero Justicia, the party co-founded by Capriles.  Black Market  Chavez, an ally of ex-Cuban President Fidel Castro, has
imposed caps on consumer prices, restricted Venezuelans’ access
to dollars and taken foreign reserves from the central bank to
fund social projects. Foreign investment averaged $1.05 billion
a year between 2006 and 2011, a 58 percent tumble from the
previous six-year period, the United Nations said in a May
 report .  In the black market, where Venezuelans purchase foreign
currency when they can’t buy it through government-authorized
channels, the bolivar has weakened 46 percent this year to 16.09
per dollar, according to  Lechuga Verde , a website that tracks
the market. The government sets official exchange rates of 4.3
bolivars and 5.3 bolivars per dollar for authorized
transactions.  Venezuela’s benchmark bond yields could fall to as low as 4
percent if Chavez’s government is replaced by an administration
that seeks to attract investment and boost oil production,
according to Alberto Bernal, the head of fixed-income research
at Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami.  Oil Reserves  The country has the world’s largest oil reserves, totaling
about 300 billion barrels, according to the BP Statistical
Review of World Energy. While Venezuela remains the biggest oil
producer in South America, its  output  has fallen to about 2.8
million barrels a day from 3.1 million barrels a day when Chavez
took office in 1999.  “Venezuela’s oil wealth is ridiculous,” Bernal, who began
recommending investors buy the country’s bonds in April, said in
a telephone interview from Miami. “A boom should occur in a
scenario where reserves are well managed and there’s a
friendlier approach to business.”  Capriles, 40, proposed allowing more foreign investment in
the oil industry to boost production and said he would unwind
Chavez’s currency and price controls. He is seeking re-election
as governor of Miranda state in nationwide gubernatorial
elections on Dec. 16.  Gubernatorial Elections  A Capriles loss to the “Chavismo” candidate, Elias Jaua,
could spark declines in Venezuelan bonds because it would leave
the opposition without a clear-cut choice to stand in emergency
presidential elections, according to Ben Ramsey, an analyst at
JPMorgan.  JPMorgan had an overweight recommendation on Venezuelan
debt from August 2011 until Sept. 17 and then reinstated that
call on Oct. 10 following the post-election selloff.  “Venezuela has rallied a lot,” Ramsey said in a telephone
interview in New York. “You may have a scenario that can push
it down.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Venezuelan
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 759 basis points at
3:37 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
index. The yield gap has fallen 121 basis points this month.  Five-year credit-default swaps insuring Venezuelan bonds
against non-payment rose 10 basis points to 601 basis points.
The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash.  PDVSA Bonds  Yields on state-controlled oil company Petroleos de
Venezuela SA’s dollar bonds due 2017 rose 10 basis points to
9.03 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yields have dropped almost 6 percentage points from 15 percent
at the end of last year.  The oil company’s bonds will also keep rallying in line
with government debt, according to Grisanti.  Like JPMorgan’s Ramsey, Grisanti said he will be watching
the gubernatorial elections for clues on how an emergency
presidential election could turn out next year. A victory by
Capriles would signal that he can defeat whichever candidate the
Chavez supporters put up against him, Grisanti said.  “There could be a bigger rally in Venezuelan bonds after
the elections,” Grisanti said. “They’ll be key to
understanding how Chavismo does without Chavez.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  