-- Berlusconi Drags Merkel Into Italy Race in Monti Meeting
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-12-13T18:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/berlusconi-drags-merkel-into-italy-race-in-monti-meeting.html
The last time  Silvio Berlusconi  was
in Brussels with European leaders, he became the butt of an
inside joke between then French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Now, out of office for 13 months and spoiling for a return,
Berlusconi showed up today at a pre-summit meeting of leaders of
European conservative parties that included his successor,  Mario Monti , and Merkel. The encounter resulted in backing for Monti
and warnings that  Italy  should stick to his economic
prescription.  “There was broad support for Monti” at the meeting, said
 Jean-Claude Juncker , Luxembourg prime minister and head of the
group of European finance ministers. For her part, Merkel didn’t
express an opinion on candidates, a German official said.  Berlusconi, who blamed Europe’s economic woes on Merkel’s
push for austerity, attended the European People’s Party meeting
a day after he offered to drop his plans to run for premier if
Monti joined the race.  Berlusconi reiterated his offer for Monti to enter the fray
at the head of a coalition that would include Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty Party as well as the  Northern League , which
served in all three of Berlusconi’s governments.  Moderates’ Candidate  “At this stage let him be the candidate of the PDL too,”
Berlusconi said after the meeting. “We will have some
difficulties in convincing the League on this, but I think that
even the League can reason about it so that he can be the
candidate of all moderates.”  Berlusconi said that Monti did not respond to his offer.  And Northern League leader Roberto Maroni posted a message
on his Twitter feed rebuffing a potential alliance with Monti.
His party isn’t available to be part of ``a great coalition 
headed by Monti the one who hold the world record of tax increases. 
No thanks.” he wrote.  The unelected Monti, who has no party affiliation, made a
surprise appearance at the Brussels gathering after Berlusconi
announced his plan to attend.  European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  said at a
press conference that he had spoken to Berlusconi about “the
importance of having stability in Italy, the importance of
keeping Italy on this path of stability and reform. This is
critically important for Italy but also for the euro area and
for the European Union.”  That advice recalled the joint press conference on Oct. 23,
2011, when Sarkozy and Merkel snickered before responding to
whether Berlusconi could fix the nation’s finances. Berlusconi
resigned two weeks later.  Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the  Democratic Party , is also
making overtures to Monti.  “I have told Monti that he must continue to have a role,”
Bersani said in  Rome . “The day after the elections, if I win, I
will consider together with Monti” what he might do.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Davis in Brussels at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Brussels at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  