-- Bersani Says He Backs Role for Monti in Italy After Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-12-13T14:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/bersani-says-he-backs-role-for-monti-in-italy-after-elections.html
Italy ’s Pier Luigi Bersani, the
front-runner for next year’s parliamentary elections, said he
wants Prime Minister Mario Monti to remain in public service
after the vote.  “I confirm my absolute resolution and intention to see
Prime Minister Monti engaged again,” Bersani, head of Italy’s
Democratic Party, said today at a conference at the foreign
press association in  Rome . “The role will be discussed.”  Bersani confirmed his adherence to Monti’s austerity
program. The Democrat helped bring Monti to power in November
2011 in what was described then as an emergency administration.
Monti and his unelected Cabinet of professors and bureaucrats
shielded Italy from the worst of  Europe ’s debt crisis by raising
taxes and reforming the pension and labor markets.  Italy’s presidency, which is decided by parliament, or a
role in a Bersani government have been cited by analysts as
possibilities for Monti. The 69-year-old unelected premier, who
today declined to comment on his future, is also being pressed
by some lawmakers to seek a second term.  “We have to reason it through together,” Bersani, 61,
said of Monti’s role after the election.  Italian elections may be held on Feb. 17, Ansa reported
Dec. 12, citing Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri. Monti
was forced on Dec. 8 to announce his intention to resign after
losing the support of billionaire former premier Silvio Berlusconi. Berlusconi is now campaigning against Monti’s
austerity agenda.  “I reiterate that the rigor and credibility brought to the
world by Monti’s government are for us a point of no return,”
Bersani said.  Italian Polls  The Democratic Party, or PD, had 33 percent support in an
ISPO Richerche Srl poll published Dec. 12, compared with 16
percent for Berlusconi’s People of Liberty and 18 percent for
Beppe Grillo’s anti-austerity Five Star Movement. Three so-
called centrist parties, which are pushing for Monti, had a
total of 8.8 percent support in the poll.  The Italian campaign was thrown into turbulence last week
when Berlusconi, who has won three elections since 1994,
announced he would run. The 76-year-old former premier has
appealed to voters by blaming Monti’s austerity for the
recession and saying Italy was a victim of European economic
policy that has favored  Germany .  While Bersani said he also believed Germany has benefited
from the relative increase in Italy’s borrowing costs, the PD
leader blamed Berlusconi and not European policy.  “Public opinion in Germany is right when it says that some
countries didn’t take advantage of the decline in interest rates
to make reforms,” Bersani said. “It’s true. For us in Italy,
this is the fault of Berlusconi, who wasted the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  