-- Best Buy Rises After Newspaper Says Schulze to Make Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-12-13T21:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/best-buy-rises-after-newspaper-says-schulze-to-make-bid.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the world’s largest
electronics retailer, rose the most in almost four years after
the Minneapolis Star-Tribune reported founder Richard Schulze
will offer to take the company private by Dec. 15.  The  shares  climbed 16 percent to $14.12 at the close in New
York, the biggest daily gain since Dec. 16, 2008. Richfield,
Minnesota-based Best Buy has fallen 40 percent this year.  Schulze will submit an offer to the board before the Dec.
16 deadline, the newspaper reported, citing a person it didn’t
name. The bid will be about $5 billion to $6 billion, the Star-
Tribune said.  Best Buy declined to comment on the report, said Matt
Furman, a company spokesman. David Reno, a spokesman for
Schulze, didn’t immediately reply to telephone messages and an
e-mail seeking comment.  Schulze, 71, has been working with three private-equity
firms, including Cerberus Capital Management LP, on a takeover
of the electronics chain, people familiar with the matter have
told Bloomberg News. Schulze and his allies had pressed for a
30-day extension of their due diligence period so they could see
how Best Buy performs during the holidays, a person familiar
with the matter said last month.  Best Buy last month posted a $10 million loss for its
fiscal third-quarter as sales at established stores fell. Chief
Executive Officer Hubert Joly is working to improve customer
service as customers defect to Amazon.com Inc. and Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  Schulze Resignation  Schulze resigned as chairman in June after an investigation
found he failed to tell the board’s audit committee about
allegations former Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn was having
an inappropriate relationship with an employee.  Schulze bid $24 to $26 a share for the company in August.
Later that month, he reached an agreement with the company that
allowed him to conduct due diligence on the retailer and present
a fully financed offer within 60 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  