-- BG Appoints Chris Finlayson as CEO to Replace Frank Chapman
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-12-13T17:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/bg-appoints-chris-finlayson-as-ceo-to-replace-frank-chapman-1-.html
BG Group Plc (BG/)  appointed Chris Finlayson to succeed  Frank Chapman , the chief executive officer
who transformed the U.K.’s former state-owned gas driller into a
global producer.  Finlayson, 56, currently an  executive director  at BG who
joined in 2010 after more than 30 years at  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , will take the helm on Jan. 1, the company said today in a
statement. Chapman, 59, who’s undergoing treatment for a medical
condition, will serve as an adviser to the company until his
retirement in June.  Finlayson will take charge as the explorer, based in
Reading,  England , tries to balance record capital spending on
fields from  Australia  to  Brazil  with lower-than-expected oil and
gas production. The share price dropped about 20 percent since
the company said on Oct. 31 output won’t grow next year because
of project delays in the North Sea, U.S., Brazil and Egypt.  “This is a sensible and practical appointment,”  Peter Hutton , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London, said in a
note to clients. “Finlayson has maintained a lower profile than
other candidates, but his experience as an insider’s outsider is
a useful balance.”  BG started in 1997, when former state gas monopoly British
Gas Plc split its exploration and production arm from its retail
business. Chapman, an engineer who spent 22 years at Shell and
 BP Plc (BP/)  before joining British Gas in 1996, became CEO in October
2000. Under his leadership the company became one of the world’s
largest traders of liquefied natural gas and participated in the
discovery of giant oilfields off Brazil.  Highly Valued  He took the company’s market capitalization from 9.7
billion pounds ($15.6 billion) in the month he took charge to
more than 54 billion pounds in 2011. Even after the recent share
tumble, the company is more highly valued than larger
competitors. Its price to earnings ratio is 15 compared with 8.1
at Shell and 7.5 at BP.  BG shares  fell 1.7 percent to 1,047 pence in  London  today.  “I have known Chris for many years and he has outstanding
front-line operating experience,” BG Chairman Andrew Gould, 65,
said in the statement. “He has worked all over the world, often
in difficult circumstances, and has a strong track record of
successful delivery.”  Advisory Role  Chapman will work as an adviser to support the new CEO
until his retirement next June, the company said. Last June, he
began a course of medication for very early-stage myeloma, a
blood disorder that affects bone-marrow cells.  “He has experienced no symptoms from the condition, or
side effects from the treatment,” the company said. “In 2013
he will undergo three to four weeks’ hospital treatment to
consolidate the excellent progress made.”  Finlayson was one of three internal candidates for the top
job. Chief Operating Officer  Martin Houston  and Chief Financial
Officer  Fabio Barbosa  were also running for the post. In
September, Barbosa was granted a leave of absence to undergo
medical treatment in Brazil.  “Fabio is still in Brazil, he is still with us,”  Neil
Burrows , a BG spokesman, said by phone. “Martin is still with
the company.”  Under Chapman’s management, BG expanded its oil and gas
resources more than 10 times to more than 17 billion barrels.
The increased reserves haven’t prevented the company from
missing production targets since 2010, according to Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in London.  “BG has been unable to deliver on its production growth
targets for some time,” Joyner said in a Dec. 3 report. “The
market is unlikely to view BG as a growth stock for the
foreseeable future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  