-- Big East’s Non-Football Schools to Depart League, N.Y. Post Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-13T15:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/big-east-s-non-football-schools-to-depart-league-n-y-post-says.html
The seven  Big East Conference 
schools that don’t play top-level college football will announce
that they are leaving the league, the New York Post reported.  The presidents of DePaul, Georgetown, Marquette,
Providence,  Seton Hall ,  St. John’s  and Villanova are holding a
conference call with  Big East  Commissioner Mike Aresco and will
probably announce the split this afternoon, the  Post said ,
citing unidentified people.  John Paquette, a spokesman for the Providence, Rhode
Island-based Big East, declined to comment on the report in an
e-mail.  The conference, which was founded in 1979, is an automatic
qualifier for college football’s lucrative Bowl Championship
Series, but will lose that status when the sport moves to a new
playoff format in 2014 because defections from the league have
weakened its power. Louisville, Pittsburgh, Rutgers and
Syracuse, all current Big East members, have announced plans to
move to other leagues.  That will leave the Big East, which has plans to add other
members, as a “group of five” smaller conferences that won’t
receive as much money from playoff payout as the Atlantic Coast,
Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and Southeastern conferences, according
to ESPN.  The seven Big East schools may vote to completely dissolve
the league, ESPN reported. A two-thirds majority is needed to
approve dissolution, according to the website, and the other
three members of what is currently a 10-team league are
Cincinnati, Connecticut and  South Florida . Temple, which is a
football-only member, can’t vote on dissolution, ESPN said,
citing unidentified people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  