-- BlackRock Favors Withdrawal Fees for Money Market Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-12-13T18:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/blackrock-rejects-fsoc-proposal-for-money-fund-overhaul.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager, criticized draft recommendations for new rules
governing money-market mutual funds offered last month by a
senior panel of regulators, and reiterated its call for
withdrawal restrictions for funds under stress.  Floating the share price of money funds to reflect market
prices wouldn’t prevent investor runs, and requiring the funds
to hold capital buffers would effectively eliminate the product
by driving clients away, the New York-based firm said today in a
letter to the Financial Stability Oversight Council in
 Washington . BlackRock said it favored a plan to impose a 1
percent fee on withdrawals when a fund’s weekly liquidity
dropped below half the required level.  “This approach preserves the benefits to all investors and
borrowers, while also definitively stopping a run,” Barbara G. Novick, BlackRock’s vice chairman, and Richard K. Hoerner, head
of the firm’s global cash management business, wrote in the
letter.  Regulators, led by outgoing SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro ,
have been working to overhaul rules governing the $2.6 trillion
money-fund industry since the September 2008 collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, triggered by
holdings of debt issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., set
off a run by money-fund investors that helped freeze global
credit markets.  Schapiro’s Plan  Schapiro had planned as recently as August to propose that
money funds be forced to choose between a floating share value
or a combination of capital buffers and withdrawal restrictions.
She shelved the proposal when three of her four fellow
commissioners signaled they would reject it.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of
regulators headed by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , on
Nov. 13 began a process by which it will pressure SEC
commissioners to reconsider the elements of Schapiro’s plan and
a third option that also included a capital buffer. Other
industry leaders immediately rejected the recommendations.  The council, known as FSOC, said it would be open to other
proposals offered during a 60-day comment period.  The plan to make funds abandon their traditional fixed
share value of $1 gained new momentum on Dec. 8 when
commissioner Luis A. Aguilar said he is now open to the proposal
after reviewing an SEC staff report on the effects of rule
changes made in 2010. Daniel M. Gallagher, another commissioner
who opposed Schapiro’s proposal, has also said he may support
the concept.  Floating Price  BlackRock said that while a floating share price, or net-
asset value, would shrink money funds and wouldn’t prevent
investor runs, the firm isn’t wholly opposed to the idea.  “We’re open to a discussion on it,” Novick said today in
a telephone interview. “It doesn’t really meet the needs, in
terms of stopping a run, but if they want to go for a floating
NAV we believe there are certain features that would be
important to our clients.”  Investors would have to be exempted from taxes on small
gains and losses incurred in a floating fund for the idea to
work, Novick said, repeating concerns raised by both Aguilar and
Gallagher.  Under BlackRock’s plan, a temporary closure and withdrawal
fees would be triggered when a fund’s seven-day liquidity fell
below 15 percent of assets. Liquidity refers to cash and
securities that can be readily converted into cash.  The plan wouldn’t favor big players over smaller ones or
push investors out of the product, and could be implemented
without a phase-in period, Novick said.  “You could make it effective as of a certain date and then
just turn it on,” she said.  FSOC considered the proposal a “preliminary idea” and
have asked for more information about it, Novick said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  