-- BNDES Raises Local-Content Requirement for Brazil Wind Turbines
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-12-13T21:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/bndes-raises-local-content-requirement-for-brazil-wind-turbines.html
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico e Social,  Brazil ’s development bank, is increasing the
local-content requirements for wind-turbine manufacturers as
part of an effort to spur its domestic industry.  Companies now must source 60 percent of the components in
their turbines locally, and beginning in January will have to be
producing or assembling in Brazil at least three of the four
main wind-farm elements -- towers, blades, nacelles and hubs.  BNDES stopped offering loans this year to developers to buy
turbines from five companies that weren’t meeting the
requirements, hindering the suppliers’ ability to close sales.
As many as three of the 11 wind manufacturers operating in
Brazil may be unable to comply with the new rules, Antonio Tovar, head of renewable energy for BNDES, as the lender is
known, said today in a telephone interview.  The turbine companies may not “have enough capital to
invest in Brazil right now because they’re facing problems
outside Brazil,” he said. “To fulfill all these requirements
you have to buy new equipment, contract new employees.”  BNDES determined in June that  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) ,
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , Siemens AG, Acciona SA and Fuhrlaender AG
weren’t meeting the local-content rules. None of them responded
to e-mails seeking comment on the new requirements. Fuhrlaender
filed for insolvency in September.  The government is seeking to boost local production of the
more complicated elements of wind-power systems, Joao Paulo
Gualberto Silva, commercial manager for Jaragua Do Sul, Brazil-
based turbine supplier  WEG SA (WEGE3) , said in a telephone interview.  “The idea here is to create jobs that aren’t just cutting
and welding,” he said.  Increasing Requirements  The local-content requirements will be ratcheted up
incrementally through Jan. 1 2016, BNDES said yesterday in a
 statement . Manufacturers will meet regularly with the lender to
show progress toward meeting these targets.  BNDES is studying the possibility of offering cheaper
financing for turbines from suppliers that meet their milestones
quicker, Tovar said.  Developing a cost-competitive supply chain in Brazil will
be a challenge, Jean-Claude Robert, Latin America director for
General Electric Co.’s renewable-energy business, said today in
an e-mail.  “Today there is still a shortage of some key components,”
he said. The “local supply chain will need to mature quickly in
order to avoid fulfillment risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  