-- BNP Paribas Boosts China Bet With Bank of Nanjing Stake
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-13T06:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/bnp-paribas-boosts-china-bet-with-bank-of-nanjing-stake.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
lender, plans to bolster its stake in  Bank of Nanjing Co.  to as
much as 20 percent as Chinese lenders’ profits defy the global
economic slowdown and rise to a record.  BNP Paribas will buy the shares in the secondary market to
increase its holding from about 15 percent to closer to the
maximum allowed under Chinese law,  China  Chief Executive Officer
Clarence T’ao said in an interview yesterday in  Shanghai . A 5
percent stake would cost about $200 million at Bank of Nanjing’s
share price today.  Investing in local lenders in China has reaped bigger
profits for foreign banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
than running their own franchises in the world’s second-largest
banking market. The Western firms’ gains on the stakes are set
to exceed their investments with more than $20 billion in
holdings remaining even after they recouped about $24 billion
over the last three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We’ve always adopted a more strategic approach to our
investments in Bank of Nanjing,” T’ao, 51, said. “It’s not
surprising that you see the bank actually trying to get back to
a higher level.”  BNP Paribas bought 19.2 percent of the Chinese lender in
2005, two years before the bank’s initial public offering
diluted that stake to about 12.7 percent. The Paris-based lender
purchased an additional 2 percent stake from Oct. 10 through
Dec. 6, Bank of Nanjing, based in the eastern city for which
it’s named, said this month.  Global Investors  Global banks and financial institutions including
 Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte invested a combined $33 billion
in Chinese banks from 2001 to 2009, according to data compiled
by the nation’s banking regulator.  Goldman Sachs, which in 2006 invested about $2.58 billion
of its own and client funds in Beijing-based  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , has since recorded more than $3.1
billion of gains on its proprietary holding, according to
company filings. The New York-based bank doesn’t disclose the
size of the gains made by its investment funds from ICBC, the
world’s most profitable lender.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank, sold its 2.71
percent stake in  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (600000)  to
institutional investors for after-tax proceeds of about $349
million, it said in a statement in March. The U.S. bank still
owns 20 percent of Guangdong Development Bank Co.  Such profits overshadow the $10 billion that global banks
have jointly earned over the past decade from the $27 billion
they’ve spent on building their own franchises in China, the
regulator’s data show.  Branch Networks  Overseas banks have 387 branches in China, compared with
about 66,600 operated by the five largest state-owned lenders
led by ICBC. The foreign firms held just 1.6 percent of the
nation’s 83 trillion  yuan  ($13 trillion) of  deposits  and made
1.7 percent of its 58 trillion yuan in loans as of Dec. 31,
according to the China Banking Regulatory Commission.  The combined profit at China’s  four largest banks  rose 15
percent to 189 billion yuan in the third quarter, almost triple
the amount at the top four U.S. banks.  “If you look at the profitability of those Chinese banks,
they’ve been much higher than what BNP can get perhaps in
 Europe ,” Ismael Pili, head of Asia bank research at Macquarie
Capital Securities Ltd., said by telephone today. “Trying to
bring it up to the limit of 20 percent is probably a smart thing
to be doing.”  Slowing Economy  For BNP Paribas, profit this year from its Chinese unit is
set to decline as the country’s economic growth moderates and
the  European debt crisis  curbs demand for trade finance, T’ao
said. The French bank earned a record $85.6 million in the
country last year, an increase of almost fourfold from 2010,
according to its annual report for China.  “We will not be able to achieve the record results that we
achieved in 2011,” T’ao said.  While the lender’s operations were profitable in 2012, T’ao
said he’s “more optimistic” for next year as the country’s new
leadership takes over and the economy rebounds.  Still, the investments in Chinese lenders aren’t without
risks. Shares in Bank of Nanjing  have declined  10 percent this
year in Shanghai trading, slipping 1.9 percent to 8.34 yuan at
1:56 p.m. Bigger rival ICBC has lost 6.6 percent on the mainland
and advanced 18 percent in  Hong Kong  trading this year, while
BNP Paribas has climbed 42 percent in Paris.  Valuations Slump  Bank of Nanjing is  trading at  1 times estimated book value
for 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chinese banks
dropped to record-low valuations this year on concern that an
economic slowdown and interest-rate deregulation will erode
profits.  Two calls to Bank of Nanjing’s press office seeking comment
on BNP Paribas’s plans went unanswered today.  The French lender’s investments in China come amid a global
retrenchment by European banks as they seek to curtail losses
following the region’s three-year financial crisis. The lenders
have cut international assets by 40 percent, or $7 trillion, in
the past four years, including $2 trillion in the past year,
Morgan Stanley analysts led by Huw van Steenis in  London  wrote
in a Nov. 20 report.  French banks including BNP Paribas and Societe Generale SA,
which have cut debt holdings in Europe’s troubled periphery by
more than 35 percent since the start of the euro-area crisis,
are still struggling to shake off their image as surrogates for
the region’s woes.  The investment “demonstrates how tough it is these days to
be an EU bank,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., wrote in an e-mail. “Management has
clearly decided that it is better to invest in the Mainland
market at this point than to invest in the home market.”  Brokerage Partner  BNP Paribas is also interested in finding a new local
partner to access China’s securities market, T’ao said. The
lender pulled out of a three-year-old investment banking venture
with  Changjiang Securities Co. (000783)  in 2007, selling its 33 percent
stake to the Chinese broker after disagreeing on strategy.  “BNP Paribas is not a bank that wanted to go in, get out,
go in and get out,” T’ao said. “We actually look at our
partners carefully. There have been more failures than successes
in the market.”  China in May raised the ceiling on foreign banks’
investments in such securities joint ventures to 49 percent from
33 percent, the first increase in more than a decade. Goldman
Sachs, which in 2004 became the first Wall Street firm to form
such a venture, and UBS AG were the only firms to have
management control of those businesses at that time.  Morgan Stanley in 2010 sold its minority stake in China
International Capital Corp. after a 15-year involvement in the
first Sino-foreign brokerage venture, opting instead to form a
partnership with Shenzhen-based China Fortune Securities Co.  Citigroup in August started an investment banking joint
venture with Orient Securities Co., gaining access to the
world’s second-biggest market for share sales.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  