-- BNP Recommends Buying First-Quarter 2013 Asia Fuel Oil Spread
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2012-12-13T04:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/bnp-recommends-buying-first-quarter-2013-asia-fuel-oil-spread.html
The discount of  fuel oil  sold in
 Asia  to Dubai crude will narrow as bunker fuel demand in the
region increases as  China ’s economic growth recovers and a
supply surplus will abate,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  said.  The bank recommends buying the discount, or crack spread,
for the first quarter of 2013 to benefit from a seasonal
increase in  fuel oil  demand along with the gains from better
fundamentals,  Harry Tchilinguirian , a London-based analyst at
BNP, said in report dated Dec. 12. The price difference will
also be supported by refiners using more residue supplies as a
feedstock to produce gasoline and diesel, he said.  “The latest data from China augurs a potential firming of
bunker demand,” Tchilinguirian said in the report. “With the
return of regional refineries from maintenance and expected
higher crude prices ahead, the appeal of fuel oil as a feedstock
rises.”  The fuel oil crack widened to the most in four years on
Nov. 29 as bunker demand slumped on concerns shipping needs
would decline amid an economic slowdown. The price difference
has since narrowed 38 percent.  China’s economy , the world’s
second largest, may grow 7.7 percent this quarter from a year
earlier, snapping a seven-quarter slowdown, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 30 economists conducted
Nov. 20 to Nov. 23.  The Singapore fuel oil swap for January today traded at a
$2.75 a metric ton discount to the February contract. The price
difference, or timespread, has swung into a contango market
since Oct. 30, when prompt deliveries are less than later
supplies, highlight falling demand.  Given the contango, some traders may be tempted to store
supply to profit from the price difference using floating
storage, effectively keeping fuel oil off the market, according
to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  