-- Bofa Jumbo-Deal Delay Shows Bond Market on Life Support
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-12-13T17:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/bofa-jumbo-deal-delay-shows-market-on-life-support-mortgages.html
A delay of  Bank of America Corp. ’s
return to selling mortgage securities shows the housing bust is
still limiting the market’s revival.  Its Merrill Lynch unit has been considering since last
month a plan to package hundreds of millions of dollars of U.S.
jumbo home loans it had acquired into securities, said four
people familiar with the matter. With the firm mired in
litigation over mortgages sold during the boom, executives are
cautious about doing a deal, said the people, who asked not to
be named because discussions are private.  While issuance of private  home-loan bonds  quintupled this
year to $3.5 billion and is forecast to rise by as much as nine-
fold in 2013, sales still pale in comparison to their peak of
more than $1 trillion before the housing market slide starting
in 2006. At stake in the nascent recovery are Wall Street
profits, investor returns, homebuyer  borrowing costs  and the
role of the government in housing finance.  “It would be a stretch to even call it reviving,” Jeremy Diamond, a managing director at  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) ,
whose $142 billion of assets make it the largest real-estate
investment trust that invests in mortgage bonds, said at an
industry conference this month. “This year wouldn’t have even
been a good month in any of the 10 years leading up to 2008.”  William Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank America, which bought Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009
after acquiring top-ranked issuer Countrywide Financial Corp. in
2008, declined to comment on the potential transaction.  Mortgage Costs  Costs from boom-era mortgages have helped send Bank of
America  stock  down 46 percent from its 2010 high. It’s racked up
more than $40 billion in costs from faulty  foreclosures  and
sold-off housing debt and faces ongoing lawsuits from insurers
including MBIA Inc. and investors such as a class action suit
led by the Iowa Public Retirement System.  The thaw in the non-agency market, for bonds without
government backing, is being held back by the fallout from the
global financial crisis it caused. Instead, programs backed by
taxpayers are dominating originations, while banks are holding
on to more mortgages as the weak economy limits other lending
and increases their deposits.  Investors and issuers also need to overcome lingering
distrust of each other and the government, Jason Kravitt, a
partner at law firm Mayer Brown LLP, said at the  conference  held
last week by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association.  “It’s very hard to have a market where the principal
investors are on a daily basis suing the principal issuers,” he
said.  Pending Regulations  For the biggest banks, the potential legal and reputational
threats and impact of pending regulations “are all challenges
that they have to deal with today that weren’t that relevant in
the past,” said Chris Hentemann, a former head of global
structured products at Bank of America’s securities unit through
2007.  The bank’s hesitation to securitize the jumbo mortgages it
bought “doesn’t surprise me at all really,” said Hentemann,
now chief investment officer at hedge fund 400 Capital
Management LLC.  Still, the market is growing. Next year, sales may reach
$20 billion to $30 billion, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts. Separate securities that government-owned mortgage
insurers  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  are being pushed to create
to transfer default risks may fuel a further expansion.  Issuance Peaked  Issuance peaked at $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006,
fueling the housing bubble, before freezing in late 2008 amid a
 home-price crash  that reached 35 percent by February. The slump
contributed to a global recession and more than $2 trillion in
losses at the world’s largest financial companies.  All of the non-agency bonds created since the crisis have
been backed by so-called prime jumbo loans, which exceed the
limits of government-backed programs, rather than the subprime
and other risky mortgages that stoked the boom.  The role of  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,  Freddie Mac  and other U.S. agencies
has grown to account for more than 90 percent of new lending, in
part because Congress expanded their upper loan limits, without
dropping their base limits even as  home prices  fell. That’s
helped to crowd out the private market. Guarantees offered by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac cover loans of as large as $417,000
in most places and up to $625,500 in high-cost areas, down from
$729,750 last year.  “The primary challenge is that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
have such a dominant market share,” said Adam Yarnold, a
managing director at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the underwriter of $1.2
billion of 2012 deals.  Fed’s Role  The  Federal Reserve  also is helping to stifle a revival by
driving down yields on their securities as it buys the debt to
support the economy, he said.  The growth in non-agency issuance partly reflects investor
willingness to accept lower yields on their top-ranked slices,
according to Bill Roth, chief investment officer of  Two Harbors
Investment Corp., (TWO)  a  REIT (BBREMTG)  that’s been buying jumbo loans it may
securitize. The trend reflects the Fed’s stimulus measures
pushing bond buyers to riskier debt and housing recovering.
Credit-rating firms are also easing their toughened standards a
“little bit,” he said.  Redwood (RWT)  Trust Inc., the REIT that was the only issuer
during the past two years, was joined this year by  Credit Suisse
Group AG. (CSGN)  They also may be followed by Shellpoint Partners LLC,
the lender whose owners include market pioneer Lewis Ranieri’s
Ranieri Partners, and  EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER)   EverBank Plan  “We’re planning on becoming an issuer next year, and we’re
bullish of the opportunity that lies in front of us,” said
Joseph B. Long, an executive vice president at EverBank, whose
home-loan unit is run by Tom Wind, the former residential-
lending head at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Shellpoint, which filed documents in October with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for a potential deal, said
that its products include jumbo mortgages and loans for good-
credit borrowers that fall outside of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
guidelines.  Reflecting the higher demand, the  difference  between rates
on jumbo 30-year fixed-rate mortgages and smaller loans has
narrowed to about 0.6 percentage point, from as high as 1.8
percentage points in 2009. The gap averaged 0.3 percentage point
in 2006.  Declining Limits  The decline in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s upper loan
limits made the private market more important this year. The
firms also raised their guarantee fees, allowing Redwood to
offer better rates on some loans they can finance, said  Michael McMahon , a managing director. It may become more competitive
next year because the companies’ regulator has pledged further
fee increases.  Jumbo borrowers are taking out more loans amid  record low 
borrowing costs and being encouraged to choose fixed rather than
adjustable-rate mortgages by a narrower gap between short-and
longer-term rates, Everbank’s Long said. Banks that use funding
such as deposits prefer to hold ARMs, he said.  Closed-end residential loans held by commercial banks  rose 
to $1.61 trillion as of Nov. 28, from about $1.53 trillion at
the start of the year, Fed data show.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   said  it retained $9.8 billion of
mortgages eligible to be packaged into government-backed bonds
last quarter to boost its interest income as the Fed’s buying
makes investment in the securities less attractive.  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP) ’s Bank of the West is seeking high-quality jumbo loans to put
in its portfolio, accepting down payments as low as 10 percent
for borrowers with “a lot” of liquid assets, Stew Larsen, its
mortgage head, said.  “We would not bump our head on any limitations for a
number of years of aggressive originations,” he said.  Dodd-Frank  Banks may be even more likely to hold on to the loans they
make rather than securitize because of new rules called for by
the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, which will require
issuers to retain stakes in non-agency deals.  “If you take the preliminary version of the rules it looks
like banks will have a difficult time executing a
securitization,” Yarnold of Barclays said. The regulations may
interact with accounting and other requirements to require banks
to hold capital against all of the underlying loans, he said.  That risk retention won’t be required for Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac securities, which “contradicts” with the
government’s aim to shrink their role, Susan Mills, the head of
the institutional clients group for residential finance at
Citigroup Inc.’s securities arm, said at the conference.  Increased Regulation  Regulators may also stunt sales by leaving bond investors
vulnerable if lenders don’t follow new rules meant to ensure
borrowers can repay their debt, she said. Another change will
create new risks for officials who will need to attest to the
accuracy of information in documents used to publicly register
securities, she said.  “Having signed a lot of registration statements in my
career, and being named in a lot of lawsuits, there’s not a
person in my firm that’s going to sign it,” she said.  Issuers have paid for some mistakes. Bondholder claims that
the mortgages backing Countrywide’s securities never matched
their promised quality led to a pending $8.5 billion  settlement 
with Bank of America. Lingering distrust means loans are now
subject to 100 percent due diligence by third-party firms, and
ratings companies more closely scrutinize originator operations,
Everbank’s Long said.  Rating Process  Various “rating agency processes have changed post-credit
crisis, so it takes longer to bring a new deal to market,” said
James Raezer, head of mortgage finance in the Americas at  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s securities arm, which underwrote
one of this year’s Redwood deals. “That has to be taken into
consideration.”  Bond buyers including Pacific Investment Management Co. and
BlackRock Inc., which helped negotiate the Bank of America
settlement, have said government steps to aid delinquent
borrowers while sparing banks will also curb their interest.  Scott Simon , Pimco’s mortgage head, said the revival will
at the same time be constrained by the borrowers having high
credit scores and down payments, which creates  refinancing  risks
for investors. So far, the limited amount of sales has meant
underwriters can find enough who don’t understand the extent of
the danger to senior-ranked bonds bought at premiums, he said.  “You will blow through the people paying too much pretty
quickly,” said Simon, whose firm manages the world’s  largest
bond fund .  ‘Fantastic Environment’  Investors are eager to purchase junior-ranked slices
offering higher returns if defaults stay low, said Hentemann of
400 Capital. Improved loan quality makes today similar to a
period in the mid-1990s when doing so proved smart, he said.  “From a credit buyer’s perspective, it’s a fantastic
environment,” he said.  In Redwood’s deals since 2010, loan-to-value ratios
averaged 63 percent, translating to down payments of 37 percent
for  home-purchase  loans, and credit scores were 771 out of a
possible 850, the JPMorgan analysts calculated.  The quality of transactions next year will be “marginally
weaker,” with loan-to-value ratios continuing to rise and
credit scores drifting lower, Moody’s Investors Service said
today in a statement. The pools will also “contain more loans
with riskier attributes, such as those secured by investment
properties,” the ratings firm said.  “Lender guidelines have not materially loosened recently,
but growing investor appetite for prime jumbo RMBS and a limited
supply of ’super-prime’ borrowers has incentivized lenders to
originate more loans near the fringes of their underwriting
criteria,” Linda Stesney, a managing director at Moody’s, said
in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  