-- Bollywood’s Eros to Chase Hollywood’s Investors: Corporate India
-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-12-14T12:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/bollywood-s-eros-to-chase-hollywood-s-investors-corporate-india.html
Eros International Plc (EROS) , the
distributor of Bollywood’s most-expensive film, is reviving a
plan to sell shares in the U.S. as it seeks valuations similar
to Hollywood studios such as  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   Eros plans to withdraw its shares from  London ’s Alternative
Investment Market and list on the  New York  Stock Exchange, Chief
Financial Officer Kamal Jain said. The shares have dropped 2
percent on the AIM this year, compared with a 6.5 percent gain
on the  Financial Times-Stock Exchange AIM Media Index (AXMEDI) , of which
Eros is the biggest component. The number of companies listed on
the AIM has dropped 34 percent in five years.  “The AIM market is illiquid, Eros has outgrown it,” Jain
said in an interview in his office in Mumbai, home to the Hindi-
language movie industry known as Bollywood. “Listing on the
NYSE will give us a better valuation as we will be compared with
the world’s biggest studios listed there.”  The distributor of the Hindi superhero movie “Ra.One”
forecasts a listing on the NYSE will help it tap an estimated 10
percent growth over the next four years in Bollywood, the
world’s most prolific film industry. Eros  trades  at a 32 percent
discount to Lions Gate, producer of the “The Twilight Saga:
Breaking Dawn - Part 2,” and is 70 percent cheaper than the
global average.  The company,  India ’s second-largest movie producer by
value, first planned to sell shares in the U.S. in March,
according to a  regulatory filing .  ‘Very Long Way’  “It’s good to make a vision statement by listing on the
NYSE and wanting to be compared with some of the world’s biggest
studios, but it’s a very long way for Eros to go on that
track,” said Ambareesh Baliga, chief operating officer at
Mumbai-based Way2Wealth Brokers Pvt. “The question is when will
they achieve that vision?”  Eros’ Indian unit’s  net income  may rise 16 percent in the
year ending March 31 to 1.71 billion rupees ($31.5 million),
according to the median estimate of 8 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales may increase 21 percent to 11.4 billion rupees,
according to the survey. Lions Gate, the independent film studio
that produced “The Hunger Games,” reported sales last year
that were sevenfold higher than that of Eros.  Eros International Media Ltd. (EROS) ’s  shares  in Mumbai have
gained 4.5 percent this year, compared with a 25 percent
increase in the  BSE India Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  The stock rose 1.4
percent to 212.50 rupees in Mumbai. The company’s shares on the
AIM trade at 7.6 times its estimated earnings. Lions Gate is
valued at 11.22 times earnings for Lions Gate, data show.  U.S. Revenue  Eros’s films have grossed just over $11 million in the U.S.
this year, about the same as in 2011, according to data from  Box
Office Mojo . Lions Gate and its unit Summit Entertainment’s
films made more than $1.2 billion, the data show.  The Indian company, which plans to spend $140 million in
developing film content in the year ending March 31, is ranked
22nd in box-office proceeds in the U.S. this year, with a share
of 0.1 percent of the market, according to the data.  India’s movie industry revenue may rise 10 percent to 150.3
billion rupees by 2016 after advancing 0.1 percent in the four
years to 2011, according to a March  report  by KPMG and the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry.  A listing on the NYSE may help Eros capitalize on rising
patrons for Indian movies, both at home and overseas, as local
productions look to shed their image of being formulaic, three-
hour, song-and-dance extravaganzas. That, combined with growing
number of multiplexes and increased consumer spending in the
world’s second-most populous nation, is poised to draw a wider
audience to the silver screen.  Rajnikanth Movies  “If you compare India to  China ,  Mexico  or  Brazil , we have
fewer screens relative to the number of people,” said Jehil
Thakkar, head of media & entertainment at consultancy KPMG in
Mumbai. “More theaters will get built and almost all of them
will be multiplexes, which tend to have higher ticket prices.”  Eros’s upcoming releases include Tamil-language films such
as “Rana” and “Kochadaiyaan - The Legend,” both of which
feature superstar actor Rajnikanth.  “We anticipate that our costs associated with the co-
production and acquisition of film content are likely to
increase over time as we continue to focus more on high-budget
Hindi films,” the company said in the U.S. filing. Eros
considers movies with production costs of more than $8.5 million
as high-budget films, it said.  ‘Diaspora Market’  The company’s “English Vinglish,” an atypical Bollywood
film about an Indian housewife seeking to learn English, made
$1.8 million in the U.S., the second-most successful movie for
Eros in that country this year after action-drama “Agneepath.”  Eros, set up in 1977, distributed “Ra.One,” which
featured Shah Rukh Khan, and cost more than 850 million rupees,
the Bollywood actor said in October last year. In the movie,
Khan plays a superhero G.One, who battles the evil Ra.One in
cyberspace amid 3,500 visual effects.  “People don’t necessarily always want to see the same old
formulaic brand of movies,”  KPMG ’s Thakkar said. The new brand
of Indian movies “has potential beyond the diaspora market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Grant Clark at 
 gclark@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  