-- Most Brazilian Stocks Decline as Klabin Leads Producers Lower
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-12-13T18:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/brazilian-stocks-decline-as-commodities-drop-on-growth-concern.html
Most Brazilian stocks fell as paper
maker  Klabin SA (KLBN4)  led a decline among raw-material producers,
outweighing gains by consumer stocks spurred by stronger-than-
forecast retail sales.  BM&FBovespa SA, the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, dropped after saying chairman Arminio Fraga
won’t seek another term as a board member. Hypermarcas SA, the
Brazilian maker of the generic forms of Valium and Claritin,
jumped the most in three months.  The Bovespa index slid 0.1 percent to 59,413.77 at 3:53
p.m. in Sao Paulo. Forty stocks fell while 28 advanced. The real
weakened 0.5 percent to 2.0819 per U.S. dollar. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials declined 0.6 percent.  Commodities fell as U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said yesterday that the central bank’s plan to buy $45
billion a month of Treasuries will fail to offset the economic
impact of spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect
next year.  “Investors get more worried about the outlook for the U.S.
the closer we get to the budget deadline,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a
partner at Orama Asset Management, said by phone from Rio de
Janeiro. “With the whole world, Brazil included, struggling to
boost growth, this budget issue in the U.S. becomes more and
more relevant everyday.”  The prospect of more than $600 billion in spending cuts and
tax increases is “clearly” having an effect on the economy,
Bernanke said yesterday. U.S. House Speaker John Boehner said
today the White House isn’t serious about cutting spending.  Retail Sales  Klabin sank 2.9 percent to 11.65 reais. BM&FBovespa fell
0.4 percent to 13.64 reais.  Brazilian retail sales increased 0.8 percent in October
from September, the national statistics agency said today in Rio
de Janeiro. The median forecast of 33 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 0.7 percent increase. Sales climbed 9.1
percent from a year earlier.  “What has been dragging  Brazil ’s recovery down is the
manufacturing sector, but consumption seems to be holding on,”
Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 220 million reais at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil, said by phone. “This
means consumer stocks have room for further gains.”  Hypermarcas jumped 5 percent to 16.40 reais, the biggest
gain on the Bovespa. The stock extended this year’s gain to 93
percent, the best performance on the Bovespa index after online
retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo ’s 106 percent rally.  Bovespa Valuation  The Bovespa index has climbed 13 percent from this year’s
low in June as stimulus from central banks around the world
eased concerns about an economic slowdown, while record-low
benchmark lending rates has pushed some investors to move into
stocks from fixed-income.  The index  trades  at 11 times analysts’ earnings estimates
for the next four quarters, in line with the ratio for MSCI
Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Fear but  Trading volume was 22.4 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo yesterday, when Bovespa-index futures contracts expired.
That compares with a daily average of 7.19 billion reais this
year through Dec. 11, according to data compiled by the
 exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  