-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall as Bernanke Overshadows Retail Sales Gain
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-12-13T21:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-13/brazil-swap-rates-drop-on-signs-of-economic-slowdown-real-falls.html
Brazil ’s swap rates dropped for a
second day as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s warning
that budget wrangling is weakening the world’s largest economy
overshadowed a pick-up in Brazilian retail sales.  Swap rates on contracts due January 2014 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.06 percent. The real
depreciated 0.6 percent to 2.0856 per dollar.  Bernanke yesterday said the Fed “doesn’t have the tools”
to offset the consequences if U.S. lawmakers fail to reach a
budget agreement and trigger more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts set to take effect next month. In
Brazil, October retail sales rose at the fastest pace in three
months.  “The data that came out today in Brazil was good, but the
worry over this fiscal question in the U.S. is bringing swap
rates down,” said  Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief strategist at
Credit Agricole Brasil SA in Sao Paulo.  Retail sales increased 0.8 percent in October from the
prior month, the national statistics agency reported today. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
0.7 percent increase.  The real weakened after Bernanke’s expansion of monetary
stimulus undermined confidence that global growth will
strengthen, said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  “There’s some discomfort, with the decision being seen as
a little desperate after Bernanke warned that monetary policy
won’t avoid fiscal risks,” Perfeito said in a telephone
interview.  The real gained 2.9 percent last week, the biggest one-week
advance since January as the government reduced maturity of
foreign loans subject to a 6 percent tax to one year from two
years and exempted exporters from the same level of tax on some
borrowing.  The central bank sold $2.1 billion in currency swaps and
$1.6 billion on Nov. 23 to stem the real’s declines. From August
through October, the bank sold reverse currency swaps to keep
the real weaker than 2 per dollar.  Policy makers have swung in 2012 between selling currency
swaps aimed at preventing the real from depreciating too quickly
and offering reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by
keeping the real from strengthening.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  